Sexual Control Sanger first seems to talk about consensual sex, but then mentions rape, so I will focus on that part. Most of the studies focus on the ethnicity of the victim, not the perpetrator of sexual violence. This is obviously important to consider when evaluating studies; A report by Carter from 1987 for example estimates that 42% of rapists of Aboriginal people were white (see here). Non-reporting is also always an issue with sexual assault, and more so when the victim has an indigenous background (see here). Regarding sexual child abuse: 

The DOJ document can be seen here. Regarding the house intelligence committee mentioned in the comments, it doesn't seem that they are taking the allegations seriously either. Schiff called them "destructive" and "baseless", Himes called them a "mess", Rubio said that he doesn't know what Trump is talking about, Collins said she sees "no evidence" and that the commitee needs to deal with "evidence", and Burr said that they would be "guided by the intelligence and facts". Nunes seems to be the only one who wanted to make inquiries, but those did not turn anything up: 

They are referring to the 1948 Palestinian exodus. There are different estimates about the amount of people who left their homes, ranging from 539000 to 935000. Here is the estimate by the UN: 

It should be noted that Ford did not write all the articles himself. Wikipedia describes the process: 

According to this review of studies, children develop a sense of gender quite early and can relate it to themselves early as well: 

As to toxicological analysis, the Clinton campaign said that her stumble was related to pneumonia, so there is no reason for her to have an analysis: 

You can see the original PDFs at Wikileaks as well. The Freedom of Information Act request was made by Jason Leopold. If you want a different source than Wikileaks as confirmation, the Wall Street Journal also has a database of the released emails, which does contain the same sentence you quote. 

There is a snopes article about this graphic which I will use as basis for my answer. As it's not all properly sourced I'll add my own sources as well if necessary. The claims themselves are mostly true. If this represents the "real Donald Trump" or if Donald Trump actually has a "Heart of Gold" is up for interpretation. Many of the claims happened decades ago, and some benefit Trump himself either directly or indirectly by improving his public image. 

What the writings by Sullins say Invisible Victims: Delayed Onset Depression among Adults with Same-Sex Parents is available online: 

There are also various studies that show that Type 3 FGM specifically can result in increased risk of UTIs (1, 2, 3, 4, 5). Health benefits in general Various organizations have also stated that no form of FGM has any health benefits - which would include UTIs -: The WHO states: 

Ford was an antisemite, so such a quote is not out of character. Many other sources attribute the quote to "The Dearborn Independent, 12-19 February 1921". The quote is from two different articles. From The Jewish Aspect of the "Movie" Problem: 

I was unable to find any other sources for the claim, and could also not find any English-speaking sources. When Khomeini instituted the Quds Day, did he say that one should emulate Imam Ali in killing 700 Jews? 

The reference to 990 forms is rather vague, and they do not link to any further sources. The claim is repeated by various right wing websites, but none cite any actual sources. However, the website of the Open Society Foundations does have a grant over $200,000 going to the Media Consortium. But I could not find any source that states that the Media Consortium actually gave all or part of that money to The Young Turks. It doesn't seem like the consortium gives money to their members at all, but that instead the members give money to the consortium: "Participating members pay annual dues based on a sliding scale.". Summary There is no evidence that George Soros is funding The Young Turks. George Soros is the chairman of an organization which donated money to a consortium of which TYT are a member, but from which they do not gain financial benefits. I'm not sure how this might be seen as a scandal, and most of the sources seem at least vaguely antisemitic with their claims that a Jew is secretly controlling the media. 

After this forced digital penetration and groping with Mike in the car, Baby got out of the car, Mike penetrated the victim and left, after which Baby reentered the car and the 5 second incident - during which the victim verbally and physically resisted - took place which is summarized by DavePhD. The conviction of Baby was appealed because the judge in the initial trial did not answer a question regarding withdrawing consent. The appeals court argued that consent cannot be withdrawn, with which the next appeals court disagreed. It did however confirm the reversal because of court errors (see Wikipedia or the above linked court document for details). 

This quote is the origin of the claim. To me, this doesn't sound like an embedded informant, but like a leak. Further quotes which McCarthy omits point to this as well: 

It is true that you do not need numbers, special characters, etc for a strong password. If you instead increase the length of the password, the entropy will increase as well. See for example this entropy table. To get 64 bit of entropy, you could have a 14 character lowercase password, or you could have a 10 character password with all printable ASCII characters, or you could have a passphrase with 5 words randomly selected from a list of 7776 words (Diceware). The XKCD approach is also called a passphrase or - if done correctly, ie randomly selected words in the passphrase - as Diceware. The math was checked at security.SE and is approximately correct if we assume a small word list for diceware (~2000 words) and - and this is crucial - randomly selected words. Do note that the XKCD comic assumes randomness for the words in the diceware passphrase, but assumes a pattern for the password (which is a fair assumption and also the point of the comic, as nobody remembers a truly random 11 char password). Note that people are bad at random selection, so the actual difficulty to guess the password when not using dice to generate it - and accepting the first result - will be lower. The claim about memorability was examined in the paper Correct horse battery staple: Exploring the usability of system-assigned passphrases (note that the paper uses correctly generated passphrases instead of relying on users "randomly" choosing passphrases): 

As far as we know, the police did not go to Telegram and ask them for the data. Vice (Germany) states - based on non-public papers by the LKA - that the police got the data directly from the phone via lawful interception. They also state that no other information is public, but they speculate that the data was retrieved via Account-Hijacking: 

So yes, the number is approximately correct. The reasons for the exodus are complex and not as clear as presented in the quote. The theory of a planned ethnic cleansing is disputed. Historian Benny Morris for example says: 

Was this email written by Hillary Clinton? There is no reason to believe that it wasn't. As Wikileaks states: 

A list of violence by Trump supporters can be found here (I haven't checked if it is complete). The earlier dates on that list are 10/01/2015, 10/02/2015, and 11/21/2015. As Trumps statement is meant as an explanation or defense of violence by his supporters, to verify the claim, an incident of a protester starting violence before 10/01/2015 would be great. Still, any events from before the CNN debate - which was on March the 10th - would help support his claim. This also means that the person trying to jump the stage in Dayton or the events in Chicago would not verify the claim, as they happened after the debate. 

For more historical context, one can eg look at Wikipedia or this article. One of the published papers rejecting the idea that bananas contain psychedelic substances: 

The report that included those number says that the numbers are in no way representative and that it cannot make any statement about the living situation or unemployment rate of left-wing activists. The claim was originally published by the German tabloid Bild, but has been described as inaccurate by Bildblog, Tagesspiegel, and SZ. The report is available online: Linke Gewalt in Berlin. About people living at home, it says: 

This is sometimes called the "Rotterdam effect". Sir Andrew Dilnot, Chair of the UK Statistics Authority, notes: 

Yes. In 2016, there were 3 members of the Bundestag who officially stated that they are Muslim. However, a number of people did not give their religion. The German newspaper Die Welt says that there are 6 Muslims: Ekin Deligöz, Omid Nouripour, Cem Özdemir, Özcan Mutlu, Aydan Özoguz, and Cemile Giousouf. 5 of them are in parties that primarily voted for marriage equality, while the last is in a Christian party which primarily voted no (that is what "most" is refering to in your quote). The voting record is public, so you can verify that all 6 Muslims did indeed vote with "yes". 

This is a very vague question. What is intelligence? And how do you measure it? Is this question about some sort of innate, genetic ability? Or is it about the intelligence of specific Aboriginal people in 1912? (In which case it will likely be difficult to find good sources, because of scientific racism). Anyway, here are some studies about the subject: 

I was unable to find anything resembling this quote in either German or English. The closest quote is one from the Nurenberg rally in 1934: 

The earliest mention online - and thus likely the source for this - seems to be maga1776.com. The numbers for 2010 to 2016 are official statistics - the 2016 numbers are directly from ICE, the earlier numbers are not from a reliable source (washington examiner), but I don't think that they are in doubt. Note that these numbers are specifically about arrests made by ICE - or more specifically the Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) created under Obama in 2010 - , not all arrests related to trafficking. The numbers for 2017 are not from ICE, but collected by maga1776.com from various news articles. Just looking at the links with the highest cases, we can see that they are fake or misleading. The 900 cases for example link to RT (not a reliable source). They were in fact 870 arrests, not 900, and they were world wide and not related to ICE arrests (which is what the Obama stats are about). The 1035 arrests are sourced to daytondailynews.com, but again not ICE arrests but arrests made by the police. The second 1012 arrests are sourced to theconservativetreehouse.com, but again they were not arrests made by ICE, but by the DOJ. According to the source, they are also not about human trafficking, but sexual assault of children. The 350 number is sourced to breaking911.com and is about documentation of rape of children, which is not directly related to human trafficking. The arrests were also not made by ICE. As mentioned in the comments, the real numbers for 2017 are not out yet, so we cannot say how many human trafficking arrests ICE has made. What we can say is that the 6355 number is made up. 

The key word here seems to be "in essence", ie it does not literally say that. Gohmert is probably referencing this report, which points out (see also here) that "religious liberty" is often used as a code word: 

However, most articles surround the phrase with quotes, so I am assuming that it is a direct quote. Has Richard Spencer called for a "peaceful ethnic cleansing" in those words? 

Plan Dalet is often named as showing intent of ethnic cleansing by some historians, while others say that the plan was purely defensive. 

While this isn't proof that Goebbels didn't also say the quote in question, a complete lack of any sources at least indicates that someone may have loosely paraphrased him to get a more fitting quote. The earliest date that the quote appeared on the internet seems to be in this relatively recent tweet from May 2015. 

But extremely rare of course doesn't mean that there are no cases, which would make the claim that ""No one has ever transmitted HIV through wound to wound contact" false: 

The author - sociologist Richard Alba - goes into a bit more depth about the one-drop rule used by the Bureau which treats some self-identified white people as minority and the possibility of changing definitions of whiteness in a separate article. 

A study by Savage-McGlynn from 2011 disputing the Developmental Theory of Sex developed by Lynn (the idea that men develop slower, but have a higher intelligence after the age of 15): 

That seems to be it. There are no articles that contain more context to that quote, and no article cites any papers she may have published on the topic; likely because no such papers or research exists. Dr Spurr also does not explain what "reclaiming power in the bedroom" has to do with "no longer [wanting] sex". Mutanda is also more of a media expert. Her take on this is: 

So even your source admits that this is not based on scientific fact. I haven't found any papers actually analyzing this "test", which isn't really surprising, but the BBC has an article explaining why it will not work: 

There is surprisingly little information about this available. The information that does exist is almost entirely based on different interpretations of the 1860 census (except of course for the claims that do not name any sources). This seems to be the more relevant claim from Goad: 

The statement is rather vague. Spending since when? Which expenditures count (cost for wars, cost for foreign aid, ...)? What counts as the middle east? And of course it doesn't factor in any potential benefits to the US. That being said, I could find no source for the 7 trillion number. But Trump did make a similar claim last year (back then it was 6 trillion). Politifact ruled that claim half-true. They name multiple studies which put the cost anywhere from 1.6 trillion to 6 trillion. But the higher estimates include money that is going to be spend in the coming decades on medical care for veterans, etc. The time frames on the estimates are also slightly different (all start in 2001 though), and they also differ in which wars they take into account. Politifact concluded: 

Conclusion The police report did not reveal anything that was not already public knowledge. Jackson had adult porn - mainly heterosexual, some homosexual - as well as images of nude children. This was already known at his 2005 trial, where he was not charged with possession of child pornography. 

The source of the second quote is this eturbonews.com article from 2008 about remarks from Trump Jr. at the Cityscape USA Bridges U.S. and Emerging Real Estate Markets Conference: 

Various news organizations are reporting about Trump not being fully briefed about the order, among them Fox News, The Independend, or the New York Mag. The original source for the claim seems to be the New York Times: 

According to a Fox News post on Facebook, Comey said during his testimony before the Senate committee that in his opinion, Trump did not try to obstruct justice: 

tl;dr: The map is likely correct and based on the GTD from 2001 to 2014. As the map is not about Islamic terrorist attacks, but all terrorist attacks, no conclusion about Islamic attacks or refugees can be drawn from it. Source of the Map It is very likely that this map uses the Global Terrorism Database as a source, likely from 2001 to 2014, and there is no reason to doubt its accuracy. The two dots in Iceland are the two terrorist attacks in Akureyri and Reykjavik in 2012 and 2014. The dot in Portugal represents a terrorist attack in Lisbon in 2011. Note that this was not an Islamic attack, but an Anarchist attack. We can assume that the map shows attacks after 2001, because before then, there are recorded terrorist attacks in Poland. This is the earliest occurance of the map that I could find, which mentions 2001. We can also assume that the map is from before 2015, as the high number of attacks in Finland are not included. A similar map can be seen here which visualizes the GTD data from 2011 to 2014. The GTD also provides their own map, but it's for a 40 year span. Still, it shows a similar tendency as the map from the OP. Quality of the map Note that the map from the OP displays attacks as dots, which is a poor representation for what the map wants to express. In countries in which terrorist attacks are concentrated on a specific location, it makes it appear as if there was less terrorism than there actually was, and for countries were terrorist attacks are spread out, it leads to the opposite effect. The heatmap from the GTD linked above better visualizes the concentration of terrorist attacks. About the GTD Note that the definition of terrorism by the GTD does not just include major attacks or attacks with multiple fatalities. It also is not limited to a specific motivation (Islamic for example):