Human rights are not absolutes. Rather, they're our best attempt at expressing and codifying the golden rule. They are as imaginary as other ideals, laws, guidelines and best-practices - so again, whether they exist or not/are imaginary or not will depend on whether your definitions include other abstract concepts. Logically, it makes sense for humans to treat each other respectfully (so that we are treated respectfully in turn) and to protect vulnerable segments of our population (so that we too are protected during times of vulnerability). Scientifically, we can show that the ideals expressed by the golden rule translate to happier people and improved productivity and quality of life - and assuming those are values we collectively agree on, we can continue to study ways to improve the situation for as many as we can. 

That said, as a species we've developed a pretty big perception-window that an infinite-being candidate would have to fill! (And if one day we do encounter a being indistinguishable from an actually-infinite one we'll probably have to say 'Close enough. Now what?') 

So for human beings to be able to observe galaxies, humans need to 1) exist (to do the observing) and 2) galaxies need to exist (to be observed). If humans can't exist without galaxies, then anything that disrupts galaxy formation will thwart us humans from doing the observing right at that first step. Thus, once we have proved the necessity of galaxies for human existence we can conclude that the cosmological constant must be in the range of values that allow galaxies to form, thanks in part to the weak anthropic principle. 

Is there a way to objectively determine which is better? Kill injure person and damage a car and a tree or kill several people. After reading this story about people preferring to save 10 people, but only if it is not themselves in the car. $URL$ Essentially it makes sense to me to not want to sacrifice yourself by default. What if there are no pedestrians but the car runs into the tree or other car anyway? I know this situation is very hypothetical and I guess that's the problem with this question. Hypothetically it makes sense to favor the many over the few. But not in every situation. Is there a simple logical way to deduce this though? 

The definition according to the built in dictionary of OS X is: profoundly immoral or malevolent. So there are morals and will involved. Morals are about right and wrong. And I quote again the OS X dictionary: 

You can validate Induction by creating a (climate) model and run it. The only problem I see with induction is that the person doing the induction is part of the thing it induces. So this is like the observer effect. You are affecting the system as you are measuring or inducing it. That's why we are supposed to live in the now. For that is what only exists. The past and the future and the now we are talking about while we are talking about don't really exist. While you talk about the now it has already passed. You cannot talk about the now. You can only be in the now. Or in other words you are the now. Now that means now is you and you is now. You would induce yourself which would mean you are no longer you and in the now but creating a simulation of yourself which is born out of you but not identical with you. So my summary is: Any induction is by definition talking about a smaller group of relations than the relations it tries to describe because it is a new relation itself. Thus it is always imperfect. 

Atheism is a null hypothesis. Treating atheism scientifically is to say "I don't believe that god(s) have any effect on [thing being studied]". Calling atheism into question is as simple as providing statistically significant data demonstrating an effect where the null hypothesis would predict none. For example, an experiment to test the efficacy of some arbitrary treatment on some arbitrary disease would be roughly formulated as: QUESTION: Does [treatment X] have any effect on [disease/condition Y]? Null hypothesis: Use of [treatment X] is statistically indistinguishable from a similarly-administered placebo. Now, using 'prayer' or any other supernaturally-themed technique as a possible treatment, it's easy to see that the null hypothesis is one formulation of atheism. To scientifically demonstrate that god(s) exist requires starting from an assumption of atheism and then demonstrating that the null hypothesis fails to explain some set of phenomena. The long history of failure to do so is actually evidence against certain god-concepts, especially interventionist ones. Indeed, if god(s) exist, we might expect to see some unambiguous statistical trends such as: 

ORIGINAL ANSWER Your quoted definition and subsequent question hinge on the answer to one specific (unstated) question: Are humans designed? If humans are the products of deliberate design, either humans are artifacts or (if we're sufficiently uncomfortable with that classification) the definition of artifacts needs to be revisited/revised. If humans are not designed, we cannot be artifacts. Fortunately for our egos, all evidence points to human beings being a current result of evolution, not of design (intelligent or otherwise). Intelligent Design Creationists have put a lot of money and effort into spreading misinformation, and a full takedown of all their claims would be to create an entire website dedicated to cataloging and rebutting ID claims. Such an undertaking is beyond the scope of a stackexchange.com answer, but fortunately others have already taken the time and effort to do most of the work for us already. With your edit, you add: 

Pars pro toto essentially means a part stands for the whole wikipedia Grounded logic essentially means tangible or connected. wikipedia grounded terms Part for a whole = the same as god or made up of parts of god, or Grounded in God following his logic or thinking or based on him, depended on him. 

I guess you first need to ask for the justification for a justification. Why do you need one in the first place? I'd stipulate because you have to justify yourself in front of other people. And then it becomes a matter of if you do that then I can do that also. 

Lots of overhead in order to do work. You can only employ one human to do this job since lots of waste accumulates. Little overhead. You can use the savings to employ more people to do more work with the same amount of money/energy/time/food. 

The only way something can be wrong is if to dosn't work this way. Example: You are doing this wrong. It's not going to work this way. But if it works and produces results then it cannot be wrong. It may be suboptimal but not wrong. 

The short answer is: We cannot. Assuming that we humans have finite powers of perception, it is impossible to distinguish a being that exactly fills our perception window from one that extends beyond it. For example: 

... ? ... Alright, let's start with the second half: We don't need a specific 'Theory of Reality' because Reality is what all of our scientific theories are trying to describe. Our current 'Theory of Reality' would be: While it may not be definitive (since we obviously don't know everything - if we ever did, science would stop), it's certainly quite comprehensive. Now back to the first half: Consciousness, or the perception thereof. We're at an exciting point in our investigations of the universe. We can honestly and confidently state that we've got a pretty good grasp of the fundamentals: we know the basic forces, we know the basic particles. From these basic concepts we get a lot of emergent behaviour - that is, phenomena that we observe at larger scales that are not apparent at the more minute scale. Physics, chemistry and biology are each very broad areas of study that are built upon or reduce down to each other, and at each level we see emergent properties or behaviours that are not obviously true when zoomed to a different level. There is no reason (other than hubris) to believe that our consciousness is something other than an emergent property of our biology, and plenty of reasons to suspect that it is. We know that different conscious states can be induced through specific chemicals or physical trauma; we know how hideously complicated a neural net can be; we know that there's no evidence for any new forces that could affect a physical object (such as a ghost/spirit driving your body as some separate thing). This is not necessarily a bad or scary conclusion, no more so than the discovery that, at the atomic level, solid objects are mostly empty space. We're not going to suddenly sink through the floor, and we're not going to suddenly stop thinking just because consciousness is emergent biology, biology is emergent chemistry and chemistry is emergent physics. 

What does exist however is change. Can you travel in change? No, because you yourself are change, part of change. See it as a guitar - string that has been plucked and resonates or an echo chamber. But with the only difference that the echo or sound does not get muted but stays the same power, but only changes frequency and the echo chamber changing shape as a response to the frequency. Could you go back in time then to a place where there was a certain mixture of frequencies and a certain shape of the echo chamber? Theoretically yes. All you'd need was a substantially good sound-system and some means of measuring the actual and desired sound and shape characteristics inside the echo chamber without having the sound system and yourself inside the chamber to begin with, otherwise it probably would not be the same, unless you could cloak yourself or make yourself and the system acoustically transparent. The final thing you'd need would be some computer or device that could compute the necessary output frequency mixtures (properly positioned in dimensional space, no less), to get to where you want to be. Of course this needs to be transparent or non existent as well. Really simple when you think about it. Just use some non existing equipment and change history. :P 

The weak anthropic principle essentially states that when we observe the universe, we have 100% probability of observing a universe in which it is possible for humans to exist - because we already know that we do. If the universe is such that it is impossible for humans to exist, we obviously wouldn't be here to do the observing! This is sometimes important to remember when we're observing the universe that we're in - just because it is impossible for humans to observe a universe filled with 'Smergs'1 instead of galaxies doesn't mean that the alternate universe is impossible, just unobservable. Sometimes the answer, unsatisfying as it may be, to the question of 'Why do we observe the universe to be like this?' is that it's impossible for humans, specifically, to be in that different universe. So that said, Lee Smolin's mistake comes in at point #2. Smolin states: 

CONCLUSION: We know the laws of physics well enough to rule out all possible sources of a 'soul-force' that could both drive our bodies while we're alive and persist after our death. Whatever a 'soul' might be, if it has any relevance to us while we are alive it also dies with us.