Which standards? Well, I think there are two main standards: Logical Coherence In philosophy, every model (I will rather call them "theories" from now on) has to be reasoned carefully. Most lines of attack are against the logical coherence of a theory. Just as in science there should be no falsifications of the model, in philosophy there should be no problem of coherence either. That is, the beliefs, statements and findings of a philosophical theory should be without explicit and implicit contradictions or, even worse, fallacies. For example, Kant's ethics have been attacked not in the first place because of incoherence of the argument, but moreso because it is supposed to be applicable, while most people consider it inapplicable in particular situations. Philosophers love to find contradictions and fallacies almost as much as pointing them out. Historical coherence By this, I basically mean 'Know your precedessors.' That is what universities prepare to, basically. This does NOT mean that there can be no totally original, new theory of someone who doesn't know the history of philosophy. It does mean, however, that you should not redo the mistakes of former generations of philosophers. This is, in my understanding, the main problem of (contemporary, that is!) philosophy: Because it is such a vast field and we are forced to publish relatively early within our educational development, philosophers tend to make mistakes that have been made centuries ago, often without realising it, because they did not even read the most important ones, not even thinking of understanding them. 

Förster is one of the main proponents of reading the Groundwork as essentially an 'Anti-Garve', even down to its structure, btw. Also, together with Timmermann's commentary, a lot of sources can be found for further reading on the discussion. For a different take with further sources, see Allison's commentary (Oxford UP, 2011), pp. 5-10 and 52ff. He takes a third stance, saying it is the challenge Garve's Cicero puts on "the very idea of a metaphysics of morals" (p. 6). Good sources not mentioned in either of the commentaries, nor Förster (but only in German, just like the mentioned, excellent Schönecker, Beister, Reich, etc.): Immanuel Kant in Rede und Gespräch by Rudolf Malter (ed.) and Kant und das Problem des metaphysischen Idealismus by Dietmar Hermann Heidemann Regarding Kant's own perception of the difference between the two versions of the review Kant did indeed, in a letter to a third person, clearly express the severe differences between the reviews as published in the Göttinger Anzeigen and the Allgemeine deutsche Bibliothek respectively (to Johann Schultz, Aug 22nd, 1783) 

This holds as an example for every antinomy in CPR. It has been adopted in every edition I know, not the least of them the "Akademie-Ausgabe" of 1902 (first volumes, others followed), which is still the main reference for citations of Kant and adopted and translated by the Cambridge edition, keeping the pagenumbers. 

I want to add something to the answer of @AlexanderSKing: The question may be reformulated as "Should I be dogmatic?". Dogmatism can be understood as stating a "truth" and not only defending it (by rational argument), but also discrediting every other weltanschauung. In not respecting a religion, you implicitly are dogmatic: You say that the foundations of this religion are untrue and the foundations of your weltanschauung are true. Dawkins is a good example for a dogmatic position. But the point Popper is making is that as long as the opponent is not dogmatic, you can tolerate him and his weltanschauung, taking him back into rational discourse. But in not tolerating religion, are you better than catholic church in crusades and inquisition or islamic terrorists of Boko Haram or IS regarding dogmatism and its related mindset? This question is not as rhetoric as it seems, though of course not accurate. But for the sake of the argument go on reading ;). You will, I assume, never establish your view by force. But you cannot respect the person by disrespecting her religion either. Because the weltanschauung is an integral part of the person, it is a part of the autonomy of this person. And dogmatism is in fact rejecting a part of a person's autonomy, and by this her dignity. They do reject the dignity in total, but assuming that dignity is absolute, the connection, although harsh, is there. The borderline of your freedom is the freedom of others. Popper is reformulating the old idea of a social contract: (Hobbes), Locke, Rousseau, Kant, Fichte, Hegel, Rawls. As long as the weltanschauung of others does not harm you in practical execution, you have to tolerate it, no matter how your feelings about it might be. That is why social contract theories are often theories of natural law, restricting practices, not opinions. That's the reason why the above mentioned cannot possibly be tolerated even in the widest sense. But dogmatism should not be tolerated in any way. I also can't understand people that believe in religion. Sometimes their deep belief and the actions based on it even make me angry. But in order not to be dogmatic, I have to tolerate their belief as long as it does not have direct consequences for my practices (or, in a wider sense, autonomy). I have to respect their autonomy and dignity. Edit regarding the dogmatism/respect dichotomy In some sense, tolerance is a direct outcome of respect. Respect in the kantian (and most philosophical) meaning(s) is not to be confused with the feeling of sympathy. You do not have to like a person in order to respect her. For Kant, respect is due to the dignity every moral agent (i.e. person) has. And you do not have to think that there is a God to act respectful towards religious persons and their religious sentiments. See more modern approaches like Rawls or Axel Honneth's Theory of Acknowledgement which are also working with respect. It is not disrespectful to say that you think that their belief is wrong, it is disrespectful to say that your truth is objective and they are talking nonsense. You should rather ask for the meaning of what they say. And if they are not dogmatic, it will be that they believe in the existence and that there are proofs for the existence of God. This will be the point you will be able to enter a rational discourse with one another. Dogmatism in a more traditional understanding is saying that a particular religion is not only about statements to believe in, but about actual objective facts. This whole argumentation is from a kantian view with kantian concepts and terms, the terms are well stated in his Metaphysics of Morals, part 1, Ak. 221-28 or in this argumentation. They are technical, philosophical terms. Do not confuse them with common language usage. And this argumentation is deliberately overdoing it to point out the problems and differences of both the positions of the opener as well as the kantian answer. 

Well, to be fair, there is this big caveat: This means that "truth" is reduced to "it is a necessary truth that incoherent cognitions and invalid reasoning cannot be true", i.e. logics is a conditio sine qua non (ibid), but does not help us to positively determine the truth value of any cognition (A60|B84) Aside Apart from the form of thinking (or, more clearly in that context: discursive judgeing), Kant found what he thought to be necessary truths in the form of sensibility (CPR, transcendental aesthetics), cognition (CPR, transcendental logics), moral judgements (CprR) and judgements in general (CPJ). The finding and deducting (i.e. justification of its validity) of these propositions or synthetic sentences a priori is the aim of his critical philosophy. Abbreviations CPR - Critique of Pure Reason (A edition 1781, B edition 1787) CPrR - Critique of Practical Reason (1788) CPJ - Critique of the Power of Judgement (1790) 

As it became clearer by your comment to the answer of @JordonS: I think the difference is made through a notion of agency, while this difference is hard to sustain within Dennett's conceptual framework. First, let me apply the definition to digital identity in common-sense terms: (2) and (3) seem to be true, by mere being a representation of a person (or the conceiving of the digital identity as a representation of a person). Even if a digital identity would be generated without having a person that is represented by it, (2) and (3) would hold even if it was created and maintained by a computer. (1) is arguably true as digital identity is created and maintained by rational entities (that could be computers) and so it is itself in some sense rational. It "acts" with regularities within judgements that can be expressed by rules. (4) Even a computer could be programmed to parse comments etc. so that it is fulfilled independent of its creator and the problem of representation. But what about (5) and (6)? It would indeed sound strange to say that a digital identity would itself be a language user. It is constituted by language, the creator speaks through it by language and so on. But the digital identity is not itself a user of language. And especially (6) is hard to think of how this could work. Because a conciousness/self-conciousness would implicate a certain independence. But representation implicates a certain form of dependance on the represented that is hard to think as (self-)conciousness. First conclusion: Using "common sense", applying will most probably result into a rejection of the idea that digital identities are persons. Talking about Dennett: But in terms of Dennett, it could not be freedom that constitutes a difference, because he rejects such a thing. So for him, it will be very hard to find anything independent. Everything is determite. Applied to the concept of persons, agency will loose its special feature. And therefore you have to differentiate: Do you speak of an application of Dennett's definition of digital identity in common sense terms or in Dennett's terms? Perhaps this is the problem behind Dennett's reductionalism: In his terms, the figure of a book is as good a "person" as we are. It would be totally determined (by the author), but "acts" like a self-concious being, moral actor and so on. So we cannot possibly know if we and our lifes are not "scripted" by a person of an "ontologically higher being" either, as we are determinate. It is philosophically poor to just say that there are metaphysical entities like this as we have no possibility whatsoever to state their truth, but there is no reason to reject the possibility of the existance of these entities either. That's the paradox that evolves out of his rejection of spontanity/freedom as part of (moral) agency. Conclusion: So for Dennett, digital identities could be described as persons, following his definition. For the common sense, I think it is counter-intuitional. So you have to develop a positon of your own on this. Do you follow Dennett in determinism? If so, will there be any chance of not applying social personality in a full sense to digital identities?