The final vote tally is 1000/1500. In this perspective, voting for Charlie literally had no effect. What if you voted for Bob? 

The general pattern that makes effective meritocracies difficult is in the difficulty of assigning a comparable merit value to each individual. It's trivial to argue that the best form of rule is the one that puts every person in the best place. It much harder to go one step deeper and actually identify the merit/ability of each individual. The big challenge, of course, is that humans are not atomic individuals. We work together in a giant fabric of society. We support each other. Consider two politicians, Alice and Bob. Both appear to have equal ability, but there's a catch. Alice has reached her ability with little support. If she were to be put into a position of power which has support, she may grow in ability due to that support. Bob, on the other hand, has reached his ability with great support from his fellow citizens, but can't really leverage much more support than that effectively. If he were to be put into a position of power with more support, his ability may not grow as greatly as Alice. Both Alice and Bob clearly demonstrate the same ability/merit, but we can agree that having Alice lead would be better (because I constructed the fictitious scenario to come to that conclusion). But if you look at what we have to do to come to that conclusion, we see that we must base merit/ability not on what a person can do now, but what a person could do after we elevate them. Now we're talking about balancing hypothetical futures. And now we can see the real challenge in a meritocracy. To make a meritocracy work, the decision makers must have an almost clairvoyant ability to identify what potential futures could look like. 

I think what makes your question difficult to answer is that it depends up the meanings of several words: 

Yes, the question you asked is so difficult that there is not just a section of Wikipedia's mathematics page dedicated to it, there is an entire page for it. Personally, I find the things I call mathematics all have a common root structure: Model Theory and Proof Theory. Model Theory studies the semantics of mathematical models while Proof Theory studies the syntax of mathematical proofs. I have generally found that things I call mathematics boil down to one or both of these roots, while things I call not-mathematics do not. 

Consider we had 4 separate things, A B C and D. We do some experimentation on three characteristics we are interested in, x, y, and z. We find the physical evidence leads us to the following independent assumptions: 

Due to the small number of words in the definition, this may be better thought of as a "definition for 'is'" than a law of identity. Russel had to worry about particularly frustrating types of things that "are," especially those which try to describe what they are (as we see in this sentence). There are contrary positions, such as "all that 'is' is an illusion," and you can generate an entire world view from that. One effect of Russel's definition is that he is not interested in an illusionary "whatever is." If another person talks about an "is" that is an illusion, Russel's words indicate that he does not intend to use language in the same way as that person, so there should be no surprise if combining that person's words with Russel's words might lead to a contradiction. 

There's many logical issues with the argument. As should be expected. It is very rare that logic actually wins an argument, and it's usually because there's a referee ensuring the argument stays logical. The particular issue you will likely want to have attention drawn to is the difference between "a specific word is offensive" and Alice's statements such as "A large portion of people find it offensive" and "Because this conversation has been had many times, many people find it offensive". These statements are being made in English, rather than a language with explicit logical constructs, so its expected that people will take leaps. The first leap is from "a word is offensive" to "a large portion of people find it offensive." This statement is not justified by any further logic. If anything it's being presented as a definition for a word having the property of being offensive. In a truly logical argument, both Alice and Bob would have agreed upon a list of these definitions and axioms ahead of time. In a real argument, like this, Alice may introduce a new axiom. For this to be "logical," Bob would have to accept the statement as true, or Alice would need to justify the statement using logic and relying on statements that Bob has already accepted as true. The second piece is "Because this conversation has been had many times, many people find it offensive." This is another implication that doesn't have a logical justification included. Bob could easily argue that 2 devil's advocates could have this conversation without finding it offensive. There's also a trend to saying less and less. We started with "the word is offensive" then changed to "a large portion of people find it offensive," and now we're down to "many people find it offensive." Define "many." 100 people may be "many people," but it's a small portion of a city of 1,000,000. Alice is assuming that these statements are justifying her more sweeping claims, but in fact they are not logically justifying them. She is relying on the human side of Bob to look at a not-quite-logical-argument and accept it as justification in the larger argument. Bob, on the whole, is much more logical. His argument is basically taking the approach of proving Alice's argument to be non-logical at every step without adding any non-logical statements of his own. However, he did make one similar mistake. When he talked about the flat earth arguments, he made the assumption that there was a connection between flat earth arguments and offensive word arguments. While it's natural for one to argue "Alice, if you invalidate a similar argument, you invalidate your own," that statement is not logically justified unless the agreed axioms for the debate all treated offensive word arguments and flat earth arguments equally. Because we don't have a preamble where Alice and Bob lay down the axioms and define the domain of discourse, we can only guess as to whether Bob's argument is logical or not. If I were to pick up the argument from here, I'd invoke Godwin's Law as paradoxically as I can, but pointing out that in many debates where the logical axioms are not stated, arguments about Hitler are often placed in a separate category such that one cannot logically infer anything about a Hitler argument from a non-Hitler argument and vice versa. I'd say this is typically justified because it's hard to specify logical axioms which work well in corner cases with individuals who are considered to be that evil. The real moral of the story is "Debate using logic, not English." Just kidding! The real moral is that real debates are never 100% logical, because the devil is always in the details. Even if the debate starts as 100% logical, someone will eventually attack one of the axioms, and demand it be justified instead of simply assuming it was true. This process will continue until the debate ceases to be 100% logical, or until Baron Münchhausen pulls himself up out of the mire by his own hair. 

A "near death" experience proves nothing about an "after death" experience, because one is not the other. It is rational to extrapolate from one to the other, and we do it all the time. However, "prove" is a brutal word and if you want to use it, you have to be very careful. One particularly troublesome word is the one in the middle of it all: "dead." If you look in medical books, the word is frustratingly hard to define. There are dozens of definitions, including the one which is most readily accepted: a trained doctor declares death...and it's death! Our understanding of consciousness is grossly limited. Near death experiences are right on the razor's edge of life, where such limited understandings truly show their ignorance. A skeptic may say "NDE's do not prove anything about the afterlife, because they may be nothing more than neurons firing in a different way." A believer may say "NDEs may prove there is an afterlife, because we don't know of any way neurons could fire to yield such memories." Neither one is provably wrong; in fact, it is entierly possible neither is even simply "wrong." We are simply so far from having definitions for the key terms that we could not even pretend to be ready to discuss the veracity of any claim. 

And so forth. Now if I defined a number as being "of A#######" as a phrase which means that number appears in that particular sequence, I could run into a bit of a problem. There's an awful lot of overlap. For example, the number 1 appears in both sequences. To meet your "logical" expectation, I would be required to discuss 2^N different definitions, where N is the number of sequences in OEIS, which is over 280,000. I'm going to need an awful lot of definitions! Definitions obviously don't work that way. The purpose of definitions is to anchor the symbols you are using in a conversation (or proof, or debate, etc.) so that others may understand how and why you are using them. If it is inconvenient for such symbols to overlap, it's a good idea for the definitions to have no overlap. However, if overlapping symbols is reasonable (and it almost always is), then it's okay for the definitions to have overlap. In other works, definitions uniquely map a symbol within a discourse to reality, but there is no guarantee that the mapping is bijective. A key benefit about this is being able to discuss concepts within a framework. Consider that sometimes it's effective to think of sound in waves. Other times it's effective to think in phonons, packets of sound. The definitions absolutely overlap -- they're talking about the exact same thing! However, those overlapping definitions are a very powerful tool which lets you apply multiple frameworks to the same problem. It's also why we can talk about how light acts like a wave, or acts like a particle, without always being obliged to dip into the quantum physics world and admit that it really is neither, and then not always being obliged to point out that what the scientific community calls light may not actually exist, but the empirical observations of our universe suggest it's a good model for the observations we've seen. My kid just wants to make sure that when they switch the flashlight switch on, the monsters go away. I don't need a solid unambiguous definition of light for that! 

The result of this was the classification of two extreme views on time, the endurable point of view which roughly models time as a series of frames like a movie, and the perdurable point of view which explores objects as things in "4 space," 3 dimensions plus time. We do not, in fact, confine ourselves to static thinking, unless we choose to limit ourselves to only using the endurable point of view. The innate sense of time is also made far more complicated by scientific discoveries about how the mind work. It is becoming harder and harder to treat our perception as metaphysical hocus pocus; we are having to come to grips with the physical processes that appear to make the universe work. One key reality is that a surprisingly large amount of what we do can be modeled using local equilibrium thermodynamics, where the "relaxation rate" of small scale events is so much faster than the larger scale events we care about that we can handwave them away as error terms. Only a small portion of physics calls for non-equilibirum thermodynamics to achieve acceptably accurate predictive results. For systems where local equilibrium thermodynamics is sufficient, modeling time as a series of snapshots is actually a very effective approach. It is so effective, in fact, that in a surprisingly large number of cases people don't even realize they are making an assumption when they fall into the endurable point of view. Of course, if you look at a large portion of the literature, the endurable approach is popular. Personally I believe that its because the questions that arise from the perdurable point of view are troublesome. In many cases, we want answers, so we turn to the more tractable endurable approach. You will find a different focus in Eastern literature. Much of Eastern philosophy revolves around the Dao, which is much more reasonably modeled as a dynamic perdurable entity rather than an endurable series of frames. The Dao is ever changing, in their philosophies. As a result, they tend more towards perdurable ways of thinking. The result is that they require many concepts, such as Chi and the Dao, which seem strange to Westerners because they, with a typically endurable mindset, do not fully understand why the concepts are useful to the Eastern philosophers. 

Now Watts had a poetic tendency with his words, but even here we see a difference between his opinions and that of Ward. Watts does not describe a "stiff," who merely passively appreciates the ideas of philosophy like an art critic appreciates art. Watts describes a vibrant artist, who is actively experiencing the rich ideas that flow around them. If you follow more of Watt's lecture in which he provides this definition, you will find he has great disdain for the "9 to 5 philosopher," who only does philosophy at his desk. This 9 to 5 philosopher would fit well into the definition Ward provides, but Watts clearly considers these to be an inferior sort of philosopher, and holds the term "Philosopher" to describe someone quite different. 

This is where QM gets strange, and departs from how classical physics behaves. There is no "individual with the information," so there is no "objective reality." Such would require an "observer" which would have an effect such as collapsing the waveform a. la. Copenhagen interpretation. What you describe is known as a "local hidden variable" in the quantum mechanics community. By that theory, the cat is either alive or dead, and it knows it, but nobody else knows it. It's hidden from everyone, and its local, meaning it's only known to the cat itself. Unfortunately for those of us who want quantum mechanics to be intuitive, such local hidden variables do not actually describe the behaviors of the quantum mechanical world. We kind of wish they do, but they simply do not fit the data. Bell's Inequalities would be the de facto location I would go to disprove such a local hidden variable theory. His theory involves the case of entangled particles, such as having two entangled radioactive isotopes, or perhaps two entangled cats. He proved that if there are local hidden variables (in other words, if the cat actually is "alive" or "dead," just nobody knows it but the cat), certain inequalities must hold true. Experimental evidence proves that those inequalities do not hold true. Thus the behavior of the world at a quantum level simply cannot be described using local hidden variables. The only valid solution to Schrodinger's cat is to treat the cat using quantum mechanics, rather than classical mechanics. In such a treatment, the cat may be a superposition of alive and dead, and that's okay by QM's standards. Any simpler treatment, where the cat is alive or dead but not any strange mix of the two, simply does not match empirical testing of how the world works at the quantum level. Schrodinger's cat may be an extreme example, designed to prove a point, but its QM theory is sound and there are direct corollaries to Schrodinger's cat which can be demonstrated and do show that the cat is not alive nor dead. I find exploration of the world of QM is best backed by a healthy list of example experiments which demonstrate the more curious non-intuitive facets of the mathematical predictions. There's a lot of QM that may of us (including myself) would be tempted to claim bull*#$(. However, for every one of those implausible claims, there's an experiment which demonstrates that it indeed occurs the way QM claims -- the bull*#@$ is right! My personal bane is the quantum eraser series. That series of experiments starts with the double slit experiment, and proceeds to get curiouser and curiouser as it progresses towards the delayed choice quantum eraser. Like it or not, the experiments have been done.