Losing flab is a matter of eating less calories than you use on a daily basis. There is some debate about the 3500 calories = 1 lb of fat equation, but many studies have shown that it isn't Paleo, South Beach or (insert diet fad X here), but simple calorie reduction over time. If you want to seriously lose the weight, then I would find a calorie calculator to get your basal metabolism, which will tell you how many calories you need to breathe in and out all day. Then add in the calories for all your activities, work, yard work, housework, play, etc. Then start using a food tracker such as myfitnesspal, and let the scale be your guide. Bouncing your knees off your stomach won't do a thing for flab except give you a sore stomach. 

There are likely a few different reasons, but my primary suspicion would be fit. Presumably your road bike is set up to fit your body geometry and angles, where the spin bike is not. Small differences in how a bike is set up can have a big impact on how your body feels while riding. My n=1 example, when doing higher intensity efforts on the road, I would get high calf cramps after about an hour. When I had a Retul fit done for my time trial bike, the fitter told me that because my feet were somewhat duckfooted, I needed to move to speedplay pedals with longer spindles to allow my heels to drift inward more than my old pedals. Solved my calf cramp problems. 

TCX and FIT are designed for fitness activities, so they can contain more fitness data than GPX. eg TCX or FIT supports laps (splits). So your device could record a new lap whenever you press the lap button, or automatically after a set distance, eg every 1km. Also they support pauses, if you want to stop the activity at one point, then start again later. Whereas GPX is essentially just a series of points (with timestamps). I am not sure whether Strava actually uses the laps or pauses recorded on the device, I suspect it will recalculate them anyway, based on the GPS points and time. As standard, GPX does not support heart rate, cadence or power data. But this can be added with extensions. The most popular format for these extension was created by Garmin, it is also supported by a variety of other software/websites (including Strava). But some devices might record heart rate/cadence in a different format in the GPX file. TCX or FIT can also contain summary data, for the whole activity. eg the total time, distance, calories, device used, type of sport. Some of this is used by Strava, eg to display the device, or automatically select the activity type. TCX and GPX are both XML formats, which can be fairly inefficient in terms of file size. But this does mean they can be easily edited, eg in a text editor. FIT is a binary format, so is much smaller file size, typically about 1/10 of the size. File size is usually not a problem anyway - even if you are recording at 1 point per second, a 3 hour activity would be about 1MB in GPX format. So not really an issue, unless your device has very limited memory, or a slow internet connection for uploading. So in general, you probably won't notice much difference between formats for uploading to Strava. Though TCX or FIT may give you a bit more data. And FIT would be a smaller file size. 

There are a few things that are going to cost you more, simply because you are not used to working on a bike and will have to have them done for you. 

There are several different makers and models that are designed to be comfortable and safe for men. However, if you have known urogenital issues, then I would get with your doctor and go through some of the available models and see which one he/she would recommend. Once you have recommendations, then I would find a bike shop that lets you trial saddles for a short basis, as saddle fit and comfort are highly unique from individual to individual. 

Those should both be staple type workouts in your folder. There are basically two types of workouts that you should be doing to increase your speed, and both of them are described fairly well in your examples. The first is a threshold workout - This is a pace that is at or near your race pace, with relatively short recovery. This is the second workout you describe, with the 80-85% FTP. (Remember that an FTP measurement is generally described as the maximum effort you can sustain for one hour). In this you are doing near a race pace, with short recovery compared to the length of the sustained effort. This type of effort is designed to increase the amount of time you can hold a high effort level. The second is an interval workout, which is what your first workout describes. This is short periods of very intense effort, with enough recovery to ensure that you can complete the next interval at the desired level. If you note, the recovery period (3 minutes) for this one is nearly as long as the recovery for the threshold workout (4 mins) for a much shorter effort. This workout is designed to increase your top end speed. Taken together over time, these workouts will increase your top speed, and increase the amount of time you can spend near that speed. They are also somewhat dependent on the time of year. During the "off season" if you will, you should be concentrating on long distance riding, not much intensity, to get a good base for the next year. A couple of months out you should start adding in some of these workouts, and increase the frequency in which you do them through the first few months of the season, then change over to fine tuning and maintenance type workouts. If you are unsure of how to do that, a coach can be a huge help. As far as measuring FTP, I'm not a big fan of the 5 minute tests. I prefer either an hour time trial if you can manage that, or the 2x20 method, preferably on the road. 

Mudguards can be measured in a few different ways, so different brands may vary. And it seems the SKS model numbers and names have recently changed, so some websites may still refer to the old names. For SKS Chromoplastic, 'P35' refers to the width of the mudguard. For it to fit, the guard has to be a bit wider than the tyre, probably at least 5mm more. From the SKS website, the Chromoplastic 35mm is designed to fit a 700 x 20-28 tyre. So for a 40mm tyre, you should look for a 50mm mudguard. Or a bit wider if your tyre is particularly wide or knobbly. SKS do make a Chromoplastic P50 (also known as 'Hybrid' size), designed for 38-45mm tyres, so that would fit fine. Or another option would be the SKS Bluemel B53, which is 53mm wide so fits 700 x 38-47 tyres. 

All Garmin Edge models can be used without any sort of online account. As can any of the outdoor models, eg the Etrex, Oregon etc. There is a handlebar mount available for these, so you can use them on your bike if you want. Newer Garmin models work as a USB mass storage device. ie you plug it into your computer, and it appears as a disk drive. So you can just copy files on and off, usually in FIT, TCX or GPX format. Some models also have the option of Bluetooth or wifi for uploading. These will require a Garmin Connect account, and the app on a phone or tablet. But you don't have to use this, you can just plug in a USB cable as above. There is a variety of free software you can use on your own computer for viewing rides etc, eg 

There are some sports where shaving is done for performance purposes (chiefly swimming), but anyone that tells you that in cycling is fooling themselves. My personal experience is that crash scars heal better and are less visible when shaved, but that may be an individual thing. 

It has been long enough since this question was originally asked for helmets to have adapted. Currently there is a model of bicycle helmet that is full face, and used for downhill bicycle racing. Most (if not all) of these are certified according to the ASTM F1952 standard, which is a more rigorous standard than the CPSC (Consumer Products Safety Commission), which is a US based safety certification that all recommended bicycle helmets are required to have in the US (I believe foreign models sold in the US must either meet or exceed CPSC standards). The models will also list what standards they conform to, such as the list on the Bell Transfer helmet page. If you look at current models such as the ones at Chain Reaction Cycles (Warning, link may decay), they are full face such as ski racing and motorcycle, and will accommodate goggles such as ski goggles. Add a head covering such as a balaclava or similar and you should be fine. 

For plotting routes, to transfer to the GPS. Depends on what sort of maps you want to use, some options include 

That has a link to download it as a GPX file, so you could load that onto a GPS device, or other mapping software as required. 

Whereas a commuter bike is designed more for comfort, and carrying luggage as required. So it may have: 

These are designed for road/touring bikes, so are fairly slim, with a small metal platform. (Not to be confused with the PD-A520, which are one-sided SPD pedals, without a flat platform). Personally I use these, they work pretty well, with either SPD shoes or non-SPD shoes. Weight: 383g (pair) PD-T780 

Front hubs on mountain bikes and road bikes are all the same width, 100mm (except for some downhill hubs with through-axles). So you could use either type, they would fit in your forks fine. Note nearly all current mountain bike hubs are designed for disc brakes, so include mounts for attaching a rotor. You can still use them on a bike with rim brakes, just don't fit a rotor. The disc part would increase the weight a bit, so they will be a bit heavier than an equivalent road hub. Also the disc mount means the hub is not symmetrical, so the wheel has to be dished. This makes it a bit more complicated to build, ie it needs different spoke lengths on each side. But this doesn't really matter, you can still build a strong wheel with either sort of hub. And disc mounts would be useful if you wanted to fit disc brakes in the future. As for which hub, generally mid-range Shimano hubs are good. eg Deore or LX for mountain bike, or Tiagra or 105 for road. Usually they just work fine for years, with hardly any maintenance. Shimano hubs typically use cup-and-cone bearings, so they can be serviced, and the bearings replaced, but this may be a bit fiddly. 

The main reason that aerobars may have an advantage over flat or road bars is that they are designed so that your main support mechanism is skeletal, rather than muscular. The longer the distance, the more this will hold true. 

Your answer to whether or not it is racing or endurance, it is both. You are racing, because it is against the clock. It is endurance, simply because of the distance. 30km/hour is a decent pace, and considering that you are doing an ironman distance triathlon, I would want the best performing bike possible THAT YOU ARE COMFORTABLE RIDING. It will do you no good to get what you call a performance bike, if after 100km you are too uncomfortable to ride. Personally, I would get the best performance bike that you can/feel like affording. Comfort on a bike is all about time in the saddle, and putting in the miles. What may feel harsh and uncomfortable today will in all likelihood feel comfortable 6 months down the road after a couple thousand kms. My fear is that you will pick comfort over performance in the short term, and have that hinder your performance in the long term. However, there are a few people here and there that complete ironman triathlons on mountain bikes to fixies to cruisers to racers, and everything in between. In the end, you need to pick the bike that you feel will give you the best chance to finish the bike portion in good enough shape to go run the marathon. 

It is possible to buy a basic new fork for about £20 to £30. eg Raleigh 700C 1 1/8" Threaded Fork from Evans. Or there's a variety of options on Ebay, either new or used. Or some cycling forums have classified sections, so you could post a wanted advert. Though there are several things to check to ensure a replacement fork is compatible: 

A cyclocross bike is designed for cyclocross racing. This typically involves riding as quickly as possible around a muddy field. So for a cyclocross bike: 

You could find a bike shop to fit the replacement fork. It may cost anything between £20 and £50, depends on the shop and just what needs done. Or if you want to replace the fork yourself, you will need several tools. Probably including several spanners, and possibly also headset tools. If you don't have these, you may be able to borrow them from someone. The best option could be a DIY bike workshop, eg the one suggested by Booker. They will have tools you can use, plus they may be able to advise on what you need to do. Depending on how your fork was damaged, its possible that other parts of the bike are broken. So it is worth checking it all carefully. The worst would be if the frame is bent or broken, that would be a lot of cost and work to replace. If the frame is damaged, you may be better off just replacing the whole bike. 

Triathlon bikes are about one thing, and one thing only. Aerodynamics. Dan Empfield, the creator of the Quintana Roo brand, recognized this early on. Cervelo came along soon after, and their designs basically changed how time trial bikes are viewed, with their breakthrough design of the P3 in 2001 (Company history here.) This P3 design evolved, and there are a few models such as your pictured Giant that have completely vertical seatposts. Many other bikes don't have this, but do approach vertical, as the frame geometry is completely different than a road bike with the purpose of allowing a rider to ride more forward on the bike, bent over with arms in the aerobars. You will also see much different clothing (esp for road racers) as time trial suits are also designed with aerodynamic considerations. Time trial fit is very much a science as well as an art form. These include the F.I.S.T. method (Also developed by Dan Empfield), Retul, which are two of the most popular, but there are a couple others as well. They look at such things as upper body angle, hip angle, leg angles at top dead center and bottom dead center (TDC, BDC), forearm to bike angles, etc etc. A very minor change in seat position can have profound effects on aerodynamics, comfort and power. You will also see some different frames and components in the triathlon world than you will in the road race world, because as always, the UCI (governing body for cycling) has very strict rules for time trial bikes and components, and some of the items used in triathlons are not allowed for road time trial events. For example, Cervelo's latest model, the P5, has two different forks, one which is legal and one which is not.