along with the player's number, and the time that the offence occurred, under the team's column in my book. Similar to as in Nij's answer, I end up with a row like this: 

The wise referee will keep out of incidents - tackles or otherwise - between teammates unless it is so egregious that it rises to the level of violent conduct. It isn't explicitly written in the Laws of the Game, but it's implied by the wording that referees should not be taking action if a tackle or challenge for the ball puts a teammate at risk. Law 12.3: 

This is a massive change in how offside position is determined for attackers leaving the field of play, with very little explanation. If an attacker has left the field deliberately, this means that even if they re-enter and place themselves in an onside position, they will continue to be considered to be in an offside position (unless the second-last defender is on the goal line) until the defensive team clears the ball towards halfway, outside the penalty area. Also: 

Scratching usually means pocketing the cue ball, but can also mean failing to contact a ball. I would say that in any game that is serious enough to have players complain about cheating, this rule (ie. losing two points on a foul) would probably apply to prevent perverse incentives arising. Having said that, you were on your last life, so it wouldn't have made much difference here anyway. If your opponent failed to consider that the player taking the shot before him had nothing to lose, that's his problem for not preparing accordingly. There's nothing to say that had you made an honest attempt, that the resulting leave would have been any better for him. Deliberately fouling in pool games is generally not seen to be "cheating", as the penalties for fouling are generally strong enough to prevent the affected party from feeling aggrieved. This discussion seems to share that consensus - in 8-ball, for example, the ball-in-hand penalty is seen as a strong enough disincentive to deliberate fouling. 

I think this article is a bit of a stretch. As correctly mentioned in the article, only players who play/touch the ball, or touch/block the line of sight of an opponent are now punished for being in an offside position. This primarily prevents play being stopped because an irrelevant attacker is slow getting back onside, or an attacker on the opposite side is offside nowhere near the ball. However, it doesn't stop players using the offside trap. What it does mean though, that all players running through need to be tracked by the defence, instead of the defenders stopping running and lazily throwing the hand up and expecting the irrelevant player to be called for offside. If there are no runners coming through, or the pass goes to one of the trapped players, the trap is still very easy and doesn't require the defence to quickly pick up onside players after stepping up. In this video, one year after the 2005 change, you can see the Dutch national team still effectively apply an offside trap. All five runners are trapped and two of them end up playing it and an offside offence is called. This would have still worked higher up the field, not just in the penalty area (provided other attackers running through were tracked by the defence). 

Many football associations will not allow clubs to participate in competitions with a field with dimensions that greatly differ from international sizes. The FA, for example, for football clubs in England, suggests the following dimensions (which correspond to the minimum international size) in The FA Guide to Pitch and Goalpost Dimensions (pdf link) on page 3 (quoted from a table): 

If the referee decided that your player had committed an offence by continuing to play with the incorrect equipment for an extended period of time, they would follow this procedure on p. 23 of the 2015/16 FIFA Laws of the Game: 

The ball is in play. A substitute, off the field of play in their technical area, either engages in dissent, or uses offensive, insulting and/or abusive language against the referee. The referee stops play, and either cautions or sends off the substitute (depending on which of the above offences was committed). How is play restarted and where does the restart take place? 

Finally, if this is not a penalty kick during the match, but part of kicks from the penalty mark at the end of a drawn match in in order to determine a winner, the referee may simply move the penalty kicks to the other end of the field. Law 10.3, Determining the Outcome of a Match - Kicks From the Penalty Mark: 

The power of the referee to make decisions with respect to the condition of the field of play is within the match official indemnity waiver (and strangely not within the law regarding the field of play) on p. 27: 

In football, the referee and assistant referees are considered to be part of the field, just like the corner flags, crossbars and goalposts. In the case of the ball hitting the referee, there are two passages that support play continuing. On page 33 of the 2014/15 FIFA Laws of The Game: 

There is a concept of personal space, or a right to position in 12.2, but it only extends to the space you are occupying, not the space around it. 

However, given that the opponent was through on goal, the referee would most certainly play advantage here, otherwise he would have to send off your player for: (p. 40, 2015/16 FIFA Laws of the Game: ) 

This means that it is theoretically possible for a football field to be close to square (eg. 89m x 91m). However, most clubs will try to construct a field as close as possible to international sizing to provide a consistent experience for players and spectators: 

So this rules out both cautions and sending-offs for challenges for the ball. Having said that, if the referee is of the opinion that something that looks like a tackle is actually an attempt to injure an opponent, teammate or anyone else and is not a challenge for the ball, they can still send the player off for violent conduct. Take for example, this challenge by Maxi Pereira in 2014 World Cup Finals. The referee reported this send-off as serious foul play, but it could very easily have been reported as violent conduct - his eyes were on the opponent's leg rather than the ball, and he pulled back his leg in a manner that was unnatural for what should have been a simple tackle - it clearly looked like an attempt to injure the opponent. If a referee saw a player do this exact same thing to their own teammate, it wouldn't be that farfetched to see a send-off for violent conduct. 1 - Technically, there are some other ways for play to restart with a direct free kick as of 2016/17, but these aren't direct free kick offences - they're misconduct that results in a direct free kick restart, e.g. striking the referee, a substitute entering the field to interfere with play. 

The restart location is no longer a point of contention, as this has been simplified in the 2016/17 Laws: 

In summary, if the incident was missed by the referee, a charge would be sent to the club, and they would usually accept the charge, with the suspension added onto the end of the other suspension. If it was a serious incident (ie. "the standard punishment would be clearly insufficient"), or the player appealed on various grounds (eg. mistaken identity, excessive punishment), it would be dealt with by the Regulatory Commission at their next meeting. 

Based on personal experience, if a sent-off player causes a match to be abandoned, the competition administrator would take a very dim view of this. It is likely that the sent-off player's team would forfeit the game, and possibly be fined and lose competition points. The sent-off player would most likely face a lengthy suspension (in addition to that imposed for the sending-off offence). 

Yes. In the 2014/15 The FA Handbook (pdf). In the section title Disciplinary Procedures - Regulations, pages 339-340: 

(while the above section is in the indirect free kick Laws section, it is there to explain the difference between impeding i.e. shielding the ball when it is not in playing distance of either player and holding, which as seen above, is a direct free kick offence) Applying this to your scenario, you did not grab the opponent, but you did use you arm to hold off the opponent from getting to the ball. Based on this, the referee correctly awarded a direct free kick. 

There is no concept of "last play of the match" in football. When the referee has decided that the second half and any added time in the second half have concluded, the match is terminated. Unlike in many other sports, the team with the ball is not allowed to continue playing until the ball goes out / they lose possession. However, most referees will not end the match if there is a promising attack underway. As the allowance for additional time is inexact and at the referee's discretion, and they can always "find" a few more seconds to avoid controversy, such as in the 1978 World Cup Finals group stage game between Brazil and Sweden. The IFAB Laws of the Game state the following: Law 7.1 - Periods of Play: