The real problem is where your girlfriend is putting the compass not the orientation of the compass. Unless of course hanging the compass somehow causes the card to become irrecoverably stuck against the glass/lens/dome. 

Since you mentioned the Sierra's I'd recommend you investigate the Trinity Alps. I grew up backpacking in this area and it fits all of your requirements perfectly. It has tons of exposed granite, remoteness, and the tallest peak is just a smidge above 9,000 feet. There are also lots of lakes in the area so you can have ready access to water with good fishing. There is also good support from outfitters since you mentioned it. I've never used an outfitter so I can't give any recommendations but using the search term "trinity alps outfitters" I found at least 4 outfitters serving the area. Many years ago father was able to rent a pack mule in the area, so that may be an option as well. Below are some factoids about the area that I pulled from the Wikipedia article above. 

I say you should always wear the gear that you already own and you are comfortable in instead of following some fashion trend. If you like your setup go for it. Beyond that I think there are some reasons why people tend to recommend a coat over a vest. First and foremost when you are earning a living outdoors you work more or less in all kinds of weather. When you go outdoors for recreation you try your best to only go when the weather is going to be reasonably good. This is where the no waterproof pants comes in. People will bring a jacket for warmth and a hedge against inclimate weather. Like imasodin said when hiking your arms are more likely to get cold and a jacket keeps the weather out better than a vest. If people think odds are good they will encounter significant moisture then people bring water proof pants. Like I said people mostly want to go hike when they think it isn't going to rain so carrying full rain gear is unnecessary but a good jacket that works for wind, water, and general warmth makes perfect sense. Another consideration is most hikers don't have quality wool long sleeve shirts because you don't find them in generic outdoors stores like REI where many hikers shop. There's a couple reasons for this but the biggest one in my opinion is hiker/backpacker fashion follows climbing/mountaineering clothing trends. These realms embrace fancy synthetic fibers due to their light weight. I have some Army surplus thick wool pants that are phenomenal for a cold rainy day. Of course they weigh a ton, aren't worn by serious mountaineers anymore for that reason, and as a result aren't being marketed by major brands because who really wants to go for a 10 mile hike in the pouring rain where you can't see the dramatic sweeping views anyway? To address the poncho bit some people do carry ponchos with them in case it rains. Of course since they aren't planning on going out when it is raining these ponchos are the thin plastic "emergency" ponchos. Ponchos are fabulous for walking around in when it is wet but they also aren't as functional as pants and a jacket for climbing or mountaineering. Of course you aren't going to plan on climbing or mountaineering in the rain but if you do I know I'd rather be reaching over my head in the rain with a jacket than a poncho. In summary: 

Due to this variance you need to be lucky and be close to the equator and make corrections with your cross staff as needed. As such this should be considered a supplementary aid, not a primary aid. 

So this isn't the type of dynamic climbing you'd see in a bouldering problem, but one "dynamic" climbing technique that I could see being used on a mountaineering route is a pendulum. This is pretty much what it sounds like one person swings back and forth on the end of the rope so they can get to a climbable line. Here is a video of one being done on El Capitan: $URL$ Out of all the "dynamic" moves or techniques this is the one I'd most expect to see on a major expedition style climb. 

In other words dynamic crampons give greater forward efficiency for slightly less activation efficiency. This brings us to the heart of your question. If you ignore fun factor (which is a big factor I know), skis are used to increase your efficiency vs walking. This is a key determinate in whether you choose to use ski crampons or boot crampons. You should choose the crampons that you feel are safest and offer the most efficiency. Most of the time in my experience when skiing is an option ski crampons offer greater efficiency. In my opinion the efficiency spectrum is generally: skis without crampons --> skis with dynamic crampons --> skis with fixed crampons --> boot crampons. Of course your mileage may vary. 

First and foremost try to find better water. If your water is so polluted that this is a serious concern then I strongly feel you should find less polluted water to purify. This is true regardless of what method you're using to purify the water. For an extreme example I wouldn't try to collect water to purify from a port-a-potty if there was a river a couple of miles away. If for some reason the only water you have is extremely polluted then I'd follow these steps. 

With luck and planning I would assume in mountainous/timbered areas you would be able to setup your tarp so one of the open sides of your tent were mostly/partially blocked by a tree/rock/bush/etc. which would solve roughly half of your problem. After that it is about accepting the limitations of your tarp tent, or deciding that you want more reliable comfort and are willing to convert your tarp into a tent by adding doors etc. Keep in mind, when you decide to camp with just a tarp for shelter you are consciously choosing less protection from the elements. Either accept that you will have to re-pitch your tent periodically at night, or choose a different portable shelter IMO. 

If twisting/rotation is a valid concern with the bib type 2 life jacket then you could experiment with an "upside-down" life jacket. 

Since no one has taken a stab at this I'll throw in my opinion even though I have zero dry suit experience. 

A quick word on a human as a backup anchor. This is probably a bad idea. Most balconies that suddenly have guard rails missing are a smooth runway to the abyss. If the guard rail pops off then there will likely be nothing preventing your human anchor from being dragged off the balcony. In all reality you should think of a "human" anchor as a counter weight in the form of a sack of beans. Would a sack of beans be dragged to its untimely demise if things go wrong? If the answer is yes then more than likely your friend would suffer the same fate or simply drop you to save their life. 

I just watched a documentary on PBS that featured many African mammals in the wild. One scene in the documentary showed a baby zebra that was described as "minutes old" walking next to its mother. After a brief moment discussing how the baby needed to learn to walk shortly after birth they showed a male zebra rush the baby and attack it. The mother, obviously distressed, was trying to push the male zebra off the baby without much success. After a period of the male repeatedly cycling between stomping on the baby and pulling it off the ground (by the leg or neck) with its teeth, the male zebra left the baby broken on the ground. The mother stood watch over the baby and you could see the baby struggling. Once the vultures started circling the mother started desperately calling to the baby, but the baby died soon after. The narrator said this attack happened because the male was new and the baby was from an older male that was muscled out. They said this attack was an instinctual response by the new male to give their offspring the best chance at survival. It is probably naive of me but I was frankly a bit surprised that a zebra would act in this manner. This leads to my question. Is this an accepted social norm for zebras, or should the young male expect retribution? The mother probably couldn't win a fair fight against the male but I'm sure even zebras sleep. She could probably give him a hard kick to the head when he was asleep though and hurt him badly before he could put up much of a fight. Alternatively I'm sure a pack of female zebras could take on one male, but somehow that seems even more unlikely than an ambush by a lone female.