No, the sun and all other stars do not have the same composition and density within them. The composition varies with depth. Most stars overall composition reflects the interstellar medium from which they form. Convection, settling and nuclear processes then lead to layers of different elements at differing depths. Fusion occurs at the core of our sun (where pressure and temperature are greatest) therefore there is a greater abundance of Helium at this depth (through conversion of hydrogen). Other stars that have entered the red giant phase will also have many more heavier elements. Very late stage stars are thought to fuse these elements progressively, leading to layers of decreasing atomic number elements stacked on top of each other. Convection can also lead to mixing of elements between layers. The diagram below shows theoretically how these convective layers differ over a range of stellar masses 

Zeilik's Introductory Astronomy and Astrophysics is worth investigating. It's more in depth than Kaufman & Freedman's Universe, mentioned in another answer, but requires a little more mathematical background such as basic calculus and trigonometry. I'd also recommend looking at online courses from providers such as Coursera, Khan Academy and edx (and here) for inspiration on how to structure such a course. 

First off, I'm not going to calculate an answer to the "significance level of 1%" part. This is more a rule of thumb kind of answer. We're moving in a spaceship and want to see 

This would not be a giant version of eLISA, but a small (and complicated) one. The distance between the LISA satellites will be 1 million kilometers, while the moon is on average 380.000km from Earth. So that arm would be less than half as long. Geosynchronous orbit is at 36.000km, not even 10% of the distance to the moon. The difference in length between your proposed detector arms is much shorter than the coherence length of any laser, so your interferometer would not work. Further problems: 

No, the more I read about it, the more difficult it seems to be. In principle, if you sample regularly and often, you should eventually get a light curve, unless the period is the same as or a multiple of your sampling period. It's not easy to find how often GAIA observes a given patch of sky, but here it says that after one year of observing 

If dark energy varied by location, then plots of 1a supernova brightness vs redshift should vary depending on which direction you look in the sky. AFAIK, that's not the case. For example, although coords are not accounted for, there's not a lot of scatter in this plot: 

Naturally the more abundant smaller asteroids collide more frequently. In fact Hubble seems to have caught the aftermath of such an event back in 2010. To answer the question. It seems Ceres will remain intact for some millions of years to come. But it does get hit fairly regularly, like the moon. If Ceres regularly took impacts large enough to preclude habitation, we'd expect to see co-orbiting debris clouds like the Veritas cluster, or in the 2010 Hubble images. We do not see such debris clouds near Ceres. 

It's cold out by Saturn, which reduces the tendency of gases to evaporate off into space. Black body temperature of solar system objects: 

I assume you mean contraction, as opposed to the current expansion that we see today due to dark energy. Again this would be unfeasible due to the reasons outlined above, and if contraction was to proceed to it's conclusion, i.e. a singularity like the Big Bang, then no information from this universe could be carried through that singularity, even if there was another universe on the other side. 

What physical mechanisms, in the progenitor stellar system or from interstellar transit, could lead to the formation of an asteroid with such a shape? 

Density waves cause the build up of galactic material in to spiral arms. An object does not have to stay in a spiral arm; it can join or leave it as the density wave passes through the galaxy. However, the likelihood of an object being in a spiral arm is greater. The shape of the arms does not relate to matter falling in; this is an illusion. Objects perform elliptical or near-circular orbits around the center of the galaxy. The origin of these density waves is not known conclusively, though there are many simulations that re-create the effect through satellite galaxy perturbations. 

Mass attracts mass, and so dark matter will attract normal matter and vice versa. However, people have looked for "dark lenses", so far without success. Examples: 

so they seem to have repeat observations a bit more often than once a month. Cepheids have a period of typically 2 to 45 days (says german Wikipedia - didn't find it in the english article). If your sampling is regular, you should be able to get a decent light curve for at least some Cepheids. Complete guesswork on my part: Apparently, longer period Cepheids are redder at the minimum. Perhaps they use that to distinguish between the actual period and higher harmonics? 

Atmospheric transmission: FAST observes in a wavelength regime in which our atmosphere is quite transparent. In contrast, the ALMA dishes are located in one of the driest deserts of the world at an altitude of over 5000 m, in order to minimize the effects of water vapour in the atmosphere. Collecting area: FAST has a much larger collecting area. Also (I'm uncertain in this point, please correct this if I'm wrong) you lose some sensitivity when doing interferometry compared to just pooling the collecting areas of the single telescopes in ALMA. 

The density increases as you move closer to the center of the star. Note how the density is less than that of water for up to half the sun's radius! 

It depends on whether the black hole is rotating or not. If it is, The ergosphere and singularity are oblate spheroids. If not, both would be spherical. The event horizon is always spherical. Accreting matter around a black hole would form an accretion disk, however this should not be mistaken for the black hole itself. 

There are around 2 trillion galaxies in the currently observable universe according to the latest estimates, obtained by integrating theoretical galaxy stellar mass functions above $10^{6} M_{\odot}$ between $0 \leqslant z \leqslant 8$. It's difficult to get a precise number for the total observed galaxies as the results from new surveys are being released all the time, and updated analysis of legacy data is revealing more galaxies. For example, the latest SDSS data release identified close to 200 million galaxies, whilst the ongoing Dark Energy Survey seeks to identify around 300 million galaxies. LSST, in Chile, will observe close to 20 billion galaxies, an order of magnitude greater than anything before it. However, all of these surveys operate up to relatively low redshifts. Probing to higher redshifts requires bigger, preferably space based telescopes, and much longer exposure times. As such, the high redshift universe has been poorly documented. Our understanding of galaxy formation at high redshift is not as complete as at low redshift, and so we may be under- or over-estimating the number of galaxies at this epoch. A vague upper limit: we've observed less than 0.01% of all currently observable galaxies. 

According to this table, Hubble is good down to around magnitude 31.5. What with digital stacking of exposures, that number has got to reflect a point at which detector noise is equal to incoming signal. At the distance of M31, 778000pc, that brightness corresponds to an absolute magnitude of M = 31.5 -5((log778000)-1) = 7. That's about as bright as Epsilon Indus, a K3 class star, 0.45 to 0.8 times the mass of the Sun. If Hubble is seeing that deep, it's a little surprising how few stars it picked up in that image of our neighboring galaxy. 

The Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter is still up there. At a compact 2000kg, it's likely too small to see via earth based telescope. Mission Page I think the Chinese orbiter is back on earth now, but there may be others. 

Earth has orbited the galaxy 16 or more times since the planet formed. Given that even stars in a single open cluster usually have somewhat different velocities relative to galactic center, it's highly doubtful that we can see stars made from the exact same starting material as earth. As for the supernova that delivered the compression wave to our stellar nursery, it's likely too dim by now to be seen for more a few dozen parsecs, and might be located nearly anywhere. 

Further details here on astronomical causes of average daytime variation, and here on Insolation, the solar radiation received at the top of the atmosphere and its effects on the energy received at ground level. 

I am unaware of there being a single Helium line that is as prominent or useful as the 21cm line is for Hydrogen. The 21 cm line is due to a hyperfine transition in the 1s ground state of hydrogen. It is notable due to its strength, and also its usefulness for mapping neutral hydrogen in the universe, which is impossible in the optical since it is absorbed by neutral Hydrogen. It was in fact the first such spectral line observed in the radio part of the spectrum, and is so fundamental that the Pioneer and Voyager probes used the length of the transition as a time and distance unit on the plaques they carry, so that potential extraterrestrials could decode the messages. There are many more spectral lines in the radio from heavier elements, and a whole field dedicated to observing and understanding them: radio frequency spectroscopy. For Helium in particular, hyperfine lines can also be observed; the hyperfine transition of the $^3$He isotope has a wavelength ~4mm. The same isotope also emits a recombination line, where an electron recombines with an ion and falls to lower energy levels, emitting a photon in the process. The wavelengths of such recombination lines for Hydrogen like atoms (singly ionised in the case of Helium, so that it has a single electron) can be estimated using the Rydberg Formula: $$\nu = R_{m}c\left[\frac{1}{n^2}-\frac{1}{(n+\Delta n)^2}\right]$$ where $R_m$ is the reduced mass Rydberg constant, $n$ is the final state and $\Delta n$ is the change in state. Estimating the strengths of such lines is a little more complicated, but there are details here. 

That should be in western China, since all of China uses Beijing's time zone. Reference: $URL$ --- Edit below --- In response to the comment by @adrianmcmenamin: I'll leave this as guesswork since I simply don't know the peculiarities of every timezone there is. Here's a back-of-the-envelope calculation for local noon in western China. The Sun covers 15 degrees in a period of 1 hour. All of China is on Beijing time (UTC + 8 hours). With the above, it's centred on $15 \cdot 8 = 120^{\circ}$ east. As a consistency check, Beijing is at $116^{\circ}$ east. The westernmost part of China is at about $73^\circ$ east (See here). Local noon there is delayed by $(120^\circ - 73^\circ)/(15^\circ/h) \simeq 3h$. So, local noon is a little later than 3pm. This is discounting daylight savings time, which is not currently observed in China. 

Yes, astronomers call it Faraday rotation. The polarization angle of radio waves changes dependent on the wavelength because of the galactic magnetic field. Sunglasses do not polarize radio waves, the wavelength is too large. You can polarize radio waves with a wire mesh. 

Even vacuum is seething with virtual particle pairs, so photons always interact with something. Check Wikipedia on the Scharnhorst effect for a bit of an explanation: 

It's poetically called The Old Moon in the New Moon's Arms. Project Earthshine used measurements of the brightness of the non-sunlit portion of the moon to accurately determine earth's albedo: 

Reasonably current data puts the current closest brown dwarf at 6.5LY (2 parsec) and less than 0.08 solar masses. A nearer one could show up, but it's not looking likely. 

From the above, climate is obviously also a variable in star visibility. Added: Oh yes, aging is also a factor. The eyes opacify with age: 

If you've moved to an area with major aircraft traffic, you may be seeing fewer stars due to cirrus cloud formation. Such clouds are often subtle enough not to be visible as clouds but still block out starlight. For example: Forecasting Andean rainfall and crop yield from the influence of El Niño on Pleiades visibility