check if your office building allows it. Ours was in a residencial building but most local office spaces don't allow this. It really depends on the dog - if its a dog that sleeps much of the time, and just needs people present its a better office dog in many cases than one that's going to keep demanding people play fetch with it. There were games of fetch played over downtime sometimes tho. Have a 'dog/people' safe space when needed - our office dog was enthusiastic about greeting people, and sounded much larger than he was. We had a bed in the conference room or the director's office for when we needed to keep him out of the way cause someone was afraid of dogs and/or we had a delivery and wanted to avoid crushed dog. If possible, the intern might have a spare/old pen that might work well. Dogs are awesome stress relief. Its a lot easier if the dog's 'timings' work around work times - we parked the dog around lunch and after work, which worked well. Years after retirement, the dog still does his business at the same times ;). Doing it outside is essential - for obvious reasons. Yes, we're all adults here and I'm talking poo. 

As I said it is most common thing to happen. But some of the employers won’t tell to the candidate upfront. Ofcourse No body likes to hear bad things about themselves. However the good thing here is he is straight away giving his feedback and assessment. Now you can have realistic picture of where you and your skills stand in the job market. You can use this feedback constructively. If you are interested in the job profile that is similar to your prospective employer you have to focus on improving your skills which are required for that job. Or you can focus on the other job profiles where your other skills are strong. 

The main problem here is commuting distance and you want to reduce commuting cost and time. The below are the suggestion which will help you (1) Check with your organisations Compensation and benefits policies for the following things 

1) Approach manager of A whom you report, and express your interest. Emphasize on how much you value the Company A, Specify what are the unique things that you like about company, and how can you contribute to Company A and how can you help Company A. 2) And also be honest with manager A and tell that you have applied positions with other Companies. You can say like "Even though I have applied positions at other Companies, I am keen to work for Company A. If I got offer from Company A, I prefer Company A over other Companies. 3) For Company B, You need not tell Proactively that the fact you are considering the offer from Company A. However if they ask You can reveal the fact that you are Considering offer from Company A. But you can assure that if you don't hear from Company A so and so date, and if you have the offer from B you can choose B. 

Its probably worth looking at both sides of the issue "We follow some ISO standard for security, specifically 27001, from what I can gather" These are generally a pain in the ass requiring much box ticking. Your IT department is probably doing what they are supposed to be doing, and getting in their face about it isn't going to help any. In fact, even looking at the wikipedia makes it clear that its pedantic by design, and I thankfully am not reading through the whole thing for an answer. Spare a thought for the IT guys who actually have to read, understand and implement this! If you're going to have to ask for changes, consider that the decision is probably made higher up, and possibly by less technical folk. You're probably going to have to work out the right person and way to ask, and its as much a political as much as a technical decision. One possibility would be to see if you can get an isolated development/test environment, airgapped from the main network (but once again, this depends on your corporate standards.) Some of these requests may be more feasable than others. 

I am working as a Senior Developer for US based Organization. In order to develop and deliver the project, we have to have discussions with many other departments and key persons and have healthy information flow on regular basis. We have a team member, Let us Say Bob, who solely and effectively co-ordnates all the parties and administrate this information flow among all parties. His job includes setting up meetings, book meeting rooms, taking notes in the meetings, publishing meeting notes, create followup to the meetings, send reports to management about the meetings what we have achieved in meetings etc… Recently he applied for 2 months long medical leave due to his health issues. My manager asked me to take those tasks temporarily for those 2 months and he is willing to reduce the other work load. But my problem is I don’t like that kind of work. I already expressed this concern with my manager. My manager said that, “ I understand your concern. When I look other team members you are the one who have the potential and necessary skills to coordinate and perfect replacement/backup for the job what Bob used to do. This coordination is very important for us to successful delivery of the product. Any issues this area would impact a lot in many areas. I can not rely on any one except you for this job at this situation. Can you help us on this?” By seeing the severity of the situation I have accepted to take up this assignment. But now the problem is how to handle this assignment. I have potential and necessary skills for this assignment. But I don’t like the kind of work that I have to do on this assignment. How can I subside negative feelings and will achieve maximum that I can on this assignment? 

I had a resume out while I was studying - what I did was simply leave the finishing date open ended. I've been there. I've gone into an exam needing a 30% score to pass... and got 29%. The marker (who was elsewhere) disagreed with my answer's content, and well, yeah. I retook that module. Its not the end of the world (I got a pretty good score when I retook it!). So, what to say? "I'm currently finishing up my degree and I'm one module away from finishing". Focus on the wins, and what you have to offer to an employer. I'd also add that depending on the job market, its going to take time to find a job, and getting your resume out there pre-graduation is a sensible thing to do. 

This is simply unacceptable. In most companies this should be reported to HR, or suitable authorities. I'd like to use a certain set of 3 4 letter words to describe this, but I'll settle for "This is unacceptable". If there isn't such a system, don't let them get to you. Be firm, let them know this is unacceptable politely, and don't loose your cool. 

I am working as a Dev team lead for a project. I am daily receiving so much information from various sources related to work, project etc.. from many channels like Emails, formal meetings , casual chat with people, some information from magazines, websites like stack exchange etc..My main challenge is filtering the useful information and keep only the useful information with me . Since I am not doing it very efficiently I have the below problems 

First complete your task in hand deliver it on time. Once done with it talk with your colleague about task and get the clear status of the tasks that has been take over by your colleague. Since the task is originally assigned to you, you might have first hand knowledge on that. Offer helping hand and make suggestions where you can make improvements. Share the load with him and complete the tasks earlier. 

I am working as IT consultant to US based organization. I have a team member. He is senior in the organization and team also. His role is developer and he is responsible for development of specific interface of our web application. I have joined as team member in the web development team and with in 3 months I have promoted as development team Lead. My responsibility is lead entire development team. Before I became team lead we both good and friendly relationship. After I became lead he used to report to me. There are some situations those leads to arguments between us and most of the time I won. One of the scenario is explained below There are certain design and architectural practices he follows blindly. Lately for some scenarios, I feel those are not productive. When I consulted and discussed with him and asked why particular thing was implemented in that way, he told that is the practice they used to follow many scenarios before I join, and explained me the advantages of that practice. But I explained why it is not productive and why we need to change and what needs to change. But he keep on insisting it was used many times earlier. Then I went to technical architect, whose responsibility is working on design and architecture for the web application which we are working and discussed about the current approach and then I was correct. Technical architect supported my approach. And he makes the required change in his code. These kind of incidents was happened 2 or 3 times. I lately feel that this cause some rift in friendly spirit and left not so positive feelings in him. We used to travel same bus and same route. But earlier many occasions we used to talk casually. But recently that amount of talking is reduced and our casual talks also limited to more formal greetings and takings. How can I restore healthy and friendly atmosphere with him? 

Is this the only reason? Is seniority in play? Are there other factors? Any workplace where promotion is not by merit is a little toxic, and politics in most places tends to be more interpercial. To close - the caste system is a relic of a long time ago, and used and abused by politicians and others for their own ends. Its the cause of many social ills and well, not always how you think it is. How bad it is really depends on the state, and unless you want to go into politics, its going to be a hard slog. There's nothing stopping you from creatively using these elements for good. At the end of the day though, if its one man swimming against a tide of filth, it might be a better idea to consider getting a transfer to a more enlightened state. This sounds like one of the worse places to be. 

Good news is? They haven't told you to pack up your stuff and leave, especially as a new employee. You've been given a chance to explain yourself - which is a ... well, less than negative sign. That said, this is ... going to be hard to explain. The best strategy here really is to prepare your resume, and go face the music. Be earnest, apologetic and well realise you've messed up. Listen to what they have to say, apologise anyway. If you have a legitimate work related reason - like testing geographically, well, then, the truth works. Its also worth considering most contracts have a notice period, and they could go "ok, we'll pay off your notice period. Please pack your stuff and leave" 

I am working for Indian Outsourcing Organization. I have joined Onsite team for new project 2 months back. Below are the some points that I See risk for team. (1) Manager doesn't listen much, doesn't lead much, doesn't consider team members opinions or concerns. Hence team doesn't get much visibility and clarity about project and situations in the project. (2) Very apprehensive about documentation any communication. All the communication and commitments occurs verbally and sometimes the communication is very indirect also. The result of which any risk happens in project we don't have any option to defend ourself. Finally team has to suffer consequences if any bad thing happens. (3) Since there is no proper guiding and leading, many times the actions, the decisions team member takes does not backed up by Organization policies and team members are at their own risk. At this situation how to handle this manager in order to avoid further risk to team and project? Updates based on Responses: The major problem here is manager is highly discouraging documenting those facts. I have tried to document many times. Firstly my boss doesn't replies to my emails in which I am asking for confirmations/clarifications. He just calls me or talk to me and gave verbal clarifications. One day I got too warning from my boss saying that, If you have any questions just ask me, or call me or don't write mails.