Non Muslim Minorities Before we consider the impact of these policies on the non-Muslim minorities,perhaps we should spell out exactly who constituted these minorities. At the time of Abbas I, the indigenous non-Muslim communities in Iran comprised Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, and Hindus (Indians). The Christians may be broken down into the following groups: Armenians, Georgians, Syrians (Jacobites), and Chaldeans (also known as Nestorians or ‘Assyrians’). The largest group of Christians, the Armenians, must be further sub-divided into the Uniates, those who were in communion with Rome though keeping their own liturgy; and the majority, termed ‘schismatics’ by the Roman Church, who rejected the ‘real supremacy and infallibility of the Pope’ and were subject to the Armenian see of Echmiadzin. These latter were known as Gregorians, taking their name from Gregory the Illuminator, who established the first Armenian Church in the fourth century AD. Under Shah Abbas I The policies introduced by Shah Abbas I attached much greater importance to interaction between the two on different levels, namely the political and commercial. They marked a radical departure from the religious bigotry, already alluded to, of Shah Tahmasp, whose reign of 52 years was longer that that of any other Persian ruler except that of the Sasanid monarch, Shapur II (309–79 AD). Abbas’s new policy of religious tolerance was not altruistic. His main objectives were two fold: first, to make Iran strong enough to expel all the Ottoman and Uzbek forces from Persian soil and to defend its borders against future invasions; and second, to make Iran economically strong and prosperous. Iran had fallen into relative isolation as a result of the expansion of the Ottoman empire, which lay across its natural lines of communication and trade with the West. In all things a pragmatist, Abbas realized that a good way to circumvent this virtual blockade would be to develop political and diplomatic relations with the Christian powers of Europe. The Christian powers of Europe were not slow to respond to the Shah’s overtures and by the middle of the seventeenth century, the following Catholic orders were operating in Iran: Dominicans, Augustinians, Carmelites, Jesuits, and Capuchins. The Catholic orders were thus direct beneficiaries of Abba¯s I’s policy of religious tolerance. To achieve his second goal, that of making Iran a prosperous nation, Abbas I proposed to take advantage of the well-known commercial expertise of the Armenians and other Christian groups, such as Georgians, Syrians (Jacobites), and Chaldeans, whom he had just liberated from Ottoman rule in northwestern Iran and the southern Caucasus regions. As the Chronicle of the Carmelites puts it, members of these communities had been ‘found’ by Abbas I: 

But I can't find the exact demands the Nazis had during this period. I am assuming that the demands were return of the City of Danzig and East-Prussian territories? This would have effectively turned Poland into a landlocked country and dependent on Germany for naval passage and transit port. (Unless the Poles succeeded in getting the Germans to carve them a corridor through Ukraine all the way to the Black Sea). But that doesn't explain why Poland thought it would threaten their independence. There are many landlocked countries who are independent. If Poles didn't trust Germans with transit pact, they could have made a similar one with Lithuania or Latvia (Poland tried to restore ties with Lithuania but Soviet Union had warned the Baltic States to not to get too friendly with Poland), both of whom had naval access and shared borders with Poland. Occupation of Baltic states by Soviet Union hadn't occurred at that time. Or could it be that they were concerned that without a maritime access to the Baltic sea, in event of a German invasion, French and British expeditionary forces would face troubles in landing to relieve Poland? (Although I doubt Allies would have done that, they could always open a Western front on French-German border which eventually they did). Are the exact demands known? 

Due to the nature of the deposition of the dynasty, after a violent struggle which saw the massacre of the Royals by the British at the end like the cold-blooded murder by British Commander of the sons of the deposed Emperor: 

Three "fights" were fought in the battle on the same day. The results were mixed. The Hungarians won the first one but Mongols won the other two. Overall, it was a decisive Mongol victory. The fights were between the same two belligerents, not four different belligerents as with Robert Baratheon. There were no three distinct battles but that is the case with Summerhall as well, three fights of the same battle were fought there. 

The first four are known as higher criticism; the fifth, lower criticism; and, together, external criticism. The sixth and final inquiry about a source is called internal criticism. Together, this inquiry is known as source criticism. Bernheim has however proposed seven inquiries for this step which includes search for contradictory sources. R.J. Shaffer proposes to take Eye-Witnesses into account as well. Garraghan further expands on it to include indirect-witnesses & oral tradition. 

It appears that Government of India recognizes claim of Sultana Begum as authentic as evident by the payment of token pension to her: 

I was going through some old news reports and I was shocked to find a BBC report from 2002 that the Afghan Taliban warned the Americans and the UN of an impending attack on US by Al-Qaeda however their warning was not taken seriously by the Americans for a number of reasons. The reporter cites unnamed American officials acknowledging that the warning was indeed conveyed but Americans weren't particularly bothered by it due to a lot of such reports being received by intel sources. Unnamed sources aren't exactly my favorites so let's just say it is dubious if the warning was ever received by the Americans. Nevertheless, I was looking around for any official comments on this warning by any Official in Bush Administration or their successors but can't seem to find any. Have any American Political, Military, Diplomatic notable figures commented on that? Is their any acknowledgement of there being such a warning? (If this question is more suitable for Skeptics SE, I'll be grateful if the Mods could migrate it there.) 

The formation which took part in Iraqi conflict was named Fliegerführer Irak or Flyer Command Iraq. Some sources indicate that this unit was named "Special Force Junck" (Sonderkommando Junck) and flew in Iraq during May 1941. Fliegerführer Irak (Flyer Command Iraq) was the Luftwaffe component of Sonderstab F. While Fliegerführer Irak was part of the Sonderstab F military mission, it was also somewhat separate from it. Its personnel reported to the Luftwaffe High Command and not to the Chief of the OKW. FF-Irak was a force comprising 12 Messerschmitt 110s, 5 Heinkel 111s, a communications flight with light aircraft, a section of anti-aircraft guns, and 3 Junkers 52s. (According to wikipedia). Purnell's History of Second World War puts the operation chain as following: 

It is also attested by archaeological finds of remains of 17th century Camels in Vienna. Why did Ottomans use Camels again when they had been proven to be unsuitable to European theaters (In regards to both climate and terrain) in the first attempt to take Vienna? I can come up with the following explanations: 

He even fought for the British in First Anglo-Afghan war despite being an ethnic Afghan (From Yusufzai tribe) himself. Yet when Indians rose up against the British in 1857, Bakht Khan brought his contingent of Rohilla Pashtun Soldiers to the Imperial Capital city of Delhi and decided to fight for the Old Emperor and was eventually granted the title of "Lord Governor General". Why did he do that? He appears to have no qualms in fighting for the British in the past, even against his own Folk be it in India or Afghanistan. He seems to have never shown any resistence to the British in the past, otherwise he would not have been promoted to Subedar rank. Yet in 1857, he rises against the British even though many Indians including the 21 Princely states of India were fighting on the British side. I know a simple assumption would be that he was motivated by patriotism or by his conscience finally waking up. But I am looking for something he may have said in this regard or some Historian may have established about it. Is there any reasoning provided for his act in contemporary or modern works on the Indian War of Independence? Another Question but you may ignore it if you want as I don't want to broaden the scope. Was he still enlisted in British Forces when the Rebellion started? 

While the resolution for independence was passed on 2nd July, it wasn't finalized until 4th of July. The Congress edited the existing proclamation, moderating it and doing grammatical edits before sending it to press in order to explain the move to the public. The five men committee responsible for that included John Adams, Roger Sherman, Robert Livingston, Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson. They took out extremist assertions which could harm American interests by alienating Sympathizers in British public (Such as Britain enforcing slavery on the Colonies), shortened the text, improved sentence structure etc. Then finally on 4th July, the act was finalized, adopted and sent to print. So essentially, the answer is paperwork. Technically, the real Independence Day is 2nd of July however, It took the Congress two more days to adopt a finalized statement and send it to print. Which is why the date that appears on the declaration is 4th of July, not the second. See the original declaration below and notice the date: 

It might also be a flag from Armenia as Armenians also used a lion emblem occasionally. Pictured below, a flag of King of Armenia (German Caption on top reads "Der Konig von der Hindern Armenia" and the image also appears in this 16th century book): 

Hijaz Hijaz only a small part of Arabian Peninsula situated on Eastern bank of the Red sea. Arab groups understandably varied in their laws and customs throughout the region. Who was the Power in Hijaz In Hijaz, main power was the City state of Mecca. In fact, Meccans were the most prominent people among the Arabs due to being custodians of Kaaba. Meccan natives belonged to tribe of Quresh even though there was a regular presence and settlements of foreign elements in form of traders, pilgrims & slaves. It might be of interest to you that Muhammad belonged to tribe of Quresh and city of Mecca. Division of state affairs in Mecca Quresh had systematically divided the different affairs of the state among different branches of tribe. All these clans trained their youth in the affairs they were charged with. Since we are discussing military only so we will focus only on branches which had military responsibilities. 

One thing (object, event, or state of affairs) has properties p1 . . . pn and pn + 1. Another thing has properties p1 . . . pn. So the latter has property pn + 1. 

Neither side decisively defeated the other side. However one could give slight advantage to the British purely on the ground that theirs was the last Tank standing on the field, when one of the A7Vs was knocked out and two were forced to retreat. 

The deposed Shah thanked Ataturk but refused to accept the offer. After that, Turkish Government recognized Reza Khan (Now Reza Shah) as the legitimate Shah of Persia and formed friendly relations with the new regime. So my question is, Did Reza Shah Pehlavi know of Turkish offer to Ahmad Shah Qajar? 

The first battle of Islam, Badr was fought on 17th Ramadan, 2 AH. Second expedition of Wadi al-Qura was fought in Ramadan of 6 AH. Mecca was conquered by Muslims on 20th Ramadan 8 AH. Muslims won the decisive battle of Guadalete on 28-29th of Ramadan 92 AH. Muslims finally stopped the Mongol tide at Ain Jalut on 26th of Ramadan 658 AH. 

Edmund Barton (Jan 1901-Sept 1903): Retired from the Parliament and Government to become founding Justice of Australian High Court. Alfred Deakin (Sep 1903 - Apr 1904): Resigned to hold early elections in a bid to gain majority in the Parliament by catching the Labour Party off-guard. Labour Party was demanding to extend the scope industrial relations laws concerning the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to cover state public servants. Deakin was not prepared to do that so he sought to reduce Labour's sway in Parliament by holding new elections. Chris Watson (Apr 1904-Aug 1904): He also sought to dissolve the Parliament and hold new elections but Governor General Lord Northcote refused to do so. Watson resigned as he found it hard to run the government without winning simple majority first. George Reid (Aug 1904-Jul 1905): He did not have majority in the Parliament either. He was aware that sooner or later Labour and Protectionist parties will patch up. This happened and he was ousted when Labour and Protectionists joined to vote him out just few months later. Alfred Deakin (Jul 1905-Nov 1908): Took the office for second time. This time he was ousted by Labour Party through vote. Andrew Fisher (Nov 1908-Jun 1909): He did not have majority either. Conservative members of Protectionist Party and Free Traders merged together into Commonwealth Liberal Party. This gave the newly formed CLP majority in Parliament. Fisher tried to get the Governor General dissolve the parliament however his attempts failed and CLP voted him out. Alfred Deakin (Jun 1909-Apr 1910): His political move of merging with Free Traders was seen as a betrayal by many. It had a drastic impact on his popularity and in General Elections of 1910 his party was defeated by Labour under leadership of Fisher even though he was not voted out due to his majority in Parliament. Andrew Fisher (Apr 1910-Jun 1913): He was not voted out but he lost the elections of 1913. 

Source Criticism First step to this is called Source Criticism. According to "A guide to Historic Method" by Garraghan, following aspects are checked in this step: 

The statement, together with other statements already held to be true, must imply yet other statements describing present, observable data. (We will henceforth call the first statement 'the hypothesis', and the statements describing observable data, 'observation statements'.) The hypothesis must be of greater explanatory scope than any other incompatible hypothesis about the same subject; that is, it must imply a greater variety of observation statements. The hypothesis must be of greater explanatory power than any other incompatible hypothesis about the same subject; that is, it must make the observation statements it implies more probable than any other. The hypothesis must be more plausible than any other incompatible hypothesis about the same subject; that is, it must be implied to some degree by a greater variety of accepted truths than any other, and be implied more strongly than any other; and its probable negation must be implied by fewer beliefs, and implied less strongly than any other. The hypothesis must be less ad hoc than any other incompatible hypothesis about the same subject; that is, it must include fewer new suppositions about the past which are not already implied to some extent by existing beliefs. It must be disconfirmed by fewer accepted beliefs than any other incompatible hypothesis about the same subject; that is, when conjoined with accepted truths it must imply fewer observation statements and other statements which are believed to be false. It must exceed other incompatible hypotheses about the same subject by so much, in characteristics 2 to 6, that there is little chance of an incompatible hypothesis, after further investigation, soon exceeding it in these respects. 

Later in Battle of River, Khalid again exploited his mobility and attacked the Persians before they could assemble. Persians again showed absolute lack of strategy and military sense. In Battle of Wallaja, Khalid executed a master piece of Double envelopment or Pincer movement and defeated numerically superior adversary, showing generalship comparable to Hannibal's in Battle of Cannae. Graphical representation of the battle and troops movements below (Red Rashidun and Blue Sassanids): 

One of my personal favorites of Khalid's strategies is the one he deployed in Battle of Maraj-Al-Debaj. He defeated a Byzantine force which was twice the size of his own force with mobility and surprise. He divided his meagre 4,000 mounted lancers into four units of 1,000 men each and launched consecutive attacks from all sides to surprise and encircle the 10,000+ Byzantine Soldiers, commanded by Emperor's son-in-law himself. He won another crushing victory. Following gif will show you the battle: 

According to an Armenian of Julfa, Khvajaverdi, ‘the principal cause was the secret hatred which the Shah has [for the Christian faith] … which was fomented by a great Mulla named Shaikh Baha-u-Din, who said that it was expedient that all Christians should be made Muslims’. We can instantly dismiss the claim that Abbas I had a ‘secret hatred’ for Christians, on the testimony of the first Superior of the Carmelites, Fr Paul Simon, in his report to Rome in 1608: 

When was the source, written or unwritten, produced (date)? Where was it produced (localization)? By whom was it produced (authorship)? From what pre-existing material was it produced (analysis)? In what original form was it produced (integrity)? What is the evidential value of its contents (credibility)? 

Furniture has of course been in use for thousands of years before the advent of Christianity. The earliest excavation of furniture artifacts in Britain were found in Skara Brae, Scotland. It is estimated to be from 3100-2500 BC. Due to lack of wood, the inhabitants are thought to have compensated by use of stone as the artifacts included: 

There is probability (of the degree p1) that whatever is an A is a B. It is probable (to the degree p2) that this is an A. Therefore, (relative to these premises) it is probable (to the degree p1 × p2) that this is a B.