You should consider asking the manager to explain what is going on. They sent the letter to the board, and as a member of the board it is up to you to act upon it. Just ask the manager questions until you fully understand the purpose of sending you the letter, the history of the manager with this assistant and the history of the manager with previous assistants s/he has worked with. Ask why the manager felt it was necessary to involve the board in this. Ask why the manager's manager wasn't involved. Try to understand if there really is a problem with this employee or with the manager. Maybe the manager really is doing the right thing, due to things of which you haven'been appraised. Maybe the manager treats all staff like this, and is a cancer for the organization who should be replaced as soon as possible. Or maybe s/he just wasn't ever trained in how to manage and needs some formal training. 

Talk to your manager and coworkers and ask how they solve problems like this. There might be a process you don't know about. When you talk to the folks in the US, assume that there are good reasons for why things are done as they are, and that there's a process for what you need. Ask them how to go about solving this challenge. It might be very simple, like submitting a request and getting your manager's approval. And assuming that they are coming from a good place helps to attain collaboration instead of antagonism. Don't complain. You'll turn off your audience and you'll make things harder on yourself. Be as helpful to the person from whom you need help as you can. If they tell you that something will take them time, ask if there's anything you can do to help so that it will be easier or take less time. The answer is usually 'no', but the offer is usually appreciated. Keep your manager up to date as you work on this. S/he needs to know if you are making progress or if your are running into roadblocks. When emails don't work, use the phone. If you have a phone call with someone in the US, try to have the call at a reasonable time for those in the US. We in the US are often forced to have calls with people overseas at very uncomfortable hours, either before normal work hours (and before we usually wake up) or after normal work hours (sometimes after we normally go to sleep). While they should make a reasonable effort to accommodate your schedule, you should make an effort to accommodate theirs. Smile when you are on the phone. You may not think it makes a difference, but it changes the whole tone of your voice. If you think that there's any chance that a cultural difference may be in the way, apologize and admit that you really aren't an expert in the US culture and you don't want to offend. It's not your fault, but apologizing deescalates and helps things move along. If you can't make any progress, talk to your boss and ask them what to do. When you ask for something, and you are told 'no' ask 'what is the process for getting access?' If they give you a process, follow it. 

It is important that the different people working on a project understand what their roles are. As the technical lead, he seems to believe that he is supposed to be involved in technical decisions. When you comment on the technical aspects, he may be taking this as (a) taking over his job and (b) making commitments about the product that you really can't. Taking over his job It sounds like the tech lead feels like you're trying to take over his job. You, as program manager, are making technical comments, which he may see as decisions/commitments. Let's look at it from his perspective. You have a technical background, but is it with this product? Are you familiar with the codebase? Are you familiar with the code changes that are already planned by the tech lead - not the features that will be added, but the implementation details? As technical lead, what exactly is his role? What is he responsible for? Making the decisions? Designing the product? Providing time estimates? Guiding technical implementation? Whatever is his responsibility, this needs to be made clear - to the both of you. Let's reverse the roles. If he were to start commenting about program management aspects would you be offended? If he started making comments about the schedule as it reflects other teams' work to other teams, to your boss, or to the vice president, how would that look? If he started talking to production and asking them about when they can start engaging in this project, would that be OK? What if he were to tell customers that the project would be ready for their acceptance testing on a particular date - one that you had never expressed? What if you had other things you were trying to schedule and knew that the date would never work? Or if you had a private discussion with your manager and s/he was pressuring you for a different date? What if he went to the VP and started talking about how QA's schedule was not in alignment with the rest of the project, but you knew that it was? You need to let him be responsible for doing his job, and you need to be responsible for doing yours. You have plenty of work to do as a project manager without trying to take over the technical implementation. So how do you use your technical knowledge? If you can't design stuff for the dev team, and you can't comment on implementations, how can you use your technical knowledge? You can consider what the dev team is committing to and ask intelligent questions from the angle of project management. Don't tell them what database to use or what the implications will be, but ask them for a breakdown of how long it will take to use their database of choice, and future impacts (incorporating bug fixes and upgrades). If you know that their breakdown is missing something (like integration testing with the database) then ask them to add that to the estimate. Use your knowledge as a BS detector, which will help you determine if work can be re-scheduled to be faster. When the dev team says that it'll take 4 weeks to write a new SQL query, dig deeper. Ask for a time breakdown. Make sure that the time breakdown is reasonable. Where things are out of whack, dig deeper there - with more time breakdowns. Tools to help you fix this There are tools, like RACI (responsible, accountable, consulted, informed) charts that are designed to serve just this purpose. Whatever you do, be constructive! He's rubbed you the wrong way, and I'm sure you've rubbed him the wrong way. The relationship is at a rough spot, but that doesn't mean it's unsalvageable. You can still work to recover the relationship. One of the most important things here is to recognize that you both really have the same goal: make the company make money so you can both get paid. This means that you need to approach conversations collaboratively. You need to demonstrate, possibly multiple times, in a way that he can recognize, that you really are there to help. 

You should avoid sharing your current salary details. It can only ever work against you. All that information will be used for is to calibrate the offer they make you to be as low as possible while still tempting you away from your current job. This punishes people who are loyal (switching jobs often usually increases salary faster than yearly raises) and who are underpaid. Remember that stating your current salary is the start of your salary negotiation. They will likely offer you around 10% more as a starting point. Its in your best interest not to start with a low number like that and try to work up, justifying a larger increase. You should give them your desired salary for the company in question, which will depend on location (cost of living/rent), type of work and what non-monetary benefits they offer. 

Unfortunately it can be difficult to determine before hand what the company's reaction will be, and especially in larger companies it can depend which department you are in. One useful technique is to look for or ask for copies of their policy on disabilities and medical conditions. If they don't have a policy that's probably a bad sign. Beyond that it's best to wait until they have shown interest in you. Depending on the severity of your condition you might be able to do interviews and progress quite far before it becomes an issue. Once they are seriously considering you as a potential employee it is easier to simply tell them about your condition, explain what support or adaptations you will need, and ask if they feel that is okay. It does potentially waste some of your time, but telling them up front before they actually know you and understand that it's not something scary or debilitating might get you nowhere. And of course, you have to be willing to walk away if it doesn't seem right. 

If it's a temporary contract with only the possibility of extension (not guaranteed) then yes, you should have no issues applying to other places and mentioning your current employer. No-one should expect you to limit your options when your future employment is not guaranteed. Personally, I've done this after 4 months even when I had a permanent contract (subject to passing probation, which I didn't even finish). Employers understand that some places are just bad, and if you have a good CV and can explain to them any issues you are having they will understand. Similarly, I expect they would understand your situation if you simply explained it to them. 

When applying for jobs far from where you live, it can be time consuming and expensive to travel to interviews. What is the best way to prepare for this and determine if it is worthwhile? The usual advice is to avoid mentioning disabilities or discussing salary until the employer is somewhat committed to employing you. Is it a good idea to mention that due to the distance you would like to discuss these things on the phone? 

Send them another message giving a date for the end of your employment. State clearly that you will cease to work for them after that date. Make sure you have evidence that it was received, e.g. registered mail or email reading receipt. That's all you need to do. If they fail to act it's their problem. Concentrate on your next job. 

Can I honestly claim 5 years? Sounds like you can since you have been using it since 2012. Do you have the skills to do this job? You will need to convince the interviewer.