Indiscernability does not require more necessary conditions. In fact, it requires only one aspect of the causal isolation you are presuming. Frames of reference are not causally isolated, but they are already indiscernable. To the degree that I still can't tell the world where I am in absolute motion from the world in which I am at absolute rest it must be the case that causal isolation is not a requirement. (I can frame this in terms of places in our world, or in terms of possible worlds, with equal meaning.) What 'World identity' has in common with the other two phenomena you note is that the situations are absolutely relative. Identifying a privileged world is impossible because no such world exists, just as there is no 'right' aleph-3 cardinality model of the real numbers and no absolute resting frame of reference. This proceeds from only a part of the causal isolation: that any causal interactions must be completely relative and not directed. We can affect one another in relative frames, as long as there is a causal 'loop' or reversibility, that allows each of us to attribute the cause separately. We can both attribute it to a third party, or we can attribute it to one another. Since all cross-frame causes are reversible and not directed, we cannot follow the causes back to a privileged frame, and we lose the ability to determine which inertial frame we are in. Extended models have the same sort of problem, where causal traction is removed by projecting your results onto another interpretation of the same model so that you cannot tell you were not already working in that model. Of course having no causal links at all implies that no causal links are directed. But only the latter is a necessary condition to establish the relevant lack of identifying attributes. 

I am going to give the overextended postmodernist view here, springing originally from Wittgenstein and psychoanalytic thinkers like Lacan. I am doing so just so that both ends of this range are pinned down. In some sense I think this is 'the truth', but it is far too difficult to actually use, and may not be worth considering in the context of teaching logic at all. 

It depends what you consider the essence of a thought. Why would a thought 'start' or 'end' if time is not part of your definition of thinking? If all that exists is the present state, then each intermediate state in the formation of the thought is irrelevant or dubious. You have it when you have it. And there is no contradiction. You only imagine that a thought is tied to language, and therefore time, because it is our habit to present our thoughts to consciousness in our inner monologue. But the articulation of the thought to consciousness in this manner is not the thought. You can tell, because you have thoughts that you have not articulated to yourself on which you act. You move toward something interesting across the room without even noticing you are doing so. You unconsciously avoid stepping on people's toes in a moving crowd. You absent-mindedly pet your dog... You can check that those accord with the notion of thought as articulation because on recourse to reflection, you can articulate them to yourself. But, to me, this makes clear that the articulation is not a necessary part of the thought. So the notion of 'by the time you have thought it' is not a meaningful thing, and not a problem for presentism to address. 

In branch of concern to Kant is "soll -> darf -> kann -> weiss". In particular, it is unfair to require and misleading to permit what is impossible. And it is impossible to carry out what is not conceivable. The former two have application primarily in law, and the latter with how one handles children or those of diminished capacity. 

The experience of the current moment being different from the memory of the previous moment is a discrete phenomenon. Our memory is instantaneous and qualitatively isolated from any other remembered moment. Memory is not continuous, it is itemized. Each event we attend to has the feeling of two-oneness, of becoming an event. But if we back away from our concrete memory and concentrate on the possible memories we might have had, we find that we might have had memories between any two we actually have. Consciousness is continuous, even if perception is not. To put this in less vague frame, look at how it plays out in actual phenomenal experience near the limit of our processing resolution. In "Consciousness, Explained", Daniel Dennett describes the experiment where a red light on one side of our peripheral vision and a green light on the other, when flashed too close together for them to be processed separately, get perceived as a single moving object that changes color. We perceive the single event of there being a ribbon of light across our visual field which is red on one end and green on the other. But in retrospect we can identify the point where our brain assigns the (illusory) change in color because we naturally force continuity on our discrete sequential experience. So time is experience as continuous, but the experiences are discrete, and mapped onto the continuum artificially. Since the interpolated continuity is at a different level of processing, and not made up of the actual discrete events, but interpolated from them, one cannot connect them in a way that makes the continuum a collection of points. We are prevented from undoing the illusion, because it is necessary to our narrative arc. From an extreme position, if we want to be intuitively motivated, we should respect this difficulty as natural to our psychology and not pretend we can remove it. 

In the modern sense of the word 'boundary' it would be extremely counterintuitive for our space to have a boundary. It would mean that somehow there would be place in space where there were directions in which you simply could not move because there is no more space in that direction. The boundary of a disc is the circle that circumscribes it. You cannot move outward from there and remain in the disc. This seems to utterly defy our notion of space. That does not mean that space is necessarily boundless. A sphere or a torus has no boundary, but is not boundless, such things are limited in size. The 'space' one occupies in video games like 'Asteroids' lacks boundary because it wraps, but it is finite in size. It is most likely that our space is a closed manifold like a sphere or torus, only three dimensional. This would allow it to have finite size, which it should, if it has been growing from a point source for a finite duration, without defying our notion of how space should act locally by having an actual boundary. 

Good logic is generally experienced as something that people feel, as the impression of psychological clarity. If an argument cannot come to draw this response from someone mentally, it generally does not become part of their repertoire of reasonable arguments. Neuroscientist Antonio Damasio, in "Descartes Error" argues this is not merely an appearance. He traces a correlation of brain injuries that suppress emotional responses with the lack of the ability to apply logic in practice. If 'logical' is a feeling, loss of emotion would also remove logic, at least to the degree it extends beyond grammar. And just that seems to happen. But that means your answer is 'no'. In the sense that clarity is experienced in an emotion that we share, which is rather specific and reliable in its evocations, and we build rules and habits of reason out of our experiences with that emotion, reason itself still does not consist in the emotion. But simple reason 'defends itself' through appeal to that feeling. This is what happens in philosophy when we appeal to intuition, and reach agreement, which happens often. Such agreement does not arise from reason, but from its sources, which is built into human instinct. Applying further reason can lead us to or away from the impression of clarity, and the judgement itself can be trained, but we are constantly referring back to that feeling, and it is the ultimate defense. 

You can never learn or prove a theory from an experiment, you can only test one. Experiments can increase or reduce your doubt of a theory, but never converge on proof. Mendel is an exceptionally good example of this. Mendel obviously did a lot of work before his published experiment that led him to make the guess he made. He was already convinced. Nowadays, since we have statistics, we can do experiments in ways that will predict our parameters for us (regression/correlation) and tell us how confident to be about the theory being tested, although the world is still too random for us to trust that too much. Even now, with this kind of help and support, it all remains probabilities. But Mendel lacked both of these, he needed to directly guess the ratios, based on a theory he needed to derive from scratch. And he needed to verify this to his own satisfaction, with no objective measure of how much to trust his work. In fact, there is strong evidence that Mendel was so convinced that he discarded data to make his point more obvious. He did the experiment over and over again until he got the results he wanted. We know now that genes on plants fall at definite distances apart on the DNA, and that subtly changes this ratio, in a way that makes Mendel's actual data incredibly unlikely, indicating that his data is very carefully selected, to a degree that would now be considered lying. So Mendel learned absolutely nothing from the specific experiment he published! He was already certain, and if it threatened to increase doubt, he would have just done it over. 

For projection, I would suggest we simply apply these equivalences in reverse. Since there is a tradition of writing Xn, and therefore (P,Q, ... S)n to select item 2 from the list. And since logicians always start counting at zero. We can let (P,Q)0 be the selector for P and (P,Q)1 be that for Q. Infix-ified these would be P 0 Q and P 1 Q. To be happily clear, up to Bourbaki standards, the spacing is mandatory. After all P could have subelements. The nullary operations are also straightforward, the Top and Bottom elements can just as easily be considered of any arity you wish, and always result in their constant values. So we can have P ⊤ Q for the constant true and P ⊥ Q for the constant false. The two 'nots' get a little silly. But taking P ¬ Q to simply be ¬ Q, ignoring the P, suggests we look for a graphical inversion of the original not like P ⨽ Q to represent the not of P, ignoring Q. 

How is existence logically prior to necessity? Mathematicians often identify something that must obey specific rules, if it exists, only to later find out that such a thing either does or does not exist, or, in the worst case, with something like cardinals between the first two orders of infinity, that it cannot be determined whether or not it exists. This is then a case where we have modal existence independent of existence, and clearly we can have existence independent of modal existence (I need not have been born, it might have been prevented.) So I do not see where it is clear that either is logically prior to the other. 

I would claim that mathematics is the systematic exploration of idealization and human intuition. The objects studied are real only in an idealized sense, and the operations must obey idealized rules that approximate reality in narrow ways that minimize acceptance of external data. So I would not claim that it is particularly about the integers, but your last statement fits my experience best. The first situation is actual Platonism, the second is Formalism. These two approaches dominate the field in the sense that "Your average logician is a Platonist on weekdays and a Formalist on Sunday." The third position is most clearly reflected by the project of Intuitionism, which tried to resolve the issues of Russel's paradox, etc., by questioning the natural force of negation and considering mathematics more a joint psychological endeavor that requires the investigation of our shared intuition, rather than a reflection of external or formal constructions. Unfortunately, changing the meaning of mathematics requires reconstructing what is already known in another form, and such projects do not broadly capture the imagination of working mathematicians (though it makes better headway among those drawn to other computational disciplines.) 

The framing around this is paternalistic, it is intended to take freedoms from the prostitute for her own good. It is also intended to protect the spouses of potential consumers. So look at how the camera protects a member of either class (mostly of women) from the abuses she would ordinarily be subject to. The consumer of pornography is not one of the participants in the sex. Therefore all the participants in the sex act, in theory, have equal rights and access to all the public means of enforcing limits. They are all equally being taken advantage of by the enterprise as a whole, rather than one of them being taken advantage of by the other. Consent is literally recorded in a contract, so rape should be more easily proven. In (straight) prostitution, which usually happens in private, there is generally a vast disparity in rights between the consumer, who generally has both the greater access to force, and the option of theft by refusing to pay. The prostitute, on the other hand, often has great difficulty setting boundaries on what she is agreeing to, since we are reluctant to discuss the details of sex, and has as recourse against non-payment only the charge of rape, which will not generally be prosecuted if she gave provisional consent where the provisions were later not met. The presence of the camera should document abuse of the agreement. If a participant does not get paid, or gets mistreated on the set, etc. she can reasonably take the producer to the law and be heard. Since the person responsible for her safety is the one behind the camera (either literally, or by means hiring or directing that person) rather than the person with whom she is having sex, the problematic aspects of diagnosing rape or extortion are limited. (In states where you can make prostitution into pornography simply by involving a camera, it is often explicitly decided that it cannot be an automated camera, a third party has to be involved.) Also, the act of publication makes the identities of the individuals involved traceable, so the public contract of marriage can be enforced. If your spouse is a porn actor, you can reasonably find out, if he is a consumer of prostitution, you are unlikely to know, or at least it will be difficult to prove this in court. I like Spider Robinson's approach (In Lady Slings the Booze, etc.), where everyone agrees ahead of time that anything might be unobtrusively watched, so there is a responsible third party, without someone obtruding into what many folks would prefer to be a private act. 

Nietzsche would say he definitely shouldn't. He should consider all effects on himself, and do what honors his own sense of power best. If conceding to the 'good' limits him, he will come to hate it, and if it is legitimately good, that hatred is legitimately bad, so he has not really made the world a better place. In particular if the notion of good, legitimate or otherwise, violates the truth of the actor's internal perspective, he must be careful not to destroy what is unique in himself. But real, healthy people are also not sociopaths, we love those around us, we feel for them and we are made greater by their respect for us. So your own greatest advantage might not be your own shortsighted desire. Nor is it some comforting abject capitulation to the decisions of others simply because they are more numerous and choosing them over yourself is a safe and indulgent option. In the Gay Science he suggests that one needs to "Make of the Self a work of Art." This means that one should be willing to shape ones habits and actions in a way that harmonizes your own aesthetic and environment. A good piece of architecture fits into the landscape. But that same piece of architecture, retains and presents a vision, respects quality and durability, and honors decisions about function. 

We can consider that the person taking another's property is always addressing them as a means, and not an end-in-themselves. You can rule out the notion that one may steal to stay alive, because one can never really know the consequences of one's theft, and it might simply cause another's death to take place in your stead. It is better if the reallocation of goods takes place in a way that is effected more indirectly, so that it cannot be used too easily as a weapon. But it is difficult to uphold revenge or recovery in Kant, because we see how it leads directly to endless revenge when two sides disagree on the value of the things taken or retaken. In this case, the value of the organ is seriously different for both sides, but still quite high -- we all have two because they tend to wear out, so if I let mine be taken, I might die younger. At the same time, a complete right to retain property, that regularly results in death, is itself a weapon, aimed at the destruction of the 'surplus population', and treating those who do not fit well into society as means and not ends. Witnessing suffering degrades future moral capacity unless one responds to the empathic pull that is the sentimental reflection of duty. (This is harder to base directly on theory, but it just seems obvious. And it is a lemma Kant derives in making his argument for limiting one's consumption of animal products to what can be produced without cruelty.) When communities have themselves set up mechanisms that attempt to prevent the poor allocation of goods from resulting in death, it is best that everyone be equally subject to them. So, since in this case there is a vast system for voluntarily donating and recovering organs, theft of them should be discouraged, as it will degrade that system.