Although he is usually considered an existentialist, (the later) Heidegger is against Sartre's claim that existence precedes essence in his Letter on Humanism: 

From the preceding lines it seems he is talking about the priest caste as the highest, aristocrate caste. He probably thinks of Judaism and Hinduism, in the centuries B.C.E. It don't think you have to go that far back. Nietzsche means here that 'pure' does not mean someone who it spiritually pure, free of sins, etc. (= 'symbolically' or metaphorically pure), but more literal/physically pure: abstaining from certain foods, sex, avoiding contact with blood, etc. 

In The Antichrist, he develops this further, including the joke "[T]here was only one Christian, and he died on the cross" (AC 39). I take this to mean that Nietzsche wants to stress the difference between his interpretation of Nietzsche and what Paul and christian theology made of him. 'Christian' in the sense of 'true to the ideas of Christ' is only Christ himself, and Paul c.s. made something different out of him. In The Antichrist, the assessment of Christ is ambivalent: Yes, he praises Christ in contrast to christianity. He sees Christ as a buddhist like teacher, teaching inner peace. Whereas christian theology focuses on sin and redemption of sin by way of God's incarnation as Christ in human flesh. This theology is negation of wil to power (and thus life) and leads to nihilism, pessimism, decadence. If christians had followed the teaching of Christ, this might not have been the case. However, the resignation style teaching like those of Buddha and Schopenhauer may be better than Christianity, Nietzsche still calls it nihilistic, because it is still a way of fleeing from life, rather than embracing it. 

Topics relating to morally permissible behaviors of corporations are dealt in the field of business ethics. Finance ethics is a branch in the field. Due to the complexities as it relates to other fields (e.g., laws and accounting), finance ethics has not caught the wild imaginations of philosophers yet, as its paucity in business ethics entry in Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy testifies. I find the entry in Wikipedia to be far more helpful regarding finance ethics. 

With the superman idea, according to the following SEP article, what Nietzsche has in mind is to understand what kind of life is a well-lived life. To Nietzsche, of course, the life of the superman, not that of a Christian. Why? Some key concepts to answer the question are power, perfection and eternal recurrence. The author of the article, however, concludes that there is no shared answer on this point. The author, for instance, considers the following two proposals, and rejects them: $URL$ 

What is the relationship among the different books of Rawls: A theory of justice, Political Liberalism and The Law of Peoples? The difference can be explained by Rawls’ motivations in writing the books. 

'Existentia' and 'essentia' are said of beings as they are ontotheologically thought by metaphysics, i.e. according to the paradigm of an artifact present for the eye. Sartre does not question this paradigm, but merely reverses it, claims Heidegger. In his earlier Being and Time, which inspired Sartre's existentialism, Heidegger says the essence (Wesen) of Dasein is existence, but he means something different with 'Wesen' (verbally, i.e. the way a being is towards Dasein) and 'Existenz' (restricted to Dasein only: the way in which Dasein is towards itself). 

For Heidegger, (philosophical) 'tradition' starts with the Greeks: ancient ontology is the ontology of the ancient Greeks (he mentions 'The greek ontology and its history' just before this quote). This ontology is supposed to be founded in their experience of the world. This ('primordal') experience has guided the first (Greek) way of determining Being and the further history of philosophy (Middle Ages, Enlightenment, modern philosohopy). So, he is referring to a much later period in human history than the cave paintings. Furthermore, 'Dasein' refers to the way the world, others and Dasein itself are revealed to Dasein: in images, but also in signs, knowing your way around things, emotions and moods etc. He questions the 'ocular' focus of western philosophy, i.e. taking seeing and pictures as leading examples in thinking. Rather he argues the various ways of revealedness of the world are equiprimordial. In Sein und Zeit, not images but understanding and especially moods are more important than images. 

Philosophers (and most humanity scholars) have no incentive to respond to criticisms which come from different fields of study. Example: Emeritus Professors Churchlands are radical, neuro-scientific eliminativists, who believe that consciousness and intentionality can be reduced to brain states. A lemma to this view, according to them, is that our sense of the good or justice can be eventually reduced to brain states, which further entails that topics of ethics and political philosophy would be reduced to that of neuro-science. The Professors' prediction could turn out to be right in the era of StarTreck, but presently the best neuro-scientific intelligence we got is AlphaGo's wining Lee Sedol. It is no wonder then that no ethicists and political philosophers find the Professors' finding threatening, as none have been bothered to respond to their conclusion analytically so far. 

should mean that Christians think that life (on earth) is worth living and life in after-life (heaven) is also worth living. 

You do not need extensive knowledge of history to study political philosophy. Political philosophy in essence is a field of applied ethics: that is, it applies morality to a political entity. So what is needed is the basic, normative theories of ethics (e.g., utilitarianism and duty ethics). Some popular topics of political philosophy presently are these: 

Another is Dutch analytical philosopher Herman Philipse, who wrote a thorough book on Heidegger. He succeeds quite well in a 'translation', especially in untangling the different motive in the question of Being. But his ultimate conclusion is less charitable than Tugendhat's. 

Heidegger does not use these names, as he thinks these names are conceived from one specific way of Being (Vorhandenheit), which has been misapplied to all beings (esp. humans). Ad 2. Perhaps Heidegger actually confused several meanings of Sein/Being into one, as is argued for example by Herman Philipse (in his Heidegger's Philosophy of Being: A Critical Interpretation). So the answer is debatable. 

Nietzsche/Zarathusta, however, does not want humans to be plants or ghosts, to be hedonists or rationalists. Why? Because in that way humans remain fixed as a rational animal. In other words, the human as a rational animal is a current or old value. If a philosopher preaches you to indulge in your desires (i.e. be a plant) or on the contrary to be rational (i.e. be a ghost), he accepts the characterization of humans as rational animals. Z. preaches the reevaluation of all values, including this one. Humans (or, perhaps better, this fixation of human beings as rational animals) should be overcome. Human as conflict of plant and ghost, of matter and spirit, should not be merely assumed and taken as a starting point for a debate where one chooses one side or the other. Rather this value itself should be questioned, and perhaps thereby be overcome. To a new self-understanding of the human being. 

The ethicist we are looking for must acknowledge that there exists the duty of beneficence. Libertarians (Robert Nozick and Ann Landers) are eliminated. 

Pareto Principle, a la Rawls, states that it is immoral to stay in the status quo when we can make someone better off without making anyone else worse off. Under this principle, if someone is dying of hunger while someone else is eating Korean BBQ, the social arrangement of the society is immoral. The food production system of the society needs to be changed. 

I parse the question into this: why cultural relativism (CR) cannot be justified from the standpoint of tolerance? For this, let's first clarify what CR is. CR can be descriptive or prescriptive. As a descriptive idea, CR states the observation that morality is relative to each culture. As a prescriptive, moral theory, CR asserts that morality must be founded on each culture. All moral values are nothing more than customs, social norms and/or legal practices. I focus on this moral theory side of CR in this post. As a (prescriptive) moral theory, CR is already very problematic, CR as a moral theory is based on the so-called naturalistic fallacy (inferring what one ought to do from what one is). Also, under CR, a moral revolutionist (like M.L. King) becomes a common criminal. CR cannot explain why stoning couples for marrying across different castes is wrong. Indeed, CR can defend any clearly morally wrong practice insofar as the practice is the norm in the society. Consequently, CR cannot offer guidance for moral progress. For this reason, no moral theorists are motivated to defend CR. Setting aside the fact that CR is an inadequate moral theory, can CR be defended nevertheless for the reason that it is based on the value of tolerance? Surely, tolerance has some goodness going on. Like individuals, each culture has its own idiosyncrasies due to existential contingencies. Many cultures around the world find it offending when some globally dominant culture judges their cultural norms as morally wrong or inferior. Not exercising tolerance can be viewed as imperialistic or paternalistic. Does this means that CR can be justified from the standpoint of tolerance? If tolerance is an intrinsic value, then CR can be, but it is not. Tolerance can be good or bad. While we should be tolerant towards differences in general, there are times when being tolerant borders on acting cowardly: e.g. tolerating a bully. Tolerance is valuable when it serves some higher values. John S. Mill, for instance, argued for tolerance for the sake of liberty, which he viewed as a source of human happiness (cf. David Brink's Mill's Progressive Principles). John Rawls argued for tolerance (through epistemic modesty and neutrality on the good) to show the ideal of equal respect. Since tolerance itself has no steady foundation, CR justified by tolerance will be even more unstable, which is why the argument from tolerance to CR fails.