Why are males being castrated and raised as females? The background section explains why biological males are being castrated. In short, it's to resolve a birth defect: 

Due to factors like these, it's unsurprising that biological males would still exhibit stereotypical male behaviors despite having had their genitals restructured and being raised as female. Reference: What's sex? In humans, sex is defined by the XY sex determination-system. Most other mammals use this same system, though it can be different for insects, fish, etc.. Almost all humans fall into this system, being either XX (female) or XY (male). However, some people can have an extra chromosome in some of their cells, such as in Down syndrome. Since a person with XXX chromosomes still uses just the X chromosome while a person with XXY still has a Y affecting their chemical makeup, the definition of sex has been extended to: 

Since Amazon.com is already collecting sales tax and appears to be for creating stronger tax regulations, while Trump's party is advocating a reduction in tax collection (as interpreted by FreedomWorks), Trump's claim doesn't appear to correspond with reality. 

They're basically claiming that they can get their young students a-year-or-two ahead of their peers over the course of two years of enrollment. We haven't independently verified that claim, but it seems pretty plausible. Inconsistency with the modern, common definition of IQ The problem is that this isn't how we define IQ anymore. Instead, we define IQ as being performance on the IQ exam cast to a normal curve with a mean/median of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. In this definition, an IQ of 152.6 implies performance at ~3.5 ((152.6-100)/15) standard deviations above the median peer rather than performing like the median peer who's ~1.5 times older. Practical distinction The desire for an IQ metric has been based on the historical observation that some people are smarter than others and the desire to quantify it. In the early days, IQ was defined like the Japanese school claims, which is why it was called the Intellectual Quotient. The problem with this old-fashion definition is that it's too mutable; it doesn't capture basic intelligence so much as preparation for a particular exam. It's this mutability that the school exploits in its claim. 

, with Google dating this blog post as being from 1999-11-07 (which seems sketchy, so it may not be accurate): 

There are rare cases where this system may not fit well, in which we describe people as intersexed. The above study that this answer is based on didn't have any intersexed individuals; all males were male by the standard biological definition, not to be confused with gender identity. 

Basically, no. Eye exercise programs of this kind do not work. Your eyes get enough exercise under normal conditions. There is no evidence that using glasses or contact lenses makes vision worse, and no evidence that special exercises make any difference. $URL$ One of the proponents of the Bates Method was Aldous Huxley. I've read somewhere an account of how he gave a lecture on the method and the great results he had with it. He appeared to be reading from notes, until half way through when he stumbled, paused, and started peering closely at his notes. It slowly dawned on the audience that he hadn't been reading, he had been reciting. Unfortunately I read this some years ago and I can't now recall where. 

The study is very small: 4 subjects and 4 controls were studied over 4 days. Some measurements are given, but information about what was measured and how is sparse to non-existent. Much of the article seems to be unsupported speculation about the movement of electrons through bits of stuff in the body. There is nothing here that resembles a coherent theory. The authors consistently confuse the role of electron donation in chemical reactions with ideas related to electrical current. 

The 42 "negative confessions" or "declarations of purity" were made by the deceased soul in order to gain eternal life. They were a list of the sins not committed during life, and hence can be taken as an effective list of commandments. The list has a lot of redundancy because the declarations were made to various different gods, so (I guess) theft of grain, theft of land and theft of other possessions were under the purview of different gods. If you eliminate the minor variations and the multiple gods you arrive at those 7 commandments you listed. However this is not proof that Moses cribbed the Commandments from his upbringing in Egypt. Rules about property, killing and sex are probably necessary for any civilization, so it is hardly surprising that both the Egyptians and the Israelites had similar rules. This means it is still possible that God handed Moses an ideal set of divine rules that the Egyptians had previously approximated by trial and error. In this context its important to note that both sets of rules forbid theft, murder and adultery, but don't define them. It might well be that under specific circumstances killing or appropriation of property or women would be legal (and therefore not sinful) in one culture but not in the other. Also there are some interesting items in the Egyptian list that are not in the Decalogue: the Egyptians banned anger (19, 25, 38), remorse (13), refusing to listen to "truth" (26) and being nosy (17, 31). None of those are found in the Decalogue (although they may be found elsewhere in Mosaic law; I don't know). Here is the Egyptian list (from Wikipedia): 

RE: "Is this research based on anything?" According to Holland, these claims follow from earlier work by Royal Rife: 

Holland also considers a more recent line of work, on Novocure, to have set the stage for his efforts: 

tl;dr- This answer is primarily an attempt to establish the context of the quote to determine its meaning. No conclusive sources were found, however: 

come from 2008-11-04, at which point Google indexes three sources: 1; 2; 3. This PDF from 2008-11-19 also has the quote on page 27. The strange thing about all of these sources is that none of them is primarily English-speaking. This is unusual for the early internet, especially as a source for an alleged English quote allegedly from an English source. However, Source (1) has Spanish variant linked on it: 

Surveying a bunch of sources, I found a few that claimed that kerosene might cause cancer, though most seem to claim that there's no apparent connection with cancer. Despite the apparent lack of carcinogenicity, kerosene poisoning still has other problems. "Hydrocarbons Toxicity Treatment & Management" (2015) discusses research on how to treat kerosene ingestion. Most of the concern seems to be related to avoiding aspiration. Possible origin of cancer-curing stories If you do enough random testing, you'll find studies all over the place. I found one study that seems to report a ~15% decrease in apparent cancer rates (25 observed malignant neoplasms vs. 29.4 expected) for one group of men who had exposure to kerosene fumes: 

This stress on "in principle" seems to reflect that the authors didn't want to actually claim that they believed this to be a threat. Additionally, the journal stresses that they were reporting a model without even attempting to estimate the values for the parameters: 

Further, while the challenge focuses on how hard it is to buy food on that budget, the people pushing the challenge acknowledge that this population's supplemented by food stamps: 

Other sources don't call out tightness as much. For example, a study on why hats can cause hair loss ("Altered Serum Micronutrient Levels in Female Alopecia Subjects with History of Prolonged Use of Cap/Scarf" (2014)) refers to the hair loss as "cap/scarf-induced" without explicitly calling out tight-fitting head wear: 

Holland refers to their technology as "pulse magnetotherapy (PEMF)"; Wikipedia lists this as a synonym for "pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMFT)". 

Long version The main guy behind this is Anthony Holland. No Wikipedia page, but apparently he's an "Associate Professor of Music" at Skidmore College, as alluded to in his YouTube video in which he notes that he's a music composer (and not a trained scientist). According to Holland's CV, he got his PhD in "Musical Arts" in 1982 from "Cleveland Institute of Music (Composition) and Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio" (presumably the Cleveland Institute of Music). I point this out for two reasons: 

Some years ago I remember reading an account of Aldous Huxley lecturing on the Bates Method. I think it was a book by a well-known skeptic (maybe Gardner or Sagan?) but I don't remember exactly. According to this account (from my memory) he was well known to need strong glasses. But he came on stage without glasses and started reading from his notes. This was an amazing demonstration of the truth of what he was saying. But the half way through he faltered, and started peering closely at his notes. It dawned on the audience that up until that point he had been reciting, not reading, and the Bates Method hadn't worked for him after all. Does anyone know more about this story? 

This paper found that air-blower hand driers were much worse than paper towels. The Dyson Airblade is a particularly bad offender. Update: now it turns out that air-blower hand driers also suck in bacterial spores from the surrounding air and blow them on to your nice damp hands. Hand driers should have HEPA filters to prevent this. 

There are two claims here: microbeads are environmentally harmful, and microbeads are not necessary. First claim: environmental harm: This is a summary of the environmental science from the Canadian government. TL;DR: yes they are harmful, but probably not very harmful. Fish ingest them and then excrete them. However inverterbrates seem to suffer more harm, and its quite possible that if you eat shellfish then you will wind up eating microbeads. Toxicity is due to ingredients in the plastic leaching out, and here it gets complicated. Read the report for all the details. Second claim: they are not necessary. This is probably true, but I can't find any specific evidence. It would seem reasonable, though, that you could get the same effect by just using a slightly rougher face cloth. 

A Google search for "Institutionalization of children" turns up a lot of results on this topic. One of the top results is this from the University of Pittsburgh, which summarizes current knowledge with a number of further references. The details vary with when and where the orphanage is, but at the very least a child is likely to be deprived of real parental love and affection, which will make it hard to form relationships in later life. They will also lack support and encouragement in school, and generally are thrown on their own resources much more than children in a family. Once they are old enough to leave the orphanage they are likely to be expected to jump straight into an adult life for which they have little preparation and no safety net if they screw up (find a job, rent a room, go shopping, cook for yourself, get a bank account, manage money ...) At the worst end of course there are lots of cases of institutional neglect, abuse and exploitation.