I would go to a bike shop, or take some hub you already have. As far as I know, there are only two sizes: one for 7 and one for 8/9/10 (these are the same, just the distance between the sprockets is progressively smaller to fit). And if your data-processing capacity and confidence are good, you can dig some info here: $URL$ and also $URL$ 

Ride slowly at first, and wait for the said settling down of components. This means the old cog should wear a bit and regain its proper shape. This requires a lot of patience, sometimes. If you have a not-so-worn-out chain (read below), you can install it and ride with it for a while. Then you can install the new one. If not number 1 or 2, replace the cogs and rest your mind. 

One thing you can be absolutely sure is: despite handlebars are designed to work some pre-defined way, there is nothing wrong about using them in a very different or even opposite way if that's what suits you best. The only two pre-conditions to do it is that you actually know what you want, and you actually know the practical, subjective pros and cons of each position. If I were in your situation, I would choose the best position given my current stem. If that didn't work, I would perhaps swap the stem for another one that puts the handlebar in a better position. Notice, also, that each image you posted places the brake levers in different zones, and that is a "design parameter" which you should consider. Most probably you'll benefit from having the levers in the position you stay most the time, so that they are within reach in case of an emergency stop being needed. Hope this helps! 

I am very prone to lace my next wheel without physical crossings, since there seems to be enough evidence it is not actually necessary. Some months later, I could be sure if that works or not. But even if it is not necessary, it might still be better. So, have you any information/link/knowledge/experience about? 

Besides the given suggestion(s), another possibility (although a bit overkill) could be to take a picture from afar (5m+), with the camera aligned to the bottom bracket axis, and analyze the alignment on the zoomed image, via eyeballing or some drawing/viewing program. 

With springs only (and no dedicated way to control the rebound), the suspension would become too "wild", I'd say. I think you should take any elastomer kit that fits inside your suspension, with enough lateral clearance, and use it, no fear. Micro-cellular urethane (MCU) was the topmost material used in bike suspension elastomer (before becoming almost obsolete). It is important, too, that you put them inside the fork with lots of grease, and specifically LITHIUM-FREE GREASE, so that they don't chemically react with one other. Most probably, there are specific suspension greases in bike shops. Hope this helps 

Theoretically, you could only measure power with a specialized instrument, usually an electronic (and expensive) torque meter embedded in a custom crankset or rear hub. For the state-of-the-art about this, take a look at $URL$ It will point you a lot of other links on the subject. If you want, like your question suggests, to estimate power based on total ascent (disregarding energy spent to overcome wind and rolling resistence), you could use formula, where energy is the variation of potential energy, calculated with , being height the total ascent, and mass the combined mass of your body and bicycle. The second formula will give the minimum energy spent (since not only ascent, but also drag will consume energy), so you could convert to food calories if you want. Also, if you brake, the kinetic energy is lost, and you spend more energy to accelerate back to speed. Power means the rate of energy transfer, or how much energy you can spend for each time unit - in plain language, how strong you are. 

The locknut, which face outwards and make contact with the fork/frame, is usually 17mm. Since you need to tighten it with the other side fixed, you can use a 17mm wrench at one side and a 18mm wrench at the other if you don't want to have two (big/expensive) 17mm wrenches. Cones are just inside the locknuts and might be 13 or 14, or even different. Usually you need a dedicated cone wrench since normal wrenches are too thick to fit in the narrow fitting in the cone. 

They are snug around the ankles and avoid dirt entering the sock. This snugness usually doesn't go away with repeated washing; They are easily cleaned by washing, no matter how dirty, filthy or otherwise rotten they are (you know what I'm talking about); They dry easily, even during a ride (unfortunately not all shoes behave the same...), or while hanging from the barends overnight, or while taking some sunlight over a lawn during a picnic; They are somewhat anatomic, that meaning mostly the areas around the heel and around the toes; They have the proper length: not so short to allow dirt infiltration and crank/chain bruises, not so long as to look like soccer socks or get tangled with said crank/chain; They are clearly bike-related, usually because they have some bike-related logo (I only buy socks with logos from brands I like and/or use myself, and go to work wearing them occasionally); I'd rather leave my money at the LBS than at a soul-less department store; Why would a biker NOT use bike-specific socks if there ARE such socks being sold at all? 

If you have a wise bench bench vise, you can do the same, but I would recommend using the plates too (not the raw jaws of the vise). 

That metal wire REALLY feels dangerous. It's a thin, penetrating METAL part instead of a blunt, bulky, round-tipped plastic shaft. The mirror itself is a tiny piece of glass. It doesn't even have to shatter to fit inside the eye orbit. The whole system contains only very hard and damaging materials. No bulky plastic "paddings". 

I have seen this happen when the chain gets "trapped" between two chainrings, or more often between bigger chainring and chainguard (if the crank has a round chainguard type), or more often yet between two rear cogs. If no other probable cause, this is something that should be looked for. Hope this helps! 

From $URL$ (written by Alan Barnard): "You can often see evidence of loop detectors as lines cut into the road surface just behind the crosswalk. Wire sensors are embedded in these cut lines, and it’s possible to trigger a light by placing your bicycle wheels precisely on top of one of the wires to disrupt the magnetic field. Some sensors seem to be more sensitive than others; in those cases where the light isn’t initially triggered, I’ve had some success by leaning my bike over toward the inside of the detector loop. In cases where there are two side-by-side loops, lining up over the center where the two loops meet doubles your chances of triggering the light. Once I understood exactly how loop detectors work, my rate of success at triggering lights considerably improved; I’m currently getting somewhere approaching a 90% success rate on the detectors where I live." There are a lot of interesting comments there, also! Hope it helps 

I would suggest using longtails or boxbikes. Longtails are bikes with the rear wheel farther back, so that you can have a huge rack and probably some boxes. Most of them are strong and kind of "already mountain bikes". My favourite examples are the Kona Ute and the Yuba Mundo. Another possibility are the "remote steering" box-bikes, much used in Denmark and Netherlands, where you have a giant box between you and the front wheel. Examples are the classical Bakfiets, and the more modern Bullitt. In any case, I don't mean you should buy any of these brands or models, but rather be aware of their existence, so you can perhaps order a similar solution to a local builder, or something like that. I would not carry apples on a trailer as a first choice, because of the extra size, extra effort and extra-rattling compared to a loaded bike, but it depends a lot on your terrain, indeed it might actually be the best solution, so you only need a proper trailer to use with a regular bike. In this case, a two-wheeled trailer probably would be the best option. 

You can do that, the spacing is the same. As already pointed, you're going to have a "phantom gear" on your shifter. If you let gear number 2 on the shifter correspond to gear number 1 in the cassette, you should take care not to press too hard on the lever when you are already in gear 2, since this should overstretch the cable or the lever. If you let the normal order until gear 7, and have an 8th gear on the lever as an "empty" or "ghost" gear, there is no danger to overstretch anything, but the shifter cable might become too loose, to the point of the housings coming out of their stops. Anyway, the gear spacing is the same, and there would be any necessary damage in any part, except one of the positions of the shifter not being used. Also, this could be a good alternative to upgrade the shifter, and only some time later to upgrade the rear wheel. At last, have in mind that these systems are not in production anymore (as far as I know). Hope this helps 

My theory is that these creaking sounds are caused by micro-movements between dry, dust-affected, under-pressure surfaces. The cleaning and lubing do fine. But... DONT DO IT if you're using carbon or any non-metal parts! Silicon (or WAX) might work better in this case (after the disassembly and cleaning, of course). Hope this helps! 

If you ride only paved surfaces, there is not much problem to use front brake, I think. The main problem (from my extensive off-road background) is braking on curves or slippery terrain, where you should take a bit of care not to block your front wheel and fall from the bike. I am not saying the front wheel should not be used on curves, or on unpaved terrain, only that extra care should be taken to modulate front and rear brake forces so as not to block and slip the wheels (unless, of course, you want to skid the rear wheel on purpose to correct your trajectory, which is a very useful menoeuver sometimes). Also, when you go down a curb, specially when going down a slope (for example, going from sidewalk to street), brake modulation and demodulation might be useful too: when each wheel is "in the air" between the two different height surfaces, the brake on that wheel should be quickly released, and just AFTER that wheel hits the ground it should be used again. It helps not to tip over the front wheel, and not to skid rear wheel (I care about my tires). Hope it helps! PS: and just to answer your last question, FOR SURE you should use your front brake abundantly! It is the front brake that saves lives (yours and others') 

Your are not using gears right (unlikely, since you said you are an experienced and efficient biker). It would be wrong to try to get speed hammering a very high-speed/low-cadence gear, but it is ALSO wrong trying to get your extra speed JUST by increasing your cadence. You should shift accordingly, perhaps until you reach the highest gear on your bike; You're using a different category of bicycle. Althoug you have not mentioned, I suppose both of you are using road bikes. If you are using a Mountain Bike, well, then I think you're going to have a hard time catching up with him; Your bike is not in good shape/setup to go high-speed. Most important things besides gears have already been mentioned: good hub bearings, good chain lubing (it's weird, but it counts a lot!), "efficient" rims, and SPECIALLY good fast tires. That would be skinny, smooth, high-pressure tires. These can make a bike go from turtle to rabbit without any additional change; Your friend's bike is MUCH LIGHTER than yours. Sometimes there might be a difference of 10 pounds (around 5kg) or even more between a not-so-modern-not-so-expensive bike and these new carbon-feather bikes. And that IS a huge difference in terms of speed and specially acceleration. It also allows the rider not to be so tired most the time, so when the sprint comes his legs are fresh to pedal hard; At last, this is always a possibility: your friend's got genes, he might be those guys who's strong as a horse and/or never gets tired. Check out if that's not the case... 

From my experience, dampening depends too much on non-dimensional factors. That makes very difficult to come with a formula that would work reliably. Of course the width of the tire is a very important factor, and balloon tires always will dampen better than skinny ones. But the hardness of the carcass (be it the layers within or even the rubber hardness itself, or the thread pattern) plays such an important role that I think it counts more than the difference in diameter from 26 to 28 inch wheel sizes. I have ridden wide tires which were very bumpy and uncomfortable, and narrow ones that just made the harshness of the road disappear. Also, and this might help to formulate a real answer to your question, are you referring to the transversal dampening, where the tire's cross section counts a lot, or to the longitudinal dampening, where the wheel diameter counts more - and which is responsible for "rolling over" obstacles being smoother on bigger wheels - ? 

The worst problem I face when waiting too long to replace a chain is that a new chain will skip badly over the worn sprockets. In my experience, it has a lot to do with the kind of terrain you ride (on- vs. off-road), the amount of rain/mud/snow you take, and if your have full fenders or not. If you do mountain bike, 500 miles is sometimes enough to need a chain replacement. 1500 miles will for sure damage your sprockets permanently. Now if you ride only asphalt, use full fenders, and take proper care on cleaning and lubing, you might go over 3000 miles without much problem. I agree with a previous answer, it takes three to five chains to need a cluster replacement if you care well, but the chainrings use to last much longer to me than two clusters. I think it is because, when you install a new chain, the wear pattern on the teeth (both the sprockets and the chainrings) tend to get back to normal (wear occurs at the base of the teeth, instead of their tops). Since the rings wear much less than the sprockets, they go back to normal more easily, and have a much lesser tendency to skip. It is worth mentioning that I had never experienced a chain braking because it was worn out, so the problem is not dangerous, just expensive (because you have to replace two or three parts instead of one), not to mention the bad ride quality due to worn-out drivetrain. 

Thinking about it, and considering that non-verbal, single-handed signal is preferred, I think that: 

In this interesting video about the history of the Tour de France, at some point the narrator explicitly mentions the period (during the 70s if I remember well) when great cycling events beginned to change from a one-to-one fight amongst a few super-strong riders (typical example: Merckx) to a teamwork fight amongst well-orchestrated, hierarchical teams (typical example: Armstrong). I think (and the video also mentions it) that this is due, among other things, to an increased understanding - and acceptance - of the importance of aerodynamics (LeMond), and also to advances in scientific training, which leveled the differences between well-prepared riders, I think. Also, the role of the team in one or another era can be inferred from the very title of another excelent video, "Stars and Watercarriers". 

One option that I really recommend you, at least to consider, is a recumbent bike, specially one with a low crank and a relatively upright position. With such a bike, not only the hands get much more relaxed, but also the butt benefit from a wide padded area for support, which is shared a bit with the lower back. I have ridden a clone of the Easy Rider similar to this, and although I was very skeptical about the cumbersome looks of the bike, the comfort and ease are unbelieavable (to the point of asking myself why have I been torturing myself with regular bikes for so long). For a senior lady I doubt there could be anything much better than this on two wheels (there are trike versions) BUT there are some caveats: