Both statements [2.] and [3.] are statements about the net (aggregate) amount of gas used by the vehicle classes -- therefore they are statements about the collective properties of those classes. A hasty generalization would be more of the form "therefore for all individual cars the amount of fuel consumes is less than for any individual fire truck". 

If Alice says "I used to think X, like you do, but now I think Y" to Bob, this by itself addresses the first two modes of persuasion. By acknowledging that Bob's position at least seems reasonable sometimes, Alice is generating goodwill between herself and her audience. Said in a slightly different way, since everybody thinks they're reasonable, Alice is saying "look I'm reasonable too -- I shared this belief with you (a belief that you current think is still reasonable)." Carried along with this is an implicit idea that Alice is knowledgeable about the reasons why you might come to believe X; another boost to Alice's character and a facet of similarity on which to base goodwill. Finally, by calling out the idea that people can, and do, change their minds about X you've introduced this idea into the audience's frame of mind. The third mode, apparent proof, isn't directly manifest in your short description, but if Alice were to walk Bob through where she used to stand, and why/how she's changed her mind can provide a compelling case (in the very least it was compelling to Alice herself). Thus arguing from "I used to stand where you do" and explaining how and why you've changed is an effective rhetorical technique that addresses all of the modes of persuasion. Often, this is a form of, or relies on, the ganfalloon technique of persuasion. 

"Logical positivism is dead, or as dead as any philosophical movement ever becomes", J. Passmore The Encyclopedia of Philosophy 1967 (also related by S. Shankar in Philosophy of of Science, Logic and Mathematics in the Twentieth Century). Among the problems that lead to its demise are 

To some extent one might consider the application of secular humanities studies on religion a (the?) secular approach to theology; examples include history (e.g. what were the theological/doctrinal conflicts in the early Christian church), anthropology (studies of the geographic dissemination various gods/myths) of , literary analysis (textual analysis of holy scriptures), etc. Basically, one can take the position of studying the idea of god(s) as expressed in various cultures as a secular analogue of theology. In terms of the religious^* side of things-- I don't have any references handy, but I'm sure that there is writing about what the appropriate role for religious services are in humanist communities. Basically, there is a subset of Secular Humanists who want to maintain traditions like attending regular spirtual services, while eschewing the supernatural elements of traditional religions, e.g. Sunday Assembly. These types of organizations need to define their missions and thus define "secular religion". Daniel Dennett has given several public lectures on "What Should Replace Religion" which addresses some of these issues. ^* for this discussion, I'm using a somewhat broad meaning of religious to focus on the practices, and to a lesser extent, doctrine of a given social/spirual community (irrespective of if it is theistic or not). 

It's easy to establish that this approach for downloading is unethical, given a deontological moral stance. Given the way things are now, the producer^* has constructed and provided the goods under the provision that he/she will be paid for them prior to their use. To download and use, even as a trial, is to violate this condition imposed by the producer; i.e. you have just trampled on their wishes. Note, esp. for digital goods, the producer can easily distribute the goods via other payment schemes (shareware, pay as you see fit etc.) and by doing so indicate their consent in the downloading of demo versions. In these cases, utilitarian approaches are muddled due to the lack of direct harm/deprivation imposed on the producer by the trier's (temporary) access to the goods. So on first blush, this type of activity might seem morally neutral. However, an expansive in depth assessment of the long term consequences of this type of action, especially if it incorporates the erosion of trust that the deontological approaches focus on, might show that this is, again, an immoral, utility decreasing, action if taken as a general rule. Even if you are of the "information wants to be free" mindset, it is still a moral affront to go against these explicit expectations of the people providing the data. *^ I'm using producer to refer to the person (people) responsible for making the digital goods available in one form or another; this may not be the original author of the goods. 

I interpret this quote as indicating that there is always an "ends" that must be considered when considering an action is morally justified. However this does not entail consequentialism, since the "ends" need not be specified in terms of the consequences of the action. Kant doesn't care whether following the Categorical Imperative leads to actions with better outcomes (e.g. as calcluated by Mill or whoever), only that it is adhered to. 

Which way this goes ends up tying into that person's theory of language. If they think that there is a fixed definition of god, and with that fixed definition the concept is ill-defined, then they'd be a "gnostic ignostic". The situation I'm thinking of involves asserting logic along the lines of "for all times, the term god necessarily implies the three omnis; the three omnis are self-contradictory, thus the term god is ill defined." If they're take on language is more mutable would have to accept that with changing definitions of the term god, it might eventually become well defined or refer to a concept that is not self contradictory. This position might be aligned with agnosticism in that the ignostic's position could change with additional information. 

Under an interpretation of "the problem" as being "not enough people vote" there is no fallacy. By not voting you are "part of" the problem; taken impersonally, you are embroiled in the action of "not voting". Taken more personally, you have chosen to prioritize other facets of your life over voting, again this is "part of problem". What I suspect that you are reacting to is the implied moral judgment inherent in being "part of the problem". This is a case where your interlocutor is using ethos based persuasion on you. He/she is reminding you of a commonly held moral belief of democratic societies and using this moral sentiment as a lever in an attempt to persuade you to change your beliefs and actions. This is isn't a fallacy, there isn't even a strictly logical argument being made. The only case of a real logical fallacy that I could see applying would be a non-sequitur -- if "the problem" was toenail fungus then whether you vote or not won't have an effect on it (unless one party had a very unusual plank in its platform...). 

In a dualistic view of the world that splits off spirit from matter, you can distinguish the supernatural as being related to those events where spirit has causative power in the world. Demons/angles/ghosts are all considered to have some kind of underlying spirit and are even more "pure spirit" than humans. Things like ESP and telekinesis are also related to a direct connection between mind and matter. In this view of things, the relationship between human spirit and the body (at the pituitary) is also supernatural. So it goes like this 

Premise 1 doesn't protect against other interests being more valuable than that of human life (and it's structure seems to imply that a utilitarian type of approach is warranted). Thus, without further elaboration, accepting these premises does not commit one to a decision that abortion is universally wrong. 

An arbitrary taboo holds back research into a field that would/could provide significant human benefit. An arbitrary taboo holds back research into a field that will cause significant human harm. An arbitrary taboo holds back research that is just a waste of time (i.e. the only cost is an opportunity cost one, we could have used the resources better) 

By "machine learning algorithm" I'm referring to basic, primarily statistical, machine learning algorithms; for concrete examples consider simple classifier algorithms like SVM or Bayesian classifier or decision trees. I'm stipulating that these machines do not have a mind. I see a homology between these algorithms and the JTB theory of knowledge: the training set and model structure map to the justification, the results (declared class labels) map to the beliefs and the true aspect is unaffected. There is a similar homology to the "conjecture & criticism" view of knowledge (alanf) in the training and testing phases typically applied in (statistical) machine learning. Obviously, the first objection would be that belief (and justification?) requires a mind -- something that these algorithms don't embody. Is that the only criterion that differentiates the "knowledge" of statistical machine learning systems and actual knowledge? Asides I'd claim that a subset of normal (human) knowledge is of the form that is amenable to representation in terms of machine learning -- an example that comes to mind is the knowledge that bird watchers employ to identify birds based on partial observation. Bird watchers have noticed which features are best observable and able to discriminate bird species from one another; that this is knowledge seems incontrovertible. I also see something like a Sorite's paradox here: a bird watcher who id's birds by looking at them "knows his birds"; someone using a field guide to assist, still seems to have "justified true belief" when the correct id is made; what about more extensive support, like Merlin ID (which from the screen shots looks like it walks you through a decision tree)? what about just taking the result of some automated bird id algorithm at face value? (in the final case is anything new added other than that the species id has transferred from the iPhone screen to the bird watcher's mind?) 

Some theistic bases for morality do not require consequentialism as typically defined. If what god wills is good, then it's good whatever the consequences. More generally, addressing the perceived problems involved in "killing one person to use his/her organs to save eight others" (the "transplant" problem) often requires appealing to (or making a case that is essentially equivalent to) abstract human rights like self autonomy that start to seem like supra-consequentialist considerations. Consideration of the problems raised by "utility monsters" can also lead to similar solutions. If you accept the idea of inalienable rights, then you've moved beyond strict consequentialism. There is a bit of ambiguity in the language: if you choose to count the "affront to god" or "violation of human rights" as a consequence then you might be able to pull these kinds of ideas within some moral framework that could be called "consequentialist", but this is more of an issue of the ambiguity of language than anything else. 

Asserting that "I have conscousness but no one else does" has a degree of implausibility similar to that of geocentrism: why, out of all of the (more or less) externally similar human beings does this one (me) have consciousness (i.e. a special place in the universe)? Basically it's an assumption of uniformity of properties across the class of objects we call humans -- which is a more simple hypothesis that is consistent with all of our observations than the hypothesis that only one (or a small fraction) of humans are conscious. This can be seen as an empirical, scientific proof that (essentially) all humans are conscious. In common usage, we can tell the difference between someone who is conscious and one who is not by whether they respond to stimuli, move around etc. Note that there are also what I would term as reduced forms of consciousness, e.g. people undergoing a stroke who are not fully aware of their surroundings or able to form memories etc. The main point is that we infer that their mental state is different from normal (or ours) because the resulting behaviour is so different. Different outcomes due to different causes. Conversely, as we interact with unimpared people, we see behaviours that are at least plausible given our mental states, and use the principle that similar outcomes came from similar underlying mental processes. It's this assumption of uniformity, similar outcomes from similar causes, that is the logical weak point in this argument. However, it is not an unacceptable position in scientific thinking as long as there is no other evidence against it. 

If the gravity hypothesis and one sets up a Cavendish experiment then one will observe a (rotational) displacement of the masses. If the created hypothesis is true then ... what? I don't see how the created hypothesis, without additional explication about the term "created", leads to predictions/descriptions of any observations in any realizable way. This lack of predictive power, which is a consequence of the manner that you've responded to objections 2 and 3, is a major difference between the two hypotheses. Some might term this as a lack of falsifiability for the created hypothesis, but as I read the question I see it as an even more basic aspect of not being concrete enough to constitute a valid scientific hypothesis. The idea that scientific hypothesis need to make specific observable statements about features of the world is an important part of the scientific method; although in itself, is (probably) not a complete description. 

In this kind of epistemology it is an empirical conclusion that "internally generated" senses are not reliable. Let's take dreams as the negative example: It is logically possible that people's dreams are reliably connected to other features of objective reality. However, to date, no one has identified a systematic approach that allows one to reliably relate dream-states to other states in the world. Since we can't/haven't established the connection between dream-states and other facets of reality, we wouldn't say that dream-experiences are reliable. This can be contrasted with, say, being able to smell rotting food (a subjective experience)-- this sense experience is a reliable indication that eating the food will cause problems. In your quote, the fact that there are a wide range of subjective religious experiences, even among people with similar backgrounds/experiences, is a problem because it means that any putative model connecting these subjective experiences to other facets of reality, will have to be very complex, and thus hard to construct and empirically verify. 

The relevant ensemble is "the set of days where, on the preceding day, the weather forecaster assigned a 40% chance of thunderstorms" -- if the weather forecaster is accurate (approximately) 40% of those days will have had thunderstorms. This is probably easier in terms of a bounded domain. Take a specified year, on each day record the forecaster's prediction, and the weather conditions. At the end of that year to can pick out the days where forecaster said "40% chance of thunderstorms tomorrow", and the set of days that followed those; That set is your population from which you can make frequentist claims about the probability. 

Frame challenge, Yay! The premise in this question is wrong, at least for physics. In studying physics you do learn the canonical works of dead white guys: Newton's law's, Maxwell equations, the Cavendish experiment etc. Due to the differences in the nature of the enterprise of physics vs. philosophy you don't read direct translations of their original works, but in a more figurative sense, that is exactly what you are learning (for the most part): Newton's three laws here is just a re-hash of what Newton wrote in Principia Mathematica. As far as I can tell, every physics 101 student re-hashes experiments and concepts from the 16th century (Galileo and his contemporaries). So the idea that science is presented as "Here are these final results in a completely impersonal way and that there is no history/canon" that I read in the way you've framed the question strikes me as a mis-representation of how science is taught and done. To answer your question, somewhat circularly, the seminal, or canonical, works in philosophy are exactly those works that philosophers have come to find useful. I'm not going to try to define philosophy more concretely than to say that those who purport to be doing it have some set of goals. Some prior works help those people achieve those goals. These end up being the canon.