Maybe you can adjust your notion of what is a "universe." Is a universe literally everything observable and not, or is it something else? What if we defined the "universe" as everything affected by the same gravity well. It might be interesting to have the boundary of the universe as a plane of zero thickness that light and matter can pass through but gravitational effects can not. This would allow you to discover the existence of the boundary, and have it be interactive in interesting ways. The fact that the boundary is there wouldn't be immediately obvious because you can still observe the other universe. This adds a discovery element to the story which is nice because the readers and the characters both go through the same enlightenment process together organically. I think that we can use this model to make some interesting stories by playing with that core concept. 

It just isn't possible if we assume the rules of the real world apply and one life time to accomplish the task. The fact of the matter is UN member nations have zero incentive to allow a new micro-nation into the fold. Furthermore if an Average Joe gained some resource that was important enough for him to gain enough leverage for a bid he couldn't defend it adequately to keep other nations from taking it from him. This means that we need magic, supernatural intervention, or generations of time for this to happen. 

Remember this is a targeted colonization attempt, and because they are unable to terra form their own planet instead of abandoning it their terra forming capabilities are limited. This restricts them to planets that they feel are reasonably close to their own home world. Since the people of Proxima Centauri choose Earth as a colonization spot because it supports life as they know it (or close to it) there is going to be a better than average chance that Earth contains life. They don't know what stage that life is technologically but they do know that life evolved on their home world under similar conditions. As such it is reasonable and prudent to consider how to deal with the native flora/fauna. Nothing in nature cedes territory willingly for the simple fact that access to resources is crucial for life to sustain itself. If an organism cedes access to there resources their chances of survival are diminished. It is true that some organisms do a tactical retreat, but they never truly cede their territory permanently. The colonization of the people from Proxima Centauri will require any native flora/fauna to cede territory to some degree or another. If the planet is devoid of life then weapons won't be needed to fight any native flora/fauna, but planets that can support life as the people from Proxima Centauri know it are valuable, since they are the minority both in their solar system and in this new solar system at the very least. That means it is worth defending a planet devoid of life from others who might not want to share. Similarly if the planet isn't devoid of life it is imperative that the people from Proxima Centauri are able to persuade the natives to share the planet. Once the people from Proxima Centauri arrive at Earth they may not be able to communicate with the natives. This will complicate diplomacy, and depending on the tech level of the natives the people from Proxima Centauri might be vulnerable to varying degrees. If the natives are any kind of threat then investing in weapons will be good insurance. If the natives aren't any kind of threat the weapons still serve as insurance against other aliens. Keep in mind that you don't buy insurance to make you money you buy it to protect your money. Since they are traveling to a known valuable planet with a better than average chance to hold and sustain life it is wise to have the capability to defend this planet. A smart defense plan will include a range of weapons that aren't going to render the planet uninhabitable, and allow focused attacks to minimize collateral damage. This allows you to retain the inherent value of a habitable planet, and reduce the fallout from any diplomatic failures. Furthermore it is imperative that the people from Proxima Centauri don't come in contact with the natives until the natives have been studied because the natives might be poisonous or otherwise hazardous to the people from Proxima Centauri at a biological/chemical level. One big problem with "the drive is a weapon" is the same reason why we don't just carpet bomb insurgents with nukes. Yes the drive can be a weapon but it isn't going to be an appropriate or useful weapon except in the more dire of circumstances. Like nukes the drive is more useful as a deterrent. Also martial arts does fill a vital space in the defense/offense strategy, but there is a reason why commando's carry guns instead of just relying on their kung fu. Having a full range of intermediate options allows you to defend yourself, and engage in diplomacy from a position of strength without having to deal with the diplomatic problem of indiscriminate destruction. Bringing a variety of weapons allows the commanders from Proxima Centauri to use the least amount of force that is appropriate, which is helpful diplomatically. For example if the people from Proxima Centauri come to Earth and find it inhabited as it is now they might choose to setup shop in the Australian outback since that is relatively empty. If the people from Proxima Centauri imposed a no fly zone around their base in the outback, and pushed all natives outside of their base, that would be less diplomatically damaging once two way communication is established than orbital bombardment of Australia. By consistently using a minimum of force to establish a peaceful colony there is a better chance for acceptance by the natives. 

In my opinion your mistake that Schwern alluded to in his answer is you're trying to shoehorn ant evolution/solutions into the same path as human evolution/solutions. Ants aren't humans so they'll develop other ways to solve the same problems just like they've done for millions of years. Ants won't create fire for warmth and preparing food because they live in comfortably cool dirt houses. Ants won't make stone tools to crack nuts because they have strong jaws and farm a good bulk of the food they need. To solve this problem figure out what are hallmarks of our current "level of advancement" and then create a pathway to an ant/vespoid version. For example wasps might begin to use roaches like we use cattle (instead of baby-food/cribs) without going through the long process of roach domestication by re-purposing their existing behavior/venom. This will be beneficial because it is more believable, plus if you want different results you need to use different methods. Maybe stringing copper wires around the globe is what lead to humans doom, and would inevitably lead to vespoid doom as well. So don't try to mimic human developmental stages. Embrace vespoid developmental stages and vespoid strategies to create a successor species. A wasp could use mind control to make roaches to be easy prey for a successor species, and uses roaches to spoil food for a successor species' predator/false starts. Whenever you start falling into the trap of following the human blueprint remember that humans didn't domesticate wheat. Wheat domesticated humans. Maybe we are their successor species... 

Different gravitational constants Perhaps each universe has its own slightly different gravitational constant. This variance in gravitational constant affects chemistry/physics in subtle but fundamental ways. These changes could really be anything you want from causing people to go "space crazy" over time if sent to delta quadrant because some chemical in their brain becomes slightly toxic. Or the opposite happens and the body's repair/self healing faculties are improved so people return from delta quadrant healthier and apparently more youthful. Or maybe the ship starts going haywire and our heroes need to abort and return to their universe. The possibilities are truly endless. 

I was just reading the Wikipedia article about the 1961 Goldsboro B-52 crash. In the bomb recovery section there is this quote (emphasis mine): 

If you don't have access to an off the shelf siren you can always build one. If you didn't know how it was done off the top of your head, you would need to go to your local library and find the Jan. 2014 issue of Make: which had an article on Air Raid Sirens. As near as I can tell this magazine's prototype siren was much like the version seen in this wikiHow article. It should be easy enough to scavenge materials to build one. In a perfect world you'd setup the siren in a location that is heard from your home but not right under it where you'd be driven crazy by the noise. 

In many survivalist stories the intrepid heroes wisely (given the impending plot line) decide to build and stock a fallout shelter. When the inevitable catastrophe comes they move into their underground bunker and live in relative comfort while the bulk of humanity perishes in the event and aftermath. An underground bunker makes good sense for threats like bombs or other large general threats, but it seems like that is all an underground bunker can reasonably defend against. Underground bunkers that even a wealthy survivalist could build appear to rely on a strong door and concealment for survival against assault. That being said the strong door isn't a true deterrent since the air vent/intake must be exposed. If that air intake is blocked or restricted with mud or a plastic bag and some duct tape the only option for the inhabitants is to sally forth. Given the extremely limited egress points from the shelter these are easily covered by a small assaulting force. So how can an underground bunker be reasonably defended against roving bands of bandits? Especially considering the cost of blocking an air vent/intake is exceedingly low compared to the cost of defending the air vent/intake. This is the opposite of a defensible position. What tweaks would be needed to make an underground bunker defensible? 

I still don't think that vespoids will follow human evolution like you want it to, but since no one is trying to give you a pathway I'll try. 

For the purposes of the question you can use whatever type of log book is easiest to maintain the balance between impossible to prove but good enough to suspect. As such the actual log book can range anywhere from a spiral bound notebook to a waterproof floating log book. 

Really this boils down to where Jane decides to make her compromises. Depending on how loosely Jane defines outside help the task will be fairly straight forward or utterly impossible alone. Without some compromises Jane isn't going to be able to create something recognizably bookish because it takes a tool to create every single tool. It is this long chain of increasingly refined tool creation interrupted by inevitable failures along the way that will doom Jane if she doesn't compromise. You say that Jane can use the internet does this mean that Jane can use the internet for initial research that she must memorize prior to starting the process of constructing her book, or can she use it throughout the process every time she gets stuck? You say she can spend money on travel to acquire raw materials. Can she spend money on a backpack to carry the raw materials back home or does she need to carry all raw materials by hand until she fabricates her own backpack? Similarly can she use an existing container to hold her ink or does she need to fabricate that? These decisions are just the beginning. Can she use electric lights to extend her working hours thereby getting assistance from others in the form of viable working hours? Some materials potentially could be spoiled by animals. Does her living in a city and effectively using the other people as a deterrent constitute outside help? If she buys a farm to help her produce animals to be slaughtered for their hides, or other raw materials, does she have to bootstrap every farm system alone? Does she have to provide her own shelter since the comforts of a modern home will impact her health, level of fatigue, and mental clarity for the tasks she must perform? Once we define all the little compromises Jane will make we need to address what she defines a book as... For example the absolute simplest version would be to find a dry cave, and write the book on the cave walls with charcoal. Does that count or does the book need to be distributable? Can she crack open bamboo with rocks, flatten the bamboo into strips and write the book on the strips with charcoal? Now the book is theoretically distributable but it still doesn't really look bookish. If she uses clay tablets then the "pages" can be rectangular which will look more like a book but can't be reasonably bound. Her best bet in my opinion for something that looks like a book would be to make paper out of cotton, and use a hand spun cotton thread to bind the book. It would be easier to bootstrap a cotton farm than something to handle livestock, not to mention figuring out how to pulp wood. She could use fire to fell, and hollow out trees to make the vessels for processing the cotton and find a flat rock for drying the cotton pages. With that part done writing on the cotton pages should be fairly easy to figure out. 

I think the best bet would be to find a civil defense siren. These are loud, designed to be heard over a large area, and low maintenance. If the siren's in your area are mechanical then you could setup a water wheel to drive it. If they're electronic then you can scavenge some solar panels. Either way this system should be pretty easy to setup and be annoying/unique enough to draw people towards it. Once the people arrive at the siren you can write in spray paint/rocks/laminated paper/etc. directions for them to turn it off. If the siren ever turns off you go to investigate if it is a maintenance issue or another survivor. Some likely places to find them include: 

One option would be scientific evidence that is transient and/or can be dismissed as witchcraft. The noble woman suspects the Prince Regent's son is using "inheritance powder" to kill off older siblings to ensure his succession. As a budding cosmetic chemist she has experience with arsenic. She quickly devises the Hydrogen Sulfide test which is effective but transient. She presents the evidence to an authority only to have the evidence magically disappear and/or misunderstood. The noble woman then is the target of a vengeful royal family who accuse her of witchcraft and/or libel. When she discovers the evidence disappeared and they are going to arrest her she flees becoming an outlaw. Eventually she discovers the full Marsh test, is quietly pardoned, and her husband pawns off all of her future discoveries as his brilliant work. 

I don't know what the terrain is like but since you're so evil why don't you just burn them out? You can start fires across the front and burn everything that can burn to the ground. You don't even need real soldiers for this. A couple soldiers can supervise a group of slaves, so your manpower increases dramatically. Try not to engage the enemy and just start lots of fires everywhere. Keep doing this as you move through the countryside and pretty soon the psychics are all starving. I would think your dragons would be especially helpful with this if they are the fire breathing variety. This will force them to spread out their troops, and let you ambush them with overwhelming numbers. Eventually the natives will counter attack you and you can perform a tactical retreat to a place where you can fight them off effectively or lead them into a trap where you drown them in a flash flood, crush them in a rock slide, etc. Regardless you just keep burning everything until there is a charred, barren, wasteland progressively expanding into their territory. Keep reminding them at every opportunity all you want is a modest amount of stuff from the mine. Eventually they'll crack after enough bad winters with progressively diminishing food. By then the full output of the mine will seem like a modest amount as long as they can eat. Of course you should periodically burn down a few villages so their somewhat fuller bellies don't breed any rebellious ideas...