What does it mean to say that 'no picnic is blades'? It doesn't appear to mean anything, unless the sentences are 'well-formed' grammatically, and make sense semantically it doesn't much matter what logic is applied. 

In Kants compressed language, this means that it is not neccessarily the case that triangles, given their axiomatic definition in (Euclidean) Geometry, must have the sum of any two sides greater than the third. This isn't how non-Euclidean geometry is usually presented; a more standard treatment would most likely state that triangles do not neccesarily have their internal angles add up to 180 degrees (less would be hyperbolic, more is spherical); here however, is Cavailles exegesis: 

ie to their essences Essences, here understood, at least in one aspect, in the onto-logic of Aristotle ie in his Categories; which a Locke later calls real essences; to be distinguished from nominal ones. 

Now this might seem a little circular, in that we've mentioned 'existent' in terms of 'existence'; but H points out that to stall a process of reasoning by calling it reasoning circular 

Not necessarily; it may allow freedom - in the same way that friction might be seen to limit the pure motion of some physical body; but if it were not for it, we could not walk anywhere - we'd stay walking at the same point! 

Mathematical intuitionism asserts as a vital principle that it's not enough to assert that something exists, it must be constructed - that is shown. What does this mean for the truth value for a proposition such as: 

And this line of thought is taken up, for example, in Hegels Logic; he begins with positing the equality of Being & Non-Being, which are opposites, but in his description are also equal and unequal - but this moment doesn't last, and is driven forward. A suggestion of it is also in his description of the infinitesimal: it is here, and it is not; that is an infinitesimal is not equivalent to an extensionless point; this perspective is formally supported by intuitionistic logic, dual to paraconsistent logic - where an inconsistency does not render the whole logic invalid. Going back to Antiquity, It's also in Aristotle: he posits three forms of change of things that are (which are classified in his categories); and these are motion, alteration, generation/corruption - but he takes motion to be the most exemplary form of change; this is motion in a wide sense (not the narrow sense of merely physical change), and what drives motion is contradiction; this is not logical contradiction, but the onto-logical unity of opposites; the usual notion of motion, which is the contemporary sense, A calls merely adequate. 

The distinction here is between logic and language. We use language to describe the world, the world is full of change - it is not changeless - ergo we must be able to describe change. Aristotle said that change requires the following: 

Quite what N means by this has lead to a mini-industry of exegesis through his notebooks and other writings, but nothing really conclusive... 

He affirms here, that post-holocaust questions such as these were not even possible to speculate on. So the answer to your question is no; Rawls refuses to develop a theory of eugenics; he purely admits its possibility. 

This happens all the time. A particularly insidious one is when the theory of evolution was co-opted into politics and eugenics in the early part of the twentieth century. Another one is turning economics into a mathematical discipline along the lines of physics - with the spectacular results seen recently. Another one is that Physics doesn't explain qualia, the quiddity or the thisness of the world. Since this is an essential part of being conscious, one supposes that it can't explain consciousness either. 

In (so-called) primitive societies religion is pervasive, one owes thanks to ones ancestors, to gods or the God. Of this Nietszche approves. The 'half-educated man' is a certain figure of the Romantic who emancipates himself from this posture of submission and renouncing and dissolving all ties looks back into the abyss that has thus opened up 'from above' as Caspar David shows, in the mountains the wayfarer rests above the sea of fog. But is this not also the position of the 'spirit that moves upon the deep' as in Genesis? Now, suddenly, we see the wayfarer is etherealised into Noble Spirit, the uncaused cause of himself, and the abyss, the deep, his to mold into a world. Nietsche finds all this risible - for this is high hubris - as the Greeks & Judiacs knew all too well - Oedipus suffered from it: This New Type of Man having kindled a Enlightment using his bare hands hoists himself above the learning of Antiquity, into a new space pregnant with possibilities, he imagines himself as master (of himself) & creator (of a new world). But man is not metaphysical, but physical; he is substantial but he isn't the uncaused substance, the causa sui itself Or as Shakespeare put it (in Measure for Measure): 

The thought in question is articulated into language for our convenience, and language is sequential, with one thought appearing after with each other. Without language the entire thought is in itself a whole without parts, even if the translation into language shows a sequence which relies on logic that must be then in sequence. This prompts a question: is logic an artifact of language? 

In The face of God (Gifford Lectures), Scruton discusses in passing the Libet Experiments as an unimportant framing of the discussion of free-will and determinism; without presenting any arguments, taking the ground as granted. What are the serious arguments that are presented, and framed in what context? note: The main position, at least to me, appears to be that a physical ground for the will is apparent before a conscious decision is registered by some device. Granting all this, doesn't suggest to me that the will doesn't exist but merely that is spread in time. After all we know that the minimal registerable time period is the plank time; and it is inconceivable, that the minimal moment of human time is this minimal physical now. So we know human time is not minimal but a duree, a span; and it seems plausible that it extends both forward and backward in time (I'm not talking about physical time here) This seems a more plausible interpretation of the experimental results, if we grant them the reality that they appear to wish to possess. 

I understand Locke as a philosopher of politics, I'm not sure about Hume - but my impression his work is more on the nature of the human and causality amogst others. Is Said correct in his assertion? One supposes that even if the assertion is correct this doesn't obviate the importance of their work. But this isn't the substance of his assertion - it is that the practical implications of their philosophy in history is quietly dismissed as irrelevant. Is this assertion correct? 

This is probably a little more negative than it should be, as it sounds as though if the Anthropic Principle would be of no interest & vacuous if a possible mechanism hadn't been identified. after it is undeniable that the Anthopic argument was made well before the advent of String Theory. That the landscape in string theory offers a mechanism makes the argument concrete & scientific, but by the same token one should then assert that the argument was of philosophical interest before this possibility announced itself. 

Given this, is there any mileage in contemplating Whiteheads process philosophy through Category Theory? 

Hume asked the question how can one move from an 'is' to an 'ought' in his book, A Treatise on Human Nature: 

Counting is probably the most basic mathematical operation; and need not involve arithmetic; but probably should involve order. One should be careful in distinguishing this from recognition of similarity & differance. After all, a hawk can distinguish a rabbit from a pigeon - they are different, and recognise that one pigeon is not much different from another. Likewise, it may recognise that two pigeons and similar to another two pigeons, and is different from six pigeons. But it isn't counting until it can place them in order - and one can presume that is so, if the hawk recognises that six pigeons is more than two pigeons. I can't resist adding, though it is irrelevant to the intent of the question, that counting doesn't stop there, after the invention of set theory, Cantor showed that you can count infinite sets, and place them too in order. So even a basic idea like counting can be revolutionised after the many millenia since it was first invented. 

The question heading is understandable but I found the question body confusing. First of all quantisation means many different things, but historically speaking it was the initial realisation that energy was not continuous but atomic by Planck, even though he didn't take it seriously as a physical possibility but as merely a helpful solution to the black-body problem. Now, given matter was already understood atomically, one could view this as an extension of the atomic idea into a new area - energy. The question now remaining is whether space, or rather since Einstein, spacetime is also atomic. This is one of the reasons for lattice quantum theory where they model space as a lattice, and similarly for spin-foam models (which surprisingly has some broad similarity with Platos cosmological model); other approaches include causal nets and entropic gravity. The supposition is that, if this is true, it will happen at the Planck-length. One supposes from this, that in a sense this is speculative physics, since it may be quite some time (decades or centuries) before we begin to probe that length. One additional note of caution, although the notion of particle is used heavily in physics, it in fact combines continuous and discrete notions. Continuous because it is a field over space-time, and discrete in its interactions. 

As Lautmon was writing in the first half of the 20th C, one should add computer science, and category theory. Lautman classification goes dialectic ally, by: 

\The notion of cause is problematic. It was raised first in Aristotle who noted one can only say certain acts coincide, and it was later raised by Hume in essentially the same form. In physics there is a certain notion of 'pragmatic cause' by which one can say that gravity 'causes' a stone to fall; or the earth to revolve around the sun. 

Consider the following, fairly famous statement (amongst the cognoscenti of natural philosophy) of Minkowski, a collaborator of Einsteins on the new conception of space and time that Einsteins theory appeared to demand: 

Isn't evolution a process? Big-Bang cosmology is paradigmatically a process; especially when considered against Hoyles steady-state universe. Quantum Mechanics is theorised as Quantum States and an Equation of Evolution. Category Theory focuses on process (morphisms) against the state (sets) 

Yes, there are large-scale structures that are apparent in the universe. It is also possible that the visible universe is only part of a larger multiverse - where the other universes are causally separated from us. Evidence for this is via the Orthodox cosmological model - the Lambda-CDM model which on plugging observed cosmological data shows that the universe is much much larger than the observable one. So not only are there large-scale structures in the observable universe, but it s likely the observable universe is also a large-scale structure within the multiverse. Panpsychism is a philosophical position not widely supported now but was rather fashionable during the 19C which advocates that consciousness is everywhere. That is not only do humans & amoebas have experiences, but so do electrons and quarks. Fechner endorsed a world-soul in which everything is a part. Of course this raises a host of questions; if ontologically elementary particles have consciousness then do aggregates? What happens if aggregates are shared? There is also a position in Physics in which states that the physical world is Information. This has been advocated by Bekenstein in 2003, the physicist who applied thermodynamics to black holes (which is why Hawking radiation is more properly called Bekenstein-Hawking radiation). Now when we think of a computer as a mechanism for information change; and we also consider that Strong AI applies - that is computers can be conscious; what we are saying is a certain system of information and its changes are conscious. This allows us to at least throw a bridge between the physical universe and consciousness via information. The mainstream position of emergentism for consciousness raises the question when does consciousness happen, exactly when does it emerge? One could argue that by continuity it never does - it just becomes more and more apparent and that it was already there. But if this is true of a computer, then it should also be true for the universe; or any part thereof. This ties it in with the panpsychist view. 

First, it seems likely, given the first few sentences, that this quote is from Capital, is it? Second, what does the last sentence mean in relation to the preceding paragraph? 

We can't visually imagine nothingness-in-itself, because the very fact of using our imagination posits that there is something to imagine. What we can do is use a symbolic representation: here is a word 'nothing' it represents nothingness-in-itself. Now, why should only words be capable of symbolic representation? This is because of long habituation, one recalls that originally pictograms were used. So pictures can symbolically represent. Now, to get back to the original question; whilst we cannot imagine nothing-in-itself we can imagine a symbolic represention of this; and this is conventionally taken to be a pure whiteness or pure blackness. But why these two colours? Pure blackness because one supposes its when we close our eyes so all is dark as we have shut out the world, that is made it disappear Pure whiteness - perhaps the empty page or empty canvas; and today the empty screen. Parmenides argument on the Void also applies; He said 'it is not' and thus not amenable to any of our conceptual categories; all we can do is symbolically represent it - as I've argued above. 

The quote by Schmidze sounds to me rather like it's leveraging Heidegger: Language is the home of being; Heideggers philosophical commitment to poetry pushed him towards the discovery of phenomenology as a philosophical movement. Badiou, a French philosopher committed to the arts writes the following in his book The Age of Poets: 

One of the arguments marshalled against traditional cultures invocation of spirits is that they're simply projecting their own fears onto the world. That they're anthropomorsing the world. It is notable that individuals have a telos. It would be bizarre for us to come across someone who did things arbitrarily. Even say the incorporation of chance elements in an artwork is motivated by telos. Are we anthropormising the world when we incorporate cause & effect into our understanding of how the world acts? 

Its difficult to judge from Marxs own writing as he died well before the Russian Revolution. One suspects he would have celebrated the revolution but been dismayed by its trajectory - particularly during the Stalinist era. 

Camus father died in the battle of Marne in the first world war, he lived in poverty in a poor quarter of French Algiers, and he joined the French resistance in the second World War. Though he wasn't a witness to the Hiroshima bombing he was alive enough to its horrors to be one of the few French editors to register his disgust and opposition at such wanton carnage, and was on the side of the pied-noirs on the outbreak of the Algerian Revolution. One can judge from this that he had plenty of experience, and some measure of insight in that awful business of living and dying for finding the problem of bringing meaning to life the most 'urgent of problems'. 

Here, though Marx doesn't mention it; one needs to ignore the additional functions of banks such as securing loans, capital funding and so on. The essential point is that when goods are exchanged there is a cost of that exchange - this is the local picture; in the global picture he calls it the costs of circulation; however that cost is distributed or amalgamated - as it will be.