Not according to current evidence As long as you drink water and have some basic vitamins, you can survive without eating for a very long time. For example, look at the case of Angus Barbieri, who did not eat for 382 days, more than a year: 

All in all, there's a similarity, but not a perfect match - so it seems to be a form of retroactive clairvoyance. 

For people with primary sleep disorders The studies are of moderate-to-high quality and they indicate are some improvements for people with delayed sleep phase syndrome, but not with people with insomnia: 

--Beta-blocakde to prevent perioperative death in non-cardiac surgery: a trial-sequential analysis In short, there's a controversy. The authors of the original meta-analysis claim to have found more significant results, but their second work was temporarily retracted because it hasn't been peer reviewed yet. 

—Wolfram Alpha A Moon round trip is approximately: 7.7×108 meters Calculation Total length of DNA in 1 cell: 6.4×109 × 3.4×10-10 meters &approx; 2 meters Total length of DNA of all cells in human body: 2 meters × 1014 = 2×1014 meters The total length of the DNA strands in the human body in units of Pluto roundtrips is: 2×1014 meters / 1.2×1013 meters/Pluto roundtrip &approx; 17 Pluto roundtrips 10 billion miles are 1.6×1013 meters (assuming statute miles for "miles" – you never know exactly with uncommon units) The total length of the DNA strands in the human body in units of 1x1010 statute miles is: 2×1014 meters / 1.6×1013 meters/1010 statute miles &approx; 12×1010 statute miles The total length of the DNA strands in the human body in units of Moon roundtrips is: 2×1014 meters / 7.7×108 meters/Moon roundtrip &approx; 2.6x105 Moon roundtrips Claims verification 

I'm calling it a hoax. Besides Wikipedia calling it a "presumed" drug and Snopes debunking it as you already found out, Erowid, which is a reputable and complete aggregator of psychoactive-related resources, it's calling it out as a hoax 

Likely not (beyond the normal static shock associated with rubber conveyor belts). I can bring two pieces of evidence I find convincing even though not as definitive as a full blown experiment: 

— Eva Kemps, Marika Tiggemann, Olfactory stimulation curbs food cravings This is confirmed by this later review of their findings 

—source While I've seen this happen on Italian TV numerous times, it seems a completely ludicrous fake phenomenon. Has it ever been studied by scientists? For the Italians, this is the "Miracolo di San Gennaro". Here's the video of the 2011 event. 

Does the UN study justify the contents of the article (concrete risk of becoming a third-world country due to multiculturalism)? 

Even more: Using google books, the first mention I can find of a "chicken sandwich" is dated 1827: Google was wrong, the earliest I can find is dated 1841. 

Funnily enough, Wikipedia looks at the same evidence and finds it relevant to claim that the ship was only claimed to be "virtually unsinkable" until the sinking — they do not provide any reason or strong reference as to why it would make a difference. Finally there is at least one book (The Myth of the Titanic, by Richard Parton Howells, Macmillan, 1999, ISBN 0333725972, 9780333725979) taking the opposite stance. I cannot access it or review the quality of the evidence presented. 

Yes, and together with temperature it is studied to gauge the effects of large noise hubs such as airports: 

It's a common movie scene. Someone falls in a large body of water and drowns, losing consciousness. Our hero rescues the victim, gives 10 seconds of CPR, emits various imprecations to the tone of "Wake up, g**damnit!" and our victim coughs up some water and wakes up. 

I've just come across the following PubMed article (referenced here and here) which claims that taking paternity leave causes one to live longer: 

While people may have different acquired "tastes" in knowledge and put different amounts of enthusiasm and effort when studying different subjects, and thus get better or worse knowledge and grades, is it scientifically proven that people are "born" with specific mathematical or language (or any other subject-specific) talents? Note, please do exclude extreme examples from any answers, e.g. idiot-savants, etc. The claim is commonly made about the general population. 

news, case study On the other hand, this expert opinion on Scientific American, claims that sleep deprivation isn't known to kill people at all. 

TL;DR: People make better decisions about some kinds of things — but worse decisions about other kinds of things‚ when they have a strong urge to urinate. There are two pieces of research, one confirming, and the other denying benefits to cognition in relation to bladder control. The effect is known as the (I kid you not!) spillover effect. The theory is that the impulse control exertion to avoid peeing can "spill over" to other domains and make people less prone to emotional decisions. One landmark paper is "Inhibitory Spillover: Increased Urination Urgency Facilitates Impulse Control in Unrelated Domains" which apparently found benefits: 

1: Buscemi N., Vandermeer B., Pandya R., et al. Melatonin for Treatment of Sleep Disorders. Summary, Evidence Report/Technology Assessment: Number 108. AHRQ Publication Number 05-E002-1, November 2004. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD. $URL$ 

This is a relatively scholarly book, however this passage does not have specific references, and a cursory look to the bibliography did not reveal any specific source supporting it. In my personal opinion, this claim is possible, yet unlikely. Assassination through radiation is certainly known to have happened, but it's usually much easier to achieve through poisoning. In fact, Securitate is claimed to have used such methods prior to 1977 in this memoir: 

Dark matter is hypothetical -- no one knows if it actually exists or what it is. What has been seen are various gravitational effects on matter, such as stars, or energy, such as cosmic microwave background. It is not claimed that it is undetectable, but directly undetected. This is so because little is known beyond its gravitational interaction, but the most common currently claimed origin of dark matter are WIMPs which do interact with other forces. An undetectable matter would not affect the universe and would certainly not be adopted by physics -- it is not falsifiable. Also, it would explain nothing. 

It seems extraordinary to me that males have basically only same-hemisphere connections and females only across? Is this image "lying", not showing both types of connections for both genders? The article claims scientific accuracy and to report a scientific paper: does this image represent its conclusions in a fair manner? It's fairly important to correct any mistakes because this is being repeated by many anti-gay groups (e.g. this or this) 

I cannot confirm the image is original, but I have no reason to doubt it either. This is also confirmed by an article in the Denver Post of 15 April 1912: 

They say so clearly in your quote. Why would they lie? There are many bands who play Satanic rock with Satanic lyrics, all in the open. There is no reason for Led Zeppelin to lie! Pareidolia need to be accounted for. A serious study of back masking and pareidolia was performed in the early 80's and thoroughly debunked it[1]. Even the proposed lyrics don't really mean much: "whose power is Satan"? "He will give those with him 666"? I would expect a Satanic message to at least mean something and to be grammatically correct... When Led Zeppelin wanted to speak about a controversial subject, they did so by using metaphor and double meaning, not by using back masking. 

Jenny Craig's program does not provide you with a special diet, a-la Atkins. It's a simple calorie restriction diet, joined with a support group, physical exercise, etc.. All of these tools are very effective when used appropriately. Reference: What are the goals of the Jenny Craig Program? 

Now, the JREF claims that this particular myth is absolutely debunked. I completely agree that the shroud has not, and will never, be proven to be a genuine holy item - how could one prove that it was used on Jesus of Nazareth at all? On the other hand, the way the myth is debunked is, in my view, flaky, weak and unconvincing. Here in short are the claims, after each my doubts: 

Barking mad? Another lunatic hypothesis bites the dust BMJ 2000; 321 doi: $URL$ (Published 23 December 2000) 

So, using the power of Google I was lead to a French blog post that pointed me to UgliestTattoos.com: 

Addendum ChrisW found something very similar in Regimen, XXIV. So he clearly said something alike, good job! I'm leaving this answer as it explains the overall internet history of the quote. As a side note, Hippocrates was talking about aging, probably not what the current use of the quote is meant to exemplify. 

There are a lot of claims in there and most are unverifiable, observing straight away that no actual connection between the two parts is supported by evidence, but there are 3 key points that I would like to know about. 

—source I am quite skeptical that this is possible because non-ionising radiation is not supposed to cause significant harm. On the other hand, the lawsuit is based on a state sponsored research. Has this phenomenon been studied by a reliable third-party? 

would probably be removed in case of publication as their results certainly do not warrant that - in fact, their results have nothing to do with "other applications" for example. Secondly, I'd like to point out that the authors of the papers are indeed Medical Doctors (see "Facial beauty" and "Doctor Ben"), but not one that ever published any other scientific research (source: Google Scholar searches of "Paul Ver Hoeve", "Ver Hoeve Paul", "Ver Hoeve dermatology", "Ben Johnson dermatology") In particular, while I support everyone that wants to genuinely help people with cancer, I would certainly not trust and stay away from anything that someone like Mr. Johnson endorses, since on his site he offers embarrassing and frankly hard to believe "complementary cures" for cancer such as "coffee enemas". 

The Ozone Hole web site provides reporting on the ozone layer hole, and as you can see, it's still there in 2011. 

This is completely irrelevant - either the cloth is from that place and time or it isn't. It could have been an unusual choice. 

It's likely a scam: Apple's products have fixed prices and, for example, a MD711CH costs around 1000US$ in China: 

Red Horizons: The True Story of Nicolae and Elena Ceausescus' Crimes, Lifestyle, and Corruption by Ion Mihai Pacepa Furthermore, the claim seems to be limited to Reddit, Wikipedia and the book itself. I expected confirmations to be easier to find, this makes me think this could have been a little bit of propaganda sneaked in the Crampton book. 

According to Slate the calculation performed by the EIA gives a slightly different number: 19.564 pounds/gallon Darthmouth university gives us a nice table as referenced from the EIA: 

Watching TV causes eye strain, eye strain damages the eyes The TV set emits "cathode rays" which damage the eye directly 

The above claim is false. The effect of higher education on GDP has been measured in this study comparing Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, UK, and US. 

That is quite incorrect. The Catholic practice is tied to the concept of Penance (i.e. give up something, make a sacrifice). In particular, on Fridays and during lent, Catholics are expected to give up meat. Since fish is not considered meat, then Catholics eat that on Fridays. 

Well, the original study is behind a paywall, however from the abstract we can easily deduce that the incidence of toxins is only 33% and in those cases, it's within the EU safety limits. In other words, there's nothing to worry about: you need a certain minimum concentration of mycotoxins before you can experience any effect.