I was a little surprised to receive a confusing e-mail from someone relatively high up in our organization who I hadn't had any contact with before. The e-mail was part of a long chain of forwards and replies detailing various surveying information for the plat of land my company owns, along with plans for current and future improvements on that land. The e-mails were all clearly marked as confidential. It didn't make any sense to me at first, until looking down the email thread I realized that the e-mail was actually intended for someone with my exact name at an outside company. Normally, I'd just ignore said e-mail and probably respond to the sender letting them know they sent it to the wrong address. However, while perusing the documents that were sent to me (in the course of figuring out what they were) I noticed a member of my company make a statement that the city's information for the purpose of tax assessment was incorrect (I think they had not updated the improved land acreage or something similar), and detailing ways to continue to make sure that the city doesn't find out in the hopes of saving the company $80k a year (the estimated tax difference). This doesn't seem like illegal behavior, but it does seem a little unethical, and I'm not sure what I should do. Presumably I would just pretend I never saw anything and privately e-mail the original sender. Unfortunately the conversation has quickly continued on, and I'm now "on the list" so to speak, and receiving further updates about this situation, from both internal and external people, including a few who I think are legal counsel. I also feel a little odd essentially drawing attention to myself, when I know this is information I'm not supposed to have. How should I handle this? NOTE: I realize there are a few other mistaken e-mail questions on the site, but I believe this to be different given the nature of the information I was sent. 

If they only care about you showing up, forget it. Show up at the usual time and patiently wait while the crappy laptop wastes 15 minutes of company time. Maybe bring a book to read while you do it or make some coffee in the meanwhile. If management is very strict, work on something else (check your emails on your phone, look at your calendar/agenda) so they can't badger you over it. The company has their own accountants and productivity experts, if they care they will see the inefficiency reflected in their data and independently solve the problem. Maybe they will even ask you if you have suggestions to improve productivity. Let's say you work 40 hours a week and get $30/hour. Let's also pretend that you spend 20 minutes every day, waiting for the reboots and shut downs, so that you could be spending 15 minutes less if you had a modern computer. That means 3% of your 8 hour day is wasted: The company is paying you $240 for the day and getting 97 units of work, whereas they could be getting 100 units instead if they gave you better equipment. Effectively, they're wasting $7. Is that your problem? Hell no. Your job is to show up at the time the contract says, take the tools the contract says they'll give you, do the work the contract says you will and happily take their money. Budget consulting is extra. You could indeed show up early, and make sure they get 100 units of work like you think they expect. However, if you do that, you will also be working 8.25 hours a day, not 8. This means that you are now spending 41.25 hours at work and getting $29 for each of them (maybe there's another company that would have hired you for $29.5?). Technically, it's not breach of contract since no one asked you to do it, but doing it essentially amounts to giving your company a donation in the form of unpaid volunteer labor. Presumably, your contract does not say anything about mandatory unpaid volunteer work (I don't even think it would be legal) so that you are under no obligation to do it. If you know the manager or owner personally, then yes, it's nice to do it, but so would handing him a $100 bill. On the other hand, if you do get paid for work and not time, it's different: Do whatever it takes to complete your part of the project before the deadline (although this isn't matter of ethics, but practicality: You'll get fired if you don't). If you feel you are forced to spend too much time because of this slow booting, then take it up with management. Even if they are not cooperative, consider just buying your own laptop, and then mentally discounting your salary accordingly when you get competing offers from rival companies. Lastly, a tangent: This company is doing software development, they hire you at a rate high enough that even a few minutes of your time can pay for a laptop, and they hand you a potato that takes 15 minutes (!!!) to boot? Sounds like management needs to get a clue. 

There's no regulation, especially if you're salaried. However it sounds like now is the perfect time to go speak to the Board of Directors or whoever is in charge of determining your compensation, and demand a raise. This might be a tougher sell than you might think, particularly if they have plans to immediately hire more workers (and depending on how replaceable you are). If you threaten to quit over the current situation, be prepared to follow through though. 

You have two approaches (three if you decide to accept without countering): 1) You can play hard to get. Provide some variation of the following: "Hey this job offer is great and all, but I really need to consider it. If you can move the numbers up on X (base, signing bonus, stock, whatever lever you want to pull) this decision would become a lot easier for me." I've found this is incredibly effective and is pretty simple. There's no need to even pretend you'll walk away if you'd still happily accept the job at the initial offer. If they can't move at all on compensation, then let them tell you that, and you can take it or leave it. 2) You can explain that the job they are offering is not the one you thought you were applying for, and that you would expect compensation for the actual job to be a little higher than what they're offering. I would not recommend getting too specific because you can give the wrong impression (i.e. that you think the hours are too long, or the work might be too hard). Personally I think this tactic is a little more difficult and harder to pull off successfully. It's also the only one liable to backfire. In my opinion, your best bet is to start with #1, and if they don't seem willing to budge, move on to #2 with the understanding that it's more of a desperation move. My advice is almost always to counter (unless you provide a number and they've already beat it), so go for it. Typically there's very little to lose by doing so, and it will pay off tremendously in the long run. Try and project confidence and be ready to demonstrate that you're worth what you're asking for. 

How can I avoid this in the future? Don't work with anyone unless you are reasonably ensured that their coding standard match yours. Which means refuse any job if none of the following apply: 

How can I avoid this in the present? This has been covered by other answers. If you are just that better, get to their level and slowly teach them to be better programmers. The first time I had to manage an intern I almost wiped out the entire code he produced. I was literally furious when I saw what has been committed (fortunately I had no witness :P ). You need to encourage peer programming, code reviews. Sit with another programmer and try to code together for 2 or 3 hours. Drop concepts which may be too hard to explain (new advanced Java 8 features for instance), and explain those which are easier (inheritance). 

I think it would be dishonest to not mention it before signing the offer letter. I certainly wouldn't mention it before an offer was given though. After they offer, just explain the situation, that you can't get out of the trip, and see what they say. It would be considered a normal part of pre-signing negotiations in my opinion. I was in this situation before and was forced to make up the time beforehand on weekends. Other options are obviously unpaid vacation, delaying your start date, or an advance on your vacation with the understanding that they'd withhold pay if you suddenly quit for whatever reason. 

My advice is to be up front about it. If the vacation is truly more important to you than the internship, then notify them immediately that there's a scheduling conflict. Tell them how much you want the internship, but that you have a scheduled conflict you can't get around. Be prepared to not get selected for the internship though. 

Not all companies pay you for how much work you do. For instance, a security guard is not paid per thief he catches, he is paid to be there 8 hours every night so that management can rest easy in the knowledge that there is at least 1 guard present on the premises from 10 pm to 6 am every night. Or a receptionist at the front desk: They are not paid by the number of visitors they help, they are paid by the hour because it is crucial that there always be a receptionist manning the front desk at all times, no matter what, even if nobody shows up. Software development is often a "paid for work" field where the key thing you provide to the company in exchange for your pay is not availability, but completed work. However, this is not always the case. You can tell by the attitude of the company: 

Now a negotiation begins. You shouldn't be too rigit and prepare in your mind (something you will not communicate to your boss) the lowest bid you will accept. But on the same time you shouldn't let him dismiss your request with a wave of a hand. Stay composed and firm. Anyway, you need to be prepared for the worst case. What if he says no? Do you go back to work as nothing happen? I would recommend against, because he just bought himself another year of your services. He is also gaining the upper hand in the discussion as you keep taking no for an answer. If you are not confident about finding a job anywhere else, don't ask for the pay rise. If you are qualified, you should be able to find a job somewhere. Ask boldly. 

The person you can trust the most is (should be) yourself. Any information you get ahead of an interview is just evidence in the investigation for the perfect company. Most of the time you cannot know what's ahead without going to interviews and feeling what's up. I would usually use what I found online to rank potential companies, know where to dig more, not make a final decision on their fitness. You need to ask yourself how do you measure what's valuable to you. What do you think is good "equal opportunity"? I joined a company composed only of white people, not being white. Did I ever felt like the color of my skin matter when I worked there? No. What mattered to me was that they took me seriously during the interview. No reason to ask why there wasn't more diversity of skin or gender. The number one metric is just to ask to somebody who had experience with the company and who know you. Nothing can beat personal experience. Otherwise I tend to use Glassdoor to have a vague idea about management practices in big companies. In general reviews are written either by new employees (within months) or employees on their way out. Because of that the review may seems merrier or gloomier than the real thing, but this is just a model. I look for :