The Roman numeral system was "designed" for calculating using an abacus. One wrote out the number by the values of each channel (we picture an abacus as a wood frame with wires holding columns of beads for counters but the Romans would usually have used a table, a "TV-tray" if you will, covered with ample sand, running a finger down for the lines, and placing small stones in the channels for the counters). The use of "fives" (i.e.: one counter for half a column's value) cut down on moving counters. Nothing to do with the Etruscans as we are always told. Each "five" (half column value) symbol was literally the column's symbol cut in half. "V" = top half of "X" and so on, though long before the realization their symbols for numbers mostly matched various letter symbols (mid-100's BC). One did not only write out the results going column by column, one read them in to establish the first value, then to work in the other values in the calculation. So chunk by chunk, if you will. "MVM" would never have been done because the "V" literally had nothing to do with the "M" and "C" columns. One had individual hundreds of half the column (500) to subtract from the "M" but the "V" column (the tens) only affected the "C" (hundreds column), not a second or fifth or whatever column further left. Hence 1995 moves one "M" counter ("M" of "MCMXCV"), then the half and 4 "C" counters (physically: move the half counter, then all the single hundred counters (the "M" in "CM"), then move one back up ("subtract" it - the "C" before the "M" in "CM"), then the same process with the "XC" (tens column) as just done for the hundreds channel, and finally, move the half in the ones column. (Note that just a bit of that is notional. They used 4 counters in the bottom of the abacus, not 5, so one pretended to be moving 5 down, then one back up. This is why I was a little cagey expressing it above.) Again, the "V" would NEVER come before the "M" except when one wished to be... less traditional... whimsical... that kind of thing. It would aggravate most users. Picture some modern Japanese abacus expert challenging Western calculator users having his skilled, efficient, magic fingers jammed up by reading the Japanese equivalent of "MVM" - he'd be crying foul pretty quickly. Although... the Romans were just as we are. They even dropped numbers into words to shorten the writing of them, much like a 12yo texting friends. Roman numbers maintained for so long because the underlying technology for calculation had to have an alternative and the uses to which they were put had to form a need. It is no surprise that Hindu numbering did not come into heavy enough usage to replace Roman number use until bookkeeping moved into the ledger phase in which columnar presentation which required simpler representation of values to work well. Picture what a ledger, or spreadsheet for that matter, would look like if each column were broken into "digit" columns (those green ledger books everyone has seen) in which an entry might read "C" or "DCCC" vs. the Hindu single digit "1" or "8": far more compact and "regular" and hence far easier to grasp at a glance. Handling the Hindu numbers had been figured out 700-1,500 years earlier depending on which "evidence" one accepts. But it required a surface like an elephant leaf to write upon, or paper. Paper it turns out was amenable to industrial scaling and so became cheap enough to use for mundane things. The last portions somewhat exceed the bounds of the question in content, but I included them to emphasize the importance of utility in most things man does. Roman numerals were the product of the sole good method of calculation that existed for a very long time. And cheap: one just removed his counters, smoothed the sand, drew his columns, and everything was fresh. Cheap, once one learned the system. Try that with paper and even pencil! 

Pierce copied the name out wrong. The author was James C. Ward, author of a series of "Extracts from my Diary" published in The Argonaut during 1878. 

It seems that in England the royal grooming staff were Gentlemen of the Bedchamber, Women of the Bedchamber, and Ladies of the Bedchamber. Lower-ranking noblewomen would have enjoyed the service of a Lady's maid. 

It is my understanding that in Alta California, priests and natives in Missions earned no cash salary, but Spanish army officials would have. From the governor down to a junior soldier, what did they earn? The answer will be somewhat loose: I read that they went unpaid during the entire decade of the Mexican War of Independence. 

Richard J. Krickus confirms that Sniečkus rejected the offer of the enclave in his major 2002 book, The Kaliningrad Question. Sniečkus sought to avoid the "thorny problems" of Latvia and Estonia with Russian speakers. The specific claim that Sniečkus refused Krushchev's offer of Kaliningrad is detailed by footnote 8 in chapter 2 if you mean to find a primary source. 

I found independent confirmation of this tradition in the 1848 diary of James C. Ward, which was serialized in The Argonaut in 1878. He described "the riding-dress usually worn here" as including "leather bottas bound around the calves, with knife tucked into the top of the right one". Zavalishin and Ward were from different countries and wrote in different eras. It does seem to have been common to carry a small blade in the cuff on the calf. 

The prominent attorney Lynne Stewart had her records raided in 2002 over her work with Omar Abdel-Rahman, the "Blind Sheik" linked to the 1993 World Trade Center bombing and the 1997 Luxor massacre. Her contact with her client was subject to special administrative measures that she may not have honored. Prosecutors believed she was relaying messages between her client and his followers. She was convicted on several charges and sentenced to prison. The case generated some controversy: the National Lawyers Guild was displeased enough to issue a scathing report on her treatment. "Democracy Now!" called her a "political prisoner". 

In what I can only hope is a coincidence, Lydia Black described a Black Legend about Russian Alaska, which was both started and countered in the United States. The introduction to her "Russians in Alaska" includes this story: 

As Imperial Russia settled Kamchatka, how did the new arrivals build their houses? Was construction identical to that of Siberia or were local adaptations made? 

The first evidence we have for the usage of actual coinage as currency is the "Lydian Lion", a stamped coin of electrum from, as the name would imply, the region of Lydia in Anatolia. Herodotus indicates these started showing up in the early 7th Century BCE. See here for more info on the history of the first Lydian coinage: $URL$ I'm sure that prior to the Lydians actually stamping coins to validate their weight and purity, and thus their intrinsic value people had probably been using precious metals in bullion form to pay for things, but this wouldn't quite be the same as having a handy, pre-validated chunk of electrum that had a known value without having to weigh it and such. I'm unsure of the details, but the Greek city states started minting their own coinage not too long afterwards. One of the most prolific being Athens' "Owl" which served as a standard international currency in the eastern mediterranean for centuries. As far as I'm aware, all of these were useful as a medium of exchange because of the intrinsic value of the metal they were made from. Sometime during Rome's early or middle republican era (first Samnite war perhaps?) is one of the earliest, if not the earliest time we see a state issuing a currency that has value because they say it's worth X amount, rather than being strictly based on the weight and purity of the metal. TL;DR: I could be off on that last bit, I'm at work now and don't have the time to go digging up the references, but I recall an incident during one of the Roman Republic's many wars that led to citizens hoarding their coinage, which led to a severe shortage of the source of the valuable metals they were made from that Rome needed to pay for its war. So they came up with a clever plan of debasing their currency and declaring that a Sestercii were worth not 10, but 16 asses, and they had this great deal for anyone who wanted to come and trade in all their old coins, 16 for the price of 10! They soon had the funds they needed :). 

To further detail Lev's example -- there is some evidence of cultural exchange between the Maadi culture of the Nile delta region in Lower Egypt somewhere during the middle of the Naqada period of predynastic Egyptian history, in the neighborhood of 3900-3500 BCE. Some of the evidence for this in the archaeological record is a type of blade (referred to as the "Canaanite Blade") that shows some Palestinian influences, as well as an apparently simultaneous shift to the usage of certain copper tools rather than their stone counterparts in both this Maadi region as well as in Palestine. Source: The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt 2003 Edition, pp54-55 

This question has already been answered, but no-one has brought up the issue of compactness. The US, Canada, and Brazil have vastly more compact shapes and therefore many landlocked subregions and multiple internal routes of travel. By comparison, Spanish America is incredibly elongated. Almost all subregions are on the coast in the line described by the Panamerican Highway. At the time of Latin American independence, only a few land routes connected the colonies. Long-distance travel was subject to native raids, and the Spanish's cherished horses couldn't cross areas without pasturage, making the Sonoran and Atacama deserts practically impassable. In California, the first contact with Lima merchants and Rioplatense raiders happened only in the last decade before independence. Veracruz and Havana were well-linked by packet-boat throughout the colonial period -- but only in that direction, because the return route was to Spain and back. 

After Iturbide became President of an independent Mexico, the Canónigo Don Agustín Fernández de San Vicente was sent to Alta California to support the transition from Spanish rule and to relieve the last Spanish governor, Pablo Vicente de Solá. He met with officials throughout the state, including those at Fort Ross. At the end of 1822, Canónigo Fernández and ex-governor Solá traveled to Mexico City via San Diego, Tepic, and Guadalajara. Several others from California seem to have accompanied them; who were these other members of the party? 

Chess and its predecessors are board-based battle games in which players assume the role of various military figures (the specific roles involved depend on which set of pieces are in use). Today's game was standardized in Europe towards the end of the medieval period. It does not require nor prohibit "acting" and "theatrics". 

I think your first result is correct. The structural impediments to Mexican-Americans founding a bank were significant. There were no banks in the region during the Mexican period. After the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo and through the turn of the century, many Mexicans lost their land to Anglo settlers. In the 19th century Mexican-Americans did not have access to well-paying work. With the community largely in subsistence or wage labor, it would have been hard for them to capitalize a bank. There were lots of Southwestern banks with Spanish language names before 1969, but they were not owned by Latinos. According to Centinel's own story, which jives with the Association text you posted, Mr. Romero had to appeal all the way to Washington, DC to get his new bank chartered: