First learn safety. Knots, harness, belay, and rescue are common. For snow travel learn self arrest with an ice ax. As far as avalanche safety only climb on glaciers / big snow fields with someone trained and experienced. Take a class or get hooked up with some experienced climbers. Then learn the skills for the route. Plan the route according to your skills. To the top snow is typically best route. If you like rock then climb rock. You can typically avoid rock climbing. Do it because you want to. If your objective is to climb ice then start with rock and snow. Ice climbing is high risk. 

Not yet mentioned is lots of large particles in the water. You will fowl the filter faster with large the particles. Most filters backwash to restore most of the flow but still better to get rid of the big stuff first. If you boil you still don't want to drink water that looks like that. And it does not taste good. Just put the water in a vessel and let the large particles drop to the bottom. A good share will drop in 2 hours and after 8 you are not going to get much more drop out. For cooking water you can use it direct as you are going to boil it anyway. Bring a small siphon tube and place the container high enough the water bottle is below it. 

Yes it means no bait as in absence of bait. Single as apposed to double, triple, ... hooks Fish will strike at lures / spinners. Especially if they don't have much experience with fisherman. What is not clear is if artificial bait is OK (a rubber worm). 

One problem is a dogs do not like changes in diet. Search on calorie dense or weight gain dog food. I don't want to name brands. Work that into their diet before you leave. Get packs for your dogs. But a nice dog pack is not cheap. Fatten them up a bit before the trip. When I was a kid we would fish and feed them a lot of fish. I get that is a change of diet but it is clean protein. Warning even in a tent a dog fish fart is deadly. 

A 100 gram canister of Jetpower fuel boils up to 10-12 liters of water according to the web site Make it 10 grams / liter Let'd say it is twice as efficient how many liters are the break even And it is probably not twice as efficient What is the break even point? 415 + L * 10 = 240 + L * 20 415 - 240 = L * 10 17.6 L = 74 cups = 37 days 

Toothpaste can weigh more than the brush There are tooth paste tablets And tooth powder of just baking soda A brush that folds into itself 

Don't try and cram it all day long. Allocate more time for dinner. Start a big dinner as soon has you make camp. Eat the bulk at dinner when your body can relax and digest fully. Start your day with a small meal. Unless you have a lot of nuts or meaty sauce then you may be low on protein. A cheese stick is also a source of protein without a lot of weight. 7,700 cals to lose 1 kg so you were in a deficit of 15,400. So over a 5 day trip about 3000 / day. That is believable. 

But 3.5 liter is not enough and still 1/4 of the weight. Get a good filter, water treatment, or boil water. Even with a filter have some treatment. Boil is time consuming and with a bigger pot it adds weight. More fuel but it does not require much more fuel. Note the food you cook does not need separate treatment just bring it to a boil in preparation. The stuff in water you see is the stuff that hurts you. The mico bugs was what can hurt you. Muddy water does not taste very good but it is drinkable and the filter will remove most. If it is really bad get a water bag and let it sit over night and a lot will settle. Filter from the top in the AM. But a good filter is $100. Treatment is going to be the lightest and fastest. And you can add powder electrolyte for some flavor. After water. Take the heavy items and consider if spending more on a lighter version is worth it. 

Not to recommend a brand but I like heavy flat soles with straps They pack flat If you have to swim they are little flippers 

Me I would just buy some regular port covers cut a hole and epoxy a screen over the top (or bottom). 

Breaking the wrist will not have angle and is more of a chop than a cut. But for heavy brush you may need to chop. 

Mattress in a conversion van width wise seems to be a close call. Typically you only get a measure between the wheel wells. After that the shape of the van makes it not so clear. For width wise what is the tallest person height to sleep comfortably? Normal van like a Ford Transit or Chevy Express.... 

Seems like standing on conventional skis is out if cannot stand. There actually is a disabled skiing category. There is specialty equipment and I bet as least one ski camp that caters to the category. Mainstream related to water skiing is knee boarding. You don't have to stand and also the pull is not nearly has hard. It is harder to get up than you would guess. There is hydro ski. It takes a lot of technique but you don't stand and less pull than water ski. Tubing but it takes no technique at low speed. Most of the ski camps are in the south and Texas east. You get 9-12 months a year and relatively cheap water. I would definitely recommend a camp you get top instructors, top equipment, and a private lake. Also search on ski school. Schools are easier to book after Aug 15 as that is Nationals. 

If s = 1.0 then you would hit the ground on any fall. If you fell at the anchor point the rope would not exhibit max stretch but if it did you would touch ground. The rope would double in length and you would touch the ground. If s = 0 then y/x = 1 which makes sense. In terms of fall factor Getting into a fall factor over 1 is reckless climbing 

Yes wet sand is easier. Start in a low gear and see what works. You want weight back - arms straight and head back. Bigger tires are better. Riding in soft sand is hard. As in difficult and tiring. Note that sand and saltwater is hard on a bike. 

I don't think heat versus temperature is addressed in any answers. Assuming all skin is the same temperature then cover all skin with equal insulation is optimal. Starting warm all skin is about the same temperature. Cover nose mouth and eyes is problematic. What happens is a smaller mass will lose temperature faster. There is just not as much thermal capacity (reserve) behind the skin. If you go outside naked on a cold day your fingers, toes, ears, and nose will get cold first. The body could send more blood to those parts to basically share the cold but it does not (and for good reason). The body actually restricts blood flow to the extremities to preserver heat (temperature) for the vital organs. This also reduces heat loss as a cold hand, arm, foot, and leg loses heat at a lower rate. Those parts also recover better from cold with the exception of frostbite. The body considers the brain a vital organ. So from the perspective of what the body does when it is cold then torso and head are most important but most people don't want to rob from extremities and make cold feet and hands even colder. 

Did you backwash? Even if so several days. I keep a jug by my bed that often goes more than a week. If bottle was clear and hanging on your pack the the sun would kill bacteria. wiki solar waster disinfection 

1-2 rolls of athletic tape. Tape a sprained ankle or knee. Tape large bandages. Like 1/2 single bed sheet that can be used for a sling or other types of bandaging. Razor - shave head if they gash a head. Scalp can easily become infected. Enough parachute or like cord to fabricate a stretcher. You can also make a stretcher from climbing rope. 

I get the stated question is generate power But if you are just looking for power a battery is very weight effective. One AA battery is only 0.8 ounce. A pair (1.6 oz) on low power will last about 4 hours. The SolePower is a cool product and good answer but all set up it is about 24 oz without batteries. Add in 2 sets of batteries 27 oz. You would need to hike 4 hours into the night for 16 nights for the charger to be weight effective. Even an endurance trekker cannot hike 4 hours into the night for 6 nights let alone 16 nights. On top of that it is your energy charging the battery. 

Yes stretch is good. Relax and stop thinking about your arms. When you have a foot holds just breath and relax. Watch, a good climber will chalk and look around. If there are three arm moves they will plan them, do them, and rest. You need to let the the arms relax and get some blood flow. If you watch like black belt jujitsu they will go like 20 minutes and not even tired. 

Glacier Peak. If the is Mt Baker then Glacier peak should be in the foreground to the left and look bigger as it is only 240' shorter. Unless you we quite a bit north of Banks lake. 

I think you could tie in with as simple bowline. The main is the loop and then feed through with the tie in. I would test it out before climbing with it. But it is designed to take stress on all three leads. 

If you go with the car. Push it to better shelter if that is an option. I would use the pads on the windows (inside or out or both) if you can hold them in place. Then cover the roof and windows with the tent. Again it depends. If you have proper sleeping bags you are going to do OK. A nice tent like a climbing tent then I think I would go with the tent in most situations. 

Technology has a improved and so have materials. Yes heroes like Chouinard and Long climbed with dozens of cordelette-slinged hexes on their racks were at risk. With modern equipment they would be climbing with less risk, lighter racks, and more versatile equipment. 

Bases on the MSDS for KingFord lighter fluid it has a similar characteristics to kerosene. Maybe try it outdoors. Kerosene is not very expensive. I would probably not chance it. 

Freeze a 24 oz can. It will bulge out. Put it in a freezer bag. Pack it in the middle of your sleeping bag. Wrap your sleeping bag with your insulated pad. Throw all of that in the freezer for 2-4 hours. 

Get canoe. Even a two person kayak when you are paddling from just one it is not balanced. Get a river or boat tube the correct size. Get a lab they can float all day. Unless the water is cold I think most dogs would prefer a good PFD. 

I am going to suggest your question is conflicted. If you are not willing to sacrifice comfort and even take responsible risk then you are not ultralight. If you are not willing to sacrifice comfort you are light and comfortable. To me ultralight is sacrifice comfort. And you don't necessarily have to sacrifice safely. Willing to sleep cold if the temp drops is comfort if there is no chance of freezing to death. In some ways ultralight is more safe as if you have to get of dodge for like a major storm then you can do it more quickly / cover more ground. If you had to extricate and immobile party ultralight is safer. If you are not willing to sacrifice safety or comfort then you are limited to is there an item with same (or better) features and reliability that you can purchase. You rapidly get into diminishing marginal utility. Take each item and search the Internet. Your current weight is pretty good so I don't thing you are going to significantly reduce the weight even if money is not a limit. If you have a good water proof tent you are probably not going freeze to death or get frost bit. If you get some unexpected cold weather then you sleep cold with a bag that was designed for the expected weather. For sure you can go without a camera. No light is safety problem. You may need to travel at night. Get away from a storm or get behind schedule getting to next camp site. No stove is not necessarily lighter. If the body has to break down cold foods you will need more food and you will need to spend more time eating. If you get in a storm hot food is a safety thing. The best way to reduce weight is a group. Share stove, pot, first aid kit .... Eat out of the pot and skip plates. Three man tent is better weight / person. The best way to reduce risk is group. Solo hiking a sprained ankle can be life threatening. Plan escape routes from each camp reduces risk with no weight. With three one can stay and tend to the down party while the other goes for help. At that point your risk to permanent harm or death is very low. There are questions on food and weight loss already to not going to duplicate there. I don't totally agree with maximize calorie / weight as the only or even primary factor. A body needs a % of carbohydrates and other nutrients. It should be a healthy diet the leverages calorie to calorie / weight. 

Search on "dry bag". Look for one with a tether and tow it. Ortlieb Also there are some waterproof packs. I don't know anything about this brand - it is just an example. 

You have some answers on condensation in general. Your breath adds moisture to the air. As the air cools the amount of water vapor it can hold drops. When you get to the dew point the moisture drops out of the air. The moisture will also collect on surfaces with a temperature under the dew point. 

Can you keep a cooler in your vehicle? If so then you are set. If you have access to groceries you are not limited to camping (prepared backpacking packs) food. Most fresh fruits and vegetables last 3 days unless it is just plain hot out. Dried beans, pasta, and the like last a month. Canned goods last months. Fresh meat will keep until dinner if you buy on the way home. If you are just packing in food for a day you don't need to be light. Without a fire or a stove then you cannot cook camping or regular food. In the case of uncooked low salt you have fresh fruits and vegetables. Lot of canned food is low salt and can be consumed without heating. Batch cooked foods are not going to last long if not refrigerated. 

Trash is pretty clear. Biological human waste is pretty clear. Grey water is grey. Boiled some potatoes. Clean dishes with biodegradable soap or shower with with biodegradable soap. Discharge into the water just like you would discharge into the ground on land. Gut fish I would discharge to the water. Where in port I would not typically discharge fish guts. 

On pure math ws = water speed wd = width ss = swimmer speed us = how far upstream us = wd * ws / ss In reality the moving water will inhibit swimming speed compared to still water. Double that length might not be good enough. If the water speed is slower than your swimming speed could angle upstream and swim straight across. But you rarely find slow water upstream from a water fall. An average human can swim about 250 feet per minute. Throw a stick in the middle and measure how far it goes in a minute.