There was, in fact, no strait at all: Beringia was a massive land bridge, exposed by low sea levels due to the Earth's glaciation. In other words, the early human inhabitants of North America simply walked over, a few steps at a time. 

The document ended by explicitly portraying the Germany as answering a challenge to fight. A challenge which, according to the German government, Imperial Russia had issued by mobilising. 

The Fortress of Antonia in particular stood on the northeastern corner of the Temple Mount and indeed played a part during the Roman siege of Jerusalem in A.D. 70. After entering the city by breaching the Third Wall, Titus then stormed Antonia, and from thence proceeded to capture the Temple and the rest of the city. 

Britain was by far the leading shipbuilder during this period. By the late 19th century, the two great centres of British shipbuilding, and by extension of the world, were the Clyde and the North East Coast. The North East ports had a higher combined total, but shipbuilding on the Clyde was far more concentrated. To illustrate, in 1883 Clyde launched 417,881 tons, compared to 577,746 from the North East Coast. The latter figure was however combined from several locations, principally 216,573 and 212,313 tons from the Tyne and the Wear, respectively. Several other, more minor, locations were also counted in the North East total, including 81,795 tons from the Tees. Both regions rose to prominence during the Second Industrial Revolution by leveraging their comparative advantage of proximity to iron and coal mines for building steamers. Hence, about 3/4 of the ships built at Clyde in 1883 were steamers. Thereafter production grew at a breakneck pace in subsequent decades, reaching 770,000 tons from the Clyde and 660,000 from the Tyne and Wear by 1914. By this point over 90% of British shipbuilding were steamers. Out at the Clyde and the North East Coast were so high that Britain thoroughly dominated shipbuilding throughout the period. German production was ramping out rapidly near the end of the long 19th century, centred in the ports of Hamburg, Bremen and Stettin, but they were still dwarfed by Britain's. I don't have total production figures available, but for merchant shipping, British shipyards was producing 2,000,000 tons per year by 1914. In contrast, and for reference, German production reached 400,000 tons in 1914. French merchant vessel production only amounted to some 140,000 tons, and the United States, 135,000 tons. Obviously, none of them could hold a candle to either Clyde nor the Tyne and Wear. Sources: 

Quite a bit, actually. Graeco-Roman mythology was a significant part of the education curriculum. Much of the educated elite would have been broadly familiar with ancient Greek mythologies through its Latin form, albeit overlaid with a Christian point of view. In High Medieval England, an anthology of six works known collectively as the Liber Catonianus (aka Sex Auctores) became a standard textbook of sorts. Widely used in English schools, they notably included: 

The Taira, a cadet branch of the imperial family who gained power by usurping royal authority to bestow high offices and governorships on their own kin. The Minamoto, another branch of the imperial family who established the first shogunate after overthrowing the Taira. The Hōjō, stewards of the Minamoto Shogunate. Took over real power when the Direct Minamoto line suddenly died off. The Ashikaga, a branch of the Minamoto clan. Founded the second shogunate when Ashikaga Takauji championed the anti-Hōjō cause after the latter's dictatorial rule provoked a revolt. The Toyotomi, who inherited the conquests of Oda Nobunaga. They took over the Fujiwara's court positions and ruled Japan in the name of the traditional civil government. The Tokugawa, founders of the third shogunate after usurping power from the Toyotomi. They claimed descent from Minamoto and Fujiwara origins, but that seems to be a forgery. 

A major reason would be logistics. It's not all about population sizes. The strength of an army is constrained not just by its manpower sources, but also by the logistical infrastructure available to pay for, feed, and equip it. The Romans in particular were much better at this than the feudal states of Medieval Europe, which tended to be quite factious and decentralised. Consequently, for centuries after the Roman military system disintegrated, the capacity to field and support forces on a Classical magnitude became mostly absent in (Western) Europe. 

2. Rupert's Land Another major motivation was trade, especially the fur trade. From the earliest years English merchants had invested in the possibility of profitable colonial trade, though success was limited. The turning point was the exploration and discovery of northern Canada as a source of premium fur. This led to the creation of The Governor and Company of Adventurers of England trading into Hudson's Bay in 1670. Through it, England laid claim to the massive Hudson drainage basin as Rupert's Land. 

A significant factor behind the rise of larger bloomeries was that Late Medieval Europe began harnessing the power of rivers - using waterwheels to power furnace bellows enabled larger blooms of steel to be produced. Once decent full plate armour became feasible to create, the main obstacle to adoption - aside from a lack of need early on - was simple economics. A full set of plate armour was extremely labour intensive to forge, and consequently very expensive. Keep in mind, even the Romans had to abandon the lorica segmentata after the Crisis of the Third Century rendered it economically and logistically unsustainable. No military in medieval Europe could rival the Roman Empire's resources. By the 14th century, however, smiths had begun using watermills to driver hammers for shaping the steel, greatly reduced the labour required. 

(I'm only naming one as an example for each; in fact there could be dozens more different clans/shrines using the same crest.) Moreso than samurais, however, the designs are as a group very popular among Shinto organisations, including both the shrines themselves and priestly clans. This is due to the Daimyo Oak tree being historically regarded as a holy tree; its large and study leafs a traditional (and literally green!) food container for making offerings to the gods. A vestige of this use might be the [kashiwa mochi (柏餅)], a wagashi consisting of rice cakes wrapped in Daimyo Oak leafs, which continues to be eaten for the Dragon Boat Festival. 

Note that this was not unique to Germany by any means. The Dutch-Belgian border at Baarle-Nassau and Baarle-Hertog is another famous example of ridiculous borders courtesy of a long history of feudal transactions between Brabant and Breda. The only difference here is that the Kingdom of Netherlands split into two different states, modern Netherlands and Belgium. 

Celestine V in particular laid down the canon law basis for popes to abdicate. The current provisions are provided in contained in Canon 332 of the 1983 Code of Canon Law. All previous popes who had resigned or abdicated their positions may be justifiably referred to as "pope emeritus", which basically just means "retired pope". In this sense, Benedict XVI is definitely not the first, either. However, Benedict XVI does seem to be the first to be officially styled "Pope Emeritus". 

The really damaging nuclear EMP comes from nuclear detonations in the stratosphere, as a result of the Compton effect. This is why weaponising EMP generally goes for detonation at over 20km. 

Importantly, unlike Baran, Davies' motivation was focused around the possibility of a better public communications network - not the Cold War's nuclear threat. 

Having said that, you are not wrong either. Napoleon's coup in 1799 has also been identified as a end date for the Revolution. The main reason for picking this event is that it marked Napoleon's rise to power. He reversed many of the principles of the Revolution and eventually installed himself, de jure, as a monarch. Since the Revolution proclaimed equality and democracy, it could then be seen to have ended in a personal dictatorship under Napoleon. It therefore follows that his seizure of de facto power in the Coup of 18 Brumaire may be cited as the end of the Revolution itself. Why is this different from the Directory's establishment? It isn't, not really. As the previous section says, the Thermidorian rise to power with the execution of Robespierre is also considered to have ended the Revolution. What is different with Napoleon, is that he managed to stay in power (with a brief interruption) until definitive general peace in Europe was achieved. By his overwhelming dominance of the period, Napoleon lend his name to both the period and its wars. In this sense, Napoleon's rise to power thus marks a convenient turning point in the narratives of the period. But this is by no means the only possible date of either beginning or conclusion for both the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Eras. 

In contrast, Lutheranism was politically mild and thus found no resonance with the French nobility or urban elites who embraced Calvinism. 

Yes. Or at least, as far as we can know based on available sources. Of course, if one chooses to disregard extant historical records, then all kinds of speculations are possible. Hence, the general consensus of historians is that Edward designated Harold his successor. 

Note that here Jia Yi also touched upon the success of Qin in splitting the Six States up diplomatically. No coherent or lasting coalition was ever formed in the east to challenge Qin hegemony, beyond the occasional battle. During the Song Dynasty, this aspect of Qin's rise became the focus of several writers. For example, the essayist Su Xun penned what is possibly the most famous classical Chinese treatise on the subject. In it, he argued that the Six States fell because they ceded land to Qin in order to make peace. He believed this weakened the states while strengthening the insatiable Qin. Eventually Qin grew so powerful it could not be resisted by the crippled states. 

(Source: Sparks, Jared, Francis Bowen, and George Partridge Sanger. The American Almanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge for the Year 1843. Vol. 31. Boston, David H. Williams, 1860) Additionally, the ministers and chargés may receive an additional expense allowance ("outfit") of up to (at Presidential determination) one year's salary. It seems that a practice developed where half of their annual salary was received for outfit when a diplomat is first posted, and a quarter when they returned. This would presumably go towards the upfront expenses of moving, accommodations, etc. These numbers did not change much for many subsequent decades. The same figures appeared in references up till the 1840s and 50s. At some point however they were raised such that, by 1872, the pay for top American diplomats were about: 

It was generally agreed that that power was vested in Parliament to preside over all the disparate parts of the British Empire. Some colonists argued that this only meant Parliament had the right to regulate trade and commerce, in order to promote the common welfare of both Great Britain and her colonies. It was conceded that Parliament could impose duties for this purpose, just as fines could be imposed in order to uphold the king's peace. 

You're looking at a scribal abbreviation for "-rum". That is, the word is actually philosophorum, but with the last three letters replaced with ꝶ. Here is a screenshot of the enlarged character from the graphemica page: 

These would seem to be most of the formal functions that the Archancellor wielded, although I'm sure the office had more powers formal or informal that I haven't discovered. Moreover its unclear how these powers were exercised in, and affected, the HRE at large, especially in the later centuries. I assume there would be more sources available in German, but unfortunately I can't understand them. 

Sometimes, the Japanese government made official requests for the remains, which seems to have generally found receptive ears. However, where the process was initiated privately, the return trip often turned out to be harder than it had been bringing the skulls into America in the first place. Bureaucratic red tape aside, both American and Japanese governments has been reluctant to transfer remains without clear evidence of origin. The US Naval Hospital in Okinawa almost destroyed a skull as medical waste before Okinawa prefecture was persuaded to accept the transfer, for instance. 

That small strip of land in southern Germany was Hohenzollern-Hechingen and Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen. Both fell to revolutionary forces during the March Revolution. Their last ruling princes both ceded their principalities in late 1840 to their relative the King of Prussia. In all of these processes, inherent diplomatic and political concerns meant that irregular demarcations were often preserved. For instance, the Kingdom of Hanover surrounds the Duchy of Oldenburg, which also had exclaves next to the Duchy of Holstein. Hanover and Holstein were incorporated into Prussia in 1866, but Oldenburg was a Prussian ally and hence maintained its nominal independence. This unnecessarily complicated border thus made it into the internal divisions of Imperial Germany in 1871. 

(Source: Schmidt, Karl J. An Atlas and Survey of South Asian History. ME Sharpe, 1995.) The three Presidency armies did not expand uniformly. They were raised according to the local strategic needs of the Company, which changed over time, especially as the Company conquered more of India. Originally, the Madras Army was the largest of the three; however, it stopped growing in strength after 1799, while the Bombay Army's expansion ceased after 1817. Consequently, the Bengal Army became larger than the other two combined. 

This doesn't mean Appeasement was necessarily the right move. Perhaps an early response to Hitler could have intimidated him into backing down. Or perhaps not: threatening military response would have been hollow. This remains an area of scholarly debate. The point, though, is that Chamberlain acted according to the public will, pursuing a strategy that seemed reasonable to many of his contemporaries. It's important to note that appeasement was over by early 1939, long before the war had broken out. Chamberlain was not appeasing Hitler for the sake of appeasing Hitler, but rather trying to do his best given the hand he was dealt, and he changed his approach as the situation changed in the lead up to war. By 1939, Appeasement had "failed", but it also "succeeded". Its failure to contain Germany helped steeled public opinion in both Britain and her Empire for the upcoming war. Moreover, delaying the confrontation bought Britain precious time to rearm, which laid the foundations for victory in the Battle of Britain. Thus, it wouldn't have made much sense for people to replace him for the association with appeasement after the war begun. 1940 May 10 is exactly the same date as the German invasion of Benelux and France . . . In other words, the end of the Phony War apparently has something to do with this, but it's hard to see which is the chicken and which is the egg. Chamberlain retained the support of his party, and therefore by extension Parliament, up until his resignation. His position only really crumbled during the Norway Debate in the aftermath of the failed expedition, on 7 and 8 May. Most notably, retired Admiral of the Fleet Lord Roger Keyes delivered a scathing speech, and many others criticised the Chamberlain ministry's lack of preparations as well as general handling of the campaign. However, none other than Churchill closed the debates with a strong defence of the government, and Chamberlain ultimately still won the vote of confidence by a majority of 281 to 200. Nonetheless, at this point Chamberlain believed that a national unity government was necessary for the war effort. Since the Labour and Liberals wouldn't serve under him, he was obliged to resign. The first choice to succeed him was actually Foreign Secretary Lord Halifax, not Churchill. In the end however Halifax declined to step up to the position, so it ultimately went to Churchill. The meetings to arrange for the government restructuring took up the day, so that the handover went into effect on Friday, 10 May. It was thus a total coincidence that on the exact same day Germany launched its offensive.