Being a woman, here an 'answer' for women, (being a woman I can not answer for men.) For the crotch area, that is. Pantyliners or the bigger sized pads that are used for the monthly problems. They have a thin layer of plastic and I never realized their worth till I forgot them on a windy cold day. They are consumables, you use a new one every day or more often as you need it when it gets dirty. I do not think there is a male version of this short of incontinenty gear, which is overkill. I am not a few clothes in cold weather cyclist, your outfit would suit me in September. When it is colder I use warm gear on all parts of my body, hat, cap or hood, in very cold or wet weather I add rain overtrousers, some of which come with a zipper on the outside seam of the leg, with velco or snappers to partly close them when needed. Warm hands, with gloves or mittens. Wind proving is really the most important, as long as you also have the option to ventilate or open up when you get hot. (I am on my third and fourth recumbents, Flevo (bending) bike and trike.) 

Have you tried it on other bikes? I own one bike on which I can not really ride standing up while I can do it on others, just because of the position (and size) of the handle bars and the pedals. Of course, building up muscles will help, but some bikes are just not build for standing up. If it is really 4 seconds max, I would say that you will not find it easy to ride standing up on this bike, not even when you have build up your muscles. And sometimes it is the combination of rider and bike. 

If there are no hills, do not bother with gears. Students who can use a free bike will be happy enough with a bike that actually works and does not break down just when they need it. If you look at the most popular rental bikes in the Netherlands you do not see any gears. 

I have not read all answers and comments so I might have missed a link already here, but I think this is the best site for for arguments about all to do with cycling and road safety. On the right hand site you will find many internal links to posts in themes, like 'what works' or 'cycle paths' I am not able to give you useful quotes from each of the links as they contain so much information and the themes might not really meet the arguments or more likely be just about one detail instead of about all. And he has links to other sites, often with good arguments in their own right. So far for David Hembrow's site, from here on it is my opinion. As a Dutch cyclist, who grew up in the time our bike lanes and paths were at their lowest ebb, I do appreciate the lanes when done well. The famous painted line, which every car driver ignores, is not much use. But when bikes are out in numbers and fill those lanes, the car drivers do pay more attention and parked cars will be rarer. It took the Netherlands 30 years of experimenting and re-designing, and at this time there is a 'new' problem, too many cyclists for the existing infrastructure. Separate lanes next to the road will work only when the cyclists have the same comfort and rights as the cars, can cycle on without dismounting and road design is done in such way the entrances and exits to the lanes work. Combined cycling and walking use is only possible when cyclist and pedestrians do not want to use the lane at the same time. Bike routes away from roads might work in some cases, it will not work in all. When the route between two main locations passes a pinch point where no work will make for bike safety, but there is an alternative route which is a bit longer but away from the cars, it might be worth investing in it. In the Netherlands we have no cycle lanes on roads that allow cars to go 80 km/h (about 50 mph) or faster, there will often be cycle paths near the road but they might also use a different, often shorter, route. Roads that are 50 km/h (about 30 mph) have bike lanes on road although off road lanes or near bike paths are around as well. Most roads that are 30 km/h (about 20 mph) do not usually have separate bike infrastructure but many of those roads are no through roads for cars but allow bikes to use them to connect to other parts of town. That makes that almost no bikes and cars need to use the same road surface without the need for bike lanes and paths everywhere. We still do have more bike paths in a small country than most big countries, not only relative to size but also in actual km/miles. While at the same time we have fewer car/bike accidents and deaths from them. The one area where deaths of cyclists goes up is in the over 65 (or even over 75) age group, as people keep cycling and now often get e-bikes and go the allowed 25km/h while not used to those speeds anymore, if they ever have been that is. Most of those accidents are one sided, the cyclist falling, hitting something near the path or road or just dropping over when having a heart attack. 

I recently saw a bottle holder in a shop that consisted of webbing and velcro. The design was for a bottle smaller than you describe, but you might be able to make your own. An internet search did not show the one I did see in the shop but it did show this one out of this page about how to attach a Fire Extinguisher to an UTV. With a flexible cage you can fit in the bottle you want, and use the position on the bike that suits it best. 

Riding recumbents I can not easily look behind me and need a mirror to actually see what is going rather than rely on hearing. When riding an upright bike I do not usually use my mirror (most bikes have one mounted on the bike, I do have a glasses mounted mirror) and I miss it the first few days. Yes, you listen and you do look behind you when you are about to cross into the line of other traffic but with a mirror you know much more and it is easier to get that information. Where I get the most use out of the mirror is riding in the dark. The lights of a car or even a bike behind you stand out even when you do not look into your mirror. Unlike @Tom I value my mirror most where I have to mix with cars, less so on cycle paths and roads without much traffic. 

This depends on where you are to some extent. I would start by asking either the local police or council and if they're not interested a locksmith. Going with someone official makes the job look a lot less sketchy. Might be worth while having the receipt or some photos of you and the bike handy incase you're challenged. That said, most cable locks are pretty worthless and if you're not worried about getting stopped, some quality cable cutters or small bolt cutters would do the trick. And, yours isn't, but for combination locks, you can usually decode them by pulling on the lock body and turning the barrels gently until you feel a click. 

Shortening the hoses isn't much more than a 10 minute job on most models. You'll need either a bike shop, or some nice cutters and a new olive and insert which will cost a dollar/pound or two. Although, as these are moving to a new bike, I'd leave them be and do a more thorough job of looping them until you can measure them on the new bike. What are you using, my first stop would be zip ties and if that slips still, duct/duck tape. When you move them, a little alcohol will lift any sticky mess that's left. You wont hurt the performance of the brakes unless you kink the hose. Don't do that. They'll want replacing if you do. 

There's a special tool that matches those notches so you can dismantle the whole thing. However, yeah, you'd be better off with a new rear hub. You can reuse the rim, if you get a hub with the same number of holes, but you'll need new spokes. You're going to need to know the spacing of the rear dropouts on your frame and find a track hub that matches that. For mountain bikes this is usually 135mm, 130mm for road bikes, and 120mm for track bikes. 

The length of the cage on the bottom of your derailleur that holds the two small cogs is what decides the size of cassette you can use on your bike. There are 2 numbers that matter, the max size and tooth capacity. Max size is is the largest cog the derailleur is designed to clear and the capacity is the largest difference between the small-small and big-big gear ratios that it can take up the slack in. -- Since your bike came stock with a 11-26, I'm going to guess it has a short cage derailleur, the largest cog this can accept is 28. SRAM road derailleurs come in short and medium cage, and have a max cog size of 28 & 32 and a max capacity of 33 & 37 respectively. You may also need to change your chain, not a bad idea anyway with a new cassette. 

Corners. French/Italian/Spanish road surfaces. Holding your legs up long enough to be worth it. I'm pretty sure this video is staged. 

As far as I'm aware, at these pressures, there'll be no difference in performance. A bigger issue might be the rim. The value hole will be either Shrader or Presta sized and will either not fit a Shrader or be hard work to seal with a Presta. 

Looks like it was stored upside down at some point. When you do this, the air bubble moves to the bottom and can take some time to return to the top. See also, Nutella, Marmite and other viscous gloops. 

SRAM make an auto internally geared hub these days. I'm sure you can find a bike that comes with one, with some deft Googling, or buy a cheepy cruiser and add the new hub to it. 

The short answer? No. Threaded GXP uses the Hollowtech II style dimples for tightening, these aren't deep enough for a C-Spanner style or for a wrench the has less than 180 degrees of contact. Even if a tool existed, most chainrings are going to get in the way, my 1X is GXP and there's not a lot of room, a double or triple is going to make this worse. And finally, GXP works by clamping the non-driveside bearing between a flange on the spindle and the back of the crank arm. There's no preload adjustment, so tighten it down and leave it alone. PS. What style is your eccentric BB? 

Start by inserting the bearings into the cups in the top and bottom of the head tube. Next slide the forks up through the head tube, add the split washer, spacers, stem, top cap and preload bolt. In that order. Tighten everything down with the preload bolt so there is no unwated play. Rock the bike backward and forward, with the front brake on, and make sure there is no knocking. When there is no play, straighten the stem and tighten the clamp bolts. Afterwards I usually loosen the preload bolt to finger tight, but some people don't. Ta-Da! One fixed bike. 

By far the most likely reason is that you've over tightened the bearings. Did you feel as if you needed 3 hands to get it back together? If not, you did it wrong. :) As usual Sheldon has a pretty good writeup on this, but the basics are easy enough. Put one side back together, tighten it up as best you can. Set the cone on the other side to the correct tension. Tighten locknut on second side without turning either cone. The tricky part is the last bit. You need to hold the cones on both sides at the same time whilst tightening the locknut and you really need 3 hands. You will most likely have to try a few times to get the tension just right. When it's done it should turn freely but not have any wiggle. 

Oil damped forks lock out by closing a valve and stopping the flow of oil through the damper. The amount of lockout is usually adjustable by changing just how closed this valve is. But I can't find this anywhere in the manuals for your forks. It is possible that it's factory set, how much force are you using to get the fork to move the 20mm you mentioned? There is also a blow off valve for big hits, you could be activating that if you're jumping on it. If you can pedal standing up without it bobbing around excessively then the lockout is working as expected, if not it could mean an oil leak or that the forks came under filled.