Now keep in mind that every theory of knowledge build upon these 3 conditions and expand (because, as noted over the years, they are not enough - in the example, who says I didn't saw just a specific kind of elephant with grey skin, but there are actually more elephants with pink skin? Here comes Hume's famous induction problem, and that's just an example for the problem with keeping only those 3 conditions as they're presented here). 

Lately I've been binge-watching the awesome show "The Good Place" (if you haven't, check it out), and as the whole show is talking about ethics, the episode in season 2 when (and I'll try to be as spoiler-free as I can) Chidi has to lie in order to act as someone else, he says he cannot do it, he cannot lie as it's always mortally wrong (according to Kant). So that got me thinking, maybe the whole concept of acting is to be considered ethically as lying? Now I'm not talking about if this is a "good lie" or a "bad lie" (if that distinction even exists, obviously not for Kant), I'm talking about whether acting is to be considered lying or is it something else entirely, unrelated to the ability to lie. Maybe it's to be considered as playing a game (not the best distinction, as we can also play a game based on lying, but that's just off the top of my head). I think this question could be expanded to more realms of ethics, but I can't gather my thoughts clearly on this yet so I'll edit when I do. 

[Those questions can be easily answered by "no" to the first question, but I think I've read something about such branch, I don't recall where so I don't even know where to look (so don't ask me, I've searched Google but couldn't find anything). It might not be an "official" branch maybe? I don't know.] 

There's a popular distinction between the "why" and "how" questions (especially popular nowadays in popular science) - the main argument is that while "how" questions can give us not only meaningful, but practical answers, "why" questions always presuppose a reason for things to happen (and the main criticism as far as how I understand it is that this reason is always claimed to be extrinsic, so we always presuppose something that simply doesn't have to exist). Now I'm not going to get into the debate of whether or not this statement is true, but rather I'll ask this: if we do take on this criticism against "why" questions, can we build a philosophy theory that builds upon only "how" questions? In other words, can a philosophical "why" question be fully replaced with a set of "how" questions? Answers can discuss either a certain region of philosophy or just generally philosophical questions (preferably the latter). Edit: what I'd like to add to the question, based on the comments and the answers, is - can/should science answer "why" questions? Or is that only related to the field of philosophy? 

Theoretical physics theories such as General/Special Relativity, Quantum Mechanics, Big Bang, String Theory (just stating the modern, popular ones) seems to stay in the "science" department, but shouldn't it (or, does it, as I don't really know what's the reality in the universities) be considered as metaphysics? These theories seems to be in line with many other metaphysical theories from past philosophers (when the distinction from natural sciences didn't exist). Why isn't it today? I should add to the question - if we do consider those theories as metaphysical, does they have a philosophical stand, without the need of a scientific approval? (of course the discussion around string theory comes to mind as related to this.) 

I read a summary of Bolzano's political views and his philosophy of the "best" state, and I have 3 questions - A) was Bolzano heavily influenced by the USA? His line of thought for some of his ideas seems very similar in mind to (at least the original) USA thought. B) what was (if any) the critic of Bolzano's thought? Besides capitalism of course, as his ideas are obviously against capitalism. C) is there any contemporary political thinker that follows Bolzano's thoughts? 

In conclusion, in my opinion thinking there's any reach for an unbiased statement (itself being biased) is simply impossible. But the real issue here is the nihilistic thinking this "postmodern" cause - the fact that all we say and do is biased doesn't mean it's not real, or that it's meaningless, because it's "not objective enough". The search of objectivism (criticized by Michael Polanyi, and others after him) is the real issue. We shouldn't try and get the "absolute objective", because, as the humans we are, we won't ever be completely objective, and that's fine - we can still discover things about nature, we can still try to find "objectively" better society rules (obviously not objective, but objective in the means that it considers all of the society and not only the single subject). Kant's thing-in-itself is a non-issue for this view, we don't need to try and reach it, we simply need to aspire to make our life on this "phenomenons world" better. (*note that this goes for the other side of the theological debate too, the atheist is also biased in his thoughts, and the line of thought Calvin shows in his answer for unbiasness "by not believing in anything you are protected from bias" is totally biased by modern thinking. And again, I'm not saying that this biasness is "wrong" or "bad" - it's how we live, it's how we are, and it's what makes us interesting, because that way each and every one of us habe different opinions.) 

In the spirit of @MoziburUllah's answer, I'd like to add another perspective on the subject, with the example of Fichte. Losing your faith, let alone struggling with it (there's a common Jewish statement that a man who struggles with faith only makes his faith stronger, and it's a very important aspect of Judaism), can't possibly be a "bad philosophy". With Fichte the case was not only that it wasn't a bad philosophy, it even inspired him to recreate his entire philosophy and his views of God's relation to the world. In his youth, Fichte stated that the moral actions you do in this world, will most certainly provide you with a good response from the surrounding, and the world will be 'in your favor', because if God is moral (better put - God IS morality) and God is good, and God has a direct connection to the world, then our good actions must be replied with good response from the world (I'm over-simplifying his philosophy here, for the sake of the question). Soon after, Fichte went through a major crisis in his life, getting disbarred and banished from his country, and had to flee to Berlin. Fichte didn't understand what was wrong - he did good to the world, he showed everyone the truth, tried to hell humankind, and what was the response of the world? Banishment! So now, Fichte started struggling with his philosophy, and eventually came up with the idea that our moral actions doesn't really have direct "good" responses in our world, but in an outside-of-the-senses, unknown world of "actions" (similar to heaven, but one that's continually and dynamically changes along with our world). Here, we can see that Fichte's struggle and almost (if not entirely) losing faith in his younger philosophy and views of God, caused him to not only not ending up with a bad philosophy, but rather (arguably better) a new philosophy which better fit his new views and experience with the world. Fichte didn't "betray" his younger philosophy, if that's what you mean by "bad philosophy", but rather adjusted it to his new experiences (something his student Schelling used to do a lot, and something that Martin Buber said was the essence of philosophy - according to his anthropology, the philosopher must be connected to his experience with life and should always learn from it and build his philosophy using that knowledge). *note - I'm sorry I didn't provide quotations, I'm writing this on the road and don't have access currently to any book to quote from. If anyone would like to help me with this in the comments I'll be grateful. 

The transcendental philosophy seperate famously seperate between the thing-as-itself and the phenomenon the derives from it, by vague comparison, similar to Plato's ideas. My question is, is it possible for the transcendental philosophy to consider the thing-in-itself as a phenomenon of a "higher grade"/"higher dimension (of course not ontological one)" thing-in-itself? Or is the thing-as-itself an ultimate "final"(/"first") idea, that cannot have any "higher" logical level above it (kinda like Aristotle's "first mover")? Edit: I should mention, even though I use Kant's vocabulary (and tagged Kant), I hope to hear voices from all of the transcendental philosophers. Edit (2): I would like to clarify my question, as seen in my comments to Geoffrey's answer. The concept is as following: Thing-in-itself (from now on, "noumena" for easier writing) and phenomenon has a 1 to many (infinity) relation, such as a "single" noumena has an infinite number of possible "interpretations" - phenomenons. My question would be, is it possible that such relation, in a "higher dimension" (think string theory, but with things-in-themeselves, such as this concept is purely logical and has no ontological connection [at least not directly]). Let's call an "higher dimension" noumena => "A", a "regular" noumena "a", and a certain phenomenon "a1". The logical relation a->a1 would occur with A->a. Is such concept possible in transcendental philosophy? I would like to stress again, this is purely logical, no ontological connection whatsoever. 

I'll simply tell you about my own experience, hoping this would give you an idea as to what you'd like to do. I first met with philosophy by trying to read Martin Buber's "I and Thou" - and boy, I never thought I'd be encountered with so many philosophers' names in such short time - in the first 3 pages Buber referenced at least 10 philosophers and talked about their philosophy. Now granted, I could've easily just skipped a little and not mind the references, but I wanted to reach the full potentially of reading that book, so I started summarizing all the philosophers he mentioned from Wikipedia (sometimes good enough source) - by those Wikipedia pages referenced more philosophers, so I started summarizing them too and.. That was just a lot, and honestly, I just felt like I wanted to know more than a Wikipedia page about them, so I did what I'd suggest you to do - I went to the library and took one of the many "history of philosophy" books (I took Samuel Hugo Bergmann's, and I highly recommend it, also it's only on the modern philosophy - from the 15th century until the 19th). This, without any doubt, was the best choice I made. I was met with many philosophers that intrigued me, and received a very good summary of their philosophy. But mainly, I just took this series (4 books) as an introduction to philosophy, so that I would later be able to take the original works of the philosophers that I was mostly interested in, and actually understand them without any issue. After reading that series I had little trouble reading original works, which is in my opinion the best pro of doing that. Of course, you'll always be met with philosophers and ideas that you haven't met yet, and reading briefly on them on sites such as SEP and IEP like @Conifold suggested is a very good choice, at least to get familiar with them. Articles are also a nice venue to get acquainted with new concepts and philosophers you haven't heard about, or you're interested in. There are also a lot (and I mean, a lot) of books on philosophers, that quite often give you a well recognition with the philosopher so much as you often don't need to read the original works later (but that's always a good thing to do, because as is their nature, those books are always certain interpretation of the philosopher's works, and it's better to read the philosopher's work on your own to see if you don't have a different interpretation of your own). So to sum it up, there are many ways to get to know philosophy. I haven't even started on other venue like videos and podcasts and all the options media has to offer. I'd really like to suggest reading one of those "history of philosophy" series books for starters. Have a good read :)