The simple answer is that we just don't know. The most likely thing is that you would appear in the hardest vacuum ever measured, living inside your space suit for a while, and then disappear. Once you disappear the slightly energized area where you shed a bunch of atoms and photons and suchlike will gradually disperse and return back towards heat-death in a brief and feeble pulse of somethingness against the vast nothingness. On the other hand though if the entire universe has stopped existing by then...well that clearly can't have happened since you've traveled to something... 

Lets say that your lizardmen are cold blooded (there are other options). This means that actually they would be most active during the day and not very active at all at night. The sunbathing is done in the morning to warm themselves up, then once they have done that they become active during the warmth of the day, going to sleep once night falls. They wouldn't spend their daylight time soaking in the sun, they spend a few hours doing it in the morning and maybe occasional intervals during the day. 

There are a number of possibilities. Sadly in the real world there are a lot of cases where women (mostly) are prosecuted for "crimes" when they are the victim. For example reporting a rape but being arrested for having extra-marital sex is something that has actually happened recently, we're not talking ancient history here. Moving away from that though the simplest way would be to have some sort of generic "aiding a criminal" offense that is far too broad. For example if you left a window open and were robbed you helped the criminal in the offence by leaving the window open, or if a criminal were wounded and you provided first aid (whether knowing he was a criminal or not) then again you would be aiding the criminal. Along similar lines perhaps "providing finance to criminals" is a crime, but by having money stolen you are providing finance for them and fall under the law. 

The fundamental problem you have here is that there is absolutely nothing in physics as we know it that would allow a force field to be generated. There are a few things we can do like magnetic fields that will work on certain materials but a universal "shield" that blocks incoming things would be based on some form of physics that at the moment we have no concept of at all. Since the current most unexplained part of physics is gravity, then the most likely place we will find a way to do something like this is going to be by manipulating gravity. Imagine a field that warps spacetime and causes anything coming into it to bend away, like a black hole but in reverse. By modulating the effect correctly you would get a result similar to a force field. It would work like your type 2 but as the other answers have said actually type 1 is just type 2 turned up to 11, and type 3 is a type 2 turned up to 100. 

The lecture hall was still and silent as the old man limped towards the waiting chalk boards. One hand was a withered claw, one eye missing and covered by a patch. Conflicting rumours said his limp came from a wooden leg, or an old injury, or something more mysterious. What is certain is that every student there had heard enough to be nervous. In a quiet voice they strained to hear he began speaking. 

If the atmosphere preferentially absorbs blue light (due to some gasses present) then there would be no advantage for leaves to absorb it themselves and in trying to efficiently gather the radiation that does reach them they may well end up reflecting blue light. Equally if the sun didn't emit much blue light (for example a red giant star) then you might get a similar result. You need the light reaching the plant to have the characteristics that make blue the most efficient color for absorbing the light and making use of it. Alternatively if something in the environment made the techniques plants use here on earth not viable (for example a chemical that damages chlorophyll present in the air) then alternative techniques would need to evolve, and those might result in blue leaves. 

The main problem actually is where do you put the rock that you dig out. You would either need access to the surface to dump it somewhere or some way to compress it and then use the compressed rock to make the walls of the tunnel. For digging through rock close to habitation you would definitely not be using explosives. Modern tunneling machines are quite capable of doing so without explosives and do not have so many associated risks. $URL$ 

Perhaps the females lay unfertilized eggs, which then begin to glow. Males are attracted to the glow and fertilize them. Usually in fertilized eggs the glow starts to diminish but it can last for quite a while after the male has visited. 

In general low frequencies travel further but carry less information in a given time span. As a result you have a trade-off between those two competing requirements. In addition low frequency noise generally needs the creature making the noise to be larger (although there are ways around that to a certain extent with specially adapted organs). Water transmits sound much more effectively than air. In air the speed of sound is 342 m/s, in water it is 1,484 m/s. In terms of loss of volume there is very little absorption of low frequency sound (one reason it carries so long) but it is still spreading out and getting quieter as it does so. The water-air barrier acts as an almost perfect reflector so that does tend to reduce some of the loss but can create echoes and similar confusions. This wikipedia article may be helpful for you, it covers the subject of Underwater Acoustics. In particular there are several sections on the propagation of sound underwater. 

Actually I can offer a completely different answer to the others - what you describe is entirely possible. Have the earth and the native species both basically compatible in terms of both being able to eat each other. However the native species would use some chemical which is poisonous to earth species within their bodies. This can either be a deliberate defensive evolution that local predators have adapted to overcome or it could be a coincidence that a chemical they all use is toxic for earth lifeforms. 

You could achieve this in larger scales simply by making losses transmitting power much larger. For example if all metals became much worse at conducting. If you fine tune it correctly you would get no effects at micro scales (so chemical reactions and neurones would still work fine) but large effects at macro scales. This does mean that electronics (particularly simple electronics) would still work, however getting energy to them in order to power them would be extremely difficult. 

Have one common ancestor and split the range occupied by that common ancestor by something which is hard to cross but possible. For example a massive mountain range would do the trick. During an ice age the mountain range becomes completely impassable, this separates the two populations for a period of around 20 thousand years. During this time they diverge enough to be separate species. As the ice age ends the mountains become passable again but it is still hard work to do so. This means the two populations do have limited contact and even trade with each other but remain mostly separate. If you wanted to reduce the separation then you can have the ice age finally ending at the time your world is set in. The mountains are now much more freely passable and the two previously separate species and cultures are now starting to interact much more frequently. How that would end up really is down to you. 

If you're looking for detailed descriptions of individual treatment then you will need to make the question more specific but in general underwater medicine would not be very different to surface medicine. There would be a number of advantages, for example moving patients around would be much easier when they are already floating in water. There would also be some difficulties, for example mixing up and grinding up medicines without them getting carried away by the water would be harder. You might see mixing bowls replaced by flexible bags for example. Medicines would come from the same place ours did - plants and minerals that have useful properties and then finding ways to extract and preserve those properties. Surgery and similar treatments would act in a very similar way, although keeping things clean would be harder and blood would tend to form a cloud making it hard to see. 

Much of the technology from before the fall still works, but people have no idea how it works. Some simpler devices or parts of them are manufactured by blindly copying existing ones, possibly by small groups that horde the secrets of how they do it. Some more can be repaired if damaged but cannot be built. Others are unique and irreplaceable. For example take a Laser Rifle where all three things might be true at once. 

It would certainly help make things easier to see, but the thing is space is really big and empty. There isn't much to run into and it's generally easy enough to avoid the things that are there (or you need to go to them anyway). Navigation can't really be done by eye in space since you're dealing with orbital dynamics and transfer orbits and all sorts of other very complicated maths. Most of the time in space with current or near-future tech you aren't even using your engines. You just use them occasionally to accelerate/correct course/decelerate and spend the rest of the time coasting. A super-nova would be far more visible than your floating red sphere. Even a black hole is surrounded by an accretion disk and highly visible most of the time. If you had an isolated black hole or neutron star then you might possibly be able to argue for some sort of warning beacon but it still doesn't make a lot of sense since you would need to account for the gravity from the neutron star/black hole when navigating and if you didn't know about it would detect it by the changes to your course it generated long before impact became a risk. 

It's impossible, sorry. AIs will react faster than humans, keep track of more things at once, survive higher acceleration, duplicate and backup themselves before dangerous missions. Some people argue that AI would be predictable but it doesn't have to be. We already have secure random number generators, and using quantum methods we could generate truly random numbers with currently foreseeable technology so that is no problem. Basically AI just have too many advantages. Even if one advanced civilization decided not to use them they would be eclipsed by another civilization that did use them and with which they could not compete. The only way human pilots make any sense is if they are cybernetically enhanced to the point that they are just directing the action and providing objectives to delegated AIs. The human pilots would also be present in command vessels that don't need maneuvering (or somehow suspended in anti-inertial fields to stop them being squashed as soon as their ship tries to do more than a paltry few G of acceleration). This would allow the actual combat fighters to move and accelerate at machine speeds rather than human speeds. In some areas AIs still struggle to compete with humans but we already have AI in chess that no human can beat. The same exist for racing games, FPS games, etc. We already have drones that do a lot of their flying automatically, cruise missiles that fly fully automatically, etc. Humans are already becoming obsolete in modern warfare. The only situation I can see where this might happen is if there is an external entity significantly more advanced that bans the use of AIs for warfare and enforces that ban (possibly using its own AI controlled craft). For example in Against a Dark Background there is a sort of judicial system and grading of combat engagements, both sides can petition to allow escalation in the power and sophistication of the weapons they are allowed to use but are limited otherwise. Breach of the rules if proven would result in unspecified but no doubt severe consequences. Without that enforcement then even if some sides ban them for religious or other reasons as soon as one side does adopt them they will immediately win all wars or force everyone else to follow suit. 

Well you pretty much covered it. There are a number of issues, and solutions for them. Vital Organ Damage To stop them dying due to a strike to vital organs you need some combination of: 

The only way it's possible is if the trigger for the zombie is airborn and converts a substantial percentage of the population on infection. Otherwise an organised military force will obliterate any number of zombies. It's just not even slightly a threat. Zombies cannot cope with structural defences, armoured vehicles, firearms, or even very basic tactics. Essentially the infection needs to strike hard, and convert a massive percentage of the populace - a high enough percentage that the military is decimated. We're talking 99.9% zombification rates from infection by a highly contagious airborn pathogen that manages to spread worldwide before it is detected. This changes of course if you add super-powered or intelligent zombies, but then they are not really zombies any more.