p.s. There have been crowdfunded attempts at full fairings but they weren't funded -- I think most people don't think it worth putting something on full-time for something they'd only use on rainy days and which might also block your vision (note lack of windshield wipers). Even bicyclists in Seattle just use rain gear. 

I'd also check with older, grimier bike shops that look like they've been around forever, they usually have a parts bin with finds such as this. They would usually give it to you for free if you're a regular or for beer money if you're not. 

I was curious about this so I looked up this item in Amazon.co.jp, and it's available but out of stock -- and is being sold by a third party vendor. Once you see it back in stock, you may want to see if they'll ship internationally. 

As the technology improves (based on the not-inconsiderable amount of money the NFL is putting into helmet technology), we'll see better designs on the market that take into account all sorts of different damage scenarios. c.f.: $URL$ 

Approach counter and attempt to check in bicycle without any specific declaration. If the checkin clerk allows it without comment or extra charge, success! If clerk attempts to assess oversize fee and it’s in excess of the bicycle fee, then state it’s a bicycle and get the lower bicycle fee. If clerk asks what’s inside, ask first how much the oversize / weight fee is. If it is less than the bicycle fee, then declare the bike as “circus equipment” or “spare parts for a mobility device” (many places calling it “sports equipment” carries a special fee too) and pay the lower fee. 

Unfortunately, most comparison tests show that DEET is still the number one insect repellant. One way to prevent it from melting your synthetic clothes is to wear cotton neckerchiefs, wrist bands, and ankle bands -- and to put the DEET only on the cotton and not on the synthetics. This only helps if the bugs aren't biting you through your clothes since it only blocks entry to areas of exposed skin. Another option is to find a friend who's comfortable being completely doused in DEET and to draft them. :-) 

Go to your local bike shop and ask for something used out of their parts bin. They’ll often have shifters left over when someone upgraded. My bike shop would throw in the part for free if I paid for labor, but in either case the cost would be trivial. It’d be worth it to get the derailleur cable (both inners and others) replaced at the same time. Reading Sheldon’s page on Sachs/SRAM IGH it appears that the cable pull for that particular seven speed internal gear hub may not be standard. It may be better to just replace like with like. Again, your local bike shop may have the spare part in their parts bin. A local maker space may be also able to fabricate the part out of nylon or abs using their 3d printer. If you just need it to work, a friction shifter will work with just about anything. Your bike shop should be able to give you one for free or close to free. 

This brand is called SlipNot but there are others on the market as well. The advantage of chains is that they can be taken off in the Spring. The disadvantage is that you have to make sure that your brake/fork clearance is ok. 

I have the Velo-Orange double-leg, folding Copenhagen kickstand. The folding styles are much better compared with rigid style (aka, motorcycle) kickstands in that they fold out of the way rather than at risk of being hit by your ankle or the cranks. I bought a cheap pair of folding kickstands and disprefer them to the VOs. The problem with the cheap one was that the plastic "boots" on them fell off easily as they were not tightly fitted or easily secured with an allen screw. The spring is also not as strong and the manufacturing tolerances greater so it "clunked" a lot when I rode over bumps. But it looks like you're in Australia Russia so the VO may not be available to you. Still, I'd ask at your local bike store if they have a high quality version similar to the VO. The VO is US$33 so this gives you a sense of how much you should pay for good kickstand -- but be aware that some unscrupulous ebay vendors will charge ridiculous amounts of money for cheap merchandise in the hopes of catching a rube. 

Since the Little Big Bens are 38-40mm in width, you should be ok with them on the Space Horse ... except .... 

The easiest way to have a redundant rear brake is to have a rear coaster brake with a rim brake or disk brake. One could argue that fixies with rear rim brakes are doubly redundant. Of course as David Richerby is pointing out, the real problem is your lack of front brake control, not with your rear brakes. 

Running this through a gear-inch calculator shows that your highest gearing for going fast is 66 gear inches and lowest gearing for going up hill is 33". Your total range is 33-66" or 2x. Link: What are gear-inches? 

As various people have noted, wheelchair hub is the correct term for these one-sided, push-button release hubs. 

On my commuter bike, my front dynamo hub charges a small 18650 battery that I then can tap to provide power to my smart phone. You need to have an intermediary battery because most dynamos only produce the German government mandated 6VAC / 3 watts minimum, which is around 0.5 amps (500 milliamps) -- and this is only when you're going faster than 15 km/h. There are conversion losses going from 6VAC to 5VDC so you won't get the full 500 milliamps. This is made worst because at speeds less than 15km/h, the voltage and available current drop to non-usable levels and the phone will stop charging and then start charging again -- on my phone the screen turns on and off each time there's a charge/non-charge event, which drains the battery tremendously. In any case, most cell phones will want 5VDC @ 1A if not 2.1A, so the hub clearly can't produce enough power by itself for a steady charge. This is why you need the intermediary battery. I designed and made the circuit** that I use for myself. You can buy something similar off the shelf here: 

For your luggage, 60liters is a lot.... That’s a cube of 40cm (15.8”) in each dimension. You could split it into two panniers of 20x40x40cm but it’s still quite a lot. Have you considered pulling a small trailer? Or using a Dutch style cargo ebike? Both options have considerably more cargo space than a standard bicycle. 

Generally police and bike registries want the frame number (even if they ask for the serial number) as the serial number sticker can be peeled off. If you register your bike on BikeIndex.org (strongly recommended), then you can include both. 

Your bike (27.5 Orkan 21 spd. MB) sells for less than US$150 and is shipped flat packed. This puts it firmly in what we call BSO or bicycle shaped object territory. At US$150, it’s hard to find a repair that isn’t going to cost half as much that the bike is worth. You might have the best success going to a bike coop and finding a used fork for $10-20 (or free) and learning how to repair it yourself. Or you could just donate the bike to the bike coop and they’d use it for donor parts. Or give it to someone as a project bike. The reality is that to get to the US$150 retail price point, the bike is value engineered to the hilt (likely $50 total landed) so is built with the absolute cheapest components and as a result isn’t worth much. The reason amazon refunded your money is that the shipping back to them is more than the bike is worth. 

You wanted to mod a system that depends in part on the use of wide-narrow chains and chainrings. Wide-narrow chain and chainrings are not compatible with front derailleurs. Assuming you have wide-narrow chainrings, when you front shift the narrow-wide chain may not find the right width tooth on the chainring and will either slip or derail. At best it works slightly crappily, at worst it’ll skip and derail like crazy. So you’d need to change both your chainrings and chains out for a regular fixed widths. However, I assume you replaced your chainrings and chain to standard width when you added the front derailleur so this is relatively moot. 

Bicycle chains accumulate gunk which tends to be composed of dirt from the environment (dirt kicked up from the front wheel as well as abraded rim material if you have rim brakes) and abraded material from the chain and the cogs/chainrings, all held in colloidal suspension with the lubricant grease from the chain. Solutions: 1) Fully-encased chain guard will reduce the environmental source of gunk but you'd still get thick/black grease from the wear and tear on the chain itself. Furthermore, chain guards make maintenance and cleaning more difficult. On the positive side, you don't worry about what you can't see. 1a) Bicycles with oil bath chaincases used to exist, that would drag the chain through oil - much like a wet sump on cars. This would cause constant lubrication, decreasing wear. However, I imagine that they would leak like crazy and that the oil - much like auto oil - would be black, dirty, and messy. The system would also be heavy. For these and many other reasons, they haven't been produced in almost 80 years. 

One of the advantages of having winter wheels is that you can spec wider rims for the winter season. Fatter tires should be able to give you more traction in snow and mud. You can then switch to thinner rims and tires in the spring. Your winter wheelset could be on the cheapside since you're not particularly interested in superlight wheels. You can often find very cheap used wheelsets on craigslist from thieves who steal wheels people upgrading to lighter wheelsets (if you buy the used as a pair, you lower the risk of buying hot goods). But yes, you'll have to realign your brakes if your rim width changes or if you switch wheel brand/makes. But that's a relatively simple job - as is adjusting your derailleur (which might again happen unless you use the same brand/make rear hub). You might as well have a dedicated winter chain to go with your winter rear tire/cluster -- or just replace your chain every spring. This'll prevent the excess wear on your winter chain from affecting your summer cluster too much. 

Thank you for posting the photo. It’s a bit clearer that the front wheel is touching the side of the forks. This can be caused by one of two things: 1) the wheel “tacoed” or bent slightly when you had the accident. If the bend is slight, your shop can straighten it back out and tighten the spokes 2) or the front axle slipped a bit in the front dropouts so that the wheel is no longer parallel to the forks and centered. Fixing this just takes loosening the axle bolts or quick release, setting the wheel back in the dropouts, and then tightening everything back up. There’s a lot of forces involved when you crash, even at a low speed. Suddenly, hundreds of Newtons of force can be concentrated on just one small part of the bike. It’s impossible to build a bike that would survive all types of accidents especially as people want lightweight bikes. And many parts of a bike are designed to either pop out of alignment or sacrificially break so that more expensive parts of the bike are saved. In any case, take the bike back to the shop to get it fixed. Most shops I know of would fix it as a courtesy fix — not because they or the bike are at fault, but as part of good customer service for a minor repair. ///——-//// 

Yes, a battery holder and switch from radio shack would accomplish this. Most dynamos are 6vac and can be replaced with 4xAAs or the 5vdc from a USB pack. You can ignore the issue about polarity as the dyno lights that I've worked are either incandescent and don't care or are LED but have built in blocking diodes and don't care. Whether you would want to do this is another issue. I've gone the opposite direction and put a dynohub in my commuting bike. Note: if you are handy with a soldering iron and multimeter, you can remove the diodes/rectifier (and likely super cap) from the LED lights and have them run in straight DC. You'd gain brightness especially when your batteries are running low because you would no longer have the voltage drop of the diodes or rectifiers, but you would need to check polarity and make sure you aren't drawing too much current. 

These are all really, really minor. Internal cables are more about the aesthetics than anything else. 

I commute to work just carrying a light laptop and/or my tablet computer, my lunch, and a few papers. I'd prefer to use panniers rather than a backpack or messenger bag, but once I get to work, I have to carry the bag around day and therein is the rub. Almost all commuting panniers that I've seen convert to a messenger bag using a single large shoulder strap. I don't like shoulder bags as they hurt my back. I'd really like to see a commuting-size backpack/pannier but these seem to be almost non-existent. Is there a reason why they are so rare? Am I missing out what could be an enormous market -- the businessperson who bike commutes but still needs to carry their bag on their back once they get to their work campus? 

For the ultimate in pizza carrying, you want a pneumatic air suspension, pendulum-based anti-sway bar equipped carrier. This are/were used by ramen delivery bicylists in Japan, although they are getting rarer (people don't order delivery ramen noodles like they used to) and mostly on motorcycles now: 

The first thing you need to do is get new brake pads. Then release the brake cable by unscrewing the hex bolt on the very top of your stuck arm. When you release the brake cable, the brake arm should rotate outwards. Use this opportunity to try to loosen it up by shooting in some WD-40 to flush the rust/grit and rotating it in and out a few dozen times until it's loose. Once it's loose, you might want a final shot of a telfon lubricant as WD-40 dries up. Then replace the pads on both sides. Then put the brake cable onto the hex nut from #1. You'll notice that you will have to give it much more cable than previously. Then look at various youtube videos for final adjustment. 

Why wouldn't you want this on a bicycle? At least the system on mopeds uses centrifugal linkages to provide the "automatic" transmission and is quite heavy and requires a relatively high RPM (much faster than most bicyclists can spin their pedals). Furthermore, there is quite a lot of slippage caused by the v-belt especially in low gears and thus a lot of transmission power loss. For mopeds, this is actually a positive as it acts as a limited slip clutch but most bicyclists would object. The second part of your question asks why this couldn't be done with stepped-cones. As you can tell from your photo, this would be an incredibly wide transmission. Fine for a lathe or mill (or whatever object is in the photo) but totally unsuited for most bicycles. tl;dr: Too heavy, too complex, and too much power loss for bicycles. Remember, people want their bicycles to be simple, lightweight, inexpensive, and reliable. You could get a higher efficiency, lighter system using a gates belt on a rohloff hub. 

Note 1:You have to BE VERY CAREFUL of both the order and direction of parts in a pump head, flip them around and the pump head won't work or will work poorly. Taking photos of the pump head while you take it apart is highly recommended. Note 2: Your pump will be more complex because it's dual-head and designed for one side (presta/schrader) to be automatically closed when the other side (schrader/presta) is in use. If this doesn't work, it might be easier / faster / cheaper to just replace it. Do a search on amazon (or your LBS) for "replacement bicycle pump head" or "bicycle pump head upgrade."