This question is a standard "open-ended / big picture" question interviewers often ask. Like 'Where do you see yourself in five years?' and 'Why should we hire you?', these questions are designed to get you to respond with more than just a yes/no answer, to talk about yourself, and to talk about your job and career expectations. Interviewers would prefer that you don't give answers that boil down to 'I don't know.' or 'I probably can't make a difference.' Instead, they want you to talk about how you see your career progressing, where you want to go, and how it can help them. Even something along the lines of 'I bring an energy and ability to quickly learn new technologies that has helped my previous employers deliver products to market faster.' might be a good answer - particularly when you follow up with concrete examples of the same. These questions can often feel awkward to answer at first. I usually suggest that you think about the question, write down answers until you find one that sounds good to you, and practice saying the answer with conviction. Here are some more questions that might help you. Read through them, think about your answers, and practice. $URL$ 

You are wrong. There are many, many decent jobs out there. And there are many jobs that operate at a slower pace. 

"Best practices" are a misnomer. At their "best", Best Practices are advice that works well in many contexts. At their "worst", Best Practices are advice that worked well in a particular context, but has no relevance elsewhere. Typically, practices fall somewhere in the middle of this spectrum. Each context is different from the next. What worked well for you in the past, may have fatal flaws for your customer today. You may value elegance, readability, or maintainability most, they may value shipping early, or using a familiar layout most. Unless you know all of the details of their thinking (both explicit and implicit) you'll have a hard time deciding what is best for them. You may be able to settle on good enough, though. Instead of worrying about Best Practices, focus on "what works well in the particular context at hand". Unless you were hired to teach them your thoughts on what constitutes a Best Practice for Web Design, talk with your manager. Explain the differences between what you are suggesting, and what they have chosen. Learn what's important to this company, and how they decide between design alternatives. Point out the pros and cons of your solution (and if you cannot find any cons, I suspect you aren't trying hard enough). Point out the pros and cons of their solution. Then, let the customer (your manager) make an informed decision, live with that decision, and move on. In business, "Good Enough Practices" are usually what works. 

I'm not sure what you are looking for here, but let me give it a shot. When looking for a new job, trying to show what makes you different from all the other candidates is usually a good thing. Being the sole employee of a business puts you in a rather unique position. Learning enough to earn the owners trust is a good sign. Managing most of a businesses functions/needs/tasks sets you apart from others. As you look for your next job, your best option is to reflect on all the positives of the last 18 months, find ways to use them to your advantage, and be positive about them in your resume and in interviews. If necessary, practice conveying that optimistic outlook during mock interviews with your friends. Good luck! 

I'm not sure what you are asking your employer to do here and what kind of responsibility you would like to impose. I don't see much that your employer could actually do about a potential assault. If it were me, I'd certainly contact security ahead of time, rather than waiting for something to happen. And I'd ask the front desk to be on the lookout for this individual, perhaps giving them a photo with instructions to notify you immediately if this person shows up. And I'd be prepared to call the police immediately if I truly expected violence and if I heard that this family member was present at the front desk. I'm not sure there's much else to be done here unless and until a crime is actually committed. You might reconsider the restraining order. I do know from experience that the police tend to pay more attention if there is an existing order in place. 

Yes. Give at least than 14 calendar days written notice to both the Client and the Recruiter. Work out those 14 days. Then you are free. 

Depending on your locale, this is very unlikely to succeed. In the US, in at-will states, you don't need to be granted any particular resignation period and could be walked out of the building immediately. And you certainly have no leverage to "demand" anything. In your locale, other laws may apply. 

While having one glass of wine or one beer probably would have been okay, you chose to take the cautious approach, and that will almost certainly be just fine. It's likely the path I would have chosen as well. In interviews, I prefer not to eat unless circumstances make it necessary, and I strongly prefer not to drink. That's just me. In an interview, you want to have your wits as sharp as possible. You don't want to get sleepy. And above all you don't want to get buzzed - not even a little bit. Everyone has a different tolerance for alcohol, and virtually all interviewers will understand that and not hold it against you if you choose soda. Even if they did hold it against you, would you really want to work for someone that considers it a negative if you choose not to have an alcoholic beverage? What if the interviewer had a three martini lunch habit and usually went back to work buzzed? Is that the kind of place you'd want to fit in? I've worked for companies who expected their sales people to "booze up" their clients in certain circumstances. Even in those cases, I know of effective sales folks who didn't drink themselves. They were able to graciously handle purchasing drinks for their clients, while sticking with sodas or water. I think you'll be just fine. I wouldn't be worried about it. 

By "resource" here, I assume you mean a person (rather than a machine or such). Yes, of course it's possible to assign a person to another project while still important to another. It happens all the time. Whether it makes sense or not depends a lot on 

You simply need to state the types of work restrictions your religious observations require, and ask if that would cause a problem there. Clearly, this is an important factor in your decision regarding which job to choose. For any such factor, it's best to be up front about it, and weed out the companies where that would be problematic. 

I wouldn't use the word "stupid". But perhaps you are misguided in your jealousy. You are trying to say to your company after the fact - "I gave you a gift of some code without any license. But now I don't want anyone else to ever touch it except me". I'm guessing you didn't express your desire to be the sole maintainer, since I can't imagine any company agreeing to such a request. 

You told us that you are willing to drastically reduce your salary in order to change careers. What you wrote is a strong story. Tell the interviewer that, as well. I once hired an individual who had been a Senior Vice President at a software company, but now wanted to just work as a lower-level Developer. He was in a place in his life where he no longer needed to be the primary financial support for his family, and wanted to go back to a position that he had enjoyed a lot. He was willing to accept a huge salary drop, just as you are. He worked out ok (he actually wasn't a really good developer), but was the first to be laid off when the company started to downsize. I hope that doesn't scare you off. It will be difficult to convince an interviewer that you are willing to take such a drastic cut and be happy. I'm guessing that you really can't know this will make you happy until you have actually tried it. Good luck. 

You need to decide if, among your 3 coworkers, there is at least one that you can confide in. If you have been there a while, you certainly know who is most friendly, who you would talk with about personal issues, etc. Perhaps one of them has even confided in you with some confidential information. And you want to make sure that this person would say wonderful things about you to a potential new employer. Not everyone would be willing to do that, but some will. You would first ask that person "Can I ask you a question in confidence?". Based on his/her reaction, you would then explain that you are applying for jobs elsewhere and you would ask them if they would be a great reference for you. Listen to the answer, and the way it is delivered. If you get the sense that there is any hesitance at all, then move on to the next person. When done with the conversation, remind the individual that you want the discussion to remain in confidence, and make sure to thank them. If you do get someone to agree to be a reference, tell them as soon as it appears they may be contacted by a recruiter or employer. Tell them the name of the person who would contact them, and suggest any points that they might choose to emphasize on your behalf. If you choose a good friend as your reference, they will likely be happy to help. 

They might. Some recruiters like to talk on the phone, others handle correspondence in other ways (like email). Additionally, "No" in this case might be more like "Not for this position. But we have other positions for which you might qualify. Are you interested?" 

Assuming you are truly that offended... You stand up. You say something like "Sorry. I can see this isn't the place for me. Thank you for your time." Then you walk out and don't return. In the past, I've cut interviews short this way when it was clear that I wouldn't accept a job offer (but for different reasons). I don't want to waste others' time and I don't want my time wasted. 

No employer that I know of will pay you more because you have chosen to have a longer commute. Perhaps your employer is different. Employers expect a certain level of work. How we choose to allocate our personal time is up to us, but we cannot expect our employer to fund our choices by requiring us to work less. 

Unless you explicitly stated ahead of time your desire to be the only one who ever touches this code, I don't see how their activity can be considered rude, disrespectful or unethical. I think you are wrong in your belief. They needed something done in a timely manner, and you didn't have time to do it. 

If it's "rights" you are worried about here, then you are correct - it is your right to have a conversation. Of course it's also the company's right to have a rigid pay structure. And it's their right (correctly or incorrectly) to decide that you are becoming unhappy with their structure and that maybe you can't be counted on to stick around. It sounds like you have already tried to use the "industry standard" argument and didn't get anywhere. You may be better served to point out your value to the company and not worry about the industry outside of your company (which isn't really relevant to them it seems). None of this may matter. Often we reach a level that doesn't fit within a particular company's pay structure and have to either get promoted or leave. So it goes. 

Unfortunately, this is yet another one of those terms that means only what the writer says it means. One company might use this term to mean "We work nights and weekends to achieve our results." Another company might mean "We have lots of measurements in place to ensure you are working toward the results we want." Other companies have different meanings. When I use that term (which I very seldom do), I mean that I want people on my team to focus on the results - the deliverables, rather than focusing on how we get there. I don't want to have a lot of standards to be followed, a lot of rules around how to do the work, or a lot of paperwork and approvals required - I just want to get the job done. Work that isn't results-oriented in my shop tends to be the administrivia that large companies require. Filling out a lot of paperwork, attaining the many layers of approvals, strict adherence to stylistic standards, etc - all these might help a large bureaucracy measure, but often do little to produce individual results. 

You are probably choosing the wrong employers, and are getting hired with the wrong expectations. Apparently, you chose an employer, worked there, and only then decided they should let you work from home. When they didn't you quit. Only you and the company can know for sure why they refused. Perhaps they didn't trust you enough to work remotely. Perhaps their infrastructure or work policies aren't sufficiently developed to permit remote work. Perhaps your role requires your physical presence more than you perceive. Perhaps they just didn't like you enough. Instead, seek an employer with the specific intent of working from home. Many employers boast flexible work arrangements or work-from-home jobs on their websites these days. As @Shauna adds there are also sites dedicated to remote job postings now, such as weworkremotely.com. Find one of those companies. And during the interview process make sure to specifically ask how it works at their company, and learn if it fits your needs or not. You can't just go to a company, get yourself hired, and then decide that they should let you work from home. It simply doesn't work that way. 

Failing to invoice them was absolutely your mistake. The fact that you aren't very good at the business part of freelancing is not at all irrelevant, it's going to make things difficult for the company to cut you a check so far removed from their payable event. That said, you did the work and didn't get paid. Most companies I work with would pay you. You should create an invoice now, and send it with an apology. I suspect you'll get paid without any push back. But if they do resist, be prepared to negotiate, particularly if you want further business from them. And it goes without saying that you want to tighten up your accounting practices as a freelancer. Making invoicing mistakes can project a lack of professionalism, and that's never a good thing.