I went in for a technical job interview with a small company where they described the process as speaking with two or three groups of people for about 1+ hour each. They mentioned that they liked everyone in the tech group to meet candidates to get a feel for them. Everyone was friendly and it started great. The first group asked general background questions as well as some straight forward technical questions and white board programming. Very much the usual, but also some subjective stuff. They then left me alone while they went to another part of their office to find the other interviewers. At this point the HR contact that originally greeted me came and informed me that the others were quite busy and wouldn't be able to meet. This seemed odd of course. The interview was over and they would be in touch about potential next steps, showing me out. I asked if they'd like to reschedule with the other interviewers, but he said they'd discuss it. As I left I knew there wouldn't be next steps, and a few days later this was confirmed over email. Obviously not all interviews go well and not all candidates fit. Is it however professional to end an interview abruptly midway if the first part isn't ideal? What if the later parts provided some additional info to offset the first interviewer's judgement? 

A good way to describe this might be that it is "at the company's convenience" for you to park in the remote lot, in that you're required to park there instead of in the main lot. That alone sounds like argument that you should be able to get to the lot at your prescribed time (ie, 9am), and then take the slow shuttle bus across town if that is what your company wants you to do all day. Of course, I would talk to your manager about this first. 

Given an open office layout with low-barrier cubicles setup in rows and a management assigned seating plan, how reasonable is it to request a seating change? The seating was assigned during a recent floorplan changing, and we're loosely clustered by team with our manager as well. About 30% of the seats are empty. My seat is one of the smaller desks clustered right in the center of the floorplan. I feel distracted and socially-anxious, since the seating is so close together and I'm surrounded on all sides. I frequently am led to take walks or breaks to the pantry room to relax and find a little "space". There are a few seats empty nearby closer to the periphery, but my manager dismissed any seating changes, not someone that questions norms. HR defers to managers on these issues. It felt a little bit like elementary school assigned-seating than a place of respected, professional adults. Recently I moved my computer 3 seats over to an empty desk near the wall while working late one evening. It was admittedly a sly move, but the original seat was very uncomfortable, and I faced no help on request. My manager was annoyed the next morning, and we left it that way in stalemate. How reasonable is changing assigned seating when requested? What should be done in the face of refusal, and how could I have better handled this without turning it into a major issue? 

By no means am I trying to discredit you, because I've known people who deserved to fail and I certainly wouldn't want to work with them again. I just hope that before you leave this individual out for the vultures, you consider him as a human being and make sure you know where the real problem and blame lies. 

I am what would be considered a junior to mid-level programmer, though at this company I am working at(which is my first job in the field) I am more realistically closer to being mid to senior. For months I was the only one programming anything before they hired a few guys with skillsets below mine(no offense to them). I am getting burned out. Firstly, I've done at least 90% of the difficult work in my department since I have started; my co-workers have been consistently given easier tasks or get my expert help when having to make changes to projects I've worked on. I'm exhausted, but this is a symptom of a bigger problem: I feel that I am responsible for far too much. Having done the vast majority of the work(4 apps were written entirely by me), thus I am realistically the only provider of support of more than half of in-house software. I'm at a point where half of my day disappears because of people coming to me for feature requests and bug fixes. To make matters worse, the chain of command at my job is too non-linear; I can easily get 3 people coming straight to me for the same issue in spite of having a ticket system as well as my boss who they should go to first for most things. This is one of the issues I have brought up to no avail. I also find my boss's management style to be lacking, and it has become more lacking as we have acquired more programmers. This isn't entirely his fault, as I feel that he is suffering from a similar problem to mine(why is a growing company's only sysop also the company's only senior developer?). He's so busy with servers that he hasn't done any actual developing or serious code reviews with us in months, yet he tries to enforce design patterns that don't work well and because he isn't working closely with us he becomes frustrated when his patterns have problems. Basically, he allows little creative control. He will also not allow me access to the live servers where my apps run, despite me being given explicit permission to do this by the CEO. Because of this, I'm screwed if he's gone and there's an issue. My perception is that he feels territorial over his domain. Lastly, I feel that my bosses are poor at expressing their ideas. I don't know how I can further express my frustration in this area without coming off as a jerk, except I always take as many notes as I can and still end up not understanding what they want. My bosses don't know [all] these things, as I haven't told them. I've refrained because this is my first job and I'm not normally the kind of person to tell my boss how they should be running their business. However, I am feeling more used-up by the day. I want to tell my bosses that the reason that I'm constantly fixing bugs and whipping features out of thin air without testing them is because they are giving me garbage and that is why they are getting garbage. They haven't given me enough co-worker support, they won't give me the tools/access I need to produce solid work, they don't give me enough information to work with, and they don't give me the time(I'd love to write testing for features if they didn't NEED THEM NOW). Would I be wrong for politely bringing up these issues? Am I spoiled? 

I list the skills section in order of preference as well as freshness. So the skill I haven't used in 5 years or hated using is at the end, but still applies. A full list of skills (ie, for software programming) shows you are an experienced developer and not just someone who learned a single language from a "Program PHP in 24 hours" book. I've found that the worry about getting one of those non-ideal skills is easily filtered out during the job search process. It is easy to see which skills are needed, and you just pass on those opportunities. Further, for a job you like, it will be very clear which skills they expect of you, and unless you're there many years it is unlikely that you'll be expected to change roles dramatically. 

I've been freelancing for a former colleague of mine who has started a new business. I've known the colleague about 4 years professionally, and he reached out to me to join his business as an employee. The new company is made of mostly ex-colleagues of his so far. He has given me a full time offer contingent on the business reaching its next funding goal, likely in 1-2 months. The problem is the salary offer is about 15-25% lower than my previous job, depending on if I ignore the bonus factor. My previous salary was generous overall. I'm curious how I might negotiate this to a more reasonable number? At the very least I'd like not to take a paycut from my previous base salary. I've seen that the company is doing well so far, and the next funding will solidify it, so I don't think they are hurting for cash. The unique factor seems to be that he specifically sought me out for the position based on my unique skillset to offer within the new company, I'm the lead. I've got 10 years experience in what I do, and have created similar things to what they want in past, with lots of transferable knowledge/tools. I plan to use the next 2 months to deliver amazing results, such that he wouldn't want anyone else for the role. No one better, and no one new either. What is the best approach at getting the 15-25% more I expect? I feel like if I just stated the minimal 15% higher, it would be compromised down to somewhere lower. And if I stated "I was thinking 15-25% higher than this number", 15% is the best that would be possible. If I went high at 25% more, it might be considered absurd. At the same time, I'm interested in continuing this role, so he may know I'm not going to walk away from the low offer. I've been interviewing elsewhere with no offers yet, perhaps I play-up other company's interest? 

I work in a field and industry where telecommuting is a feasible option for my role, and it is usually a matter of whether an employer will support it as a company policy. I've worked for both types: some that openly support it on a part-time basis (2 days a week usually), and some that don't support the idea at all. I usually find part time good, as opposed to 4/5 days, as it allows for in-person time to resync with employees or get face-to-face meetings done on those days. At this point in my life I have a family and a young infant in daycare near our home. My wife and I both work, and commute 1-2 hr to our jobs in the NYC area. My wife is able to work from home and only needs to commute in a couple days a week. On those days, I need to be home to manage the child drop off and pickup, as well as any occasional problem that might occur. My question is how do I work with potential employers in interviews or even an existing employer and express that this is not just a work preference, an occasional "cable guy coming by" event, but an actual family planning thing that is needed on a highly predictable 2-day a week basis? For the interview: - I frequently bring up the question as one of company culture on working from home. This is usually met with, "we allow it occasionally for one off appointments, but we prefer everyone to be in the office". They usually back it up with management's opinion that this is best for cooperation, on a company level. Even at the end of a strong interview, it is very difficult for me to pose that it is a strong requirement for me. Even to the point where I might need to be an exception to the rule for a while. How can I express this need without disqualifying myself due to a blanket policy? Should I express this need before even interviewing? Some people have advised to start with a company, and gradually try to work it in as an option. Prove yourself, start occasionally, and maybe they'll come around. I've not found this passive approach very effective. For an existing employer: The topic can be challenging. It can be that several employees in the office do have a WFH arrangement, but new arrangements are generally rejected. As an employee, I end up with the conflict that I need this arrangement or I need to find a new job to accommodate the family schedule. Overall, what can be done to express this to an employer that you otherwise mutually value and wish to stay with?