Meteor showers. Really, really intense meteor showers. Suppose that several plumes of small rocks are orbiting the same star as this planet in highly eccentric orbits, containing an extremely large number of such rocks, collectively the mass of a planet or more broken into tiny bits. Each time the habitable planet's orbit intersects the orbits of one of these plumes, the rocks light up the entire night sky like the finale of a fireworks show (and would light up the day sky too if the star weren't so bright), unlike the relatively tame meteor showers we get on Earth. Anything in the vicinity of the planet above the upper atmosphere at that time is either perforated by the accompanying dust or destroyed completely by collision with one of the larger pieces. In between meteor showers, spaceships can come and go safely. Just be careful not to get caught in one, and forget about parking anything in orbit for any extended period of time. If the planet's orbit is close to the periastron of the rocks, they'll catch up to it from behind at high speed, less than the difference between the planet's orbital speed and escape velocity from the star, but not necessarily much less. If the planet is near the apastron of the rocks, it will plow through them while they are relatively stationary. At some point in between, the rocks hit the night side of the planet on the way in toward the star and the day side on the way out. Life may even be a little precarious on this planet, as mixed in with these billions of tiny projectiles that burn up in the atmosphere there are a few rocks large enough to make it to the surface, some large enough to create large craters. The really big ones are few and far enough between, however, that the local biome has always recovered from these meteor strikes, and there's a reasonable opportunity to establish a human colony with the wherewithal to detect and deflect any rock large enough to be a threat to the colony's existence. 

You have suggested either a scientific explanation or a supernatural one, and have some good answers regarding each path. There is a third path: art. How did Saramango explain things? Perhaps not at all satisfactorily from a hard-science point of view, yet presumably the novel works anyway. In the story "The Distance of the Moon," Italo Calvino adopted the (true) premise that the Moon is gradually moving away from the Earth (spiraling outward in its orbit), and wrote a story about things that happened when the Moon was so close that people could climb from the Earth onto the Moon. Even a moment's though will tell you this is nonsensical in several ways (the cataclysms predicted upon your island's separation from the mainland are nothing compared to what would happen from the Moon passing so close to the Earth, for one thing) yet it is a good story. Another writer about a hundred years ago observed that many tall buildings were being built on the lower tip of Manhattan, and wrote a story in which part of that island broke off and sank into the sea under the weight of those buildings. Anyone with a slight knowledge of the geology of New York at the time could have said this was impossible, yet the story was pleasing enough to be published. (I read this story a few decades ago, so I do not recall clearly who wrote it. It is possible that the story I'm thinking of is "The Tilting Island" by T. J. Vivian and G. J. Bennett, anthologized in Science Fiction by Gaslight by Samuel Moskowitz, but I have not found an actual copy of the book to confirm this.) So whether your villagers can survive the trip without explicit divine intervention is a matter of how you write the story. 

Okay, so skip the active nuclear reactor here. It's too hot, too big, and too heavy. Think RTG. In fact, let's think Cesium-137. A beta emitter that produces gamma radiation from it's barium daughter nuclide, Cesium-137 has a half-life of about 30 years and is soluble in water. Beta radiation is pretty easily absorbed, and there are fungi that eat gamma rays, in fact specifically Cs-137 gamma rays. So imagine a dragon that piles U-235 bricks in a big water bath, letting it get to just barely subcritical. The accelerated fission produces loads of cesium-127 as a decay product. Your dragon drinks this boiling radioactive water and secretes the cesium into an internal organ ringed with pads of melanized tissue that eat the gamma radiation as if it were sunlight. Presto radio, a 60 year meal. Filling! Perhaps instead of constructing primitive fission reactors it precipitates uranium as crystals just under the skin, in its scales. High-energy neutrons from interstellar radiation catalyze fission very slowly, enriching the scales with cesium-137. The scales slowly migrate, displaced by new scales laid down. When they're 'aged' into energetic deliciousness, they're broken down and the cesium 'eaten'. You could also just use bricks of U-237 or strontium-90, a thermocouple, and fix carbon dioxide into food directly from electricity. It's less cool but is way simpler. 

A Snakebot that is perfectly cylindrical would have a surface area of about 28 million square meters. Let's round down to 20 because cones. Metals have a heat flux coefficient of maybe 5-8 watts per m^2 K. It's about 70 K above background, or about 10 GW dumped to atmosphere all the time. Thunderstorm scientists measure air energy in CAPE, which is complex to calculate but is about 5000 J/m^3 at worst. Over my head today it's about 300 J/kg. A microcell thunderstorm is about ten kilometers on every side, and heating that much air would take ~days. In sum: It could trigger rain if rain was in the forecast, but it can't cause rain on its own. 

First: What would such a plant look like? Think pinecone. Pinecones are designed to open up after a forest fire and exploit all the nutrients and space that was just opened up by all that fire. So let's imagine a dry coniferous forest with pretty dense, spindly, resinous undergrowth so it burns hot and fast and completely. Weathering the fire isn't really an option. A closed container filled with oxidizers(nitrates or maybe phosphates or even acetone peroxide) and simple fats or sugars (note: this is expensive in terms of nitrogen, but given the time between fires this may be worth it for the plant) hangs off the plant. Maybe it drops off when warmed. Come firetime, the heat from the blaze sets off the explosive and the seeds are fired every which way as shrapnel. Some will pass through the blaze and land safely in the already-burned area. Some will not. C'est la vie. Natural selection should ensure fairly slow detonation speeds and fairly large seed shrapnels for more distance. Grow yourself an orchard and manually select the best trees for more explosive power and larger fruits. In terms of warfare: Who knows. Grenades would be really easy to invent? 

Suppose the "mountaintop" is actually a plateau much larger than the proposed basin; the plateau might have an area of 300,000 square km at an altitude of 1000 meters. (For comparison, the Tibetan plateau has about eight times the area and five times the altitude.) Now say nearly the entire top of this plateau is sloped inwards, with a low point a little over 100 km from the northern edge, and around the low point the plateau is bowl-shaped. So rain water flows from all over the plateau (eroding the surface and carrying salt that the water dissolves from the eroded material) toward this low point, collecting into a lake. Water will evaporate continually from the lake's surface, leaving the dissolved salt behind. The deeper the lake gets, the more surface area it has (provided it doesn't overflow the edge of the plateau), and the faster water evaporates. The lake will remain a salt lake with no outlet river provided that as the lake fills in, the rate of evaporation rises to meet the rate at which water flows in before the lake spreads to the edge of the plateau. So you just need that the amount of annual rainfall on the plateau (or at least the part that flows toward the lake) is the amount that evaporates in one year from a 100-km radius round lake at that latitude and altitude. If you're really concerned about scientific realism you could work out the amount of rainfall and the rate of evaporation to see if they match. If the geography described above would collect too much rainwater, make the plateau smaller or make the lake larger; if too little, make the plateau larger or rainier, or lower the rate of evaporation, perhaps by being not so close to the equator. 

You don't necessarily need to fry all electronics, just make long-distance communication much more difficult and expensive. Suppose your binary system is bathed in radio-frequency "noise" so severe that it would jam just about any attempt to send a radio signal. It's so bad that you can't even use a telephone system with a wire between two adjacent rooms unless the wire is very heavily shielded. The development of any sophisticated electronics would be severely held back by this natural phenomenon, allowing other technology (such as rocketry) a long time to develop before computing could catch up. And when computing is finally developed, it remains a highly localized thing for far longer than it did on Earth, because the infrastructure that would be required to support the networking we enjoy in many places on Earth today would be orders of magnitude more expensive to build than ours was. Spaceships might then become a practical reality before even the telephone does, let alone the kind of global internet we enjoy. As a reader, I think I could swallow the notion that a civilization in such circumstances might even get around to building fairly sophisticated robots before they decided that there was an easier way to communicate over long distances than than either personal travel or couriers. 

For the purposes of this question I'm going to assume the monomolecular blade is about 1-2 water molecules across. Much smaller than that and quantum forces start to dominate and I'm not a quantum physicist, I'm a biologist. Anyway. Such a blade behaves very strangely, and how much damage it does depends a lot on the kinetics of what you're doing with the target. A leg holding a person up, for instance, will be nearly completely unaffected. It might hurt, but not much and not for long. Cell membranes are, on the microscale, self-healing. They're built of phospholipids that self-assemble into two-sided layers, and if disrupted they reassemble very quickly. Nerves are essentially long tubes made of cell membrane, and the opening in the membrane created by the blade's passage is not wide enough or long-lasting enough to damage the neuron. The membranes will therefore mostly be fine, and any damage is small enough to be repaired by the body. DNA deserves a quick look, but essentially any nucleus that the blade passes through will have its DNA shredded into hundreds or thousands of pieces, and even organisms capable of reassembling double-stranded breaks are bound to get it wrong at least once. Catastrophic DNA damage, and cell death follows. However, the slice of cells this actually happens to is pretty small, and cell death from DNA damage takes a few minutes minimum, so this isn't fatal or even particularly wounding. Bones are a bit weird, but on that scale ossified cartilage(bone) is more like a sponge than a continuous material. See here for pictures. The space between the pores is filled with cartilage and other goopy things, but if the bone is under compression the spiky bits of sponge will jam into the holes on the other side and hold together enough to heal properly. If the bone was under tension it depends on the forces involved. Proteins are a different question entirely. Muscles are essentially extremely long proteins overlapping in a staggered configuration, and are nearly always under some amount of tension. The blade would cut these protein assemblages and they'd recoil, leaving a gap between muscle proteins. Laminins and the proteins that give structural strength to skin and connective tissue would also be cut neatly. In terms of the bigger picture, the two bits of flesh would be structurally very weakly connected for the first . Two perfectly smooth surfaces stuck together with a sticky semifluid adhere fairly tightly, so even though the proteins are cut there's still some strength to the join. In a short period of time(seconds? less? The kinetics are complicated) the protein matrices that give strength to the tissue will recombine. Shortly after that blood clotting factors released by ruptured cells will glue together other damaged pieces of tissue. Note: the cells won't be ruptured by the blade, but more likely by the spring-loaded protein networks inside them suddenly moving. Recovery of full strength may take days in the case of cartilage but there are few structures in the human body that aren't under constant remodeling. If the body part is under strong forces at the time of the cut the two halves might peel apart before they can be knit back together, but the strength required is a question of strike speed, temperature, body viscosity, and some other unknowns. NB: 'strong forces' are experienced by the heart every time it beats, so whether you live or die may be a question of whether your heart was beating when you got slashed with the monofilament or not.