This superluminal model isn't exactly what the OP had in mind. The planet would have to be moving at a constant velocity of ten times lightspeed (c) to achieve a tenfold rate of time passing. 

Most likely, no. Insects are too well adapted to their environment which means there is little or none selective pressure for them to acquire increases in their intelligence to survive. So unless the environment changes and these changes are such that natural selection can push the arthropoda into developing more intelligence. Among us (now extinct due to a slight careless with chemistry) vertebrates those species which have developed sapience there is the phenomenon of neoteny where organisms enjoy extended phase of childhood. Adulthood tends to harden the arteries and slow down any capacity for learning and intellectual adaptation. Humans seem to have developed their intelligence because of the massive amount of social interaction we are exposed to and is part of our behavioural heritage. I agree with TrEs-2b that arthropods like insects and spiders have no capacity of childhood and adolescent learning. They are effectively hard-wired for the behaviour they need for the ecosystems they inhabit and for their survival. The only tools they have are biological adaptations, eg, web building in spiders and nest building in ants. The only improvement comes from evolutionary changes. No tools in the human sense or tool-making. No tool improvement. No art. They do communicate via pheronomes and chemical markings. if environmental changes did something to select for enhanced communication this might be the beginning of the evolutionary road to sapience. It's just that this is highly improbable. Very, very improbable. Pity. Smart insects would be a nice idea. Environmental changes for possible rise of insect sapience After posting the above answer realisation struck! There will be changes to Earth's environment in the future. Plus the fact that the OP's Evil Overlord has established what are several of the necessary changes for the rise of insect sapience. In roughly 500 million years time the planet Earth will undergo increased heating as the Sun's evolves along the Main Sequence. This means the future environment will be undergoing massive changes and while insects have been adaptationally stable for many hundreds of millions of years, to survive they will have to undergo radical evolutionary change. Insects are poikilotherms, their metabolic activity rises with temperature. A hotter planet means more active active insects. This will increase their interaction with their environment thereby increasing selective pressures and driving the increased probability of further adaptation. However, the first two environmental changes have already been put in place. Competitors with sapience have been removed by the Evil Overlord's poison. Since all large vertebrates are also gone this means any vertebrates with a potential to evolve sapience are also out of the race. Second, with humans and most of the apex fauna gone plants will thrive and as their abundance rises so will the oxygen content of Earth's atmosphere. A more highly oxygenated atmosphere will enable insects to grow bigger. This means insects will be able to develop bigger brains and comprehensive nervous systems. If these conditions continue for the next 500 million years as temperatures and environments undergo changes to adapt it is feasible that insects might develop the correct suite of evolutionary adaptations that will enable, at least, insect to acquire sapience. If so, an insect sapient species may arise under the light of a Sun turned red giant and by the time they develop civilisation this will be under a white dwarf star. 

This has been discussed in a variety of answers. An obvious candidate for FTL travel is the wormhole. It is suggested you search Worldbuilding SE for questions about FTL travel and wormholes. More information about wormholes and FTL travel can be found here. This is a good starting point. If you have looked Jason Hinson's website about relativity you will aware of the many difficulties. Whether and how they might be resolved in a subject for cutting edge research in physics. The likelihood is that special relativity will remain unscathed and there is no FTL travel. However, nature has a way of surprising us. 

The spacecraft might be a wingless electromagnetic air vehicle (WEAV) which gets its lift by ionizing the surrounding air and gaining lift. Details here and it's not everyday the citation is to the Scientific American about a flying saucer. 

One way to make this work would be if the 'magic' was that old science-fiction standby the force-field. It is also necessary some highly advanced hypertechnological aliens visited the planet established a series of force-fields to sequester thirty percent of the otherwise Earthlike planet's surface. The force-fields will be primarily designed to keep what will become two different atmospheres separate and distinctly apart. Once the force-fields were up and working they xenoformed the 30% of the planet. Giving it a different atmosphere from the rest of the planet. Then seeded it with alien lifeforms that can live, thrive and survive in the xenoformed environment. This environment will be large and extensive enough to self-sustaining. It will have a diversity of biomes and a range of ecologies. The force-fields will be permeable to solid objects, like animals. This will allow organisms to pass between environments. if the atmospheres of two environments are too different, then organisms will perish if they stay too long. However, over enough time evolution might allow adaptation and organisms will arise that can survive in both environments. This is not guaranteed, but it is potentially possible. Xenoformed and xenoforming is the alien equivalent of terraforming planets to make them suitable for alien biospheres, by aliens for aliens. 

Source: Clams, Encyclopedia Britannica While clams developing legs would be a wonderful piece of biological whimsy, since they belong to phylum Mollusca it is more likely they will develop a foot to move around on, just like a snail. Considering the things they feed on are microscopic organisms floating or drifting in seawater, clams gaining mobility will not significantly affect their prey. Effectively nothing changes, except for the clams now getting around, which may improve their chances of finding currents carrying more microplankton for them to feed upon. The main change for humans may be people saying "Catch that clam before it gets away." 

Source: Wikipedia entry on Total War Had Hitler sued for peace prior to the American entry into the War, then yes it might have been possible. There is still the small problem of Winston Churchill who would have been most likely to disagree. So this suggests an even smaller window of opportunity. Nazi Germany negotiated a peace settlement prior to Churchill assuming the premiership of Great Britain. Essentially it was the doctrine of unconditional surrender that would have blocked any peace treaty to preserve a Nazi German Empire. 

Any spacecraft that is the size and mass of a modern destroyer and expects to be landing on Earth-type planets on a regular basis, must have access to massive amounts of power. Getting to Earth-type planets on this scale would require a highly developed form of long-range interstellar travel. Spaceships with more than sufficient power could simply descend and land vertically to touchdown on a planet's surface. Of course, placing a large mass on unconsolidated ground has its problems. It's like a building without foundations and is sure to fall over. However, spaceships with more than sufficient power might descend vertically and instead of actually touchdown it might simply hover just close enough to the ground for easy access to the surface. This could be done by ladders or extensible elevators or short-range landing craft, say, helicopters or even jet-packs. The sensible and logical way to land on an Earth-type planet is to actually not touchdown. Park your spaceship in orbit around the planet and use spaceplanes to travel back and forth to the planet's surface. This also has the advantage of having your spaceship pass over every part of the planet and survey it from orbit. It's safer too (well, from direct attack by planetary surface based hostile forces, but not from disgruntled indigents armed with missiles). The sight of a huge spaceship the size of a destroyer hovering above the surface of an alien but Earth-type planet with landing craft and explorers skimming through the air with their jet-packs would be a magnificent. Why bother touching down anywhere else when the sheer theatrically beats marine or land surface or giant airstrip touchdowns. 

Death doesn't create a loophole. As long as the two Guys don't occupy the same time and place they can both exist in the same universe. In this scenario, one of them is dead and his exact duplicate is wandering around alive. This isn't a problem. It's simply another case of the querent overthinking the situation and believing there's a problem when there's not. Rest easy. Death doesn't create the loophole, it's old fashioned differences in spatio-temporal locations. 

The simplest scientific reason is that it's not our universe. There needs to exist something, a form of mysterious and by our standards an inexplicable form of energy, that powers psi abilities, skills, and powers. However, this works it must linked to the biology of persons, animals or plants that can express these psi-powers. If the basis of psi-powers is inherently biological, then this will influenced by the genetic nature of the persons. There might be genes that are directly responsible for specific psi-powers or it may require complex combinations of genes to enable psi-power(s) to be expressed. If it's the latter, then the fact that mutants seem to have suddenly arisen is due to a critical mass of persons developing in the general population, with sufficient combinations of genes to have psi-powers. An explanation of this sort is given in John Ridley's superhero novel Those Who Walk in Darkness (2003) to explain the recent appearance of numerous so-called supernormals. As explanations go, it's not too bad. As for the nature of the psi-energy responsible for mutant powers that's a whole different area of quasi-scientific fabulation. 

Rather than a bridge the running of a large starship will probably resemble the command centre of NASA with a multitude of console jockeys overseeing the different functions of the spacecraft. They are essentially the ship's crew and the overall supervision level of the command centre would be the bridge as such. The ultimate command and control technology for starships could be autonomous machine intelligence. This would be essentially an integrated network of computers connected to and overseen by a set of AIs. The human officers would be located in a monitoring room to ensure the starship is following orders and where they can issue orders. The monitoring room will be the bridge. The only humans on board will be the ship's officer corps and specialist personnel to assist with the starship's missions. In this case, the starship itself is the body of the crew. It is tempting to call the officers parasites living in and off the body of their starship (but that's another story). There will need to be continuous communication between the bridge officers and the starship. Depending on speed of action and the response times needed, it is possible the starship will be briefed and given its orders, in advance, about which actions to take and how to respond in a range of situations. For example, assume the starship has a jump-drive. It might be ordered to jump into a suspected hostile planetary system and if it encounters an enemy in superior numbers either evade them at sublight velocity or retreat to a safe distance with another hyperspace jump or if it encounters starships from a friendly species, advise the bridge and prepare to open communications. A smart starship might be capable of making a range of its own decisions, but like all command structures it will be answerable to its officers. In summary, a starship's bridge could be a NASA style controla nd command centre if large numbers of officers and crew are required or a small number of human officers commanding an intelligent, near-autonomous starship. 

The Condon Report (1968) had an appendix that investigated the possibility of an antichthon in Earth orbit. Please note an "antichthon" is essentially a Counter-Earth. They concluded that an antichthon could not remain completely hidden. by the Sun, as there would be times in the orbital periods of two planet -- Earth and the Counter-Earth -- when each would be visible to the other. This finding about planets sharing the same orbit was an incidental full note in their deliberations, but it was nice to discover that the topic of antichthonal planets had been researched. A copies of the full Condon Report or going by its formal title of Scientific Study of Unidentified Flying Objects can be found here and here In conclusion, could two planets follow the same orbit and never seen see each other? No. There will be times when both planets will be visible to each other. . 

The following lecture on the Carnegie Council website further collaborated the historical role of the Soviet Union in Japan's surrender. 

To paraphrase JBS Haldane: "Drop an insect down a mineshaft and it will flutter to the bottom. Drop a man and his bones break, a horse splatters." Haldane wrote the definitive article on the subject called "On being the right size". He also pointed out the role of the square-cube law which explains why giants don't exist. It can be found here and there is also a link to a copy in downloadable PDF format. There is also a relationship between size and ecology. Dinosaurs roamed around on very large landmasses courtesy of continental drift. The remains of Mammoths were discovered that lived on islands and had evolved into pigmy species. Big animals need large areas for their ecology to support them. The smaller the ecosystem, the smaller the organism. An aside: considering King Kong and the dinosaurs he fought lived on Skull Island, if normal biology and evolution applied then King Kong would have been a pigmy giant ape and the dinosaurs only the size of chickens. This means King Kong would be around the size of a teddy bear. Somehow I can imagine a scene with Fay Wray holding pigmy King Kong in one of her hands. :) 

This is a reasonably model of a tidally locked planet that could have liquid water present on its surface. The OP has identified the majority of the features the planet needs to satisfy the situation. There already is an earthlike planet that has many of these features already, with the exception of being tidally locked. That is, the planet Earth itself. The atmosphere, the oceans, and clouds are excellent mechanisms for redistributing heat on Earth. Earth's relatively faster rotation means temperature variations won't be too extreme. The presence of greenhouse gases such water vapour, CO2, and methane in the Earth's atmosphere also help smooth out temperature variations. It is not unreasonable to assume similar mechanisms will smooth temperature variations to allow for the presence of liquid water on the proposed tidally locked planet. However, the more prolonged heating on the dayside of the planet, especially compared to the nightside, will mean there will be a steeper thermal gradient. Effectively strong wind systems will be necessary to carry heat from the hot dayside to what could have been a very frigid nightside. This will keep the nightside from being locked in permanent frozen night. This a planet where extreme weather will be very extreme, but these extremes, by our standards, will be their normal weather. Expect to find a planet of storms. You might consider the possibility of an orbital resonance to allow the planet to be less tidally locked. This will permit both sides of the planet to be exposed to its primary star. The conditions will be less extreme, but the periods of day and night will still be quite long and the weather stormy. This is only a suggestion for the OP to consider to see if it makes a better world for his purposes.