If you ever consider having a more than two-wheeled bicycle, e.g. a recumbent trike, you can no longer use one-wheeled, a.k.a. inline trailers because they will add a lot of lateral torque while cornering, making the whole train fall over to the outside of the corner far easier. 

I live in Germany, so it should be sold here or at least there should be a vendor that ships here. Edit: A bonus would be if there was a way to somehow carry a kid's bicycle on the trailer such that the kid can ride as far as he wants and then climb into the trailer and I can continue. 

It depends. If the threads on the inside of the tyre are not damaged, only check for any left-over glass debris in the gash and leave as-is. Otherwise, either ditch the tyre or boot it from the inside, like @Batman suggested already. 

Ask the boss/janitor if there is some storage space available. Maybe there's a storage closet, the bottom of a stairwell, unused rooms in the basement or some such. In my current job, we have a corner in storage where old equipment is stored until there is enough to scrap, and I was always allowed to put my bike there. If you get your space, think about putting a tarp on the floor to keep it clean if your bike is wet or you hang your gaiters on the bike to dry. Maybe you can even get your bosses to put in a bike rack in a spare room/garage and promote cycling to work to keep people fit. 

My fixie started out with Mavic CXP33 ("normal") rims. At some point I switched to Rigida DP18 rims on the same hubs. The reasons for switching were mostly style-related. The DP18's are not really "Deep V", but a lot deeper than the CXP33. Subjectively, the CXP33 were weaker, i.e. went out-of-true more often, but a cursory google'ing showed that these rims seemed to be weak even compared to other "normal" rims. I didn't notice any difference in handling, but that's not really surprising as my fixie is my commuting bike and the cities I lived in all had a lot of traffic lights, so building up high speeds was nearly impossible. Having built a couple of wheels, I suspect building a wheel with Deep Vs and large-flange hubs really is a PITA. If using traditional three-cross lacing, the spoke-to-flange angles will probably be problematic, too. 

It depends. On a road bike you'll want them fairly tight to be able to ride on the hoods without the brake levers turning away or moving downward on the bar. On a mountain bike, at least the brake levers should be able to rotate away in case of a crash. But they still should be relatively tight such that they don't turn away while braking or because of bumps. Depending on where you ride, I'd rather have them a little too tight than lose the ability to brake because the levers are somewhere they're not supposed to be. As a rule of thumb, you shouldn't be able to rotate them without applying some force, similar to opening a pickle jar. 

You've got a rack and panniers, so I suppose you're on a commuter bike. It shouldn't surprise you that you cruise at 30mph (which is already quite fast). You would probably get far faster if you improved aerodynamics, e.g. on a road bike with narrow tyres and drops or TT bars. You wouldn't spend so much energy into ripping a gigantic hole into the air. Losing 10kg of weight will probably not help you much in this regard - at > 30km/h weight doesn't really come into play much. As a Velomobile rider, I can easily cruise 40km/h over a long distance, although the bike weighs about 30kg with tools and food. It's all about aerodynamics. 

Even if the glass doesn't work through the puncture proof layer (which it will, eventually), it's still a good idea to check once in a while for cuts etc, especially in the side walls, which almost never have a puncture proof layer. It's a "better safe than sorry" approach, but it takes all of five minutes to check both tires, so in my opinion that's time well spent if you know what happens when the tires blow out on a descent or, in your case, running a green light very late. 

Having a brake bleed kit helps do the job quickly and cleanly, but if you're not doing it very often you don't necessarily need a kit. As long as your bike is setup so there aren't many places for bubbles to get caught, you can just work the lever and tap the lines and so on while the bleed bolts are open, to assist air bubbles rising to the top and out of the system (catching any leaking fluid in a perfectly clean container so you can re-use it). I have a bleed kit and don't bother using it, my bike generally doesn't trap any air bubbles anyway. If there are a few small bubbles in the system, the brake lever will still work, it'll just feel a tad spongy or soft. I would just try doing as good a job as you can without a bleed kit, and then if they aren't working as good as they should order a proper kit for your Promax brakes. 

There are many apps available on all smartphone platfroms based on Open Street Map. On iOS I have had very good experience using MotionX GPS. It's cheap and feature packed. The quality of the OSM maps will vary from incredibly good to useless, depending where you're travelling. MotionX can fetch data from other sources and can even be used without any map at all (eg: ocean navigation) so it's still the right choice even if the OSM maps aren't very good where you're travelling. With regard to battery, you can buy waterproof/shockproof cases with a built in battery that will significantly extend battery life. But they're very expensive. You can also buy just an external battery pack, which plugs into the dock connector and will give you an extra charge or two - these are fairly cheap. 

Chances are your tyre has something sharp on the inside, that is rubbing on the tube while you ride and eventually causing another puncture. Fixing a puncture is not good enough. You also need to find out why the puncture happened in the first place, and solve that problem. Remove the sharp object from the tyre (usually it sticks through and then gets stuck in there) or if it's a pinch flat you need higher air pressure. When replacing the tyre, always fit it so the label lines up with the valve stem. That way if you're repeatedly getting punctures in the same place you will know exactly where on the tyre to search for the offending sharp object that is stuck on the inside, causing repeated punctures. Also check the wheel rim for anything sharp or damaged. But you have a new bike, so that's unlikely unless there was a manufacturing fault. 

I have a Shimano BB-ES25 bottom bracket and 45T crankset that was removed from a Giant-CRX City with an eccentric hub (it had Shimano Alfine internal hub gears). They have literally never been used, and the bike they came out of has since been stolen. Now I'm planning a custom fixed gear bike build, and hoping to re-use these parts, since I'm on a shoestring budget. What parts do I need to use this BB in a frame that expects a standard sized BB? Also, am I correct that, since this is designed for an eccentric hub, I should be able to use any frame for my fixie, instead of being restricted to ones with a horizontal dropout? 

My dad did that when I was a kid, and lived in a more "interesting" city. He pulled everything off, taped over moving parts, sanded it a bit, sprayed it with undercoat paint, and put it back together. No need to stress about doing a good job... It's not meant to look pretty. We were Ina coastal city, and from a distance the paint job looked like rust (as if it had been in sea air for years). Of course, the bike lost a lot of value... But we never sold it anyway. Kept it in the family for years, always properly maintained, until eventually it wasn't fixable (and not sellable either). A good bike doesn't need to be sold in my opinion. 

The brakes should adjust themselves automatically. Try pumping the lever all the way a couple of times. If that doesn't help, or the contact feels squishy, the brakes probably need bleeding. Either do that yourself or take the bike to your LBS. 

I still don't understand why people are so anxious to get the pressure right to the last millibar. It will vary with load, temperature and time anyway, even on a relatively short ride of only a couple of km. As long as it's more or less correct, that's good enough. For road bikes (~8 bar/116 psi typical tire pressure), a 0.2 bar/3 psi difference is absolutely acceptable IMHO. On an MTB, which runs far lower pressures, less is better, but as the tires are far bigger, a pump stroke will also not put that much more pressure on them. In the end, I try to end up within ~3% of the target, which has served me well the last 20 years. So, what @Remy said in his comment is the way to go. Prestas will click open when the pressure in the hose surpasses that in the tube. So don't lean on your pump with full force until that happens and you're good to go. Also, most floor pumps designed for road bikes don't have the volume to make your tires burst with just one stroke. 

If it's just a very short "zing" once every revolution, there's nothing to worry about -- it's pretty normal at least for downhill-oriented bikes to have their discs slightly out of true and bending them back will probably do more damage than good. Otherwise, you should either take the bike to your LBS to get the disc trued or get a truing tool and do it yourself. 

In Germany, there's the "Zweiradmechaniker", which is taught like any other craft, i.e. you learn it from an existing mechanic. You don't need to have this education to open a bike store though. 

I believe one reason is more "stiffness" in the cable. Cable housing typically contracts when the cable is contracted. That's why Nokon also builds bicycle cable housing now. With The frame attachments, you get almost half a meter less housing that may contract. This could lead to crisper shift and brake feel. 

The next Vätternrundan is in approx eight months. My suggestion is - get mileage in. 300km isn't so hard to ride if you're okay with say 150km, i.e. can ride that two days in a row without excruciating pain or soreness. The speed you mention is a whole different matter. If you haven't ridden these kinds of speed on shorter distances yet, it will get tough to get up to par. My suggestion would be to not go for the Sub9 group on your first Vätternrundan. It's simple as that. Nothing is more frustrating than falling out of the time frame 25km from the finish line. The Vätternrundan for "normal people" has far, far bigger timeframes; I believe the slowest group needn't ride faster than 25km/h on average, which is no problem for most amateur riders, especially in a group. 

The most important things imho are tools to fix flats (patches, glue, tire levers, any tools needed to get the wheels off) and keep the bike alive (chain oil, some rags (old T-shirts will do), something to clean the bike with) 

The HP Velotechnik Scorpion is available with three front chain rings, three-gear internal hub, 8-speed rear derailleur setup. This has the additional advantage that you can shift while stopped, e.g. after emergency stops or similar. I found it rather tedious to keep the overview over which gear I'm currently in. My Velomobiel Quest has triple front, 9-speed rear derailleur and that covers enough ground for me. Walking pace is not a problem and I spin out at about 70km/h, which is already pretty hard to keep up, even with race fairing. Depending on where you live, riding 70km/h is already pretty dangerous taking into account that trikes cannot brake too well because the rear wheel will lift off pretty quickly.