Since the belief in invariance of physical laws with respect to space and time translations is a pre-requisite to do science, and given that Noether's theorem establishes the equivalence between those types of invariance and the laws of conservation of momentum and energy, can one conclude that those laws were a priori necessary (synthetic a priori) ? 

Let's say that true free will (and not only the impression of free will) is only possible if the world is not deterministic (meaning that the future of universe in not determined by its state at an initial time t0). Let's say that "F" means "Free will exist" and "D" means "the world is deterministic". I start therefore from: F <=> nonD. Now, if time travel is possible, free will can be problematic, as I could go back in time and kill my father or even myself, making my time travel from the future impossible. This is a well-known paradox of time travel. Let's say that "T" means "Time travel is possible". Then, in my view, F => non T. Which means that : T => D. As a conclusion, if time travel was ever found possible, it would then prove that the world is deterministic, and that free will is an illusion. (additional comments based on Michael's answer: 1°. I should rather write that nonD => nonT and therefore T => D, in order to include other possibilities of nonD (other than F only). 2°. I am only talking about time travel in which a human being from the future can interact with other people in the past.) 

I personally fit better in 2b. I'd love to read everything about every philosopher, but I have neither the motivation nor the time. So usually I prefer to read about previous philosophers by contemporary ones, and read from the originals when I think an idea is worth understanding better. And remember, in philosophy even logic is open for debate, so you will find that sometimes what you have with some philosophers is a different set of premises, including the ones that do not value logic that much. 

If you establish that distinction, then you are saying that there is some "not-I", defeating the idea of solipsism. If you don't, then all you are saying is a kind of tautology in which "all that exists is", since you cannot separate anything to refer as "I" in "everything is I". 

I would say that we can divide criticism to logic as pre-logic and post-logic. In pre-logic criticisms, people don't quite understand logic and are resistant to it already. Often they have only that stereotypical notion that logic turns a person into a non-sensitive robot. All their contact with logic was superficial and at a distance. In post-logic criticisms, someone knows logic well enough to get close to its boundaries. Then that person can start to discern where logic can or cannot go, and even deal with that kind of statement that "I can imagine such and such". Probably the person you're refering to is in the first category, but using ideas that are dealt with by people in the second one. The approach I try in those cases is usually acknowledge what the person is arguing, but saying that those things can only be really dealt with after you have some good grasp of logic. And to do so, first you have to get within its boundaries, and within its boundaries, necessary truths are... necessary. :) Besides, when a person argues like that, they are usually trying to make a point by using logic - at least in some sense. They are trying to make you conclude, by the premise of their imagination, that there can be such a universe. Logic is a wonderful system that we stumbled upon - maybe by inventing it, maybe by discovering it - that for some reason works amazingly well. And I think that is enough for us to give it a good credit, even if afterwards we question its limits. 

Maybe we can follow Hume and his thoughts about miracles. Evaluating the truth of theories of the kind you mentioned can be done by comparing the probability that they are true, with the probability that the witnesses are hallucinating, mistaking or lying. Generally, you don't need to go in a very deep analysis, and a very rough estimation of those probabilities will give you a simple answer. If it is not the case, it means that you have to go through a detailed analysis of all the arguments. In the case of Bob's fairies, you have to compare : 1. The probability that Bob and other witnesses have made a mistake, even if they are truly convinced of what they saw, accounting for the propensity of human beings to believe fabulous stories; 2. The probability that fairy exist, but are not related to any other kind of animal or entities regularly observed, and were only observed by a very limited number of common individuals, who cannot produce a clear evidence. In my view, P1 >> P2. If you think P1 is of the same order of magnitude as P2, then good luck. 

I have some formal training in philosophy, but I have lots of gaps in my knowledge. I mainly read what interests me, so the same gaps tend to remain - usually about things that doesn't draw my attention that much. A even bigger problem is that I don't even know how large those gaps are. I'm trying to find a good resource to help me handle that. It'd be great to have something made with that purpose - tracking what I don't know -, but I think it's probably too specific to exist. So I was thinking about maybe using a philosophy undergrad program and go through its reading lists as well as assignments. I've searched for a full program in a bunch of universities but only got partial ones so far. Where can I find a full undergrad program in philosophy - preferably by a good university -, including all readings and assignments? Also, any other type of resources that could help me acomplish closing those gaps? Notice that I don't want a history of philosophy book or anything similar. Although the history of philosophy is part of what I want, my main purpose here is not historical. 

Turbulence is very sensitive to initial conditions, and, in this sense, is chaotic. But I do not agree that is not deterministic. Direct Numerical Simulation (DNS) allows one to simulate the production of vortices without using simplifying sub-models. Such predictions might fail to perfectly match an experiment, because they are sensitive to initial conditions (they are chaotic), but they are still deterministic. Now I am not familiar with the concept of "saturated phenomenon", but it looks quite close to the definition of a chaotic phenomenon. 

Following Putnam, I cannot possibly be a brain in a vat, because (if my understanding is correct) I can only refer to "vats" that are not the ones in which I suggest my brain could be. But what would prevent me from putting actual brains in vats and simulate a fake world for them (if I was able to)? Are they brains in vats but not "brains*" in "vats*" ? ("*" means "in the world I simulate for them") If this is true, I could be a "brain!" in a "vat!" ("!" means "in a world someone simulates for me") 

There are two things here. First, maybe ad hominem was historically born for using with individuals (I don't know about its history). But since its purpose is to point to a logical error, I don't see why one could not use it to refer to the same error, only applied to institutions. I don't know of a fallacy specific to insitutions, so I don't see a problem in referring to ad hominem. Well, that said, there's the second thing. A fallacy is usually an error in argument. In this case, if one says "A because of B", I'm commiting ad hominem if I argue that it is wrong because the person saying is ugly. That is because the ugliness of a person is irrelevant to the argument's truth and validity. Even if we use "stupid" instead of "ugly", it would still be a fallacy. Even though "stupidity" may hinder someone's capability of argumentation, their argument should be considered on its own merits. But that doesn't mean that anything citing someone's characteristic is an ad hominem. For example, if I say "A because of B", there is the premise B and the conclusion A. You could challenge my conclusion by saying that A logically does not follow B. Or you might challenge my premise B. If you know I'm a pathological liar, and you don't know if B is true, then you have all the right to question my premise B based on my history of lying. So you can't say that my logic is wrong because I'm a regular liar, but you can doubt the truthness of B. Yes, it is "against the person" in a way, but not necessarily irrelevant to the argument. Hence an ad hominem fallacy does not necessarily apply.