Instant stop = reduced to pulp. Of course, it's more likely your speedster would still be going at Mach 2, but suddenly unable to move his legs fast enough to maintain that speed against air resistance. With the water passing underneath at Mach 2, his next step will likely result in a torn-off foot and falling forward. The Mach 2 airflow from the front will then lift him, cause him to spin uncontrollably for a while, perhaps tear off clothing, hair and/or limbs. All that doesn't matter as the hero has died from massive hemorrhaging in his brain due to the G-forces involved in the spin. Then he crashes into the water and turns into a cloud of fish food. There might be a small shock wave involved, but no more than he was already causing running over the water at Mach 2... Some animals involved in this production will have been harmed. 

It seems very unlikely. Gravity makes rings exactly the way we see them and even if a passing body disturbed the ring, it would slowly go back to a ring shape. The only thing I can imagine is a pair of captured moons orbiting around each other, tracing a slow spiral around the ring in the same orbit but opposite direction, with exactly half a spiral done when they get back to the same point on the ring, eventually shaping the ring's edges into the same half spiral, giving you your möbius strip. I think that the physics would not check out. The ring would likely be torn apart and the moons' orbits would never be stable. Still, it would make a pretty picture. . 

Daybreak and nightfall would be spectacular A flat coin shape would have a day face and a night face with sudden transitions because unlike a sphere, it blocks all sunlight with its own shadow, there is no refraction around the sphere. If you start at noon, things would appear quite normal and stay so into twilight as the suns moves lower in the sky. But the moment the sun passes the horizon, it will be completely dark. There may be some slight glow from clouds for a minute, but if the atmosphere is as thin a layer above the coin as it is above Earth (quite likely with similar gravity), it will be covered in the coin's shadow very quickly. Daybreak would arrive just as suddenly, with a slight glow on the horizon the only warning that the sun is about to rise. Then morning and afternoon would seem fairly normal again. No scientist is going to take long in figuring this one out. 

Science-based and "cannot be stopped by anything" don't go together. Having said that, a lot depends on your humanoid villain's ability to accelerate. If he (it?) was a more absolute version of that Juggernaut guy from the X-Men, he won't be doing any serious damage to the planet. Make a crater, sure. But then he'd be moving through soft, even liquid magma. By pushing it aside, he would impart a tiny bit of momentum to the planet, but nothing noticeable. He might cause the same effect "swimming" through the ocean in one direction for a few weeks. The problem with modeling how much energy and momentum the villain transfers to the planet is that his own momentum is essentially infinite, so it becomes a matter of how much energy the magma can absorb as he pushes it aside, and how much of that will just turn into heat by the way of friction a few meters away from the villain's path. And unfortunately, viscous liquids like magma can absorb a lot of energy... If the villain hijacked a fighter jet and flew it into the ground at max speed, say mach 3, he'd be acting like a big bullet flying through water. To visualize this, here's a video of a bullet underwater (start at 2:00). You'll notice the bullet creates an awesome shock wave and bubble... which immediately collapses without causing any big splash at the surface. The only differences would be that A) he wouldn't slow down or stop and B) he'd be tiny compared to this bullet in the tank. To do real damage, he'd have to launch himself at the planet at incredible speeds (with the help of Evil Superman or Evil Flash maybe?) probably at some appreciable fraction of light speed. The sheer power of the impact blast (where solid rock gets vaporized instantly) would probably cause a firestorm big enough to destroy the surface of the world long before the villain can impart enough energy to the planet's insides to blow it up. 

Putting beacon satellites next to the important wormholes (the ones that allow for the shortest travel times to destination planets and space stations) seems like the simplest solution and can obviously be paid for by advertising, pointing out the businesses at the other end of that wormhole. They are however vulnerable to foul play. What if for example some nefarious agenst of "Burger Hegemon" drags the beacon from "Tacozoid Bell" over to another wormhole that leads to a black hole? A more universal system might be that important destinations and transit areas send out very strong, encrypted signals. These pass through any nearby wormholes and come out the other side. Ships would identify wormholes by the signals coming out, using the strength of the signal to determine to which destination a wormhole leads and how far it is from the wormhole exit to the destination beacon. A signal might even pass through more than one wormhole if it's very strong or benefits from some unknown physics, allowing the ships to see more than one jump ahead to find their route. An example: Alice wants to travel from Earth to the trading post around Alpha Centauri B. She tells the computer to scan for the unique code belonging to the trading post and gets three results, the strongest one appearing to come from a wormhole near Jupiter. After verifying the code against the public key in the ship's database and determining it's authentic, she sets course for Jupiter and enters the wormhole. Not having used this particular wormhole, Alice is quite surprised when she emerges from the wormhole in deep interstellar space, more than 200 lightyears from the Solar System or Alpha Centauri. Flying around in a quick circle of the wormhole, she discovers there's a second wormhole only 0.3 AU away that transmits the trading posts signal loud and clear. After the second jump, Alice has arrived at only a few thousand kilometers from the space station. Saving her several days of flying compared to the single jump from Pluto orbit she used to take. 

The Earth and Sun orbit around their combined center of mass, the Barycenter. That point happens to be inside the sun because it so much more massive. If the sun and your planet were the same mass, they'd orbit around a point in the middle. To reverse the situation and have the Barycenter be near or inside the "planet", your "planet" would need to be hundreds of solar masses and yet not have fusion going. Whatever it would be, it would collapse and turn into a black hole or neutron star. 

Living computers The challenge in your question is that space travel requires the same things as an internet from its computers: High-speed long-range communications, processing high volumes of (sensor) data and wide compatibility. If your people design and build such computers for their space ships, it will occur to them to create a wide network and start sharing more and more information. So what if these functions specifically were provided by a completely different device or even living being? Perhaps every navigation computer houses an "Antares Star Crystal" that not only is able to communicate with every other ship so equipped, but also navigates by controlling the ship's drive if it's exposed to the exact light spectrum of a specific nearby star for long distance travel, or a 3D map for close range maneuvering. Your people may or may not be aware that the crystals are sentient, but they provide such a vital service that they are used universally, even if they hijack the ship and return to Antares when not taken back there and exchanged for a different crystal within 3.14 years of being "installed". These Crystals simply don't perform networked communications as far as anyone is aware and they're highly tamper-proof (see hijacked ship above), so nobody in their right minds tries to build an internet using them. 

Either way, you can expect a few years of slow decline as people keep filling up their cars, industrial buyers can't risk having their plants sit idle and oil has a lead time of 6+ months. Then a tipping point will be reached as traders admit to themselves that you are for real. Panic selling will destroy oil prices as countries dependent on that income rush to sell off their reserves. Biggest concern: Chaos and war will ensue in the Middle East as everyone tries to claim part of the suddenly finite pie. Then a humanitarian disaster of epic proportions follows. Food Strengths 

So, you are planning a rapid rise to power and wealth without it being so conspicuous that you draw attention from the people that could discover your secret. Should be easy for someone of your genius, right? Your primary challenge is that whichever "industry" you use for a cover, you absolutely will draw the attention of competitors in that area. The more powerful and established they are, the more they can and will do to investigate, infiltrate, block and hurt you. Let's use a terrible plan to illustrate some of the considerations for your plan. This is how NOT to do it: 

Can it climb the typical sand dune inclination, which can be up to 34 degrees? The steep (downwind) side of sand dunes consists of sand grains on the very edge of collapsing and depending on the type of sand is between 30 and 34 degrees. This is quite steep for a big ball to puff itself against. The other side is usually more gradual, but not necessarily by that much. Even if it could navigate the shallow side, it would not be able to get back without going around the long way, which can be anything from a few hundred meters to several hundred kilometers Can it reach the top of the average dune before running out of "steam"? With no way to anchor itself, the creature needs to ascend every dune in one go. This can be up to 200 meters high, but even 20 meters may be a challenge. The Rocsphere appears to have a CO2 filled bladder for propulsion. That will not contain enough mass (even with some sand mixed in) to propel the creature that far up, so it likely needs to inhale normal air to keep going, at a lesser efficiency. Those would be the biggest risks to a creature that cannot dig its feet into the sand and slog its way up step by step. Note that all earth desert animals with a rolling mode employ it going downhill and have an alternate means of getting back up. Rocky, uneven terrain would seem even worse, but if the Rocsphere could produce enough of a burst to lift itself a few feet in the air, it could probably navigate hop by hop, gathering its energy after each hop. All this could be averted if the creature lives exclusively on perfectly flat, compacted ground like dried lake beds, but your typical desert environment with rocky outcrops and/or sand dunes will prove quite challenging, especially if there are legged predators around who can easily overtake the Rocsphere as soon as they hit an incline.