Belay glasses are (in Europe) so common that they are basically now part of the standard gym/crag equipment, just like an autolocking belay device. In some places, it can be rare to see someone without a pair on. The primary benefit is comfort for the belayer: you have a much more relaxed neck position. This isn't an "old person" thing, it's just more comfortable to be looking straight ahead than craning your neck up. The secondary benefit is safety: a belayer who can comfortably watch their climber is more likely to watch them during the entire climb without looking away to relax their neck. This means the belayer can give a much better belay: they can see the climber ready to clip, about to fall, etc. This means fewer short clips or hard catches. Note, I'm discussing mostly lead climbing, where it's important to watch the climber closely. For top-roping, the benefit is slightly lower since you can get away with "feel". One tip: I usually keep the belay glasses around my neck (or lower on my nose) for the first few clips, where I can see the climber directly. I then put the glasses on quickly around the third clip. 

The clove hitch is probably what you're looking for. You can even tie it directly on the branch/beam/bar without worrying about adding a carabiner. You could also tie it to the carabiner, adjust the length, and clip the carabiner to something else. The clove hitch is one of the most under-utilized climbing knots out there. It's infinitely adjustable because you're directly using the rope/cord, and you can tie it on any number of things. 

I stumbled across it and I saw it in a showcase. I couldn't recognize it. It looks like it's a way to tie fixed loops in the middle of a rope. 

Whenever I had the chance to print a map on A3-sized sheets (11.69 x 16.53 inches) I usually just needed two sheets of that size for my whole planned trip, and most of the time it was fine enough to keep them apart and to swap them according to where I am and where I am heading to. By printing on smaller A4 size sheets though (that's half the above size) any single sheet is rarely enough to hold sufficient information to be useful. Four sheets are necessary to represent the same area printable on two A3-sized ones and keeping to swap between each other and holding them next each other when I need to really feels clumsy and impractical. So. I'd really love to join those sheets togeter to get a decent map out of them. What is the proper way to print such a map, as the first step? I guess I should leave some margins so to be able to overlap the sheets. And, how to actually join those sheets in the best possible way, so that the result is strong and stable and - ideally - gives the feel of a single map rather than a crappy bunch of sheets held somewhat together? 

For the most part, it comes down to certifications. Each organization will give you a particular certificate for completing their courses. These will be recognized by different places differently (e.g., if you are studying for a guide exam). Overall though, the knowledge you gain is the most important part of the course. I wouldn't worry about the particular organization as long as they offer a good (recognized) program at a reasonable price. Most places have a similar structure of courses (WFA: wilderness first air, WFR: first responder, WEMT: wilderness EMT) with increasing commitment and more depth on each topic. 

In a 3:1 (Z-pulley) haul, the victim's rope is used for hauling directly. As you point out correctly, a surface rescue is impossible if you have knots in the rope, since the rope is under tension and you cannot untie the knots. However, you can also drop a different strand of rope down to the victim and haul them out with that (it's then called a rescue strand). Since it's not under tension, it's possible to remove all knots from the rope before sending it down. Some examples are a 2:1 (C-pulley or drop loop) haul or a 6:1 (C cross Z) haul, where in both cases you drop a bight of rope down to the victim. They attach the rope (with a pulley) to their harness, and then the rescuers haul. You could also send down a single strand of rope down and do a 3:1. In any case, for a surface rescue, you need some rope available on the surface. All climbers tied together on a glacier should have some additional rope to perform a rescue. Do note that all these require the victim to be conscious and able to help. If this is not the case, a rescuer needs to rappel into the crevasse, potentially address any immediate life-threatening injuries, clip the rope to the victim, ascend back out, then haul. This gets quite complicated, but is part of the guides' exam. The last option would be for the victim to self-rescue, passing their prussiks over each knot in the rope. Clipping into the knots is possible and makes life a little bit easier. 

It is a one-hour drive from the Ailefroide camping, according to google maps. The Alps are really outstanding for the variety of rock you can find in such a short range. 

I found this route that fitted perfectly. The above link leads to the best topo I could find online (it's in French, unfortunately). Here's a picture from that page: 

I am searching for a sleeping bag that would allow me to comfortably sleep in the snow eventually at a significant altitude (2800 meters - 9000+ feet), but also (and likely most often) at lower altitudes (2000 meter or so). I plan to sleep mostly with no tent (by digging a hole in the ground and then covering it partially with a tarp, or by digging a cave; along with a bivi bag) I really have no idea about what could be the good sleeping bag temp range to look into. I don't want to feel any cold at night, but at the same time I'd want to avoid any extra weight and bulk to carry if it's not necessary - perhaps to end up by sweating in a bag that's way too warm. Any help from any actual alpine winter camper would be appreciated. Many thanks 

Mate if I got it right what you made was even worse than the American Triangle of Death: $URL$ The solution there, would be using only the crack by placing some (3 or 4) pieces there. If you hadn't enough pieces to stick in the crack, it'd had probably been safer with a single piece of gear in the crack and nothing else, than with one piece there, and the other one on the tree. 

I'm interested in both the binary case (e.g., is this boot still waterproof or not?) and the more analog case (e.g., this softshell will keep you dry in a rain storm for about X hours). 

The American Alpine club publishes this data for North America annually, though it's unlikely to cover all accidents. One of the best visualizations of this data I've found is from Steph Abegg: Mountaineering Accident Statistics and Mount Rainier Accident Statistics. 

I have a bunch of partially-full Jetboil canisters from various trips, and I'm trying to figure out approximately how much fuel is left in each of them. How much does a full canister weigh (fuel + canister), and how much does it weigh when it's empty (canister only)? (For reference purposes, I think covering all canister sizes would be useful) 

Black Diamond's Director of Global Quality Kolin Powick (who does much of their gear testing) has this to say: 

My philosophy has always been that if I'm going to trust my life to it, I don't want any doubts in my mind. I'm sure they make decent equipment, and as DavidR pointed out their harnesses are certified by the UIAA. That said, personally I would rather stick with a well-known company that has a proven track record than to save a few bucks. 

It is a self-locking descender with other uses as well. The official page by the manufacturer states that it's not only meant to be used on canyoning: 

Make a big fire. This may sound silly and couterintuitive, but the reason is pretty simple. If you make a small fire you need to put your stuff pretty close to it to have any chance of drying it in a decent amount of time. And if you put clothes or boots near the fire, then you concretely risk to burn them. While if you make a bigger fire, your equipment can dry while staying at a safe distance from it. That's pretty much it. For what matters exploding rocks, please see the comment by Benedikt Bauer to this very reply. 

Most sleeping bags have a rating with several temperatures, one for the upper temperature limit, one for the average woman to sleep in a comfortable position ("Comfort"), one third for an average man in a curled position ("Lower limit"), the last ("Eemphasized") for bare survival, as defined in the EN 13537 Standard Here's two examples: 

According to my jacket instructions, it performs best when clean (gore-tex pores need to be clean from sweat, skin oils, and whatever else from the outside). Also, they instruct to tumble-dry the garment after washing so to renew its water-repellent treatment. Can there be too much washing and tumble drying? Would that ruin the cape on the long run? Or, should I just follow the instructions slavishly? 

I really love wearing an altimeter watch while in the mountains. I know that it's affected by weather, but unfortunately I don't actually know how it is affected. This usually causes me to ignore the altitude readings entirely when the weather is unstable (and thus altimeter readings are inconsistent), rather than use what I have with some kind of mental/watch correction. So, what types of weather patterns impact the altimeter reading? To still estimate the altitude, can I do a mental re-calibration and/or what features of the watch could I use to mitigate any changes due to weather patterns? 

I alternate between the double fisherman's (which everyone has already talked about) and the flat overhand. Lately I've been leaning towards the flat overhand. The benefit of the flat overhand is that it's much easier to tie, inspect, and (most importantly) untie after it's been loaded. When properly tied and dressed, the flat overhand has been shown to be more than adequate for joining two ropes together (or creating a loop) in climbing applications. Being able to untie a loop can be very useful and provide more flexibility. For example, you can turn a long cordelette into bail gear during a descent, or use the cord for an application where it would otherwise be too short. 

These shoes are pretty far gone. At the very least you'll need a new toe rand in addition to the resole, which is going to cost you a significant portion of the price of a new shoe. Your shoes may even be too far gone for any repair at all. Treat this as an opportunity: it's unlikely your first pair of shoes fit exactly right. Now, you know much more about what you liked and disliked about your shoes. Take this chance to try on a lot of new models, and pick out a shoe that you like even more. Next time, get your shoes resoled before they show signs of wear on the rand. Here are some images showing the signs of needing a rand repair. Resoling shoes is great, but rand repair is costly and lowers the lifetime of your shoes. I generally get 3-5 resoles out of my shoes before retiring them.