Lots of reps, weight and discipline eventually lead to a huge base for generating rotational power. See if you like some of these exercises and try to incorporate some into your training. If you really have the intention of increasing rotational power work the flexibility portion (extremely important!) and add weight to that movement (you can do overspeed and overload rotational movements: think of doing a golf drive with an unweighted club and with a 4kg club for e.g. for ovespeed and weighted). One more thing which I did mention; rotational flexibility is big, real big. 

I see training broken up as neural adaptation and hypertrophy. One type of training allows your nervous system to fire at a maximum level while the latter allows you to build size and muscle. The question is does hypertrophy training assist for a greater eventual neural output? Meaning if one gains muscle and gets bigger, do you believe there is a greater potential for that muscle to fire or is your neural ability entirely dependant by your genetics? I mean you can't have a donkey win a Kentucky Derby...but could a low level genetic human being be trained correctly through hypertrophy and neural training to become a professional athlete? 

Underhand, Overhead tosses for distance Russian Twists throws w/ varied MBs. Feet are up in the air balancing the body, a partner throws you the ball, do a full twist and throw the ball back to the partner (or wall) Single Arm rotational throws for distance Single Arm throws for height 

I think this also depends on your age. But putting that aside you should treat yourself to whatever you can get your hands on and eat the motherload out of it. Then get yourself in the weight room, decrease the cardio to a minimum, and hit some solid weights. Don't worry about any strict programming in training, merely focus on doing something. After the body goes through the adaptation process you can look into certain workouts posted in t-nation or even bodybuilding.com. Any of those will work. As for diet add olive oil to everything, have protein shakes like no tomorrow, try to drink a half of gallon a milk a day, eat eggs like their your girlfriend. After you get a good increase of quality protein meals in your system, have hit the weight room 3-4 times a week, diminished cardio then look into refining your structure. It will come naturally since you learn how your body reacts to certain movements, meals, etc. You will build an excellent rhythm after a few weeks and months and fall in love in training. Here's a trick: Try to really focus on a heavy protein diet and training for 14 days straight. You'll kick start a habit ritual in your system and everything else will seem easy from then on. After training for 3-4 years on a very consistent basis you can really drill down the details that will help you get your squat over 600pds and get your bodyfat % below 9%. Then you're on fire and will look back at your post and laugh at your 3 pushups. Until then it's being super consistent, have a big freaking breakfast for quality energy throughout the day and punch it hard like Chewie did. 

For your specific task (calculating burned cals), no matter what fitness band you choose, it's still a calculation to figure out how many calories you've burnt. With any calculation, there's a level of tolerance and you need to be able to accept the tolerance. If you're just worried about the number of calories burned, you could calculate it yourself and be pretty close. With that said, a fitness band is an awesome accessory to help you reach your goals. But what are your expectations? Your question is regarding weight lifting, but your inner question is about calculating calories burned. For weight lifting, you'll find almost no benefit from the FitBit Flex or Force - but they may be helpful for overall fitness. Some of the most important metrics (IMHO) are missing in a lot of them - such as temperature and heart rate. Buying a band now instead of later may mean that you're just going to buy one later as well as you'll want the features of the newer models. I won't try to regurgitate the information in some REALLY good blog posts about the subject, so I'll link them here: 

There really isn't a way to loose fat in a specific area - despite what commercials want to sell you. Unlike making muscles larger, where you can focus on specific areas, fat is determined by genetics. The only way to remove fat from the area mentioned would be liposuction. That is, you can decrease the fat percentage in your body until this goes away. If you want it gone first and right now, surgery is the only way. 

If you want to make gains like a 20 year old, you'll have to have the testosterone and estrogen levels of a 20 year old. On the surface, this doesn't answer your question... but it does, please follow: Your first question is, "How much muscle/strength could I really expect to gain over age 50?" I am not sure that this is answerable. In what way would you like to measure it? The second question is, "can I make great gains?" This is also an opinion question, I believe you'll make great gains but will you believe that they're great gains? The third question is, "no gains?" This one I can answer, YOU WILL MAKE GAINS. As @rrirower pointed out, gains will be slower than you remembered but they will happen. I know bodybuilders who NEVER competed or took the sport seriously until they were eligible for the masters class - and they did well. The fourth question is, "expect to lose as I age?" If you maintain an active lifestyle, your body will be forced to maintain as well. You'll only "lose" when your body doesn't feel that it needs the muscle anymore (because you're not lifting) which it will then burn for energy, just as we burn fat and muscle for energy in a caloric deficit (diet). Therefore, you will make gains. I hope you will be patient enough to accept them as great gains. 

Here's something I wrote up for myself a while back...maybe it can help you: CUTTING: increase water intake macronutrients become key increase protein intake figure out strategy, low carb or carb cycling more bites per calorie check progress every 2 weeks eat the same thing every day if the body can take it replace carbs with high-quality fats from nuts, avocadoes, oils add fiber to diet have a protein shake (in water) before dinner 

Try to cut all barbell exercises and dedicate yourself to Dumbbell work for the next 2-3 months. Everyone always has a dominant arm or leg (throw, kick, etc with). Work on some grip training (holds 2 25-45pd plates with your fingers for time for e.g.), dedicate yourself to DB exclusive work (curls, pullovers, flys, bench, incline, raises, tricep, etc. 2 x week or so). To really make progress emphasize your weaknesses and don't let ego get in the way. Go full range of motion opposed to heavy weight and don't cheat the exercise with improper form. 

Incorporate a 10 day cycle in your lifts... that is squat every 10 days, dead every 10, ft. squat every 10. And when you do them lift heavy, build the intensity up each set (btw 5-7 sets) and hit reps between 4-7. The structure can be broken up like this: lift lower body Mon & Thurs OR Tues & Fri OR Wed & Sat, etc...whatever you like. Thus you break up the training in 3 weeks cycles, which is perfect. So ultimately it would look like this: 

Discus twists with barbell on back, increase weight and stretch each week Land Mines: tons of these! Walking Lunge Twists with 20kg plate for distance; full rotation Walking Twists with 20kg plate for distance; full rotation 

Since you are sitting all day, your hips are very tight as well as your scapula and chest. Thus the best solution is to perform exercises that open up these tight areas. I would focus a lot of pullovers, DB flys and other DB exercises (DB works a better range of motion) focusing on good posture doing the exercises; shoulders squeezed together and a big chest emphasis. Perform a lot of wide grip pull-ups to open up the scapula and focus more on the upper back muscles with rowing; apply a strict form on these exercises to emphasis coming through with a big chest. An exercise that COULD help would be deep squats. This exercise has been shown to help with flexibility, opening up those hips. Focus on proper technique: keep your chest up, squats through the hips and heels, squeeze your shoulder blades together, push your knees out, point your toes out very slightly, bring your elbows into the hips and look very slightly up to help keep the chest up once the weight gets heavier. You can choose to do this or not, depending on your athletic background. Doing ANY exercise whether it be running, swimming, hiking, etc. will open up your tight muscles from sitting on your hams all day. Developing good posture will take a few dedicated months/years of doing these exercises coupled with also creating good habits. Really forcing yourself to sit upright at work a few times throughout the day (to start) then slowly work yourself throughout the whole day. Good posture shows: Correct balance of training (too much bench and curls, 'curls' your posture forward; if you had a choice primarily between back and chest training, perform back work...work back 2 x week and chest 1 x week to compensate the posture muscles more effectively[for e.g.]) Good energy and a display of confidence A powerful look drooled over by your missum Biggest thing which will help posture IMO: open up that ribcage (hence I mention flys, pullovers, etc.). Perform yoga (absolutely awesome for posture!!) or pilates. There's your chance to meet women AND work on your posture...50 birds with one stone. 

I would advise to not use your child for weight resistance training. Who will spot you? How about just play with your kid. 

Added 2/27/14 I just wanted to point to the Moov - COMPANY LINK HERE, Amigo, move over! :) The Moov is awesome. 

Are you going to increase your caloric intake to make up for the calories that you'd burn by working out? If you have the same level of physical activity but eat the exact amount of calories as required, nothing would happen. If you increase physical activity and increase the calories to the exact amount, you would gain muscle. If you increase physical activity and maintain the calories that you average now, you would lose fat. The problem is, nobody can predict exactly what is required. So then, that's why bodybuilders consume too many calories and gain fat during "bulking". It's better to eat too much than to not eat enough and end up burning muscle as energy. The human body wants to store fat reserves for the winter and times w/o food. It will burn muscle that it decides are not necessary when in times of depleted caloric intake. 

Yoga will help with balance (coordination) and stretching. I'm almost confident that it will not "fix" muscle strength imbalances alone. However there are many benefits from yoga which would enrich your life. So, my answer is, "it won't hurt but it will not fix your concern by itself." 

Edit: Also, if you have recently lost a lot of weight, you may have extra skin. This will eventually tighten over time. However this is another reason people get plastic surgery - because they're impatient. 

As mentioned in my comment, I'm extremely excited and waiting for Amigo - probably to the point that I won't buy one until this comes out or one comes out with these features. 

You grow when you sleep. When I was competing I would take simplysleep to make sure that I got 9 - 10 hours of sleep a day. IMHO, sleep is only second to eating in terms of growing muscle. Ironically lifting weights is a distant 3rd, especially in terms of willpower. Anyone can lift weights. Few can get enough sleep. Fewer can stick to a diet. As much as our minds won't allow it, our bodies love a consistent routine. Eat every 2 hours, work out in a routine as scheduled (same time), and go to bed at the same time and wake at the same time - and preferably not by an alarm clock. Your body doesn't really care that it's the weekend, your mind does. 

There are two types of training; neural adaptation and hypertrophy. Your pure focus here is hypertrophy training which focuses on the size of the muscle. This means breaking it down, letting it heal and working it out again to repeat the cycle. Proper food and nutrients allows the body to use the proteins/fats/carbohydrates to rebuild the tissue which was broken down. That adds bit by bit size to muscles. There are always tricks like supplementing with arginine causes your blood vessels to expand giving you a more full look or in the extreme case (ILLEGAL) steroids which allows you to rebuild quickly, allowing you to work out the muscle faster and longer opposed. To effectively break down the muscle you need to put in some work. Start week one with 3 sets of 6-10 reps with a good amount of weight. The following week the exercise will be 4 sets, then 5 then maybe 6. You have to put the work in to overcome stagnation and force the body to shift in the anabolic phase. Eat lots of dense foods to complement a program like this. Let me put this in a very simple thought process. When you train/workout you put your body under a certain amount of stress. The body's muscle tissue breaks down and searches for ways to recover (food, rest, etc.). In the recovery process the body builds a "shield" of muscle to become accustomed to the level of stress you put your body under. Take a lumberjack for example (very strongly build, powerful individual)...he constantly is moving heavy pieces of lumber. His body's reaction is to build layers of muscle/mass to cope with the stress. That's why the more work you put into something the better the result. That's basically what training really is. Putting the work in and allowing your body to adapt to the stress. That is why you constantly need to shock the body to break through plateaus... 

Try to focus on doing some grip training. Start by taking 2 - 10 or 25 pound plates and grip then between your fingers for time. Or try to find thicker grip bars to use for training. Also to improve something you generally prioritize it. That means if you want to improve your false grip in pullups, start every workout doing a few dozen reps. Over the course of a few weeks the body's adaptations process will become accustomed to that type of movement, thus strengthening your initial goal.