In my oppinion, there are several different goals people have when lifting weights. As you have mentioned in your question, there is look/size/strength. There are also others such as endurance/conditioning. I think everything can really be put into two classes; 

I think the answer to this question is simple. With compound strength training movements, (such as the bench press which you mentioned) they are helped by good form. Someone with bad form can increase their lifts drastically over a short period of time simply by fixing common errors. Think of it this way, the first time you get on a bike, your form is terrible and you need training wheels. Once you know how to operate the bike properly, you will be able to ride a bike for life. Now the flip side of this is, how fast or long can you ride the bike for? If you trained for years and were able to ride the bike 150km in a short period of time, coming back and attempting the same feat won't be possible after a long layoff. 

In my opinion all gym programs work. Lets face it, they all have you doing something active in the gym. The first major thing that separates all gym workouts is most of them have different goals in mind. This is the first part of picking the best gym workout for you. You have to ask yourself, what do you want? The reasoning for this, is because, in my opinion, the best gym workout for you, is the one that you can commit to. If you enjoy the workout, if you see results from the workout, stick with it. I can't stress this enough. The biggest downfall everybody has with excersize is consistency. There's no point doing the 'best workout in the world' if you can't convince yourself to complete it. By the sounds of things in your case, you enjoy strength training. From your knowledge and the size of the lifts, I am going to assume your still a beginner. So what your going to want to do is find a strength training program that is aimed at beginners. My recomandation to you is the well-known book and program, Starting Strength by Mark Rippetoe. But by all means, as I mentioned earlier, you are encouraged to do your own research and try and find other programs which may appeal to you even more and there a vast range of other strength training programs such as Stronglifts 5x5. Best of luck, and remember, stick with it. You won't have to lose your gains is you never stop training properly. 

I have been reading at various websites on internet and on YouTube, people generally that you are neutralizing whatever you are doing because you are mixing it counter exercise. Is this really true? E.g.1 Chest and Abs exercise shouldn’t be same day. Like 1 set of bench press followed by 1 set of oblique crunches, might sound silly (just for example sake) E.g.2 Running first then workout or first workout then running or doesnt matter. 

When I am running slow (not sprinting, not jogging) my left leg goes of middle line of my direction of running i.e. Underpronator(also shoe sole is grazed from outside of heel). But when I am at full pace (sprinting) I hit hit heel first and and legs remain in Neutral direction. Am I still a Underpronator Runner? Is this a disease or some kind of bad anatomy, my body/legs not designed not born to run? If yes is it curable, by exercising, or practicing correct(neutral) running? Are there pro runners in the world those are Underpronators? I am only going to run 30 mins daily, do I really need expensive shoes designed for underpronator runners? 

I have started this Running Plan $URL$ I am comfortably in the 4th of it. Since beginning I have been running with these "Fila Coder running shoes" 

There willpower is strong that they never strive for delicious food? How they workout being on such strenuous diet, without getting faint, or fall on floor unconscious while shooting? Or it is just a myth, pictures, videos are only a camera trick? 

Again, strength training can be broken down by what certain people have as their goal. The one thing that remains the same however is that they all obviously want to gain strength in some form. At one end of the spectrum, you have the worlds strongest men and heavyweight power lifters. (Žydrūnas Savickas, Konstantīns Konstantinovs) These people can be 200kg monsters with ridiculously strong cores to assist the massive and heavy lifts they perform. They do not care about their body fat or proportions and only have the goal of getting as strong as possible. Then you also have people who compete in other activities, one example could be MMA, where the person has to fall into a certain weight class but still wants to gain strength in order to have the edge over opponents of the same weight. (Georges St-Pierre, Jon Jones) There people keep their body fat to a minimum and while they still heavily train cardio, their lifting programs will mainly be aimed towards strength and conditioning rather than size. In summary, there are several differences in how people train with different goals in mind. If there wasn't everyone would be training the same way. These things have been scientifically proven and tested by numerous athletes over the years so it is a known fact that certain training styles help certain goals. 

Losing weight is about expending more calories than you take in. As such, you'll get better results if you couple the diet with an exercise program and if you track your calories. There are tons of different workout programs out there that have diet components to them. P90X (more geared towards working out at home w/ weights), Insanity (no equipment needed), and Body for Life (gives more of an overall framework rather than specific movements) all come to mind. Different people react better to different programs but they can all produce results. I suggest looking into them and trying out the ones which you think you'd enjoy the most, ie the one you'd stick to the longest. There are also a bunch of free calorie trackers out there such as the one on livestrong.com. This specific one allows you to input your current weight/height and your goals. It will then automatically determine how many net calories per day you can consume in order to reach your goals. Tracking is helpful because it allows you to see if you can eat more food or if you should expend more calories in order to reach your goal on a daily basis. 

Well, it really depends on your office environment. For example, do you have your own office where no one can see you or are you in a cubicle? If your office culture is ok with you taking a nap, then simply put your head down on your desk. According to research, the nap should only be 15-20 mins between 1-3pm. If naps are frowned upon, then you can take a nap in your car. You may have to drive a bit and park your car where you won't be seen. An alternative is to use other methods to re-energize yourself. Taking a walk or drinking water may help. More tricks can be found here. 

It is a very controversial subject - you will find people form very different opinions on the matter. I feel the main reason for this is due to the fact that everybody is different and sometimes people feel that their own way is the only way. One common misconception is that DOMS is a sign of a good workout. While it is true that DOMS shows that you have had a decent workout, it actually has little to do with how good a workout was - it is entirely possible to have a good workout without DOMS. If you are progressing, maintaining, and not losing strength in your lifts, your workouts are most likely good. DOMS is not always a reason to skip a workout, as I mentioned everyone is different, everyone produces different amounts of testosterone and people have different recovery times. You have to listen to your body – it will take time to correctly figure out how to listen to your body but it’s the only way to get an accurate answer for how many days rest you personally should take. As a general rule of thumb people say you should rest for about 1 week per body part but then others also say you only need about 48-72hrs for a major muscle to recover and be ready for a full blown attack on it again. Find out what works best for you and go with that.