Storage tempeatures will be from 5C to 45C during the year, and humidity will be low-moderate most of the year. Is the above scheme adequate? Anything else I should look out for? Update: Thanks for all the pointers. One point I forgot to mention is that the bikes need to be shipped from my current residence to my parents first. The overkill packing is intended to ensure that they survive the transport and also the boxes can just be stowed till I get back, requiring no attention. 

The pie plate / dork disk between the cassette and spokes on my bike cracked from age and I had to remove it. I'd like to get a replacement but I can't seem to find any online. Also, do I just need to get one based on the largest cog or is there anything else to consider? 

If you wear a full face or motorbike helmet you will not be able to hear as well, so your awareness of other vehicles may suffer. Especially on such a short commute cycle, you should be able to take care at each junction. 

When shouldering any bike, I always have my hand up next to my shoulder so it actually takes a large part of the weight, and it is key to stopping the bike bumping up and down on my shoulder (which is what seems to cause the most discomfort) Additionally, make sure the top tube rests on the top of your muscle, not actually on your shoulder itself. Muscles cope easily with a metal weight - bones not so much. Finally, I always tilt mine down slightly to the front, this way I can get the tube to sit really nicely on my muscle without the pedal bashing me in the back. 

Full sequence here.Note that nose pliers / needle nose pliers are not necessary; any pliers will do where the jaw tip is narrow enough to sit on the pins of the chain. Also note that some quick links are not meant to be re-used indefinitely. 

If the rim has been bent significantly for a long-ish period I would advise getting a new rim and spokes. An Al rim should not be too expensive, and you should be able to re-use some of the spokes. As @Gary-Ray mentioned - you are probably better off taking it to a bike shop, esp if spokes are rusted, bent and/or broken. 

A collections of thoughts about a few of the questions you've raised. The short answer to the title question is 'yes'. Read further for some specifics. Equipment If you have the budget for multiple new bikes, that's great. However, based on your apparent wants, I'd suggest the 'more serious rode bike' be a cyclocross bike. You can put slicks on a 'cross bike and it is effectively a road bike. You simply put on different tires for when you want to race/train in the mud. Winter and Spring Training If it's in your budget, definitely get a trainer. They are far from exciting, but regular sessions on the trainer through the winter will do wonders for your fitness coming into the spring. For the most part you will want to be riding so that you're sort of breathing deeply, but could still carry on a conversation. There really isn't a whole lot of point to doing anything really painful during this period, other than combat boredom of long winters. If you're into snow sports, cross country skiing is a great way to get/stay fit over the winter that doesn't involve being inside all the time. Spring and Summer Ride lots. Have fun. Listen to your body and get professionally fitted on your new 'cross or road bike, it is surprisingly easy to get injured early in a new sport. You will want to start riding faster every now and then. Find a couple of local routes or hills that you occasionally try to set personal records on. You are new at the sport, so in most places your races will be < 40 minutes. This means you don't need to go out and hammer for 4 hours. (And shouldn't unless you really enjoy this) The only real specific training I'd suggest at this point in time (later summer) is occasionally do things like 20 seconds sprinting, 20 seconds soft pedalling, repeat for several minutes at a time. Take a break for a few minutes then do it again a couple of times. Do this once or at most twice in a week. The major reason I suggest this is because 'cross is extremely stochastic. Unlike road racing (running or cycling), triathlons or most other reasonably common endurance sports, a 'cross race is often 10 seconds flat out, 5 seconds braking and coasting around a hairpin, 30 seconds flat out, get off the bike, run, pedal carefully through an off camber corner, flat out for 15 seconds... You get the idea, but your body needs to experience this a few times before you do it in a race. Technical Skills While I don't think you need to spend huge amounts of time on this early in your career, you also don't want to try this stuff out for the first time in a race. Find a nice park nearby. Find some trees that are close together and try riding in an '8' pattern around them as quickly as you can. Do this in dry and wet conditions. Your bike will slip out from under you eventually. Learn what it feels like just before the bike washes out, this is important. Every race will have a part where you need dismount. Ride for 30 seconds hardish, dismount, run with the bike for 30 seconds, then hop back on and ride again. (Youtube for techniques, I'd suggest not trying the flying remount, it's generally not worth it...) Racing You've practiced, you've been riding for a year, great! Get out there and race. Do at least a lap or two of the course before the race. You want to be pretty warmed up before you start and then just cut loose. A couple of other random points. Due to the hard/coast/hard/coast nature of a cyclocross race, you will almost certainly blow up. This can be a new and exciting experience so you should be aware of it. You will want to get off your bike Right Now and maybe lay down for a while. This is normal. Cyclocross is an endurance event, so you will need to occasionally lower your pace and recover. 

[Updated after comments] On a well maintained, clean chain you might be able to do this by hand. If your chain is dirty, crusty and dry, you might not be able to open it by hand. Instead of buying the link tool above, you can use a pair of pliers as shown below: 

I have a situation where the bike has (OEM) 8-speed Shimano Claris shifters with the cables coming out the side which interferes with the handlebar bag. (Photo below). SRAM doesn't list any 8-speed brifters at all, and Campy 8speed ergos are only available (second hand? genuine?) from Ebay. I'm looking specifically for brifters with internal cable routing - bar-end shifters are a fallback option. 

Basic aerodynamics, as I remember it from many years ago, would say the only one of those options that would be different from the others would be the front wheel off, but as to whether that would be worse or better I don't know. With the bike angled down, the seat may have greater drag, and the top tube is no longer horizontal so my guess would be that having the frame horizontal is best (it has been designed to have lowest drag in this position with a rider so this seems reasonable) As to where on the roof the bikes should be, the most significant drag is from the airflow heading from front to back of the car. There is a minor effect over the edges of the car, but it isn't going to make a noticeable difference, so my guidance: Don't worry about the drag, and secure the bikes where you can make sure they aren't loose and can get them up and down without straining. 

I have two bicycles - one is an alloy MTB and the other is an old steel frame roadie. I intend to box them and keep them in my parent's garage for the next ~2 years while I will be overseas for work. Selling is not an option (for emotional and real value). I plan to box both bikes as they come from the manufacturer: 

pedals, handlebar, chain and seat off Rear derailer removed, wrapped in bubble-wrap and tied to the frame Current tires will be sold off and an old useless pair installed with old tubes nicely coated with talc to keep them from becoming sticky. Healthy doses of lube on the cables Plastic wrapping on the MTB brake discs, spacers in the calipers. Box taped down with lots of duct tape. 

I currently have SPD pedals on all of my bikes. I've stuck with them so far as they worked relatively well and I couldn't justify having two types of shoes. I can justify two types of shoes now. These pedals/shoes/etc would be for my road bike and likely used on the track as I am going to spend a bit of time at the local velodrome this winter. My primary criteria is probably strength, with price second. I'm a sprinter and saving money is always good. Weight doesn't really matter at this point. The Look and Shimano road pedals look good, but they have a number of different models across the board. Any suggestions or ones to stay away from? 

While you can certainly wear BMX armour, or possibly even use motorbike armour and wear full face helmets, I would put much more emphasis on changing the way you cycle to reduce the risk from cars. You say cars turn without seeing cyclists- well, you have two options: 

If you are in the UK this is an offence. You are traffic, therefore must obey the red. Consequences could be a pull by the police and a fine! I am not sure about other jurisdictions. 

What I have always done, quite successfully, is just tuck my trousers into my socks. This avoids all grease from the chain, and if the worst happened and I did get some grease on my sock this would be hidden under my trousers at work. (And yes, I tuck both trouser legs into my socks to avoid looking too silly, even though the chain is only on one side :-)