In tournament play, which is not a particularly long trial, there seems to be evidence that skill plays an important role: 

And it appears that researchers are seeing clear pathways that could lead to the important mutations: 

Warren, Jeff (2007). The Head Trip: Adventures on the Wheel of Consciousness Random House. Kindle Edition. 

It's a common trope in movies that certain people, either spies or mercenaries, specialize in assassination. (An apparently well-paying but wearing specialty, since generally the assassins are freshly retired before being dragged back in for one last job...) Is there any evidence that such a role has existed in modern times (say, since the end of WW2)? I think there's a common-sense distinction between a movie-style assassin and a military sniper, a Mafia hit man, or a criminal thug: 

This is consistent with the rumor that Tamerlan was run over by his brother. I'm fairly confident that law enforcement wouldn't specify the names of those who "eliminated" the suspect. I cannot find a reference, but I believe the Watertown gunfight occurred between the Tsarnaev's and local law enforcement, not Federal officers. 

For the proposition to hold, it must be the case that some combination of the following conditions holds for lawyers: 

(While the comparison is of the pay in a metropolitan area with a nationwide search, the order-of-magnitude difference establishes that the truck driver cannot make up the difference by working longer hours.) Is (1) likely? Perhaps, in the case of lawyers working on contingency. But it is standard in the legal community to bill per hour, not on a fixed-bid, and anyone who has worked with a lawyer knows that they track their time assiduously. Is (2) likely? Yes, but only to a certain extent. Lawyers and Doctors are required to "stay current" in their fields, a task which requires considerable time. But is this amount of time likely to be the large multiple of their billable hours that it needs to be to make the proposition hold? It can't "just" require 50% of their working week (20 billable hours @ $305 for our 2000 hr / yr lawyer is still ~$300K). For this to be the driving force, it would have to be such a large number it drives billable hours down to the order of, say, 10 hours per week (~500 billable hours / yr ~= $150K, which is at least in the ballpark of what a skilled tradesmen might gross). Is (3) likely? I suspect it probably is for junior employees in large law-firms, which I believe typically follow the "agency model" of paying junior employees very much less than their billing-rate. But in the same model, senior employees and partners reap the rewards, so it all evens out. (There is, of course, the difference between gross and net income, but this is hardly unique to any profession.) In summary, it seems unlikely that "much of the high income from these professions can be simply attributed to the extraordinarily long hours they work." A person working for several dozens of dollars per hour cannot put in so many more hours that they are on parity with someone making a few hundreds of dollars per hour, unless the conversion of the higher-rate into income is very inefficient. While there are some inefficiencies that are evident, they fall well short of reducing income to the level of a skilled tradesperson. UPDATE: The Bureau of Labor Statistics provides this sortable table of wages by job function; medical and legal professions dominate the high-income professions, with mean lawyers wages at $130,490: 

No, but scientists aren't immune to spreading "just-so" stories. Karl Popper's influential book The Structure of Scientific Revolutions would agree that that, in any area, the scientific establishment will try to shoehorn newly-discovered anomalies and shortcomings into the old worldview ("paradigm"). According to Popper (whose model is not universally accepted), the establishment will resist change even when its shortcomings seem, in retrospect, obvious. For instance, it seems odd to us that a model of planets moving along wheels-within-wheels-within-wheels was thought to be more reasonable than Kepler's model where they move along ellipses. More recently, it seems strange that the key-and-lock shapes of South America and Africa were dismissed as coincidences as recently as the 1960s, before plate tectonics became accepted. In retrospect, the increasingly implausible defences of the old paradigm ("add another epicycle to the planetary motions!", "Mid-ocean mountain range? Just another coincidence!") might be called "just-so" stories. It's an insulting viewpoint, since it makes it sound like the defenders are willfully lying, which they're not. Our worldview (our "paradigm") is filled with unexamined assumptions and conclusions; we've invested hundreds and thousands of hours of time into understanding the way things work in this worldview and we are really good at defending it. We get caremad. Importantly, though, the scientific ideal is accuracy, not popularity or tradition. Science does have paradigm shifts. Celestial spheres gave way to Kepler's ellipses gave way to Einstein's model. Plate tectonics are accepted. Having said all that, is evolutionary theory in a paradigm-shifting "crisis"? No. There is a lot of hubbub about altruism lately and the Haldane/Hamilton "kin selection" paradigm, but there's nothing about the argument that presents any kind of challenge to evolutionary theory in general. 

UPDATE: Here is video from the last few minutes of Blaine's breath-hold which was performed on the Oprah Winfrey show. 

I think the "...in the Colosseum" part is crucial to the claim. Tacitus' description of Nero's persecution of Christians says: 

There are many all-sky survey projects that would likely detect any civilization-damaging asteroid. And if the survey projects detect such an asteroid, it is almost certainly the case that they would discover it many years prior to impact. More all-sky surveys with better and better detection techniques will be coming online in the next decade and increase our chances of spotting a potential impactor. As surveys increase, we can anticipate a rise in reports of "near misses" and "potential impact" stories, even though what will really happen is that our chance of being caught unawares is reduced. So to put some numbers and references to the previous paragraph: The Torino Scale describes asteroid impact hazards. To achieve "serious damage to our civilization," as specified in the question, would require a Torino Scale 9 or 10 impact. Such impacts occur on average every 10,000-100,000 years. We already have all-sky surveys that are specifically trying to trace "Near Earth Objects" and potential impactors. These are finding NEOs at an increasing rate (and this is likely to continue), but most large NEOs have probably been found, as shown in this image: 

UPDATE 2014-05-22: Reddit user agenaille claims to have worked on healthcare.gov and says that an automated tool produced the following counts: 

Surely lobbying is intended to promote one's goals; are there specific legal limitations to tying a campaign contribution to a political goal ("designed to provoke a specific policy goal")? 

Although thought-provoking, the article doesn't claim either that the tea "will prevent malaria" or that the WHO is "trying to hide" it. Rather it says: 

To the human eye, nebulae always appear overwhelmingly B&W. Human dark-adapted eyes are much more sensitive to B&W (wikipedia) and their color sensitivity shifts. There are only a few nebulae that are reliably visible to the naked eye and your pupil just can't pick up enough photons to detect color. This discussion of amateur astrophotography breaks down the colors that you would be able to perceive with enough aperture: essentially there's a lot of very faint red up there (from hydrogen emissions) and there's some amount of relatively "bright" blue that's caused by scattering similar to what happens in our atmosphere during the day. You can reliably perceive blue nebulosity in, for instance, the Orion nebula with moderate amateur equipment. With exceptional equipment and conditions (a 24" Starmaster at 9000' on Mauna Kea) I've perceived faint red and green. Modern professional telescopes do not allow for direct visual observation :-( . 

Just eye-balling it, the correlation between pre- and post-Thatcherite tax regimes and GDP doesn't seem overwhelming. IOW, the return of Michael Caine and other tax exiles (which would presumably occur if tax rates were a dominant driver), isn't clearly visible in these large-scale data. 

Predicting the Outcomes of Roulette, Michael Small, Chi Kong Tse According to the authors, there are two phases of the roulette spin: the first is rather predictable, as the ball rolls around the rim before it drops, at which point the second, highly chaotic phase starts. The authors say that by determining the state of the table when the ball is thrown and by timing the speed of the ball in its initial rotations, they had a statistical advantage in predicting where the ball would drop in to the second, more chaotic, state. This translated into a statistical edge predicting in which half of the wheel the ball would end up. 

The Critical Response Group is not a small unit. Tamerlan Tsarnaev's death certificate disagrees with a simplistic "agents who eliminated" statement: 

$URL$ The Wikipedia article about the Siege of St. Pitt says that these blankets were probably not the actual mechanism by which the Delawares were exposed and infected, but the intention is clear. The post linked to in the question relates to a different accusation, regarding events in 1837. 

Commercial / scientific whaling is primarily done with explosive harpoons which were designed to be efficient: 

For instance, when a person is accessing visual memories, they will characteristically glance upwards, while when they are accessing kinaesthetic memories, they will glance down and to their left. (Chart available at the link above.) I've heard extensions to this that certain eye movements indicate lying (that is, some movement means "they're making it up" while others mean they are relying on memory), but to keep it simple, let's start with the basic claim. What does the science say? 

The conversion of task-specific hours into billable hours must be very inefficient; or There must be a large amount of non-billable hours required by the job; or The conversion of the hourly fee into income is very inefficient 

In this figure, note "Finned: 908,000 [tons]" out of a total mortality of 1,445,000 tons. There is no "Died post-release" breakdown of finned sharks since: 

He quotes anthropologist Carol Worthman, of the Lab for Comparative Human Biology at Emory University, as saying of the subject: 

The "Orch OR" theory has been heavily criticized. In Falsifications of Hameroff-Penrose Orch OR Model of Consciousness and Novel Avenues for Development of Quantum Mind Theory, Georgiev provides: 

There is nothing about bat evolution that is a threat to the theory of evolution. First, the part of the claim that speaks of "moth-like wings" is not what elongated digits would look like. They might look more like those of a tarsier: 

Yes, but "rudimentary" is a good word for the limits of what has been proven. Dolphins pass the mirror test and can understand word-order syntax (the difference between "bring the ball to the hoop" and "bring the hoop to the ball"): 

Viral marketing alert! Googling around for this name shows that while there are several cross-referencing Websites there is no indication of external original material or reporting. There are claims that are prima facie bogus ("USAF credits him with discovering time-travel...") and claims that associate "Anderson" with highly-dubious existing claims ("the Philadelphia Experiment"). An easy claim to refute: there are no USPTO patents (much less time-travel-related ones) issued to "David Lewis Anderson." 

No one knows what "mind" is, but the brain is a bad candidate for hosting quantum superpositions, much less sharing them with other people. The most credible proponent of mind having a quantum component is the physicist Roger Penrose who has argued, beginning in his 1989 book The Emperor's New Mind that the human mind displays non-computable behavior and thus cannot be a Turing machine. He proposed quantum phenomena as a route towards non-algorithmic computation. Penrose's logic by which he makes the conclusion that the brain is not a Turing machine has been widely criticized, and Wikipedia quotes Princeton's John Burgess as saying: 

My first reaction was that the proper odds would relate to 7 out of N and, in an organization, N is likely to be much larger than 7. OTOH, if the claim is a specific mail server and it's backup, N = 7 might make sense. Unfortunately, at this point, my Google-fu cannot penetrate the echo-chambering of the "astronomical odds" post to know what has actually been claimed in terms of hard drive failure. Also, to use (1/36)^7, the odds of drives crashing would have to be independent, which I think could be relevant if the claim of data loss relates to a RAID configuration (?). I am skeptical that the IRS made the claim for which the post's math would be appropriate (i.e., I am skeptical that the IRS said 'the loss of email was due to the specific failure of 7 out of 7 independent drives'). As dmckee put it in comments: "[I am] asking what the IRS is actually claiming about hard drive failures that might be preventing them for complying with congressional requests for information about some [high politicized event that shouldn't play any part in the answers]." P.S. I've had trouble finding appropriate tags for this question. 

What may be more reasonable is that there might be 500MLoC that was generated, i.e., data initialization. Or it may be that this was simply a quote that was more about adding color than being the basis for analysis: 

A large meteor or meteors entered the atmosphere near Russia's Chelyabinsk region hours before closest approach of asteroid 2012 DA14. Initial claims are that the two are unrelated; the above link says "The European Space Agency posted a message on its Twitter account saying that there was no link between the Russian meteor and asteroid 2012 DA14." The coincidence of what appears to be a once-in-a-few-decades meteor and the closest known passing of a significant asteroid is curious. Were there characteristics of the Russian event that definitively rule out a connection with 2012DA14? 

Yes. Blaine was recognized by Guiness as setting the world record for static apnea with O2 for several months in 2008. One can hold one's breath for much longer if one breathes pure oxygen prior to the apnea. The Guinness record is now over 22 minutes (see link above). Enriched-gas breath holds are not one of the disciplines recognized by AIDA but Blaine's record can be put in perspective against the "normal" air record for "static apnea" of 11m 35s. Blaine set his O2-based record some time after failing to break the then-current 8m 58s static apnea record after spending 7 days submerged in New York City. While with a magician it would be foolish to rule out chicanery, his NYC failure and O2-based record seem consistent with his claim of being (in addition to an illusionist) an endurance athlete with a very high level of discipline . Apnea and extreme freediving are dangerous and even world-class athletes have died during record attempts. A paper "Brain Damage in Competitive Freediving" says: 

Jeff Warren's book "The Head Trip: Adventures on the Wheel of Consciousness" devotes an entire chapter to Ekirch's claim, which he also links to a researcher named Thomas Wehr, of NIMH. The book cites historical references that it claims support the idea, including Robert Louis Stevenson: