Weekly progress meeting. Entire development team, Manager A, Manager B and CEO are present. Manager A asks me to do a security analysis and propose a full security solution for our product. Manager B claims he will work on designing Component X, as he has designed a similar component before, but "can't promise anything". After the meeting, I research our possible security issues, and options to resolve them. I report my initial findings to Manager A, but state that I was unable to come up with a full solution, as I do not know what Component X is capable of. Manager A confirms that I have to talk to Manager B regarding the specifics of Component X. I go to Manager B's office. I ask Manager B if he has some spare time, say that Manager A has sent me in regards to the security analysis and Component X, and ask to confirm if he is indeed the right person to ask about Component X, and if so, if I could ask some questions. Manager B denies being responsible for Component X, stating that he, quote, "would not do any work on that whatsoever". Instead of simply dismissing me after that, Manager B starts to lecture me instead on Component Y, which I didn't knew existed and is only vaguely related to my original assignment. I am unfamiliar with Component Y, and try to ask clarifying questions. Manager B keeps interrupting me. Manager B becomes visibly agitated with the fact that I did not know Component Y existed or how it works, even though no-one, at any point, mentioned the existence of Component Y to me. After 10-20 minutes of this, Manager B finally reaches a part of Component Y which is relevant to my original assignment. I ask a question about this part of Component Y, mention there may be a security issue (which I was assigned to find and solve), and ask why this part of Component Y was designed the way it was (as I genuinely did not understand at this point). Manager B responds with the quote: "It is that way because I say it is. You do not get to speak, you only get to listen. Just get me the report when you're done, OK?" At this point, Manager B has essentially wasted 20 minutes of my time, I still don't have an answer to my original questions, and now Manager B is condescendingly stating that my input is irrelevant, even though I was explicitly assigned to give my input on the topic of security. I coldly reply that I was not OK with the way he just spoke to me, that I only came to his office so that so that I could ask some questions and ask for his input, and told him that if he did not want a discussion, I would just send the report to him later that day. Manager B seemed a bit shocked or surprised by this response, as if he didn't expect me to react that way, quickly said a few more things about Component Y, answering part of my question, after which I left his office. I report to Manager A that I did not get any useful input from Manager B, but did not mention his rudeness. Manager A asks me to continue writing the report with the information I have. About an hour later, I finish the report, noting all of my concerns, and my proposed solutions, and send it to both Managers A and B. I am done with my assigned task; the ball is in their park now, and any security issues left in the system design is their responsibility, not mine. I start work on my next task. Manager B is now very angry with me. I will have to work with this person at least until the end of this project, probably as long as I work at that company. I don't think apologizing from my side will do any good, as I did not get rude until way after he did, and I don't want to strengthen his idea that he can easily abuse me. At best, I hope to establish an atmosphere of mutual respect, at the very least, we should be able to work together for the duration of this project. 

(Skip below for timeline and summary) Recently, I have been asked by one of my managers to do a security analysis for one of our new software products. While I have only recently graduated university, and have only been with the company for a few months, I took several classes on network security while at university and have read a lot on the topic in my spare time. Because of this, I felt confident in my skill and agreed to work on the analysis. After doing the initial groundwork for the analysis, I asked my manager for feedback, who told me to first run this past another manager, who had previously agreed during a meeting to work on designing a part of the application which would have a large influence on what security options would be available. I went to see this other manager and asked him if he was indeed working on this topic and if he had some time to answer a few of my questions in relation to that topic for the security report he knew I was working on. He then went on to tell me, in no uncertain terms, that he would not "do any work on that whatsoever", even though he claimed he would (as my other manager assumed as well) during our last meeting. After that, instead of simply asking me to leave so he could work on other things, he continued to lecture me for 10 minutes straight on parts of the application which were completely irrelevant to my current assignment, all the while interrupting me each time I tried to ask clarifying questions. Finally, he pointed me to a specific part of the application. I asked for an explanation on why it was designed that way, as the design choice was unclear to me and there could be a potential security issue which I would have to address in the report. To which he responded: "It is that way because I say it is. You do not get to speak, you only get to listen. Just get me the report when you're done, OK?" That comment made me a bit angry. I finished the conversation then and there, saying that I did not have to tolerate being spoken to in that way, and that if he prefers to read my conclusions in a report rather than having a face-to-face discussion about them, I would send it to him when it's done. I admit that my response there may have been a bit aggressive. After that, I immediately left his office. I returned to the original manager who gave me the assignment, told him I did not receive any useful answers (without mentioning the rude response), and asked him how to continue. He asked me to simply finish writing the report with the information I had, and to fill any gaps at a later point. I went back to my office to work on the report, taking note of the security issue, its possible consequences, and how to resolve it. (EDIT: I believe I have already sufficiently addressed my concerns in the report, and that it will be dealt with through the appropriate channels. My question is not about the security issue, but rather how to interpret and what to do about the comments my manager made towards me after mentioning this issue.) Please note that we're a small company (20-30 employees) which only employs highly educated people (at least a master's degree or PhD) and we only work on very specialized projects, which means we require, and are usually given, a large amount freedom in our decisions. Most of the time, discussions about projects are first done on an informal level, before being written down. This is the first time something like this has happened to me at this company, and up until now, I have never had issues with any of my other coworkers, including other managers. How should I proceed after this? Should I discuss this incident with my boss (the CEO of our company) and/or HR? What can I do to try to (re-)establish a healthy working relation with this manager? While I can somewhat understand his perspective, with me being the "new guy" and all, I feel that his comments are degrading and unprofessional, and it makes me afraid to take on any future tasks if this is the kind of response to expect. 

It's not an obvious double standard because you are not in the same position to begin with, being male. You just wrote you hadn't actually thought about it before, that's a luxury women don't have in general. That's just a fact. That's why it makes perfect sense to consider that the exact same words don't have the same meaning when uttered by a woman. That context makes all the difference. From that perspective, what you should do about the whole situation is educated yourself about the issues and focus on the more pressing problem (it's not men's rights or your boss relatively minor inconvenience…). 

It's not unheard of but certainly not a given so it's completely normal to provide one but also completely normal not to. It can be something you can negotiate individually before you take the job or something that is available to all new hires under certain conditions or provided for in collective bargaining agreements. But if your contract and/or company rules don't foresee it, you are out of luck. It's not something you can expect or that your employer necessarily has to provide. You can always ask (but it seems you have done that already) but there is no point in pushing it, especially if, as you wrote in a comment, you are not willing to walk away. Another solution to your rental problem however could be to ask for a salary advance from your employer. Unlike a relocation allowance, it will probably be taxed like regular income and you would have to pay it back in the coming months but it could save you money compared to staying at hostels and avoid a lot of stress. This is something I have seen in your situation (new hire from abroad who need money for a deposit - as opposed to being in debt or spending it on something crazy). 

In countries/jurisdictions where the law does not provide for clear limitations like this, employers might be tempted to slap a broad non-compete clause on everybody's contract – that might be the source of the story you read – but that does not mean they would necessarily bother with enforcing it in each and every case. And I currently work for a very large company, in a locale where the rules are pretty lax, yet my contract only has a very reasonable non-compete clause so don't let this stop you from applying wherever you want. If that's really a show-stopper for you, you can always ask about it after you got an offer and before handing in your notice for your current job. Finally, a friend of mine once switched from an employer to another one that was clearly covered by her non-compete agreement but her new employer was willing to cover any damages/penalty she might have to pay for breaking her contract and approached her former employer to negotiate directly with them. 

It's not uncommon but they vary a lot and the devil is in the details. Depending on the country/jurisdiction, there might legal restrictions curtailing the enforceability of such a non-compete clause: 

Trying to provide a somewhat more nuanced answer between Alec's and Joe's, I would say it feels a bit mean but he does have a point. While it might feel intrusive, there are certainly other jobs in which this could be a problem. On the other hand, it's absolutely not true that it's going to be a problem everywhere. It all depends on the type of job, whether you clock in or not, etc. I have had jobs where I was mostly free of my use of time. I hope that if someone would have spent hours on the loo, people would notice and worry a little but, whether I came at 9 or 11 and went to the loo right after arriving, before leaving, or after lunch made absolutely no difference. In those type of jobs (i.e. outside of an assembly line or call centre in which every minute is controlled and accounted for), it's also illusory to think you can micromanage employees and increase productivity by curtailing toilet breaks. As long as you are not spending hours on the loo or otherwise slacking off in a big way, whether you do it just after coming to work or later in the day should therefore not make any difference and your boss complaining about that has more to do with asserting his power and control over you than anything else. Still, that's a factor in many workplaces so, even if I don't agree with some other answers' attempt to legitimate this, you have to recognise that it's not uncommon and be prepared to deal with it in the future. Practically in this case, since you are already on your way out, there is no need to overthink this. If preserving your relationship with that manager is important and you really can't help but go to the loo around that time, try to arrive earlier and do it before 11. It's just one month, after all. 

Many useful answer but I feel another perspective might be useful. Sounding arrogant is to some extent in the eye of the beholder. In some cultures (national and/or corporate) sharing knowledge or correcting a superior might simply be unacceptable. One answer is therefore: Realize this, try to accept it and do your job as good as you can. If you feel this is impairing your own development or future career or if there are legal ramifications or risks for third parties, this might not be the right course of action but ultimately you are not responsible for the whole company and all your coworkers. Besides, is your team unable to function or deliver anything of value? Can you explain some practical benefits to your preferred approach (as opposed to it being new and considered a “best practice”)? If not, it would suggest that your coworkers' approach is good enough. 

Yes, that's what the text you quoted means (but then I am not a lawyer and have no idea what other German statutes or case law might be relevant – note that this is the German implementation of an EU directive). But even if taking all 30 minutes before the six-hour mark is not mandated by the law, it does not seem forbidden either (“Die Ruhepausen […] können […] aufgeteilt werden.”) So your employer is probably within its rights by implicitly forcing you to take your breaks in that way, as long as you never have to work more than 6 hours in one chunk and have at least 30 min break in total (what the employer has to do is plan a break, not let you take it whenever you want). At the same time, it's not uncommon to see time tracking systems that implement such requirements incorrectly and your recourses are typically limited (I have seen much worse, to the point that it became a contentious issue in the organization). Employees or their representatives can ask to have the system fixed but until then, you don't necessarily have any basis to be compensated for those 15 min. Now that you know how the system works, it's up to you not to lose them, for example by taking a 30 min break in one chunk. You also have to ask yourself if you really want to make a fuss about this (and if you do, it's probably best not to do it alone but, e.g., through a trade union).