The quote is from the 5m54s mark of the video, but the argument is built gradually from the beginning of the video, and I advise watching it before passing judgement. In my opinion he goes off the rails when he starts talking about free will at the end of the video; so I would love to hear from commentators how accepted is the physical part of the video about theory of information, indeterminism, quantum mechanics, and thermodynamics; in particular, since last I was aware of it, whether the universe is deterministic or indeterministic was an open question, reason dictates that there is probably a problem in his argument. Note that the video description lists several professors including Michio Kaku as having given advice in the making of the video. 

I think this is a very interesting question which has not been discussed seriously by philosophers; it seems that philosophers on either side of the trench simply assume their "opponents" are either morons or crooks. I believe there is another radical possibility, that different people may have different kinds of inner experience. If you fail to see anything in your inner experience which may not be described physically (in principle), then that's fine with me; it is your head, not mine, and you are the only one who can give us a subjective report about your inner experience. Nevertheless, I believe there is something in my inner experience which renders physicalism as sensible as the belief that nothing exists at all. The above hypothesis is testable, since if it is true, then we should expect to find a correlation between genes and the philosophical position on the question of physicalism. 

The land has indeed be explored by science and testable and evident theories provided by it have superseded their religious equivalents. TL;DR: (to quote the 1st comment to this answer) 

What fallacy would "pot calling the kettle black" be, or basically discharging criticism at someone who doesn't substantially differ from you, only in a nuance of the same deviation? I can see a form of special pleading for a completely arbitrary line of acceptance drawn in between the critic and the critiqued, which would be a form of hypocrisy. Is there a better fallacy to in which to classify this phrase? CLARIFICATION: I don't mean saying "pot calling the kettle" itself is a fallacy -- I mean what it is being called against 

A knee jerk response from a nonexpert armchair consumer of philosophy is that it's a defense mechanism from the academic ivory tower to protect their status in the community as the select few who can interpret something that in better conditions shouldn't require much interpretation. But I am hoping there is a better explanation that doesn't come off as some anti-intellectual elitism paranoia and in favor of this hierarchy. In short, my question is, what intellectual justification exists to forgive (good?) philosophers for terrible writing skills? Or in other words, convince me that writing skills do not correlate with general intellectual value. I'm very open to change my mind. 

EDIT Dec 6th - in response to Dave's comments: My point above is that Dave's examples are not evidence that people are sometimes p-zombies, as I explain in the comments below. on the other hand I believe there is plenty of evidence that many (maybe even most) people may be p-zombies all-the-time; if you don't believe me, just ask them yourself. Dennett maintains we are all p-zombies since in his mind there is no such thing as Qualia: "Dennett wryly notes, he is committed to the belief that we are all p-zombies" (Dennett protected the original statement against quoting with a curse). One way to interpret this is that philosophers have some weird unresolvable argument going on between materialists and non-materialists, where each camp believes the other's position is plain silly, absurd, or even dishonest. Another way to interpret this is to realize that it is just radically possible that we don't all have the same kind of inner experience. In fact this idea is testable; if I am correct then there should be a detectable correlation between one's position on materialism and particular genes. It is interesting that people often react badly to this speculation; both materialist and non-materialist alike are often offended and angered when presented with this idea, and I am not aware that it has ever been discussed seriously by philosophers. 

Reality is mysterious, in the sense that it transcends reason and logic and human capacity to comprehend it. It is unspeakable. Unthinkable. The simulation hypothesis on the other hand is a simple thinkable and intelligible idea, just like life after death, or any other silly metaphysical idea about our reality. As such, it does not add or change, or explain anything really. In particular, it does not make anything less real than it already is. Most proponents of the simulation hypothesis conceive of it as a computer simulation or a computational simulation. However, the day you find that which Tibetan Buddhist call self-knowing awareness, or Advaita people call Atman, or Sufis and Hasidic people call Godliness, you will know with certainty that reality cannot possibly be explained as a computation. In fact, the belief that reality may possibly be a computation, is an indication that one is, like almost everybody, still asleep. 

I happen to believe that strong writing and speaking skills are a non-negotiable requirement for any intellectual and philosophers in particular. While I obviously disclaim that as a personal opinion, I don't see it as particularly controversial because how valuable are your ideas if you can't communicate them properly and to as wide an audience as applicable? The applicability scope does matter -- a publication on tardigrade reproductive behavior understandably has a much narrower audience than a philosophical treatise on ethics, which their language should reflect (hint: it's more okay for the former to be arcanely worded as its target audience is more controlled). So when a philosopher who is speculating on matters that affect pretty much every human walking the planet has downright awful writing skills, let's mention Hegel as one of the not so few examples, why do you cut this person slack? Why, if they are so brilliant, do they need an interpretor (e.g. Kojeve) to translate their ideas to the general audience? If they are so brilliant to dispense ethical imperatives that apply to wide audiences, shouldn't they be held in high expectations to themselves make their ideas easily digestible to those audiences? What prompted me ask this rather broad question is that I notice (even on this forum) a level of disdain for any thinker who does offer philosophical insight but is not a formal philosopher and writes in clear, understandable manner. Famously Foucault said that 

To this and similar arguments Chalmers responded in Does a Rock Implement Every Finite-State Automaton? and later developed what he calls a theory of implementation in A Computational Foundation for the Study of Cognition. 

I am puzzled by why you mix what I view as three distinct concepts into one; namely consciousness, thinking and intelligence. I believe that it only creates confusion. what is your justification? I remember a scientist who said that as he was watching one day a seed of a Senecio vernalis floating in the air breeze he had the epiphany that it is a form of intelligence. He was not saying that it was a form of thinking nor a form of consciousness. No one would protest if you insist that bacteria can be said to demonstrate intelligence, yet few people would claim bacteria is thinking, or that DNA is thinking. And more specifically to the application of thinking to machines. Turing said in his famous paper Computing Machinery and Intelligence: 

(It seems it is kind of difficult to post a question that fits nicely in its own title, but the fact of the matter is that it does fit) 

you might also enjoy the following very funny video of Feynman explaining nature's craziness to students - $URL$ - the lectures themselves are very interesting - after watching them two years ago I realized for the first time how holograms actually work. 

Is that just a euphemism to shield claims that cannot be established using methods of , which is a scientific standard? 

Many in the Frankfurt School, notably Adorno and Horkheimer, regarded rationality with criticism as, in their view, led to dehumanization and enslavement. But what did they offer as an alternative principle or ethos in guiding personal or social heuristics? I assume not religion/god, as they were mostly Marxist. 

I am almost sure there is a name for the fallacy whereby its exponent tries to apply a very small sample of observation, usually anecdotal evidence, as representative of the population, of which that sample is part, at large. For example: 

I'm aware of the compatibilist attitude by some philosophers, such as Hegel and Daniel Dennet. I am interested in some philosophers who are firm determinists (deny free will). 

It's nice to be reserved against hasty generalization based on (however carefully collected) statistics -- but it is laughable to argue one's pathetically minute sample of observation trumps that of, say Pew research and similar (which I think can also be considered hasty generalization but in a non discriminatory way). What is the name of that fallacy? 

I've been reading on the holism-reductionism continuum. Reductionism strikes me as compliant with general principles of the scientific approach and method because it seeks to explain complex phenomena by breaking them down into smaller units and building theories bottom up, focusing on specificity and detail. Holism is the opposite and seems to me it could easily serve as a seemingly respectable (who doesn't want to tie it all together in a big "theory of everything"?) curtain for poor, insufficient or downright misleading and sloppy research. This is not to say we shouldn't seek to explain relations among phenomena -- only that it should be preceded by a thorough understanding of individual parts. In modern scientific circles, is holism generally regarded as a conduit for pseudoscience? 

Applying some deductive reasoning may suggest that he did not exist. First, ask yourself how one of the wisest men who was the mentor of one of the greatest philosophers and in turn a great writer, never wrote a thing? We would have to deduce that he was either illiterate, or unwilling to write, but that would be inconsistent with the personality of someone who is a teacher. Have you ever met a professor, for example, that never wrote anything? Given that his immediate protege was an accomplished writer, this seems strange. As the student often imitates his master, it makes no sense that the protege was a writer and the master was not. The second item to look at is that even though many use the writing of his students as "evidence," there were only two students who "met him" during his lifetime. Wouldn't someone as reputable as Socrates have more admirers, more people writing about him? Or even more students? The wisest man in Athens could not have had only two students. The third thing to consider may well be that even those who allegedly met the man have varying descriptions of him, as well as the fact that even his greatest student writes of him in sometimes contradictory ways. In my estimation, the support for his existence is actually rather weak. But we have to then ask ourselves why would Plato or anyone else make up a man and not take credit for their own philosophical works? This may be given away in the story of Socrates, as he was allegedly hung for his beliefs. This would in turn imply that philosophers were liable to be persecuted or killed because of their beliefs, and what better way to give yourself plausible deniability, than by creating a character on which all your philosophical work is based? For example, if Plato were to be confronted by authorities, he could simply explain that the views written in his works were not his, but the thoughts of his master which he had simply recalled in his works. Consider this, that in later times as in the enlightenment period, writers would often use pen names or nom de plume in order to avoid the authorities. While my views are skeptical in their nature, it should not take away from the ideas of Socrates, whoever they may truly belong to. But just because we rely on these ideas, does not mean that it should be taken for-granted that the man behind them existed. I would say however, that it is ironic that so many who study philosophy and would otherwise be logical and skeptical people, refuse to examine this issue and essentially believe in his existence on what amounts to little more than hearsay. No written works, no burial site, no way of knowing if he ever really existed, yet many people take it as fact and take offense if someone questions this premise. But if people can have faith in other things, maybe they can too believe in Socrates? 

One reason not to "pop a bullet" into your own head is that it would probably deny you the DMT trip one is supposedly entitled to upon dying: $URL$ DMT is the substance suspected for near-death experiences, and if we must go one day, then flying away into the DMT clouds is probably more enjoyable than whatever sensation accompanies the partial destruction of the brain by a bullet. As for the "point" in an Atheist's existence, I suppose that if religion can give one's life purpose, then there is a good chance that other sources exist which may make your life worth living. For me personally, being a non-materialist, I find consciousness and existence to be an unfathomable miracle and an endless source of wonder. EDIT Here is an interview that I love with Woody Allen about the meaning of life: $URL$ 

An answer depends on how such a robot functions; one can think of various ways to construct a robot; for example it could be programmed to follow instructions such as if it rains outside take an umbrella; or it could be constructed to learn how to respond to its environment in an unsupervised manner, for example a neural network system which learns to play breakout $URL$ in the former case it is clear that the system has no free will, and it may even be able to introspect and report that it has no free will on this matter; but in the later case the answer to the question is not so clear. Since the former case is not interesting, lets consider the later, and suppose for the sake of argument that such a robot can pass the Turing test as a human; therefore the answers to your questions would be: 1) The robot may be lacking "behavior rules inherited from its programmers", and therefore the question may be irrelevant. we can assume the robot is simulable by a Turing Machine, and that therefore it may be argued that its state evolves according to programmed rules, but not anywhere close to the sense of "If A happens then do B"; for example, in the breakout game video no one programmed the network to wait on the left side of the screen while the ball is bouncing behind the wall. 3) you write that humans "can and do act against their original indoctrination" and that robots "always act according to their programs", but if you imagine a robot consisting of 90B artificial neurons rather than a pre-programmed set of instructions, then the distinction between such a robot and a human is not so clear, and one can argue that the above descriptions are interchangeable; for example, that humans can be said to sort of follow a very complicated "program" and that robots seem to be able to act against their indoctrination, since it can be said their indoctrination is simply what they have learnt from their past interactions with their environment, and as a result there is no trivial function from situation to response. 2) indeed, it is not clear why one would ascribe free will to a system of 100 artificial neurons playing breakout; but you have postulated a system complicated enough to pass for a human in a Turing test; suppose such a system is made of 90B artificial neurons, which have learnt to respond in a way which seems appropriate for a human; assuming this system does not follow simple pre-programmed rules, then it is not obviously clear to me why a compatibilist should deny such a system has free will. it might be fun to imagine a chat with such a machine on the subject of free will: H: do you know what free will means? R: yeah, it's that belief that one has a freedom to choose how to act in a given situation. H: do you have free will? R: well, knowing how I am constructed, I'd say that I can reasonably rule out libertarian free will; but I believe in compatibilist free will