The Emerald and Sapphire lake picture above was taken from a trail that goes over a ridge from Caribou Lake. 

Most handheld compasses won't give you an option to adjust built in magnets so the best you'll be able to do is use the deviation card you create to adjust your course/bearings. On compasses with a declination adjustment you can use that, in combination with your declination adjustment, to simplify the corrections. 

I don't have a reference handy but in conversations I've had in the past (several years ago) with people who compete/vie for speed records ascending ropes they exclusively use prusiks. If memory serves they preferred the Texas Prusik system. Here is another resource on the technique. The key benefits of using this system is it is efficient, light weight, and effectively fail-safe. 

As an aside another risk with children is putting them in a situation that is uncomfortable and makes them not want to do similar activities in the future. For example if the first trip a young kid takes skiing they get cold, wet, and fall constantly they aren't going to be excited to go again. If the first several times they go skiing they are warm, comfortable, and get to drink extra hot chocolate they'll be more forgiving with the intermittent wet, cold, and generally crummy day. If you do decide to take your daughter out snow camping I'd recommend you do absolutely everything in your power to make it go off without a hitch or you're going to have a hard time getting a second chance. 

Since you want to add stuff to the water salt and vinegar offer a couple of advantages for the high altitude egg adventurer 

Once when I was in the Marine Corps I did rappel for fun off of a guard rail in the central staircase of my three story barracks building. I did not have any problem with the guard rail as an anchor, but when my command found out about my "incident" they were not happy.... This is for good reason because: The guard rail on your balcony is not designed for this type of load so all bets are off in regards to if it will support your body weight. This means that it really is impossible to tell if your particular balcony railing will support your weight or not. The bricks probably have voids in the middle which will reduce their strength, plus they might have been loose in the past so the holes were filled with some grout/mortar that might not be more structural than a bubble gum filler. The railing might be hollow tubing that is rotten with rust from the inside so it looks ok but it will break with any serious weight/pressure. Keep in mind too that bricks are strongest in relation to compressive loads (stacking things on top), they aren't amazingly strong at preventing a bolt from being ripped out. The list goes on, and on when you have something that wasn't really designed for the way it is being used. 

You can use your favorite search engine to find more resources using the key words native fish hook. Below are two YouTube videos I found that might be interesting: Bone hook/carving video Spliced wood hook video 

The terrain might prevent the signal from reaching your target. They require batteries, and must be turned on to work. 

Well if you're Daniel Boone or Davy Crockett you'd aim for the little stump the squirrel is sitting on and bark the squirrel1: 

A kiteboat is essentially a boat that uses a kite instead of a sail for propulsion. This seems like an intriguing concept, and an interesting alternative to the traditional sailboat designs. As advocates of the sport the website The Kiteboat Project has a big article on the advantages of a kiteboat. 

In the link you gave in your question there are some pictures. One of the pictures has this caption: 

I haven't tried this personally but I would imagine that waterproof/resistant paper used for printing out maps would work well due the slightly plastic feel. A quick search using your favorite search engine with the terms 'waterproof inkjet paper' ought to give you lots of options. 

Growing up we had an old aluminum canoe. It looked kind of ugly, and had some dents, but it was a great boat. Over the past 5 years I've been in various sporting goods stores in California, Colorado, and Idaho looking at canoes. Every single canoe they have on display is plastic. They never have aluminum canoes. Aluminum canoes that I've found on the internet are price competitive (generally slightly cheaper), and weigh less than the plastic canoes. My own biased perception is the aluminum canoes are more durable, hardier (in and out of the water since they can't warp if stored in the sun), require less maintenance, and if they are damaged are easier to fix. I know that I'm biased so I don't understand why the market seems to be dominated by plastic canoes. What am I missing? Why are plastic canoes everywhere and aluminum canoes hard to find? Is there something in the pro/con list between the respective build materials that makes plastic canoes a clear winner? 

I've been thinking about buying a canoe for a little while now. Growing up my family had an aluminum canoe so I've been looking at aluminum canoes in addition to the plastic canoes commonly seen in sporting goods stores. Today while looking at the canoes it struck me that the Osagian 17' canoe has very similar dimensions to the Old Town Discovery 169, and Old Town Penobscot 174. Both Old Town canoes have a capacity nearly double the 780 lbs. capacity of the Osagian canoe. The major difference that I can see is the Discovery is 2 inches taller and the Penobscot is 1 inch taller than the Osagian. I would be inclined to attribute the extra capacity to the height difference but Penobscot has 100 lb more capacity than the Discovery even though it is 1 inch shorter. This means that length is a bigger factor than height for Old Town canoe capacity. Additionally the shape of the boats seems similar from a top view. Not that a couple of pounds weight would equate to hundreds of pounds of additional capacity but the aluminum Osagian canoe is lighter than either of the Old Town canoes. So why do the Old Town canoes have more carrying capacity? Is this just a meaningless marketing number so each company can claim whatever numbers they want? 

These jackets don't rely on arms to secure them to your body, and will generally allow conscious people to remain face up without much effort which is nice if the wearer is scared of water or can't swim. You can also purchase a "universal crotch strap" that should prevent it from riding up. I think this combination would be the cheapest and easiest option. Of course there are disadvantages to this type of life jacket. Namely they make you look like a dork, and aren't exceedingly comfortable. One other concern I'd have is if the jacket could rotate while your friend is in the water. Admittedly I have no idea if it would happen but it would be a scary experience if it did happen. The crotch strap should limit the twisting/rotation to some degree so this might not be a problem in practice. If it were my friend I'd try out the jacket with crotch strap combo on land first. If you both came to the conclusion that rotation/twisting is a non-issue this is the route I'd go. 

You can splice two pieces of material together for an improvised hook. This is probably the easiest way to make a treble hook and/or a hook for snagging fish. I personally think this is the way to go because it feels like it will allow me to make mistakes without having to trash everything. Plus it is more repairable. 

I don't have any official sources to back this up, but I have some experience rationing food. My cousin and I spent several months cycling around Europe with little money and consequently not much food. By the end of the trip I had lost significant weight, but overall the trip was quite enjoyable. It is interesting though when I reflect on my memories food has an unusually strong imprint. Meals that would have been unmemorable normally are seared in my memory. I'm sure that is due to the constant and inescapable hunger. I think if we hadn't rationed, the trip either would have been much shorter, or more driven by hunger during our fasts. 

This has really drifted from a true outdoors.SE question but the most popular portion of the question appears to be about the egg. I found a web site that gives more information about boiling eggs than any but the most hardened boiled egg enthusiasts would need. Below are some tasty morsels from the site: For the ideal hard boiled egg you shouldn't boil it 

Several years ago I purchased an Exped down filled inflatable sleeping pad. It is a more comfortable pad than Thermarest pads I've used in the past, so I would still recommend it. That being said, when I purchased the pad I remember Exped making a big deal about how their pads are filled with down as if this was a major improvement in terms of warmth (and possibly comfort) over other sleeping pads. At the time I bought this marketing pitch hook, line, and sinker. However I was laying in my tent during a recent camping trip and I started to think about what possible benefit down really offers inside of an inflatable sleeping pad. As far as I know down is warm because it does a good job of trapping air and it is light weight. How would trapping air be helpful in an inflatable sleeping pad? The air is already trapped or the pad would deflate. Down's other claim to fame is being light weight. I don't know how that applies to a sleeping pad since not filling it with down would be lighter than filling it with down. Also getting down wet is a known problem and so Exped recommends that I fill my sleeping pad using the pad's stuff sack as an air pump so the moisture from my breath doesn't foul the down inside the pad. That leads to a bulky, specialized stuff sack that I didn't need for other sleeping pads. Another mild annoyance is there are two valves on the\h pad so that down doesn't collect on one side of the pad. This makes deflating quicker but it doubles the chance a valve will fail thus ruining my pad. The more I thought about it the more convinced I became that the increased warmth and comfort of my Exped pad was due to its substantially increased thickness vs Thermarest pads. Does filling a sleeping pad offer any real benefit or is it just a marketing gimmick that exploits foolish people like myself who blindly accept down makes everything better?