Besides, depending on the expected growth rate of each area, you could leave a percentage of spare seats, so you don't need to move everyone the next time a newcomer arrives. Regarding software companies you could find some more info in Office Space Calculations and Bionic Office, by Joel Spolsky. They are old but some advice could still be useful. You could also benefit from reading part II, Office Environment, from Peopleware, by De Marco and Lister. 

I'm assuming you want to use postal mail and both recipients can be addressed as Mr/Ms (instead of Ph D., Dr. or whatever). Since you are sending only one application, there is no need to write separate addresses on the inside, but only the address you're sending the letter to. Keeping both names on the inside is useful since chances are that the letter and the envelope gets separated by an administrator, so you want to be sure both recipients are informed of the application's arrival. Writing each name and each title in the same line will help keeping the format clean and simple. So I'd recommend using: 

They said people jump in because of the company, and they leave (or stay) because of the boss. :) First, discussing with your boss is not necessarily bad, and depending on culture it could be more/less tolerated. (e.g. I've met corporations where you're not supposed to talk to your manager unless she talks to you first). That said, depending on the kind of job and on your seniority/experience (e.g. First Violin on an orchestra vs apprentice on a workshop): 

I have the same problem. However, based on my area - these recruiters all stem from about the same half dozen firms or so. I usually will keep one good contact with each firm, and if someone else from the firm messages me I will forward them to the good contact that I have at the firm (this shows my, albeit lazy, loyalty towards this particular recruiter). There are a couple of reasons for me doing this. They will build a profile for you, and watch you more closely if you keep in contact with them. This will allow them to see/know your current employment, the length of that employment, and any future promotions you may gain while in contact with them. I let them know that I am currently not looking for a new company to go to. At this point, they will usually ask a question to the point of "What will it take for you to leave?" - I set the expectations really high. Much higher salary then what I'm currently getting, and more senior position. That way, if they do ever contact me with a position meeting this description I know it's going to be an offer I can't refuse. Another, more selfish reason, for staying in contact with a few recruiters is most will take you out to lunch or dinner for free every month or so - and I don't know anyone that doesn't like free food. 

If you're quite friendly with your coworkers, you can just say "Hey, thanks for inviting me, but I'm really not into mini-putt. Plus I have a lot of work right now, so I'm just gonna pass for this one". If not, you may want to find a more formal way to decline the invite. This is if you want to decline. If you're not particularely interesting in binding with your coworkers outside the office, just don't go. Otherwise, it might be worth sucking it up for this time and accept the invitation. You can mention you aren't really into mini-putt, but want to spend some time with them out of the office, and next time you can propose somthing that suits you better. It's especially true if everyone but you is going. You might get behind in bounding with the rest of the team. 

You fear there's a problem, but your description of the situation doesn't give any hint that there actually is one. It seems to me you're making the same mistake I did not so long ago, and many junior employees made before us : having the feeling that, while you just got out of college, you should in a few months get to the same technical level as your peers that have years of experience. This is just wrong. Assuming your employer isn't totally delusional, he's perfectly aware he hired a junior employee. And he's perfectly aware that this meens you will need a bit of time to learn things and be as efficient as your experienced coworkers. You don't seem to have any evidence that anyone was ever annoyed by your questions. So keep asking. Keeping from bothering other people with a question a 30s Google search would answer is fine. Wasting time by staying stuck on a problem your coworkers could easily have helped you solve isn't. Maybe the reason you didn't receive the same training as other people is because your manager expects you and your coworkers to communicate and share knoledge, thus preventing spending additional money in your training for skills that are already present in the team. About getting a light treatment, I can't answer that part for you. I just would like to point out that if you are actually getting one, this may be because you're the "new guy" and not because you are a woman. The best way of reassuring yourself and have the opportunity to fix an hypotetic problem is talking to your manager. Something like "OK, I've been here for a few months, and I would like to discuss what you think of my work so far. I have the feeling things are going great. Is there any way you would like me to improve?" is not only perfectly acceptable for your manager, but it will make you look motivated and willing to give your best. To sum up : don't be too hard on yourself. You're new at your job, and you'll get better at it. Just work hard, show good will, and there's no reason why anything would go wrong. 

Short Answer - You still have a chance. Based on the multiple interviews you went through, and them telling you that they were impressed, then I'd say you're still a top contender. They did state, however, that you were the first interviewed. I wouldn't be surprised if it took a couple of months for them to get back to you on the decision. Ultimately, the hiring manager makes the decision - and HR doesn't know when that decision is going to come. The hiring manager may decide to interview a few more candidates whose resumes have impressed them, or interview every candidate that they get a resume on. It's also possible that you are either under-qualified(but impressive) or over-qualified for the position - I don't know your skillset - and they may be interviewing to see if they can find a better fit. If not, you still have a chance at securing the job. Either way, I would suggest sending a hand-written thank you note to the senior members/hiring manager that interviewed you. While sending a card/note to HR is fine, sending one to the hiring manager is going to keep your name in their mind. Also, do not send gifts. Most companies have policies regarding not receiving gifts in these situations. Personal Experience Every company has different hiring processes. For example, the company I'm currently with took nearly 5 months from the initial phone interview, to having a contract that I could sign and officially call me apart of the company. My previous employer only took about 3 weeks from initial interview to signing on. It's different everywhere you go, never count yourself out unless you know for sure you're not getting it. 

So go to your manager and tell him you finished the project and are available for new tasks. If he gives you tasks you consider he shouldn't give you, discuss it with him. If he doesn't wanna hear it, that's unfortunate, and if it is really unbearable for you maybe it's time to look for a different job. But not liking the tasks your boss gives you is NOT an excuse for lying to him and being unprofessional 

If you want to build a long term relationship, don't let her push you around. Calmly explain her that you are not to blame, and that her IT team should be able to come to the same conclusion. If they have strict security policies all access to sensitive information is likely to be authenticated and logged. If she only trusts her "gut-feeling" to blame you and won't listen to her IT team, you don't want to work with her. As for the recovery task, your answer will be the same as for the question "how would you handle any request for work that is outside the scope of your contract" ? 

(pretty much summed it up in my op comment, but I thought this might be worth an actual answer). Maybe they are indeed trying to avoid wasting their time and yours if your expectations are way above their pay range. Maybe it's some kind of bargaining strategy to lower your expectations before the proper money talk begins. But if the range they give you is somewhat decent, even though not what you expected, I'd still go to the interview if I were interested in the position, because there's a chance that you really impress them and they think you're worth making an effort wit the budget. 

It's also nice to mention that due to it being a startup, you could wager this as being part of your confrontation for having him recognize the criticism. Startups are risky as it is, but it takes a certain level of input and creativity to truly flourish into a blossoming company. Explain to him that everyone's input should be encouraged and options weighed. 

Due to this being a startup, and everyone being on the same level on the playing field, you may want to see how the other team members feel about his expertise. Based on the comments made it seems as though you have a problem with this individual and the advice he gives, but no mention of this being a disruption to any others in the office. Secondly, are you in the role in which you "should" be critiquing him? It may just be that you may be stepping on toes. It's a fair assumption to make that when things like this happen in the office, that the best way to go about solving them is to put yourself in the other's shoes. The above two statements do that. I had one particular colleague at my previous company who acted pretty much this exact same way. It took multiple teams sitting him down in a meeting and explaining to him that, while he was quite knowledgeable and we respected him for his accolades, that he wasn't as Subject Matter Expert in everything and his attitude towards new ideas or ideas that weren't his own was leading to a high tension environment. We basically explained to him that no one liked talking to him and we only did so because he was a coworker. After that he began to work on his behavior, mostly due to peer-pressure (no one likes a whole group of people disliking them). In the end, a year or so after, he's a genuinely nice guy. He still has reserves about meeting new people and still questions everything, but in a much more professional demeanor. So, I'd find out a couple of things: