In that era, cotton was a luxury fiber Before roughly 1000AD, cotton was quite expensive. It is not easy to remove the seeds from the cotton boll, early cotton plants were not nearly as productive as modern varieties, and picking cotton requires a lot of unpleasant labor. 

The statement is, on its face, absurd. "Monetary supply" is an inappropriate term to describe the economic workings of the era. In today's economy, there are practically as many definitions of "monetary supply" as there are economists (or, at least, statistical agencies), and there is no meaningful definition for the term in a pre-modern context. I suppose that the author here simply meant coinage, but then he falls into a different fallacy. Gold and silver coins are a convenient means to store and transfer value. However, they are far from the only means and historically have rarely been the dominant means. Credit, ranging in sophistication from tokens and tally sticks to bills of exchange; paper money; commodity money, ranging from measures of grain in ancient Mesopotamia to pelts in colonial America; and other tokens such as wampum and cowries; all compete with gold and silver in the "marketplace of money". Gold and silver have advantages in this marketplace - they are durable, portable and broadly fungible - but they are hardly irreplaceable. Rather than to say that the supply was inadequate, it would be better to say that there was unmet demand for gold and silver in the European marketplace. The great question is, thus, to what degree did the influx of American silver increase the money supply, as opposed to simply displacing other forms of exchange. Unfortunately, most of the other forms of exchange are all but invisible to the historian. We can hardly do better than guess at the number of tally sticks and I.O.U.'s used in the past, or estimate how that number has changed. Researchers interested in the question scour the most basic documents of the era - particularly banking and shipping records and contracts of all kinds. It is a complex question and you'll find plenty of spirited disagreements in the literature. 

represents the letter "a". In fact, it represented what we call the aleph, and there is still no clear agreement on the sound that it represented. It may be the "glottal stop" and this is currently the majority view among Egyptologists. For convenience, we pronounce it as an "a", but we are by no means certain that is how the Ancient Egyptians pronounced it. The aleph discussed above should not be confused with the aleph found in Semitic languages. That seems to correspond with the single reed in Egyptian hieroglyphs: 

The Wright brothers carried out the first "sustained and controlled heavier-than-air powered flight" in 1903, and they were happy to acknowledge that they had built on Cayley's work. In fact, in a speech to the Royal Aero Club in London in 1909, Wilbur Wright is reported to have said: 

Nefertiti was the wife of Akhenaten who moved his capital to a newly established city he called Akhetaten, and which we know as Amarna. The move to Amarna was associated with a move to worshipping a different personification of the sun god - the Aten. Amarna was abandoned shortly after the death of Akhenaten, and the capital moved back to Thebes. Amun returned to prominence as the main deity. There was a period of rule by a Pharaoh named Smenkhkare, followed by Tutankhamun - "Living image of Amun" (previously known as "Tutankhaten" ("Living image of the Aten")). The point is, that from the death of Akhenaten, Nefertiti was no longer Queen. There would simply have been much less demand for statues. Furthermore, it seems that statues and inscriptions from the Amarna period were being defaced almost as soon as the city was abandoned. Nefertiti was associated with the former regime, so the market for sculptures probably collapsed when Amarna was abandoned.. 

As an aside, most people are familiar with the Egyptian god Amun, whose name imn means 'the hidden [male] one'. However, many do not realise that his origins lay in the Ogdoad of Hermopolis. The gods of the Ogdoad were paired, and Amun was paired with the goddess Amunet, imn-t (note the feminine ending) whose name means 'the hidden [female] one'. In that example there are male and female versions of the name, distinguished by the -t for the feminine name. The other male-female god-goddess pairs in the Ogdoad were: 

In popular culture, absolutely. Among historians, not so much. I stumbled across a 12-volume history of the "Great War" at a garage sale some time ago. The tone in this series is grim but grounded. The Germans are considered the aggressor, a dangerous enemy, and possessed of few (if any) scruples. I doubt anyone would publish such an extensive series today, but if anyone felt that an update was necessary, I suspect that the tone would actually be more sympathetic to the Continental powers. Today's historians are an equivocating lot, quick to accept (or at least, repeat) the arguments of the apologists of even the most odious regimes. Decades of Cold War conflicts in places like Vietnam, Suez, and Nicaragua have trained scholars to put democratic and absolutist regimes on the same plane and to find the seeds of conflict in economic and class issues. The tendency among modern historians to call for "a pox on all their houses" is much stronger today than before WWII. But whereas historians tend to be just a little kinder to the Germans today, in popular culture the opposite is true. The depiction of the Germans in Wonder Woman is certainly the most appropriate example at the moment. There are two reasons for this. First, WWI is barely taught in American schools today and most Americans conflate it with WWII. And about the only thing the average American knows about WWI is that the Germans used poison gas and sunk the Lusitania with a submarine. These do not give Germany a positive image (although the Germans also had zeppelins, which really looked cool.) Finally, to most Americans, WWII was just Germany's "second try". A nice example from the popular culture of the 1960s is the Tom Lehrer song about the MLF (Multi-lateral Nuclear Force) being mooted at the time. 

During the Second World War, internment camps for German, Italian and Finnish civilians were once again set up on the Isle of Man by the UK government. Many of those interned on the island were refugees from the Nazis, so I have often wondered how they must have felt when the saw the island's emblem on arrival: 

Probably because, unlike many other acts in the ancient eastern Mediterranean (perhaps dating back to the antisemitic attitudes expressed by Manetho in the 3rd century BC), the motivation behind the First Jewish War wasn't antisemitic. The actions of Titus First Jewish–Roman War, and those of his father, Vespasian, before him, were aimed at putting down a rebellion in the Roman province of Judea. The fact that those in revolt in Judea were Jewish was not a factor. 

Firstly, given the exhortation in Exodus 22:18 "Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live", we are probably on safe ground if we say that the attitude of the church towards practitioners of "magic" wasn't particularly positive - even before the 15th century. Now, I know that there is a debate about whether the Hebrew term mekhashepha, translated in the King James Bible as "witches", should be better translated as "poisoners". However, since the mekhashepha (whoever they might be) are also included with "necromancers", "those who cast spells", "those who summon spirits" etc., as "an abomination to Yahweh" in Deuteronomy 18:9-10, I think it is safe to assume that the church would have taken a strong stand against them - whatever debates among modern scholars may conclude about the precise meaning of the original Hebrew word. In fact, we know that the early church took such a stand against them. They actually passed decrees which condemned magic: 

[Miller, 2010, p240] This does seem to support the idea that Lincoln was embarrassed, or at least unwilling, to take a post in the patronage of government while friends whom he had recommended for office were rejected.