Everyday activities: Generally speaking day to day activities would be more efficient and would require less time to learn. 

First, when trying to be sneaky and hide the movement of things you "shouldn't" have it never hurts to be obscenely wealthy and have companies under your control. So, step one simply put, make yourself rich. If you want to keep the box a hidden secret you're going to have to take your time otherwise pesky economic watchdogs may start to notice you pulling money out of your ass (metaphorically of course). So pick whatever you want to duplicate...cash seems like the obvious and relatively painless option considering you don't want people to find out about the box not to mention you don't then have to try and sell goods that you have no right to sell. The more rare and expensive and obscure item you copy the more difficult it will be to move those items...copying diamonds would get challenging in any significant number, same goes for most relatively rare items. Stick with cash and use different kinds, not just Euros or Dollars. Hide it and gradually start investing it and saving it...PAY YOUR TAXES, don't be Al Capone. Precious metals may be an even better option, just your standard, gold/silver/platinum...no serial numbers... Second, now that you are crazy wealthy, invest that money into places to make more money, buy companies, preferably in the areas you plan to manipulate later with your wizard box. You are essentially creating a cover for your secret. Third, well now its time to do your good. You could buy pharma companies and distribute drugs to anyone that needs them, some drugs can cost Seven Figures..., you could create global education programs for the impoverished (though that doesn't directly utilize the box), you could destroy the diamond market to eliminate those conflicts, hrmm what else...the options in this section are only limited to the items that will actually fit into the box. You can't fix the middle east...that whole oil thing, the box won't really help on that, but you can support renewable energy research with your box begotten goods so that wouldn't hurt. 

Rankings Be it the military, a church, special clubs (boy scouts, shriners, etc) ranks are already in place and in theory should denote a skill/achievement level in line with the organization's purpose or beliefs 

Not likely. Even house cats are notoriously difficult to train, and there is a reason private ownership of big cats is frowned upon and in some cases illegal. In a medieval...or any pre-modern setting, the cost to feed and shelter such an animal would be too high. Not to mention that fencing off an area for a big cat would be much more difficult than keeping cows in place. 

The short version is I would suggest that we are both diverse and monolithic simultaneously based on our level of familiarity. Variation is good in genetics, so there will always be differences, but that doesn't mean we aren't a whole lot like everyone else on the planet...whether we want to admit it or not. One exception, or special case I can think of would be the case of a sentient species that shares a mental link/hive mind. In this case you could well see a far more truly monolithic society. 

I have to agree this isn't really answerable. It would be dictated by the interaction humans have with such an animal. 

I think the key point is the people. The people themselves will have to be non-competitive. I've seen two people complete compete eating food or finding a parking spot. Some humans make everything competitive...it is evolutionarily beneficial to be better. Competing is hard wired into our systems So I think the answer relies on two things. 

Yes. And No. So the thing is, modern currency only has value because we believe it has value and that in large part is because it is backed by national governments and more specifically their stored wealth. In your scenario it would depend on how long after your apocalypse you are talking. Over time we would get back to where we are today with variation based on how things evolve. In a future post apocalyptic setting (depending on how you define the socio-political climate) you are not going to have big governments with a few possible exceptions based on the apocalyptic event. So modern currencies and particular international standards/exchange rates are not going to exist. It is possible that some other form of currency that has intrinsic value (perhaps iron coins, or there's always gold and other precious metals) could come into use but this would likely take time to develop. The progression of currency development looks something like this. 

In short...we pretty much do this already just in a more piecemeal manner than a character leveling up Here are some examples 

To address your specific mention of emphasis. In the transfer of knowledge an idea or subject that the 'speaker' is trying to emphasize you could attribute it your attention, you could give it a certain glow halo affect in visual terms, if scent is used you could focus on that object's particular scent or you could focus on impressing your emotions related to that person or object in the communication. Other notes: Some other things worth mentioning that are not strictly speaking grammar Perspective will be important when conveying information. Emotion, if you allow it to be part of the communication process, can be a valuable tool in this system. Consider how you will convey time. Conveying time is usually a comparison or verbal idea. You will need to come up with a system to convey such concepts. 

Well, the only thing that comes to mind is a generally peaceful society as a lack of interaction would likely lead to a lack of conflict. 

Odds are both scenarios end horribly and with mass oppression, environmental catastrophe and in the end...revolt. These people's grand children will be spitting on their grandparents' graves. 

This would be one part of tracking her if not necessarily catching her. Video networks and search algorithms would have to be set up to spot this trait. 

We can't... In short, without some radical change in human or insect behavior, it kinda sounds like your humans are screwed. There are roughly 10,000,000,000,000,000,000 insects on planet earth. Compare this with 7,000,000,000 That's ten quintillion and seven billion respectively... 

Is there a field of study related to architecture and how it changes between cultures (and how it acts where said cultures overlap)? Is there a way to model this along imaginary/fantasy world borders? Are there any resources you would suggest to dig deeper into this topic? 

You are asking if something undefinable and beyond human comprehension can be contained by something that we can comprehend? Just logically I would say that's a big, NO or at the very least if we are incapable of understanding either we can make judgments about neither. You've logic'd yourself into a situation where the answer is, "That can't be answered" 

So we all know that Lemmings are known for following blindly to their death but that is not the reality. I would like to create the myth in the real world, or rather I would like to know how such a creature could be created via evolution. 

So, Third World is a pretty obsolete reference but the usage you are applying is not at all uncommon. More accurately you are looking at developing or least developed nations. The least developed nations map doesn't leave us a whole lot to work with. Mainly Africa and a small portion of SE Asia. 

I think the most logical scenario is enchanted items. It gives you serious firepower and keeps casters out of siege combat...which is not their ideal place to be. I think this would result in less or at least slowed improvement on the technology side as they would/could be augmented in their basic form by magic. 

Social Restrictions This option is pretty strait forward. A sufficiently isolated nation (meaning it wont be invaded and conquered by another nation that does use firearms) could have a social taboo against firearms. Most likely this would be a "honor" type scenario where killing someone without them having a chance to fight back is dishonorable. Timeline Stick with a past timeline where firearms have not yet been developed Environmental factors Components for the effective creation of firearms, or the creation of ammunition could be in short supply. This has a whole host of other implications on society as the components for fire arms are used in a huge number of different items. You could also have an area that is craggy or heavily treed where that range of firearms is irrelevant because you can only get line of sight on your enemies when they are about to cut you in half. (This would be more feasible with early firearms as it took more time to reload). Technological Factors If ranged weapons advance beyond solid shot, so lasers or something similar (think star wars), effective personal shielding against energy weapons could re-assert the value of melee combat. Similarly, advanced body armors could provide this protection the difference with traditional weapons is you have the velocity of projectile impacting with such force that even when it doesn't penetrate the armor it could kill the wearer from blunt force trauma and being knocked backward alone. Other Wasn't sure where to place this. Specialized forces, think a modern special forces/ninja hybrid, could make effective use of blades. Blades are quiet and stealthy. A secret assassins guild could also use blades to maintain a mystique and fear factor. "We are so good we don't even need guns! COWER!!!!" 

Really when it comes to magic your imagination is the limit. I would try to avoid things that are to good to be true, or so fantastically powerful it just doesn't seem fair. The magic bubble for instance. If mages can make an entire army meaningless then whats the point of even having armies. I guess the point is, that kind of magic should be exceedingly rare if it exists at all. 

The chemical can be designed to eat the slug at an appropriate rate so that the slug is mostly intact when it strikes (or passes by if you miss) your intended target but is disintegrated shortly thereafter. This has the benefit of not dictating your combat maneuvers and tactics as if you miss it doesn't matter, the slug eats itself, you don't need to aim with a secondary backup target in mind. It should be pointed out that if you miss your primary target you aren't likely to hit a secondary one anyway. 

When your body burns its fuel it creates waste, when it burns a lot of fuel quickly it creates more waste than it can process and goes into oxygen debt. There is simply no way a human, or purely biological system could handle moving that much for that long. Those are the two biggest, most directly related problems, but there are others as well. The cushioning systems between bones and the strength of the bones themselves would have to be improved. Lungs would need to be larger, and the heart bigger. Exhaustion has impacts on coordination and balance not to mention its impacts on cognitive function. Oh right and muscle fibers would have to be vastly improved...stronger, more flexible, etc etc etc. In short, the answer to your question is a magically enhanced metabolism. ...but in short is boring. :) 

A conflict... So. While increased technology makes us more efficient and allows for a larger military...it also reduces the need for manpower in the military. As weapons evolve and become ever deadlier the masses of infantry become increasingly unnecessary. So while we have the ability to support a larger military there is less for people to due thanks to automation and technology. 

Second, the D&D 5th Edition DM Guide (ISBN-13: 978-0786965625) This is a great book for helping fill gaps in the world. It provides tables that you can choose (or randomize via dice) government types and much much more. Secret organizations...and a whole host of other things. I have a few more in mind, I will add them later. 

So I will write the dissenting answer here and simply say it is not possible. Ok it won't be that simple I have to explain...otherwise I would just comment. Some of the problems have been listed in other answers so a nod to those folks. Issues 

Domes seem obvious but also expensive and perhaps a bit technologically beyond your mer-people. So I am going to break this down by threats and how to counter each. Anti-Artillery Artillery in the underwater realm would best work if it is literally just dropped from above...the resistance the water creates would make launching it in a conventional matter ineffective as the range would be very very short. So. You have boulders dropping from the sky...err...upper ocean I guess. Diverting is the best option here. I would suggest attaching strong slanted covers to the to the tallest structures in the city. The structures should funnel the stones or whatever is being dropped into certain locations within the city or outside the city perimeter (in a large city you probably need to do both). Just make sure people know where not to be during the fighting...squish. Anti Personnel Here is where you can get real nasty on defense. Create nets made of concertina wire. This is essentially barbed wire...with razor blades attached instead of barbs. Depending on visibility you can combine that with stirring up sand and grime from the bottom to make it harder to see...or camouflage it with growing sea grasses. Anti-Vehicle Boats: boats/submarine are going to be tough to stop...if strong enough they could break the razor wire nets...but the wire could also tangle propeller propulsion. Again...in a 3D environment I think nets are going to be a good bet. For boats you could simply create big chain nets to disable them. Tanks: Just because you can attack from above doesn't mean ground based attacks are worthless. You can still have tanks (think battering rams with the roof) along on the ground so trenches and walls and barricades will still have their place they just won't be quite as primary. 

This one is less applicable than the others to your system as sound by definition would not play a role in your system, though phonology may matter when speaking with other races so your Ents would have to understand the concept. 

Unfortunately they cannot. Nor would it be likely that advanced technologies would develop in an isolated community. The scenario you present really leaves a single option. Human transport. You could potentially augment that with carts etc, but that would require significant infrastructure, namely roads. 

Keeping my response to question #2 in mind, it follows that you also cannot have a community that is tied to a single trait 

A world without symmetry... is not going to happen. You could hypothetically create a world where symmetry is less dominant however. I think the most likely scenario is a world dominated by water, maybe a world entirely covered with oceans. Gravity reduction would go a long way in reducing the drive toward symmetry. If the world is somehow less predatory that would help as well. In the end this will be an uphill battle as even cells have a preference for symmetry. As on earth, niche players are likely your main asymmetrical creatures...so create more niches. 

The treaty you mention is either: A) Very poorly conceived and written, or B) Specifically worded with the future extermination of humanity in mind. The only places on earth that have no insect life also have no human life (at least not permanently settled). They are simply uninhabitable and don't forget that human survival needs are far more complicated than those of insects.