We have never observed "nothing". Actually, we will never and cannot ever be able to observe "nothing", because this would imply that we exist and therefore there isn't "nothing". In physics, we observe things (sometimes by making experiments and observing the results), and then we create theories about laws of physics which would hopefully be consistent with our observations. We then design often clever experiments that would let us observe things inconsistent with the theory if the theory is wrong, to get more confidence with the theory. If we are reasonably sure that the theory matches reality as far as observed, we accept it. Since we can never observe "nothing", we cannot use this method to create theories in physics describing what would happen when there is "nothing". We also have mathematics. Many physical theories can be matched with mathematical models. Actually, all physical theories that I know of can. But we can create mathematical models without having a theory. So we could create mathematical models that would describe what happens if there is "nothing". The two simplest such model will say that if we have "nothing", we will have "nothing" forever. Or that if we have "nothing", we don't even have time, so we will have "nothing" (not forever, because there is no time). Now we observe that there isn't "nothing" now. And we can postulate that there was always something, but we could also postulate that at some point there was "nothing". Which means that "something" has come from "nothing". We don't know. Since we cannot observe back in time infinitely far, we don't have physical theories for that postulate either. We can then try to create mathematical models: Mathematical models that describe how there was always something, or mathematical models that describe how something came from nothing. If one model is significantly simpler (or we can only find a model for one case), we might declare this model as likely correct. But really, at that point we are only guessing. 

Gödel's Theorem says roughly that any sufficiently useful mathematical system is either incomplete or contradictory, that is either there are statements that cannot be proved or disproved, or there are statements that can be proved both true and false. There are many statements that we haven't been able to prove true or false (but that might be because we were not clever enough), and no contradiction has been proven (but that might also be because we were not clever enough), so it is not unconceivable that "1 + 1 ≠ 2" could be proven. 1 + 1 = 2 would then be simultaneous true and false. What would happen? A lot of swearing among mathematicians would happen. A lot of discussions would be going on how we can ignore this fact and be left with useful mathematics. The universe wouldn't change. Considering the question: "1 + 1 = 2" cannot and will not ever be disproved (meaning the proof, which is not much more than simple application of axioms, is proven to be incorrect). What is remotely possible is that on top of the proof that it is true, there might be also a proof that it is false. 

If Hitler was alive today then he would be 126 years old, having spent 70 years in jail. In that situation, just like figures of Guy Fawkes are burnt every year in Britain, one could imagine that people would celebrate Hitler's funeral every year, desperately waiting for the real thing. People would go to Hitler's funeral not to celebrate his life, but his death. 

"Trivial" in mathematics is a subjective term. Something is "trivial" if my audience, in my opinion, comes faster to the conclusion that they can definitely provide a proof, then the time it takes me to demonstrate such a proof. Such a proof can actually be quite lengthy, as long as all the steps involved are simple or purely mechanical. For example, one proof that some 16 digit number is a prime would be trivial (because it is completely mechanical) but would still be very long. The same proof can be trivial if the audience consists of experienced mathematicians and be not trivial if the audience consists of beginners. 

The logical rule that you quote is perfectly fine: If it is true that (if A then B), and it is true that (not B), then it is true that (not A). If it were true that bad food would always lead to complaints, and there were no complaints, then it would absolutely be true that the food must be good. No fallacy here. There are two problems. First, the statement that there are no complaints might be made up, a lie. The restaurant owners seem to be in denial here. Just because the restaurant owners claim there are no complaints doesn't mean that is the truth. If a lot of food is returned then I somehow doubt that there are no complaints. Second, it is not true that there will always be complaints when the food is bad. It is a very cultural thing. In some cultures, people will complain, either because they like complaining, or because they want to give the restaurant a chance to improve. In other cultures, this doesn't happen. People assume that it is impolite to complain. They just don't come back. You don't get complaints, you just get an empty restaurant. Depending on the attitude of the restaurant owner, they can easily stop people from complaining. Which is worse for business than customers complaining. Summary: You can have perfectly logical reasoning applied to false premises. If the premises are false, then the conclusion is worthless. A "fallacy" is usually applying incorrect logic to a valid premise and getting to a wrong or unproven conclusion. Applying correct logic to invalid premises is usually not called a fallacy. (You could argue the informal fallacy of taking the restaurant owner's word for it when they claim there are no complaints; that would be "appeal to authority" since the restaurant owner should be the authority on that subject). 

I assume the situation was about the Cheshire Cat, which disappeared bit by bit until only the head remained, then only the smile, and then nothing. The executioner's argument seems Ok: You can't cut off a head unless there is something to cut it off from. It's not quite right that there must be a body; a head on a stake can be cut off even though there is no body, but since there is nothing but the head this slight weakness in the argument doesn't produce a wrong result. That he has never done it and isn't going to do it is just a statement of his approach to work, nothing to do with logic. The kings argument is plainly wrong. Not everything with a head can be beheaded, for example a state, a beer, or a pin. There might be the informal fallacy that having power equals being right. "You are not to talk nonsense" is a strong fallacy - instead of stating how the executioner is wrong, he just declares his words as nonsense, which proves nothing. I wouldn't dare accusing the Queen of any fallacies. I like my head connected to my body too much. 

I would call it "literally true but intentionally misleading". "Literally", a word that is often misused and misunderstood, means that something is so if you look at it precisely, but not if you apply the usual interpretations that people make. In this case, the sentence if true if interpreted literally. But if you look at what the average person understands when reading the sentence, what they understand is not in fact true. And it looks like it is intentionally designed to be true but to make the reader understand something that is untrue. On the other hand, you might ask the same question on $URL$ . 

Let's assume that you donate blood, which will then mixed with blood of other people, and then someone finds out what happened. Now what should happen and what would happen if everyone involved behaved in a reasonable way is irrelevant, what's relevant is what happens. And what might happen is that someone decides to destroy a whole lot of donated blood because of your action. That would be a bloody shame, but it would mean that you made a hugely negative contribution. (If you can 100% guarantee that your lie will not be found out, and if you can 100% guarantee that your blood is no more risky than anyone else's blood, that's a totally different matter). 

The universe itself is limited, which means the possibilities of an artificial intelligence are limited. I think your question is "assuming an artificial intelligence would have a reasonable means to try to improve itself, would there be a point where improvement is either not possible, or where the AI would have good reasons to stop improving?" An autonomous AI, even if it wasn't highly intelligent, could improve itself by buying better or more hardware. There might be limits how much improvement is possible that way. For example if the AI needs to use its intelligence to make money to pay the electricity bill and can only use what remains to improve itself, there might be a point where it grows to a size where the electricity bill gets too high. Improving itself by improving its code is hard. Only a highly intelligent and well trained human could do this, so it would require a highly intelligent AI as well to do this. Much more intelligent than the average human. Again, improving say the intelligence of an AI that has an IQ of 180 might be so difficult that an AI with an IQ of 180 cannot do it. We don't know. And then there might be a point where an AI has reasons not to improve itself. For example, if there is legislation that all AIs above a certain complexity will be destroyed out of fear, then the AI won't want to be covered by that legislation. Maybe if it increases its hardware, delays between components might increase and the AI might feel that as unpleasant. Or maybe improving itself might be hard work, and the AI might be too lazy. 

This should really go into ell.stackexchange.com (English learners)... You are asking about English sentences. "I neither ride nor drive every day" is usually parsed "I do not ride every day, and I also do not drive every day"; it is a shortcut for "I neither ride every day, nor do I drive every day". Which is not the negation of the original sentence, because if you ride every monday to friday, and you driver every saturday or sunday, both statements are true. "I ride or drive not every day" is usually parsed as "Huh? ". I wouldn't know what you mean by it. "I do not ride or drive every day" would be parsed as the opposite of the original statement. Again, we are talking about English language and English sentences here, and not about logic. The negation of "every day" is "not every day" - but you have to built this properly into English sentences. 

Welcome to the imperfect world. People have kind of agreed to have governments, which create laws, which among other things set up punishments for crimes. There are multiple reasons for those punishments, including deterrence, revenge, keeping dangerous people away, and some amount of deservedness. But if you look at the laws, there is no notion of "deserved punishment" in there. The laws says if you do this then you get that punishment. Not any reasoning why, just the relationship that a certain crime receives a punishment. All the arguing about the reasons has happened before the law was created. And any person is free to read the laws, and decide whether they want to commit some crime based on the punishment by the law (actually, most people decide on moral or ethical grounds). Sure there will be different criminals who you might argue "deserve" a punishment to a higher or lesser degree. But that is irrelevant. The law doesn't care what each individual "deserves". And "deserving" cannot be used anyway exactly because it is subjective. It's obvious that anyone who steals from me deserves the hardest punishment possible. Well, it's obvious to me. You and everyone else will disagree. Because it's subjective. The law doesn't care about this. 

There would be a class of statements that are about speaking. And some of these statements would become true if and only if you utter the statement. Like "I can't keep my mouth shut", where making the utterance makes it true (while writing it on a piece of paper doesn't). Or "I'm speaking now". This kind of statement would belong to a larger class of "self-referential statements". There are statements falling into the category of "self-fulfilling prophesies" that are a bit more indirect. Like "riding a bike is really difficult, you'll fall off and hurt yourself", where the listener loses all confidence in their bike-riding and promptly falls off and hurts themselves when they try it. Something like "with all the stolen goods that you are openly carrying with you, I wouldn't be surprised if that police officer would arrest you" could likely cause exactly what was uttered to happen, if the police officer hears it. Not sure if it falls under "self-fulfilling prophecy". Orders. An officer yelling "everyone stands still" and promptly everyone stands still. So you see there are many different kinds of statements that become true by being uttered.