Does anyone know if any of the popular iPhone ANT+ bicycling apps have the ability to import a GPS track? I'd like to start exploring some of the local trails/routes a bit - I've got .gpx tracks for some, but don't know of any iPhone apps that will both allow the import of the file AND feature any sort of ANT+ tie-in. I normally use digifit with speed/cadence and HRM sensors... I've got a GPS track of where I AM, but really wish there were some sort of approximate "turn by turn" for following some of the trails/routes, especially the urban ones that are not clearly marked. 

In my experience, if you can keep up then you can draft someone. There's no asking involved, but it is appreciated if you switch up to lead for a little while. At the speeds you're talking, with the exception of those on electric bikes, most of those cyclists will be involved in some form of cycling (track or road, mountain less so) so they aren't as bothered as others might be. Some will get "cat 6" on you, and try to drop you if they notice. The real issue is that the person leading needs to communicate their movement, like avoiding obstacles (glass, people, holes, etc). Drafting really close (wheels are close -- within 1 inch/2.5 cm, or far worse - overlapping) gets more dangerous at the higher speeds because as the person drafting, you don't have the time to react to quick braking/etc. As the person drafting, you should not be relying on the leader/person ahead to point stuff out - you should be looking ahead and around to anticipate as much as you can for yourself. 

UCI Regulations for Track cycling provide a very loose definition for velodromes (see page 75) even up to the Olympic level. The only strict requirements beyond track width and markings are that velodromes must be 133-500m long (250m exactly for Olympic events), the track shape should consist of two parallel straights connected by two bends and that there is a smooth transition between the straights and the bends. There is no requirement for a consistent radius or banking throughout each bend. There is no requirement that the straights should be the same length or relative elevation either. Exact dimensions of various velodromes are difficult to find, however to give one example How the velodrome found its form features an interview with the engineers responsible for the velodrome used for the London 2012 games where they note: 

The pictures included make it clear that the caliper housing should be slightly offset to ensure that as the fixed inboard pad wears and the rotor flexes it does not contact the caliper housing itself. This would lead to damage to the rotor and/or the caliper. You should probably still follow the manufacturers recommendations for your given brake model, however aligning the caliper to have more space on the fixed side then aligning the pads evenly would also be suitable if you are unable to find specific instructions from your manufacturer. 

I agree with Hicks sentiment that the crank "giving" is more likely due to worn parts or misalignment. The crank would have to flex a lot to actually be responsible for ghost shifting, which would make it incredibly poor quality. Sheldon's article strikes me as cursory for "When Should You Stand"... Assuming you have the gearing for whatever you're riding (reasonable terrain), yes - there shouldn't be a need to stand to pedal. Bypassing what Sheldon covered about gearing and saddle height... From a road riding perspective, standing takes less effort because you can use body weight rather than legs to crank over. It's used a lot when hill climbing - gives the legs a rest, and the opportunity to sprint when others don't know to. The gist I got recently was "if others are standing, so should you" - it struck me as prudent if you don't know the route, otherwise ride as you feel comfortable. Standing is often used to initiate a sprint on more level ground, to get the momentum up. But depending on the speed, being out of the saddle can mean your body is creating more drag -- counteracting what you intended to do. I stood while mountain biking on a hard tail (no rear suspension), for psuedo-suspension. I remember my quads getting a workout until I built up the strength. I still habitually take weight off my saddle when riding road. 

While it is likely that most velodromes feature rotational symmetry and many of those will also feature reflective symmetry this is not a requirement for a UCI homologated track. 

From your description it's likely that the pawl responsible for upshifting is seized and not engaging properly. The reason it would be able to shift the first two gears is because for the 1-2 shift the pawl face engages with an edge of the ratchet wheel instead of a tooth and since the trigger moves far enough that you can shift over two gears at once the 2-3 shift is possible using the same mechanism. To fix this you would need to remove the cover and clean out the old grease using a solvent or degreaser, or even something like PB Blaster or WD40. You'll probably need to move the pawl back and forth to work the old grease out from around the shaft the pawl rotates on. Once the pawl is moving freely (ie, it snaps back against the teeth without hesitation) apply some fresh grease and put the cover back on. This video describes the problem and fix, at about 1:08 you get a clearer shot of the upshift pawl and ratchet wheel. Most shimano rapidfire plus shifters use a variation of this design, even if you have a different model than depicted in the video you should still be able to clean and regrease the mechanism the same way. 

The COMPLETE set will likely cost more than 3x the cost of your frame and parts. The tool to prepare a bottom bracket is almost 500 bucks all by itself. So I'm not going to answer "the COMPLETE set", especially because your copy/paste wall of text doesn't indicate all of the exact specifications for all your parts, which is needed to know exactly which tool is needed. Get one of the bike Park Tool or similar kits, primarily for home maintenance. Then, get the Park Tool blue book, or some other book, to read so you know what you are doing when installing stuff. Otherwise, take it to the shop for the elements you can't really do for cheap (frame preparation), or see if any LBS has a public shop option, as Kibbee mentioned in the comment. 

The way of telling is different for every brand and model. Usually, by a combination of serial numbering, or color of the frame, you can sometimes figure it out. There is not enough information present in the picture to determine for sure exactly what that bike is. 

For the most part, whenever the front wheel on a bike skids or slides at speed, the rider wipes out. The only people that manage to stay up right are either very lucky or have reflexes that Jedi warriors would be envious of. If you are riding after a recent fall and feel like your front wheel is sliding, but you are still upright, then you have some sort of post-crash confidence hit, and are interpreting any motion as being an imminent crash. Check that your fork isn't damaged, handlebars are aligned, and that your wheels are true, but otherwise just keep riding and rebuild your confidence. 

Without knowing the exact model of headset you're installing it's difficult to give a confident yes, however it looks correct. From left to right you have a fork crown race (this gets pressed onto the fork), two head tube cup and bearing assemblies (see below), upper race/dust cap (installed directly onto the upper head tube cup assembly), and finally a lock nut (this should be installed above any spacers you may use). The orientation of the parts in the first photo appears correct as well. If you've never installed a headset Park Tool have an article on servicing threaded headsets and Sheldon Brown has an article going over headset types and service procedures. The only unknown is if the two head tube cup assemblies are identical (ie, can be swapped freely) or if there is a specific upper and lower assembly. There should be markings on outer housing or something in the installation instructions to help identify which is which if they came as an upper/lower pair. You may also find that only one fits snugly into the dust cap and the other is loose which would indicate which one to use as the upper. 

As @Paparazzi said it appears to be a Gitane bike, from looking through the product catalogues on the Gitane USA site I suspect it's a 1984 Gran Tour (from page 5 of the french catalogue) as this style of logo appears to have only been used for the early 80s and this model is the only model that has the bar end shifters/is advertised in the same colour. 

I got front & rear Phil Wood hubs for a touring setup back in Oct of 2011. I'd been using them for commuting to work -- averaging 20 KM a day. Except I'd been off the bike for the month of January, started again in Feb. A week ago, things felt weird. Discussed with a fellow cyclist at work, who said it sounded like the hub was going. The following day, there was a loud crunch from the rear and the chain felt like it was slipping. I took the wheel into the LBS who built the wheel for me. They told me one of the four palls had an issue, and a spring was bent, so they corrected. I picked up the wheel today, and got 10 KM before things started again - crunching noise from the rear, and a slip. So I dropped the wheel with the LBS, who said they'll look for a rebuilt kit. What is a pawl? Is it part of the freehub? Is a rebuilt kit enough, or should I be pressing for the LBS to RMA the hub? Edit: In case anyone's interested, Phil Wood said they're aware of quality problems and wouldn't expect a rebuild kit to do much. RMA time... 

I've ridden 90 KM (and at reasonable speeds - 30+ KM/h) without issues, but rode my first Gran Fondo (140 KM) and experienced various spasms while riding. There were aid stations with food so I ate bananas - seemed to help, but the distance between stations was ~40 KM so I'd still get spasms... The spasms were mostly quad/back of the leg - I only got a calf one once and it was much more brief than the others. Can anyone shed light on why I experienced these, and what I can do to prevent it in the future? My hamstrings have always been short/tight, takes a while in Yoga/etc for them to loosen up. The seat angle was tipped a little more back than I usually ride, didn't seem like a seat height issue... 

There are a couple of downsides to overly long hydraulic hoses. The most obvious issue is that you end up with excess tubing that may get snagged if you don't tie it off securely. Another less obvious issue is that hoses expand slightly as the pressure in the system builds (i.e. when you squeeze the brake lever and apply the brakes). A longer hose means that the overall increase in volume is greater and you end up with slightly less effective brakes. That said, it's usually a minor difference in bicycle brakes so it's not the end of the world if you ignore it. 

SRAM's brake setup instructions for BB7 brakes (select user manual from the service documents, step 10 in the user manual) specify that the inboard/fixed pad should be further from the rotor than the outboard/moving pad. The ParkTool instructions that @jimirings links in their comment are specific to this model of brake and repeat the manufacturers instructions in this regard. Other manufacturers provide different advice, for example Tektro's instructions for their mechanical disk brakes (TRP Online Resources - select "All Spyre and Spyke models" from the road disc subheading under the user manuals section, Tektro Mechanical Disk Brake Owner's Manual, or Tektro Support > Download - select "Mechanical Disk Brake - User Guide") specify that the brake pads should be evenly spaced on both sides of the rotor. The Montague blog you've linked to use a Tektro Novella brake but repeat the instructions given by SRAM, not what Tektro recommend. Neither manufacturer give any reason for the specific alignment, the only reference I could find was the following section from CX Magazine's article How to: Set Up & Adjust Mechanical Disk Brakes: