which is sometimes used for 26" -> 700c conversions and might be enough for your purposes if you can find one. Another way to do the swap is with a brake post conversion adapter -- a piece of metal which mounts at the brake posts to provide brake posts further up. Something like this (commonly used for 26 inch -> 700c swaps -- one for these purposes is likely a bit too big for you): 

Usually, when you want to commute somewhere, you have to carry things (a rack+panniers are good for this, esp. if you carry laptops), you don't want to arrive in a pool of sweat (and you need a change of clothes on hand anyway) and you want to arrive comfortably (cause you should be productive at work). These are all the opposite of what a racing bike is intended for. If you have urban sections, it doesn't really matter what bike since you'll be able to hit the maximum safe speed on any point. So, overall, a racing bike is a bad idea (unless you are a racing cyclist, and your "commute" is a race). As for stability, its a combination of road surfaces and rider skill and geometry, but 50 kph is doable on a lot of road bikes. A lot of the "speed run" cycles are custom jobs in very controlled conditions, and don't necessarily sustain the speed for distances (the hour record of mercx was around 50 km, for example). 

You need to measure the grip area diameter (the diameter of the handle bars where the brake levers clamp onto). I'd suggest using a pair of calipers. 22.2 mm will fit flat bar (typically mountain bike/flat bar road) components, 23.8 mm will fit drop bar (typically road) components. Note that you need to also get compatible pull brake levers -- in your case, you have a caliper brake so you need a short pull brake lever (ie. one that is marked for not linear pull/V-brakes). 

I don't think that its a good idea given that in a few months, you're going to want a 20 inch bicycle for the child. IGH's wouldn't work since the hub width is likely smaller than standard, and mounting a derailleur would be a problem as well. Also, if you were to find a compatible hub or whatever (given the 20 spoke constraint that andy256 mentioned in the comments), you'd be spending quite a bit for building it. You'd also have to run your shifter cables and what not. What you could do is get something with a 20 inch bike with a low top tube (like a Specialized Hotrock 20) and see if you can get the seat post low enough (possibly by cutting it). Or, just slow down and let the kid catch up. But I don't think the combination exists out of the box. 

I think this is quite a broad question, so I'll highlight a few parts of the bike: Seatposts/saddles: Probably interchangable Forks: You wouldn't want to swap them, and chances are a beefy mountain fork wouldn't go into a road frame anyway, even if you could get the right headset. Gearing: Road bikes typically have higher gearing than mountain bikes There are larger chainrings on the crankset on a road bike - typically 52/39 or something or a 50/34 versus a big ring in the low 40s or 30s on a mountain bike. The rear cassette is often smaller on a road bike as well (you won't see a 36t big rear cog on many road bikes, unless they're touring bikes). Front derailleurs: FD's need to be shaped to the number of chainrings (typically 2, less so common 3 on a road bike vs often 3 on a mountain bike) as well as the size of the chainrings. For this reason (and in some cases the amount of cable pull needed to move the front derailleur) you can't mix road cranksets with mountain front derailleurs and mountain cranksets with road front derailleurs. On a mountain frame, you probably can't clear a road double if you were to mount it on, and you may have derailleur mounting issues when putting a mountain crankset on a road frame in some cases. Rear derailleurs: Until 10 speed, you could swap them around when you stuck within the brand (then they introduced different cable pulls introducing shifter incompatibilites, so road shifters have to be paired with road derailleurs and similarly for mountain). The mountain rear derailleurs can shift larger rear cogs than road ones. Cassettes: You can interchange them if you want in a lot of cases (touring road bikes often use big rear cogs). Shifters: The front derailleur needs to be matched to road/mountain shifter. Rear derailleur will need to be matched if >=10 speed. Friction shifters always work. Wheels: Mountain rims are often wider to support wider tires at lower pressures and are usually built to be more robust. Your hub widths are often the same, but mountain axles can cause compatibility issues (not just your usual QR) with different frames. Note 700c = 29". Often wheels built for tougher road riding (e.g. touring) use mountain bike hubs. Tires: Mountain tires are typically fatter than road tires. Cables/Cable Housings: You can use the same types. Handlebars: Mountain and Road bars have different diameters, so brake levers and shifters designed for one will not fit on the other. Brakes: Typically, road brakes (mechanical disc brakes for road, caliper brakes, cantilever brakes) are short pull while mountain brakes are often long pull (v-brakes, mechanical disc brakes). This means you require a travel agent or special levers to run v-brakes or certain mechanical disc brakes on a road bike. Hydraulic systems are quite new on road bikes. Since you can't mount the levers onto a mountain bar, exchanging them is somewhat moot at this point. Racks+fenders: These are wheel size and disc/not disc specific. Read the directions on the rack+fenders. Generally, road stuff is lighter than mountain stuff. Probably less durable in a crash though. 

When I've had bicycles shipped, its generally just been left empty (on a used bike), or had a little plastic plug in it (on a new bike). If you do want to plug it with something (say, you're storing it without the seatpost for some reason and don't want any critters in there), you could plug it with some news paper or something which you can easily remove or cover the hole with a bit of duct tape or something -- It's just a pipe. I'm going to guess the question is really how to package a bicycle for moving and the easy answer is to use a cardboard bike box. Some directions are here, and most bike shops will package a bike for a small fee and even ship it for you. Normally, you remove the seatpost, the wheels, take off the handlebars, pedals, and then just arrange them in the box (without disconnecting the cables). Then, put all the things back together when you get home (note that the left hand pedal is opposite threaded). 

They're trying to sell you stuff. More expensive stuff (have you looked at 11 speed consumable (chain+cassette) prices vs 10 speed?). I would not bother upgrading. As groups go to higher and higher speeds, the older stuff gets pushed down to lower component levels. So today's 11 speed 105 group will be next year's (or likely a few years later) Tiagra group (with some minor modifications). They're generally completely compatible with the previous higher end stuff. The price might change a little bit higher or little bit lower, but it won't be bank breaking (in fact, I'd guess it will go lower, at least for a few years). And let me remind you that we still have an 8 speed road group, despite 8 speed being 20+ years past introduction (heck, 9 speed is nearly 20 years old and we still have a ton of parts on the market from shifters,cassettes and derailleurs; 10 speed is only a mere 12-ish years old; 7 speed stuff is still in abundance, though finding quality components has started the incentive to move 8 speed). So, you should be good for quite a while sticking with the 10 speed stuff. Unless you need the shiniest fanciest stuff for some reason. Plus, if you do decide to go 11 speed for some reason later, it will be cheaper than doing it now. 

The first thing to check is if the tire has incurred any damage, such as something going through it. Then, check how the tube was damaged -- was it a snakebite flat indicating under inflation in the first place? Did it get damaged at the valve? Did a spoke poke through? etc. Then, for the wheel itself. I'd check the rim for being bent or dented (this may imply checking/adjusting spoke tension) as well as imperfections in the rim edge (which you can sand off lightly if they aren't severe). If those are ok, then mount the tire + tube and go ride. 

Obviously, your tire needs to be 700c. Larger sized 700c tires (e.g. for mountain biking) are sold as 29" tires. In theory, any 700c/29" tire will fit on the rim. However, you want to match the tire size to the rim width to the rim you have (lest you have bad handling/rim failure by fitting a too big tire). As for the maximum size you can put in, it is also determined by the frame. You need a few mm of clearance (at least 3 mm) between the tire and the frame. You can measure your current tires clearance and use that as a rough guideline for the tire size you can go up to (even though two tires are marked as the same size, there will be some variation to the sizes, which can affect clearance). It looks like the bike ships with 700x37 tires, which are quite large to begin with. If you want more comfort, you can try running a lower pressure. If you want knobs, I'd look at a cyclocross tire. There are tons of variations, but if you're on a clean road, you don't want too much knob since that just adds resistance, noise and reduces handling. For snow on the road, some knobs can be helpful.