It seems like the term is Zählappell “roll call”, from the verb zählen 'to count'. It may not be necessary to look for the pronunciation in a dialect or Yiddish, if this was the official term used in the camp. The following excerpt from the Dachau camp regulations (Strafordnung) suggests it was: 

The Hakkas were the exception because their heartland was actually a mountainous area peripheral to several river systems. In the early Qing period, they migrated in large numbers to several different areas that were expanding economically, but by the 19th century changed economic conditions and overpopulation led to conflict between immigrant Hakkas and the core speech group (Cantonese in the Lingnan region, for example.) This conflict took on an ethnic character, so we could actually say that the speech groups within what is now called “the Han Chinese” behaved like ethnic groups in some ways. Yet according to Leong, there wasn’t much in the way of pan-Hakka solidarity across regions, even when the Hakkas in, say, Lingnan banded together for self-defense in the face of Cantonese discrimination. So generally, linguistic/ethnic divisions within the “Han Chinese” can be explained by looking at regional systems within China. Reference: Sow-Theng Leong, Migration and Ethnicity in Chinese History: Hakkas, Pengmin and their Neighbors (Stanford UP 1997) 

Yet Poetsch was at the same time an “Austrian patriot” who later was reportedly upset at being cited as an inspiration by Hitler in Mein Kampf. The Pan-German students were actually more radical than their teachers, who as public servants had to stay kaisertreu to some extent. Even at that time they supported an Anschluss, or having the German part of Austria join the rest of Germany. The “Heil” greeting (later so familiar!) was one of their identifying symbols, as opposed to the “Hoch” of the loyalists. The young Hitler would do things like distribute pencils with the red-gold-black German colors during class. Hamann (whose book I recommend) sums up Hitler’s early German nationalism quite well. (The sections in italics are quotes from Mein Kampf.) 

Despite appearances the “Han Chinese” don’t really conform to the stereotype of an ethnic group. The fact that they speak diverse local languages is just one aspect of this. South-central China can be divided into a number of regional systems, each typically centered around the drainage basin of a major river, that do not correspond to administrative divisions. G. William Skinner pioneered the study of these macroregions, although we should note that he was primarily interested in economic and social relations, not linguistic ones. In the introduction to an innovative study of the history of Hakka migration and ethnicity in the Lingnan region by Sow-Theng Leong, Skinner notes that speech group boundaries and regional ones line up: 

A historian named David Bankier wrote a classic book in the 1960s called The Germans and the Final Solution: Public Opinion under Nazism. Bankier argues (as quoted in a student book review) that “unprecedented political apathy, coupled with the conservative and clerical oppositionist attitudes” shaped strategic decisions in 1936 and 1937. This doesn't support the kind of "turning point" the questions asks for, but it does suggest that negative public opinion had relevance to the Nazi regime. 

This is the original, most concrete definition of "Bolshevik", yes. Outside of Russia however, the term quickly became a more generic appellation for left-wing revolutionaries, Russia sympathizers and so. In contemporary usage the meaning of the term is perhaps even more vague. In the Russian Empire, Jews may have been less than 5% of the total population. They would have been less in the heart of Russia itself. With that in mind, they were probably somewhat over-represented in the early years of what later became the Bolshevik Party. But Jews were even more over-represented among the less radical Menshevik party. From the Wikipedia article on Bolsheviks: "In 1907, 78.3% of the Bolsheviks were Russian and 10% were Jewish (34% and 20% for the Mensheviks)." And at the time of the Russian Revolution itself and in the years after, the ratio of Jews among Bolsheviks had fallen significantly. Quoting from the Wikipedia article on Jewish Bolshevism: 

Peter Laurisden mentions "seven priests" among the first detachment that left with Bering from St. Petersberg in 1733. On the same page he also describes a "list of names of those engaged", but I am unable to find this list. 

Investments in railways, roads, ports and electricity all plateaued at some point earlier on in the twentieth century. Telecommunications, however, is an exception and has actually improved under the ANC. 

Ancient Romans had no special sleepwear. They typically slept in their underclothes, which they also would have worn around the home. Here's a relevant quote from Everyday Life in Ancient Rome by Lionel Casson. 

Based on the article "The Third Amendment: Forgotten but Not Gone" by Tom W. Bell, I strongly suspect that the answer is "no". According to this article, troops were quartered in private U.S. homes during the War of 1812 and on both sides of the Civil War. In neither case did Congress pass laws to authorize the quartering. 

A Google Books Ngram of English-language sources covering 1840-1890 suggests that use of "Somalia" and "Somaliland" may have alternated at different points during that period. Note that many of the earlier appearances of "Somlia" on that graph are not actually relevant hits, but many of the later ones are. It is very easy to find relevant usage of "Somalia" in the 1890s. But another Ngram covering 1890-1970 shows that in that period, "Somaliland" was clearly preferred in the first half of the twentieth century, with its popularity gradually declining after independence. "Somaliland" is still used today in reference to the wider region where Somali people live, including parts of neighboring countries, while "Somalia" refers specifically to the nation-state. 

As the child of a man who was scheduled to be part of an invasion force of mainland Japan, and given the casualty estimates for that activity, it is likely in the extreme that I personally, and my children, as well as my sibs and their children, would not have existed if not for Hiroshima/Nagasaki. From this standpoint, how can anyone reasonably condemn me for saying that I am thankful for the bombings? Hiroshima and Nagasacki, terrible as they were, likely let my family exist. Japan was the aggressor in WWII. This is a matter of record. Japan was further loathe to surrender in 1945. Therefore, the moral burden for the bombings rests entirely on Japan. I know that many Japanese are resentful of this perspective, though the perspective that the bombs were necessary and that that necessity was imposed by Japan is hard to argue with in any sort of rational way. Bluntly: Could we be sure the Japanese would surrender without the awful hammer of the bomb? Most historians think the answer to that question is "NO". More to the point, most historians opine that the Japanese would have kept fighting if the Allies did not end the pacific war decisively. So in the use the bomb side we have 1. Japan started the Pacific war with a sneak attack. 2. The Japanese had comported themselves as brutal fanatics throughout the Pacific war. 3. We could deal a knockout blow with the bombs, if we used the bombs before any other power developed or stole them. On the don't use the bomb side we have: 1. They started the war, and if their military was not removed, would continue it. 2. It was the bomb, or an invasion, with aforementied devastating causualties for the Allies AND JAPAN. Looks like the case for using the bomb was strong. Remember,Japan was actively seeking their own bomb. Thank God we got the bomb first. Truman would have committed treason had he chosen not to use the bomb and invade. The lesson of WWII Japan is that no country should ever allow a military dictatorship to take it over, even if you have to fight a civil war to stop it. Why? Military dictators may turn your country into an enemy of global peace (as Japan was in the early 1940s), In that case, the world is not to be blamed for whatever it has to do to put an end to your depridations. The bomb assured that persons far more responsible than the allies (specifically, the military and political leadership of, as well as the populace of, the Asian Axis power, Japan) paid for starting the war in the Pacific, not third parties (Allied soldiers and their families). No other outcome would be moral. Yes, the A-bombs were terrible things. May no human population ever feel treatened to the extremity of nuclear weapon use ever again. More importantly, may no human population ever again be such a grave threat to world peace that the use of these terrible weapons seems necessary or rational. 

There may not have been a movement in Britain, but there were certainly individual left-wing anti-colonial intellectuals from the British colonies who wrote works in this vein. C. L. R. James from Trinidad was one, recognized even today for Black Jacobins, a history of the Haitian revolution published in 1938. This event (contemporary to the French Revolution) seems to have inspired anti-colonials, whether they wrote in French or in English – Césaire also wrote a history of it. James’s first version of the story was a play, apparently, and he later wrote the first novel by a West Indian published in the UK, according to Wiki. It might be instructive to compare his biography to Césaire’s. After the war Césaire managed to become the mayor of the capital of Martinique, and he was instrumental in setting up the arrangement where the island remained a département of France on its own terms. James was more of a loner, his leftist politics never achieved anything concrete for Trinidad, and he ended up mainly writing about cricket! Concerning the Négritude movement, it’s worth remembering that its founders were not only anti-colonial activists, they were also poets and novelists who wanted to gain recognition as such not at home in the colony, but in the metropole (Paris). French writers, especially on the left, were more likely to form movements at that time (the 1930s and 40s) – would André Breton, leader of the Surrealists, have recognized Césaire and supported his poetic efforts without the calling card of Négritude? Perhaps not. In Britain in those days, on the other hand, literary movements were unusual – only Pound’s Imagism and Wyndham Lewis’s Vorticism come to mind, and these were both on the right politically. So for James or his friends, founding such a movement might have been rather pointless. I think it’s this, more than the different ways Britain and France managed their colonies although there may also be linkages in this regard, that answers your question. 

Source: keliauk kitaip aruodai There are other legends concerning Trakai, for instance one about a secret tunnel between the castle and the Dawn Gate (Aušros vartai) in Vilnius. About the banned women, I think that by the nature of oral literature, details change in the telling. This one doesn't seem to have any basis in historical fact. Maybe someone has confused the Grand Duchy with its northern foe, the Teutonic Knights? 

The review and Wikipedia note that Hitler himself attended her funeral in 1935. However, there is no mention of her actually meeting the Fuehrer. But Brigitte Hamann’s Hitler’s Vienna relates a conversation between the two people. Hitler explained to her why he had never married: 

This resulting "alliance" of Shia mujahadeen was known as the Tehran Eight and formally dissolved in 1989. 

The earliest relevant usage in any English language source that I could confirm via Google Books was Somaliland in 1783. According to the Online Etymology Dictionary, the term Somalia dates to 1814 and is of "unknown origin". So Somaliland appears to be the "original" English name, but was rarely used until later on. The terms British Somaliland and Italian Somaliland appear together in Parliamentary records published as early as 1851: 

It's quite possible that other maroon societies were isolated for decades or longer, but I can't name any well documented case. 

Total estimates for the number of people displaced by World War II are at least as high as 60 million. The question is how many of these displaced people crossed international borders. I'm not sure, but it could easily be in the millions. So the share may be small, but still significant. Here are a couple of specific figures I am picking out of an excellent book on the history of global migrations. This is not a comprehensive list. 

It depends precisely what is meant by "co-regency". I will try to outline the widely accepted facts. According to historian Beth Severy, Augustus announced his intention in 4 CE that Tiberius should inherent his title as emperor. Augustus adopted Tiberius as a son and give him a triumph and "a special grant of imperium". Over the following decade: 

According to the Online Etymology Dictionary, Anatolia is simply "the ancient name of Asia Minor". However, here is some helpful background on the different origins of the two terms. In theory this could be seen as implying a different definition for Asia Minor, but in practice the terms are synonymous. 

It is implied that Ruan may have been the family name of the bureaucrat who chose to give the subjected population the same name, although there is no direct evidence of this. In any case the point is that the name itself was basically arbitrary and probably didn't have any literal meaning of siginificance to the people who it was originally imposed on. As for how the name became so popular over time, this same article emphasizes a key point related to this arbitrariness: 

So claims that Jews were something like 40% of the party, which did circulate at the time, were pure fabrications. In Germany, Hitler and the Nazis pushed hard on the idea that Communism and other left wing ideas emerged from the supposed racial degeneracy of the Jews. I cannot find any hard numbers like the above to support the idea that Jews were in fact disproportionately represented in Germany's left wing parties. It must be said that none of this is objective evidence in support of anti-Jewish racism. Given the oppression faced by Jews in Tsarist Russia and the rest of Europe, it should hardly be surprising that they may have been a significant part of the base for left-wing movements.