My off the cuff comment on all this: There is no heresy or apostasy in Hinduism, it is the most accommodating of any religion I've known. Unlike several religions including Islam and Christianity, there was never any effort at the harmonization of Hinduism into one standard religious idea; because the very idea of Hinduism as a distinct religion is a recent Westerner's view of things. According to the modern Indian constitution (since 1950) all believers in Indian religions such as Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs are clubbed together as Hindus. So that's what it says on the Indian passport unless one is a believer in an imported religion such as Christianity, Judaism or Islam. Hinduism in the way that appeals to me at least has a breathtakingly grand view of religion as its core definition, according to which all beings share the same spiritual essence since they share the same physical essence. There isn't a special Christian blood group or a Christian planet earth and a Hindu planet earth, so how can there be different truths of the world? If someone has an idea of God, and godliness is found in all, then aren't all ideas of God manifestations of God? Note however, the Buddha doesn't go anywhere near such philosophy. He simply wasn't interested, because it wasn't going to lead to the end of suffering. He wasn't interested in absolute ultimate truths that didn't liberate people from everyday suffering. (see Simsappa sutta) However in this grand view, the essence of religion is that there is no religion. There is no beginning, no founder, no end. The cosmic truth is too vast to be divided along the lines of human thought. The only things that matter are ethical living and peace in the here and now. "Hinduism is about correct action, not correct belief. Orthopraxy not Orthodoxy." I like this definition, and it isn't very far at all from Buddhism. However as Buddhism traveled across other cultures, a bit of orthodoxy of the lands did slip in, unused as they were to the idea of orthopraxy. As long as one believes like the original idea of Hinduism as the all religion, anyone can be a Hindu. This is easier said than done - religious conflicts have festered in India for a very long time, with Siva temples being destroyed to make way for Vishnu temples, or the other way around; or Buddhist monasteries being razed to make way for Siva temples or the other way round; or temples being razed to make way for mosques and churches and so on, ad infinitum. It is as if no one wants this memo that all religious identity is unreal, because it all arises from thought. 

Multi-tasking is an illusion... I have read that the mind and the senses are like a monkey sticking its head out six different windows rapidly in succession. A great lama once told me that trying to solve a puzzle when you sit down to meditate is in actuality making another samsara. 

Catch and release! You can make a simple trap with a paper towel roll, some leftover food, and a bucket. There are lots of clever, simple, humane traps. In general you should just catch it and release it far away. 

There are many misconceptions regarding mantrayana. In essence, the ultimate nature of the deity is bliss and emptiness, just like the ultimate nature of our own minds. When we invoke the deity via visualization and/or recitation or chanting of the mantra, we are invoking that aspect of our own consciousness, our Tara-ness or our Medicine-Buddha-ness. The Buddha Shakyamuni did teach that treasuring someone while in positive states of mind or sending beneficent prayers and thoughts would benefit another being, certainly in the "realm beyond" (afterlife, afterlives) and in the present there can certainly be effects. It is important to remember that Tara is Prajnaparamita, she is not a self-existent deity, the same for all the deities of the Buddhist pantheon. Some are called deities to mean deva or god-like rebirth, but in the tradition you are referring to deity means something special: it means that long ago a being aspired to be of benefit to countless sentient beings and through the strength of such aspirations and the diligence and patience of practice one was able to reach a state that helped reflect the fundamental goodness of all beings who practice their mantra/visualization with joy and faith, or devotion. So what happens when you are invoking green Tara or Medicine Buddha to help heal a friend? Well, the attitude you have is the most important part. You are using enlightened Buddha forms as a fulcrum for your own praxis, to adjust your mind and heart attitude to embrace their full healing potential. This will certainly result in a positive effect, and the waves of which may reach your friend rapidly through causation and intensity, having an ameliorative effect. At the very least, your mind will become more adjusted to these divine states of being (please see the four unlimited or immeasurable abodes) which is of immense benefit to yourself and to others. In Buddhism, attitude is just about everything. Karma is intention, so cultivating the intention to heal and relieve suffering (kindness, bodhichitta) is excellent. There are many methods, but sometimes it is easiest and fastest for us to relate to our own primordial purity through the practice of such sophisticated "spiritual technologies" such as deity and mantra practice. There are pure aspects of our consciousness, just remember that their ultimate nature is no different from the nature of mind itself. 

The Bodhisattva belief is that personal enlightenment is not possible until all beings are liberated. 

In the Buddha's age exposure to sense desires would have been fewer, and solitude would have been easier to find (no TV, social media, electricity, mobile phones, traffic). Yet, he recommended seclusion, because sense desire is a furious fire that's hard to put out once started. It's basic mental hygiene and sanitisation. If we are going to perform surgery on our minds (i.e.) serious meditation, then we don't want to do it in an unhygienic condition. Retreats are designed to offer hygienic conditions for the mind. The practice of "right livelihood" ensures there are few opportunities to tells lies, act dishonestly or violently. Similarly, one must find a place to live where sexual energy is not omnipresent to learn to be celibate, otherwise frustration will set in. Such frustration arising from ignorance of causes and conditions might then turn practitioners away from the whole of Dhamma. Some teachers might have this in mind while recommending celibacy only on retreats. It's not a universal rule, to a determined one no wall is too high, but parents often tell their little kids to not climb tall structures until they are older. I am independent of any sectarian affiliation, so my answer draws from my interpretation of personal experience guided by Theravada, Zen, Hinduism (several kinds), Christianity, modern science and humanities etc. 

The Four Dharma Seals encompass the whole Buddhadharma and are excellent. It brings me joy that you are learning them. You should pretty much give everything, to perfect generosity. However, before you go out and give away your house and all your clothes, you can probably benefit people in greater ways by "setting your intention and being natural" -- one of the Lojong Mind Training verses. (You can read more about Lojong proverbs at this wonderful resource $URL$ Think about, in the simple example, of a man who could use his great wealth to buy many acres of farm land and supply his village with a seemingly endless supply of food. Had he given all his wealth away at once, it might not be as beneficial to sentient beings. So, yes, time is definitely something you should give to other beings. In fact, practicing, studying, reflecting, and meditating can be of the most generous uses of our time, by setting our intentions to ultimately benefit all beings (as numberless as the sky is vast). This setting of intention is called Bodhichitta, it is the "Mind inclined to Awakening" and it is so very very precious. More valuable than all the diamonds and gold and silver. Your question is really wonderful! Our time is valuable, and if we can spend even 10 minutes a day thinking about how we can benefit someone we know, it is time well spent! Also wonderful, is that using your time in the service of others lessens our attachment, and brings us closer to the natural. You can use your time to think about how you can help people you know (or just met) who have similar needs as you. If you know someone without a job, you can try and help them get one, or if you know someone lonely, you can be their friend and really listen and be there for them. You can also spend your time reflecting happily on the good deeds you've done for others. This is also a great way to uplift the mind and ensure that our practice of virtue grows and grows. You can plant great seeds by encouraging the people you know to do the same: to help where help is needed, to think about how we can help others, and to spend our time offering all the wisdom and love we can. 

Dhammapada Verse 61: If a person seeking a companion cannot find one who is better than or equal to him, let him resolutely go on alone; there can be no companionship with a fool. This is obviously self preserving pragmatism of the Aesop's Fables variety, it doesn't require a Buddha to say this, so perhaps there is a deeper meaning I don't spot. Besides, I spot a couple of problems. One: For me to associate with someone better, that person would have to accept me, his/her inferior. Ergo, one of us must break this rule and accept an inferior (not necessarily a fool) as partner or companion. Two: This doesn't sound very loving and compassionate. Fools will remain fools without the company of intelligent partners or teachers, is it not? Plus, the Buddha himself tolerated Devadutta and others who were often comically stupid in his order. The accompanying story of the Thera who blindly trusts his disciples is a little too simplistic, how is it that a senior teacher (Thera) needed to be schooled on such a trivial principle of common sense? If someone is obviously lazy and scheming, even treacherous, he or she should not be trusted. Did the Thera get undermined by a false sense of duty or compassion? 

"What's it like to be without the five skandhas?" If you read the Heart Sutra, "Avalokiteshvara saw the five skandhas to be empty [of essence, empty of having a self, selfless, empty of an 'independent individual']. This means that it is not the five skandhas that we are trying to abandon, we are simply trying to see them clearly and without beliefs. The Five Aggregates or Heaps or you might even say Piles or Sediment are: 

Think to benefit all sentient beings with your gift, that the benefits may echo out into the cosmos and into all planes of existence. Set that mind when you give, and lose yourself in the action. 

Consider that for something to be impermanent it must have some sort of arising. Arising implies Cessation. Without arising, there can be no cessation. So you tell me, does space arise? Or is it simply the unawareness of space that ceases? At any rate, compassion is a much more profound topic to put your efforts toward, for "the view of emptiness without compassion shall not lead you onto the sublime path" ~ Saraha 

Hindus are not a single people, there are numerous ideas that all make one Hindu, since it is a Western classification of religion in the Indian subcontinent. Following this "dharmic" ideal, in Indian law there are no Buddhists or Jains in the Constitution, there are only those who follow Indian religions (Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, various kinds of animistic and vedic traditions commonly called Hindus) all referred to as Hindus (of India), and non Indian religions such as Christianity. In fact, the Buddha is seen by many Hindus as an avatar of Vishnu. Buddha statues sit side by side with Hindu gods in prayer rooms in homes in India, and Ganesha jostles with Buddha in Thailand, a Buddhist country. In any event, Hinduism and Buddhism are not an Orthodoxy but an Orthopraxy. 

Intentions matter. Only people and cultures take offense. The Dharma doesn't take offense. Awakened ones who have gone forth to become the Dharma can't take offense. In certain strictly Buddhist cultures such as Sri Lanka, Burma, Thailand and Tibet, I'd expect to see a strong reaction, including jail time. In non-Buddhist cultures, it won't matter to the majority who are ignorant of the implications. A sincere adept of Dharma can even use this insult as a stepping stone, and inquire into what in him takes offense and let go of that identity. Karma results from volition. Someone seeking to cause injury to Buddhists would definitely be falling afoul of good intentions, and thus cause consequent karma to occur. The act isn't the problem, it is the intention behind it. 

Metta is a feeling of love or loving-kindness and is cultivated in a variety of ways. You can listen to various techniques and talks on dharmaseed or find a teacher with whom you vibe with and watch a video or read it in a book. The earliest reference is the Metta Sutra, as far as I know, and it is all about engendering a mind of good-will and loving, dearness, and fondness directed at sentient beings (and eventually all phenomena). Karuna is often translated as compassion. Karuna means you are aware of what suffering is / how you yourself do not wish to experience it, and therefore when you see it in another you wish for them to not have to carry it. Karuna is also the yearning to remove suffering and its causes. Compassion literally means "to suffer with" so it is based on an understanding of our equality as beings and our mutual striving towards happiness. They are not opposites. In the teachings I have been studying lately, it is stated that from the field of loving kindness a mind of compassion can easily blossom, so they are mutually helpful. When we have love for beings then it is a natural extension that we wish them to not suffer and to be free of any cause that could lead to future suffering. Anatta implies that what benefits one can and shall benefit us all, and dukkha is simply what needs be abandoned. Metta and Karuna, as you may know, are two of the four Brahma Viharas or Divine Abodes or Divine Dwellings. Also known as the Four Immeasurables, they are called Dwellings or Abodes because a mind steadily accustomed to their contemplation and saturation easily "dwells" of "finds home" in such wonderful states. 

See Wikipedia - Nibbana It isn't a place of pleasures, like heavens typically are, but a state of no becoming, no dualities like pleasure and pain. It neither is, nor isn't. 

source: Progress of Insight, Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw The solution is to intensify the observation of the sensations, and break down the pain into smaller component parts. Notice that even the most solidified pain has impermanence - it occurs in pulses and waves - the pain is not uniform from moment to moment. When you see the pain as not a solid mass but also born of the cycle of birth and death the pain should dissipate. Don't decommission your knee or joints by overdoing it, be gentle on your body and mindfully change positions if you can't bear it. Buddhism needn't be masochism :) The next ñana (knowledge) Arising and Passing away is important. Good luck, your dedication is admirable.