In that case, it is not necessary for "A" to be true, as "B" is another explanation. Although, both A and B are "Truths" in form - the type of "Truth" that "A" is, (a plausible truth) is not interchangeable with deductive truth. Even if "A" IS deductively true, within our own "Causal Domain", it is NOT the case that it MUST be true within this "Logic Domain". So, "A" is not "True" [deductively true], because it is not necessarily true - nor false - in this context/domain. 

3. The Distinction Between Truth and Existence: The fallacy that leads to equating "Existence" and "Truth" is that only the "Truth Value" of "Existence" is compared to "Truth", not the "holistic" value of the qualities that make up existence, (time, location, form, nature, etc.). 

2.5. A Good Faith Effort to Address Confirmation Biases: Yes, there are "Logic" and "Science" biases too. (The historical debate over the exact nature of mankind's evolution is a great example, the Scriptural account being one of the first examples of genetic engineering.) Mankind, still in its infancy, cannot rationally assert which bias is more valid than others, let alone argue that each bias doesn't have some validity in their own right. The Scientific method, at the very least, requires an assessment of rival hypotheses. Accordingly, it is often observed that when rival hypotheses are rejected - those hypotheses often evolve, and even the de-facto hypotheses mature too. It is prima-facie apparent that each different confirmation bias has led to hypotheses that have challenged and refined other hypotheses under different biases. This mechanic of intra-accountability between standards of truth has added, and still adds value, to the scientific method - is not too burdensome, and risks can be reasonably mitigated. Regardless, this mechanic of intra-accountability can only be dismissed according to the same exact principles that other mechanics in scientific development could be dismissed. Until that burden of proof is met - then it is not reasonable to dismiss the "dialectic" between "Theism" and "Science". (Whether that burden of proof has already been met, or how it could be met, is a great question, tbh.) 

Epistemology is the area a philosophy that considers how we know what we know. Although, it is true that Empiricism is a tempting theory for understanding truth, it is limited to the objective and measurable. I believe in justice, though I am not familiar with any units of measure that would apply. I believe there is beauty, though I do not believe that it is objective. At some point what you believe is an element of your personal philosophy. You can believe what you want, but if you want others to agree, you need to either stick to the objective, or work on your ability to discuss and persuade. 

I notice two things that run through your steps. The first it is brought up again and again that the method (tool) used to implement consciousness does not inherently matter, but I believe it does. The book is not conscience because it can take no action (it is inert). The computer may be conscience because it can take action. I believe the ability to take action is at least one requirement for being conscience. The second is that the steps accept input from an external source. Is a remotely controlled robot conscience? Is there a difference between the "lookup table" and a remote pilot to a robot? I doubt people would see a remotely controlled robot as conscience, rather they would look to the controller. The flaws come in part from a poorly defined term "conscience". First, let me offer that I believe you mean consciousness. Consciousness is the state or quality of awareness, or, of being aware of an external object or something within oneself. We sometimes say being self-aware. Implied in the definition is that this awareness is a self-contained action. It does not come by virtue of a look-up table or any external other input. I am not saying that it is not learned, just that if learned, it does not require input to be maintained. Assuming that you accept that definition then step three is not valid because the system is not self-contained. Finally, all of the above steps assume a computational model for consciousness. That is to say that consciousness can be mapped into specific steps and choices based on inputs. You have not demonstrated that this is true. The requirements for the tool to implement consciousness depend on the answer to this question. So steps 1,2,4 and 5 are ambiguous. 

There are at least some guidelines, but it's impossible to know for sure. If there is a plausible line of causation, it increases the likelihood of causation. For example, making a hole in a water jug can plausibly be responsible for the water leaking out. Simplicity is useful here, as many complicated arguments can look plausible. If we have multiple instances, not spaced according to pattern or long-term trend, that's more convincing. One example might be leaded gasoline and its effect on crime: apparently the introduction of leaded gasoline into countries eventually raised the crime rate, and removing it eventually lowered the crime rate. Going over numerous countries, this becomes more convincing. As a special case, if we do A repeatedly, and get effect B reliably, it sure looks like causation. When I want my car to move forward, I put it in a D gear and release the brake, and that happens reliably. 

First, we'd have to have some idea of what intelligence is. We know some things that go along with it, but that's not sufficient. Early on, it seemed plausible that a computer would be intelligent if it could play a good game of chess, but we now have computers that play very strongly but aren't intelligent in any real sense. Turing tried going with the idea that we'd know it when we saw it with the Turing test, in which a computer would try to convince a human that the computer was a human. Empirical tests show that people are awfully easy to fool, even with computer systems that really don't see intelligent. However, I really don't know of any other good test. 

A False Presupposition: " So, theists don't??? I am supposing that the original question is actually addressing . 

Specific Examples where Objectivity was appropriately set aside for other forms of reasoning would sufficiently answer the question. 

Is Epictetus implying there is only ever just one cause for our actions? Or, is Epictetus arguing there is one cause which outweighs all others? What is Epictetus saying this cause actually is? 

A [Exists] A > B [is True] A [Exists] Therefore "B [is True]" "B [is True]" does not necessarily mean "B [Exists]". 

2. Answer - the Simplest, Consistent and Valid Definitions of "Truth" and "Falsity": Logic is a computational process, examining the validity of a context of reasoning to infer a conclusion that has a "Truth Value". So, "Truth" is to "Reasoning", as "PI" is to "Circles" - an inviolable constraint. "Truth" defined in Terms of Logic, (premises, conclusions and implications): 

2. Addressing Confirmation Biases: 2.1. A Source for Creativity, Inspiration, Abductive Reasoning: Theism and Mysticism have incredibly expanded what we have thought possible / plausible, (this is abductive logic, not inductive nor deductive). For example: We aren't living in the Dark Ages any more, and we know the plausibility of gods is certain - especially given: we are already creating artificial worlds, intelligences, toying with nano-technology, quantum mechanics, biological engineering, terra-forming, etc. 

The definition of alive is often given as "not dead". Ironically, the definition of dead is often given as "not alive". I got those from a online definition search. Biologist struggle to define those things that are alive. Though most would agree that a squirrel is alive, there is some debate about a virus and a prion really pushes the envelope. The best definition I have found for what is alive is an entity that can acquire "food", metabolize and act. I put food in quotes on food as it may not be what you expect. Plants "eats" sunlight for instance. Given that definition a Human is dead when they can no longer do those things. 

Assuming the Judeo-Christian God. 1) The modern Christian belief system asserts a "fallen" existence. Meaning that at one point everything was perfect, but things have become corrupt by the introduction of sin into the world. This is typically referred to as the fall. The high may be a result of this and therefore not part of the perfection that God intended. 2) The "high" itself is not the evil for most peoples perspective, rather the obsession with that high is the problem. This also may be a result of the fall as described above. 3) It is possible, even likely, that a benevolent God created materials which would result in pleasant feelings. Just as sexual intercourse results in pleasant feelings. Presumedly a benevolent God would create the means to have pleasant experiences as part of his creation. 

Obviously, I am speaking to some common Scriptural passages - to avoid the meritless claims of a mis-deific characterization, (like "God" as a "celestial-dictator", solipsistic, and self-fulfilling, etc.); Obviously this argument only aspires to an abductive or inductive conclusion - through analogy, as it probably isn't valid to actually dogmatically represent a non-corporeal "God" dwelling in a transcendent domain of reality - which would be hard to relate to. 

2. The Text, Epictetus Discourses 1.11: Because ἓν / one is given emphatic placement, and because I understand ἐπὶ πάντων to indicate "Primacy / Importance", I read it as: 

Logic: That which is true, because it must be. (Vulnerable to Creative, Cleverer, Thinking.) Empirical Evidence: What is physically observable. (Vulnerable to full awareness of a Causal Domain.) Moral Veracity: What is equanimitable, (Limited by Entropy). Wisdom: What brings fulness of life - in the context of eternity, (Limited by lack of transcendent awareness.) etc., etc. - Tradition, et al. 

2. The Plausibility of Pleasure: Suppose that "God" is defined, (at least in part), as the creator of beings. Then analogously, if we created beings - we could be considered "gods". And, if we find pleasure in our creation - then it stands to reason that our own creator would plausibly find pleasure too. The question then becomes - why are we finding pleasure in creating beings? 

Searle's Chinese Room arguments depends initially on the assumption that, if there is an intelligent system, some component of the system must be intelligent. Carrying this a long way to a conclusion, each lepton and quark in the Universe must be intelligent to some extent. The alternatives to that conclusion are either (a) there is nothing intelligent in the Universe, or (b) intelligence is an emergent phenomenon. I'm going with the latter. Searle then attempts to answer all objections (such as emergent intelligence) by indulging in more or less relevant discussion before claiming it reduces to the original Chinese Room, which he showed was not intelligent. This is an excellent example of begging the question, in the classic definition (assuming the proposition to be proven). The most relevant other discussion is the claim that a computer could not be intelligent in the human sense without having human-type senses to sense things like a human. How is a computer to know what a hamburger is without eating one? This seems like a good line of argument, but Searle does not pursue it. Searle claims, without support, that intelligence must be biological, and states that we know intentionality is biological in nature. I haven't seen this claim anywhere else, so I don't think we do know that. 

Regardless of the "Validity" of standards of truth, or what their true vulnerabilities are ... scientists, throughout history, have shown general biases towards one standard - or another. For example, a "Wisdom" Bias: True Justice always injects life, never death or toxicity. So, justice will be merciful to those who show mercy, and will judge those who condemn, according to their own condemnations. Mercy triumphs over condemnation, (c.f., Every narrative in Judeo-Christian texts). The validity of this bias is subject to its internal consistency, (logic), empiricism, (textual evidence), and Morality. 

How reliable is a "Logic / Objectivity" Bias when it comes to reasoning? Or, What are the potential limitations or vulnerabilities of relying solely on these bases of reasoning? Note 1: "Objectivity" and "Logic" are sometimes used interchangeably. But, I am speaking to the strength of "Objectivity" - not Logic, nor symbolic logic. However, it seems that along with other forms of reasoning - people often proclaim a Objectivity Bias, rather than other standards of reasoning: tradition, science, empiricism [different from science], pathos, ethos, Logos, (in the "Intrinsic Pattern" sense of Heraclitus), equanimity, wisdom, divine revelation, etc. Note 2: Some of those standards may appear "objective" - but are they really? In view of time, exhaustive knowledge, etc? What are the limitations and vulnerabilities of "Objectivity" when it comes to validating reasoning? Examples: 

I will assume the current psychological definition of a self. There are many other definitions, if you meant one of those please let us know. An additional assumption I am considering a healthy individual, so we will not be talking about whether multiple personalities constitute different "self" or not. Further, there is an assumption that the self is a single entity in your question so I will not be talking about conversations between say the ego and the id. Given those constraints, I agree with @Alex there is only one person present. As for the follow on question, why do it then? I expect that we do this because the act of speaking changes how we think about a topic. It requires more precision and effort. Helps us to clarify our thoughts. 

There is no universal answer to the question "Is it ethically wrong to kill an innocent person (or people) for the purpose of self-preservation?" The answer depends on which ethical framework you are using. As you point out Utilitarianism would ask which provides the greater utility. Whereas a Common Good ethical framework would ask which provides for the greatest common good? I can easily imagine cases where the preferable answer would go either way. 

Because of this "injection", there is a lot of equivocation between the terms. But, abstractly: even if "2 + 2 = 4" is true AND ALSO exists. ... It would appear that "2 + 2 = 4" would exist in a different "domain of reality" than where "my tomato" exists in my own "causal domain". Causality does not necessarily apply to logic, but can certainly be a factor. And, when one domain of reality is plausibly affected by other domains, it is plausible that certain domains might "override" each other. 

3. Why we find pleasure in creat/ing/ed beings: We are in fact creating "beings" - of some sort, certainly not as complex as ourselves - yet. If we are examining "God", transcendent of this causal domain, of physicality, and time - then any "physical pleasure" we find could not be validly attributed to God too. So, necessarily - the list would have to be limited - somewhat - to apply between a "Life Giving Spirit" towards "Mankind" - in the same ways we might find pleasure in the beings we are creating, (to establish plausibility). Our greatest pleasures creating beings, are in those that are "like us" - at least seeming to take pleasure in the same experiences that we do, (literature, comics, movies, virtual reality, etc.).