There is no 'conspiracy' to keep friction shifters off the market just so that you have to buy the index shifters. It is simply a matter of supply and demand. Nobody in the OEM market wants friction shift gears because bikes with friction-shift simply do not sell. That leaves the after-market and you have a similar position there - the demand does not exist amongst people building up bikes/repair old bikes. One reason why the replacement part market does not exist is that friction shifters rarely break, even 'back in the day' they were not a common spare for shops to stock in depth. As for your front-shifting problem, you do have the outer cage 'flat-bit' parallel with the chainset and clearing the outer ring by all of 1-3mm? Without that accurate positioning it is unlikely you will get your front mechanism to work. New cables help, and if you follow the Shimano/SRAM/Campagnolo manual to the letter, making sure no dropouts or derailleurs are bent, you will have a chance of getting optimal shifting. I know that a simple shift-lever adjustment would be easier, but that is progress for you. 

Hairspray works great and you just need to slide a small but long screwdriver inside the grip (and waggle it around) to pull it off, so it is not permanent. The hairspray lets you ease the grip on, which is otherwise very hard to do unless you have access to high-pressure air. The other approaches you have described look like hard work to me and I don't think I would try them on my own bike. If you have hairspray in the house then do it. 

I am looking for recommendations for a rear brake for a road brake. The problem is that I can see plenty of options for the newer 'Allen Key' style but not the older 'nut/bolt' style. I also want just the rear brake rather than a set, drop is 'normal' for a road bike rather than extra short/long reach. I am not too keen on going second hand because I want a nice new brake complete with pads. Just to clarify, I am after the second of these two types: 

Yes they most definitely can be used on older frames - either 68 or 73 mm. You may want to Google the version you are after e.g. MT51 on Shimano Tech Docs as they will have full instructions that you may want to read before you buy. 

The bolt that runs through the brake has a couple of flats on it just in front of where it meets the front fork. You can put a spanner (of the thin variety) onto these and align the brake. That is the proper way to do it, but this is not always practical. The other approach is to tighten the allen key bolt at the back of the fork and then undo it by a small amount, the small amount required to lift the left-hand-pad (as seen from the front) off the rim. Before doing any of the above it is worth considering the wheel - is it in the fork properly? The best way to ensure the wheel is correctly in place is to put the bike on the ground with your weight on the handlebars. Now push the quick-release skewer tight. If you do not have quick release on your front wheel then you can tighten up the nuts on each side bit by bit, again with weight on handlebars so that it does not end up being to one side. 

It takes approximately twelve hours for bacteria to grow in your sweat and produce the waste products that we know as 'body odour'. Therefore, if you shower in the morning before you start your commute, you can work nine to six and not worry about having not baby-wiped every orifice on your arrival. If taking the 'only stale sweat stinks' approach you may want to avoid nylon clothing as this can harbour bacteria in the nylon fibres, beyond the reach of the washing machine. 'Business casual' is a uniform of sorts, I recommend 3 easy iron shirts, a spare selection of undies, a jacket, a couple of pairs of trousers and some shoes in the desk at work. It should always be possible to carry an item or two in your panniers/rucksack/saddlebag to rotate the clothes selection and a fresh T-shirt for ever day. Nobody will ever think you are weird for always wearing a variation of the same outfit as your reputation as a cyclist should go before you. In Copenhagen and the Netherlands people commute to work in regular clothes at affordable cycling speeds on heavy bikes. To my knowledge they do not have to then shower on their employers hot water (and time) or do something weird with loads of baby wipes. They probably also do a better job of attracting the opposite sex by radiating their own pheromones rather than the fake ones included in the better deodorant brands. 

The practicalities of dirt Personally I wear orange on some days (my orange top has sleeves that are useful in the winter cold) and yellow on other days (it has no sleeves). The observation I have made with the orange jacket is that it gets dimmer with dirt whereas dirt tends to contrast on the yellow-green top. This is true for diesel particulate dirt as well as random patches of oil etc. The EN471 spec does have a few words about keeping high visibility garments clean for them to work, this seems more crucial with the orange colour. This is only anecdotal. 

When you look at the complete journey from bauxite to bicycle via China, a big container ship and the bicycle showroom, there probably is quite a lot of CO2 emissions involved in making a new bicycle. Are their any easily quotable figures for this? Are there any handy equivalent metrics, e.g. equivalent to x miles in a family saloon or equivalent to x hundred packets of Walkers Crisps (at 80g per pack)? I would like to know a generally agreed figure as I have found myself being stumped in conversation with motorists that (after conversation has moved onto their planet trashing ways) have the cheek and audacity to criticise cyclists. What happens is that they go ad-hominem, 'pointing out' that buying a new bicycle is 'bad for the environment', particularly one made on the other side of the planet. Rather than have no defence I would like to be able to say 'yeah but that is only equivalent to x hundred of your gas-guzzling miles/hours 'sat' in traffic.' Has anyone done a carbon audit for a bicycle yet? If so, are there any particularly low-carbon bikes out there? Note: I mention the Walkers Crisps in passing - no I don't want to know that cycling has a huge footprint if the fuel (food) is caviar/fancy-mini-corn from Zambia/lamb from New Zealand/fish from the Arctic (or even a nice pack of Prawn Cocktail crisps prepared with sunflower oil grown in Eastern Europe). Just the carbon footprint from whatever bike brands have bothered to measure it, not the on-going fuel costs (food). 

These are the alloy versions of the 'Sachs Huret' steel efforts of that period and I am familiar with the tension problems that can happen if you take them apart and put them back together again. You undid the lower Allen key bolt, didn't you? You need to take the little bolt on the side of the cage off, then undo the lower Allen bolt, swing the cage around approximately 180 degrees, tighten up the Allen bolt making sure the spring goes in, then pull the cage round approximately 180 degree, then pop the lower cage bolt back in. Got it? It can be done, don't go out an buy a new one, persevere. 

Put yourself up for a charity parachute jump - solo, none of that piggy-back nonsense. The training for this - all that jumping off things and rolling around on the ground stuff - is intensive 1-2 days and you will have some ex-army type bullying you to do it. Deliberately mess up a barrel roll on the test so you have to do it all again for added punishment. After your parachute jump you should feel like you have already been on your four-day trek, by the time it comes round your muscles should be good and ready for it. To get a last minute place on a parachute jump course you can phone up your local center or charity organiser and take the place of whomever has dropped out. There should be a place on the weekend a week before your trek. It will not matter if you do not get to jump (due to the weather) that bit is easy. The training is what you want to loosen up your cyclist body. 

A track pump with gauge and aluminium body. Look for one with a well engineered head that does Presta and Shrader valves. The easiest ones to use have a lever that you fold out to get a snug fit. For the road, carry an affordable, light mini-pump with as few movable parts as possible. The deluxe mini-pumps with dual-action, fancy gauges and other features have a tendency to rattle apart, rendering them useless when you need it. 

My bike slip has badly worn components and the chain slips off the front when I am in the big cogs at the back. I know this problem is a combination of chain wear plus alignment between the sprockets and chainring. For single chain-ring bikes this is a common occurrence and normally you can get one of these to go on the seat-tube to prevent it from happening: 

The problem is dirt in the mechanism. A blast of WD40 in there should clear matters up and get your shifting working properly. Whatever you do, don't pull apart the mechanism, also try to avoid getting WD40 on the cable/inside the cable outer as that tends to increase cable friction by pushing dirt in and you do not want that. The WD40 product is not recommended for the chain on a bicycle, but for STI shifters it does a good job of getting them lightly lubricated. 

...where to begin! So much was wrong with cantilevers and linear-pull came along and made the cycling world a happier place. This list will grow, but, as I remember, the following things were morally wrong with cantilevers: the front cable often routed via the stem on a pulley hidden inside the stem. Over time this pulley would fray the cable and the cable would break on the front brake with no external signs of anything wrong. Unless a reflector bracket or mudguard was in the way, the broken front brake cable would release the stirrup wire to then catch against the front wheel. This would cause an instant straight-over-the-handlebars disaster. Even in peace-time the arrangement was not too good, the brake adjustment depended on stem height. Some bikes did not use the stem to hold the front brake cable. Instead they used an extra bracket in the headset. When suspension came along a bracket had to be added to the forks to hold the cable. The bolt at the end of the cable holding the yoke that connects to the straddle wire was also a bit of a problem. Typically these were setup crooked. In use the stirrup could get knocked to one side, compromising the brake balance. As for the rear brake, the big problem on early models was how they stuck out to catch your heel. This was solved when Dia-Compe came along with the 986 to replace the 983. Shimano copied the hi-rise idea shortly thereafter. Here is a 983: 

@Adam Rice is almost there, diagram and suggestion included for what to do now... First, you need a curved 18mm diameter washer between the brake and the fork. Your brake is a Shimano clone, here is how the original Shimano drive works out: 

Give yourself a week to follow the Loire down to the Alps, a couple of weeks to cruise around lake Geneva, through Interlaken, Liechtenstein (to add an extra country to the bedpost), Graz, Vienna and on to Budaspest. Remember that it is one Alp a day unless you are a TdF rider, so be prepared for some astoundingly steep climbs and low mileages if you go the Alpine way. Budapest is fully first world, but, heading south through the Balkans isn't going to be quite so luxurious, but you will be okay. Give yourself another couple of weeks for that 'adventurous' stretch. Naturally you can go the other way through Italy, avoiding too much Alpi-ness, this should be a lot quicker but you will have to get a boat when you get to the heel bit. Personally I would do the Alps and maybe consider following the Danube as much as possible as the roads along side it in Hungary are quick and easy - Hungary is a big plain. But then you would be missing out Lake Balaton, which I think is a must. Also the Loire can be a bit trying as it is a bit boring by bike, but it does help you to get the France bit out of the way quite quickly. Hope that helps! 

If you do not have too many masonry drills knocking about then you can get one from a hire shop. Although expensive, peace of mind is priceless. If you have insurance then there maybe a reduced premium too. 

Sorry to hear about your accident - be prepared to take a while to physically recover even if you want to get back on the bike now. You will have the option to chase things up with the driver's insurance company, but honesty is the best policy and you should only go for the 'write off' claim if your bike is truly mis-shapen. You also have to be aware that chasing up an insurance claim takes time and effort, time that you could be using more productively. A claim can be emotionally stressful and I personally prefer to walk away from following that avenue because an accident does not need to be re-lived, just moved on from. As for judging whether your bike is truly pranged, straighten up the bars and go for a small, low-speed ride in a car-free area with smooth surfaces, e.g. a car-park after hours. Take your hex-wrenches with you. Ride around and feel your bike. There may be brake levers out of place and other parts that can be adjusted back. These parts are surprisingly resilient but not totally crash-proof so inspect any parts that you need to reset. Your hands should have their own memory of where the bars were and you should know (and be able to double check) if the bars have been bent. The wheels also survive reasonably well considering how they are constructed out of a few bits of wire and a 20mm or so wide rim. Make sure they are centered in the frame/fork properly and that they are true. If off-centre then you may have a damaged fork - double check this by taking the front-wheel out and putting it back in turned 180 degrees - if it is still off to one side then you have a sideways-bent front fork. As for the back wheel, that can be out of track, a similar process of checking is needed to determine that. Look down your head tube and how the forks meet up. Are they parallel to the head-tube like they used to be? Is the steering more twitchy? If so then the fork could be pranged, but not necessarily, the frame could have bent instead. Examine where the top tube and down tube join the head tube - are there any bulges underneath or paint that is flaking off/wrinkled? If this is the case you have a damaged frame, damaged but not necessarily unsafe, aluminium does not catastrophically fatigue after being bent once and, although a different shape, may not be any weaker. I have ridden front-stacked frames for a long time after the incident and even preferred the added twitchy-ness. Next you will need a bit of string. Wrap it round from the left-hand rear dropout to the head-tube and back down to the right-hand rear dropout. Now check that the seat-tube is in the centre of the two bits of string. If it is not bang-centre then you have a tracking problem - either historical or fresh from the crash. Run through the gears and make sure you do not get any noises from the front derailleur. Check the rear derailleur is perpendicular to the ground when the bike is vertical. With that initial inspection over you should double-check your carbon fork. Generally carbon forks are a lot stronger than their alloy/steel counterparts but they have a different failure mode. Not all carbon forks have a carbon steerer, some can be a clumsy mess of glued together bits hidden in the head tube. Your stem is easy enough to remove, pop it off and have a look at what is going on around the lower bearing race. Give it a good clean and inspect for cracks. X-ray scanning will not be able to detect any of the problem areas that you will be able to see for yourself in a quiet car-park with a bit of string. For a second opinion ask at your LBS, preferably one that deals in second hand bikes. Shop staff that assess trade ins should be able to spot crash damage at fifty paces, your regular mechanic at a new-sales-only shop may not be so tuned into checking this.