The usual means was to put something over the mud, such as wooden planks, as is visible in pretty much every scene of a trench in use. 

Probably this or a similar action. After the passage of the Fugitive Slave Act, there was increasing reluctance by the Northern states to help enforce this Federal Law, since no trial was held in the state where the purported slave had fled to. They saw it as a violation of states rights. This varied in extremity from time to time and place to place but there was harassment of slave catchers and at least this pair of deaths. 

In all previous wars death of comrades was far more common, from disease even when out of battle and higher by far when in battle. I imagine that the overriding requirement to collect the dead and wounded - which might be up to a third to a half of the units numbers - and then the burial and services would provide the time for reflection. 

In Military terms, the surrounded Third Army would have had to surrender soon. Egypt had no reserves on that side of the Canal, so a drive north to the coast would have cut off the other Armies as well. This would leave the major cities along the Nile open to attack and occupation. Adding a little political insight, aside from major power intervention, Israel has such a small army that even this kind of victory would be too great of a strain. They would have to guard these prisoners and feed them, and any advance would require them to do the same to a hostile populace. They really didn't have the ability to do this for long, if at all. It would be like having a tiny snake swallow a watermelon. So the quick armistice was a relief to both sides. Egypt did not have to see their army taken apart as in the Six Day War, and could console themselves with a very well run set of battles in the Canal Crossing and initial engagements that hurt Israel badly. Israel got the quick peace it needed and regained some confidence lost by that first engagement. Both sides learned that war can be a chancy thing, which eventually got them to the peace table at the end of the decade. As for major power intervention, aside from the absurd idea of using strategic nukes on cities, the Soviets in particular had no way to change the force balance on the ground in time to do the military situation any good. Remember, it took 5 months for the US, a nation far more equipped to ship troops worldwide to gear up for Desert Storm. Where the Soviets could and did put forth pressure is to get an armistice quickly, which as I said was really in the best interest of all the players, even Israel. 

Nobody was interested in a court case. Those who thought it was undoable had no reason for a suit, and those who wanted secession needed it as a bold stroke to rally the more undecided Southern factions to their banner. Secession had failed in 1832 and 1850 once people took the time to consider the matter. Secessionists in 1860 needed for it to be a reality before anyone could back down. They thought that most of the moderate Southerners would join them rather than use force on them, and for the most part this was so. 

Akenaten In Egypt, Pharaoh Amenhotep IV started a new monotheistic religion and renamed himself Akenaten, moving to a new capital city Armana unsullied by the normal religion. This would be about 1350 BC to 1320 BC. When he died, his son Tutankhamun reconciled with the old regime, and the city was abandoned. This heresy and the need to wipe out its existence is one reason why King Tut's tomb was left intact so that it could be found in the 1920s. I know Sigmund Freud wrote a book "Moses and Monotheism" trying to tie Judaism's development to Akenaten, but most seem to be unconvinced. 

Probably not. Posey's brigade had only 1300 men. Wright was advancing into the gap left when the III corps under Sickles advanced out to the Peach Orchard and Emmitsburg Road. Odds are that Posey would have been advancing into the II, I, and XI corps units on the hill that the next day would repel Pickett's Charge. Posey would have been exposed to flanking fire from the batteries and might not have gotten as far as Wright, who had some 'cover' due to his breaking the forward lines and having Union troops in the way. Another consideration is that VI corps had arrived and was being deployed to plug the gap, and units from XII corps were also rushing to the area. The Union was about to get very strong in that area, which is why Wright retired. Posey's men would not likely change the balance all that much. 

It is almost certainly selection bias. In fact, a dialect humor that resembles today's "Lolcat" was all the rage as comedy and Lincoln used to read it before cabinet meetings: 

The Japanese were totally unprepared for modern tanks. They had no antitank capability and little to no practice with fighting tanks. When they got into a battle in good tank country with a mess of Soviet tanks, the result was predictable. The Finland failures were due to the inability of the Soviets to deploy and fight their forces in the rough country and winter weather of Finland, not that they couldn't fight. And in the end, the USSR won that war. The German army was just superior at armored warfare in Barbarossa. Neither situation applied to Khalkhin Gol - the Soviets could deploy superior forces and thrash the Japanese. 

Sherman burned parts of Atlanta - the military stores area and destroyed its railroads to prevent it being used as a base against him. As the city was defended by an army, this is not improper by the rules of war. He allowed civilians to leave to the South, or be carried by rail North. Note that large parts of the city were burned by the retreating Southern Armies during the retreat, and the Union did not advance until the next day. Note that uncontrolled fires as a Southern Army retreated before the US moved in also happened by Lee in Richmond. During the march through Georgia, few structures were burned. Any government stores and railroads. I believe plantation cotton gins were usually burned, as this supported the government through the blockade. I can't recall a town burned. The March through South Carolina was much more free with the burning along the march, although the usual Civil War standard was that empty buildings were more likely to be looted or torched than if someone stayed home to watch the place. The Burning of Colombia is the other incident and there again we have a similar situation to Atlanta - Wade Hampton's Cavalry burned some stores on the way out, there was a windstorm that blew up the flames, and deserters from both sides seem to have gotten into some liquor and possibly set some more fires too. After a while, US troops secured the city and helped fight the fires and save some buildings. While some say Sherman burned the town, knowing his character if he had ordered it burnt, he would have done so and crowed about it. So I believe his story that it was an accidental act, with a bit of his blaming Wade Hampton for political effect. When the army left South Carolina, they were back on good behavior for the rest of the campaign. So, basically, I don't think that the idea that Sherman burnt towns during his marches stands scrutiny at all, much less as a tactic. His tactic was to move freely, subsist for food and forage on the locals (allowable by the laws of war), and destroy government property. The fact that he could not be stopped punctured the morale of the CSA.