I think the question has more to do with when a person walks around the surface, drives their car, or takes an elevator, or when an a cat jumps off a tree, or a bird flies through the sky, does that change the Earth's gravity, and the answer, as noted in the other answer, is yes, but very slightly. Earth's mass and angular momentum is constant (if we ignore atmospheric loss, radiation out and radiation in and meteors/space dust in). What's not consistent is Earth's shape and variation in density, and Earth's shape and variation in density, does, very subtly, change it's gravity in the sense that Earth's gravity is lumpy, not smooth. How big an effect Humans have on the planet's gravity by walking or driving around or building stuff is close to negligible. The largest effects on Earth's gravitational lumpiness are tectonic, not man made. Parts of Japan, for example, sank nearly 3 feet during the big Earthquake in 2011. The largest man made effect is the melting of glaciers driven by climate change. 

Short answer: Yes. If you ignore the tidal effect and relativity and any change in mass (planets radiate light and lose atmosphere and add space dust and meteors all the time, so mass isn't constant), then in a two body system with no outside effects, the orbit would remain perfectly circular. There would be no outside force to affect the circular orbit. A circular orbit is impossible because nothing can be that exact, but on a computer simulation you could set it up and it would remain circular. Long answer: For your scenario to work you'd need to give both the planet and moon infinite hardness, so they wouldn't bend at all and fixed mass and space would need to be completely empty of anything else. Needless to say that's impossible. But only in Newtonian gravity. Relativity creates a very very tiny decay in orbits, in your system of a planet/moon that would be close to negligible but there would be a very tiny spiraling inward. The relativistic effect on an orbit was first noticed with Mercury's orbit around the sun (and Mercury isn't falling into the sun, it was noticed by other effects - but lets not get into that here). Similarly, any loss in mass, gain in mass or orbital drag (because space is full of tiny particles, fast moving particles, photons and neutrinos, all of which cause a tiny but at least in simulation, calculatable drag), then the two body system would have an imperceptibly small spiral and not be a perfect circle. You could say in a sense that it becomes elliptical but it would be more like a constant very tiny force where, once it was elliptical, it could wonder back to more circular. Not all perturbations or drag on an orbit make that orbit more elliptical, it can work in either direction. It's worth noting that "falling" or decaying towards the planet wouldn't "create" an elliptical orbit. A circle is an ellipse. You asked specifically about 2 body systems, where, ignoring tides, falling in or out would be more of a slow spiral. An ellipse isn't the result of a decaying or perturbed orbit. An ellipse is the baseline orbit. Perturbations and orbital decay happen on top of the ellipse (if that makes sense), they don't cause the ellipse. In a 3 or more body system you get orbital perturbations on the orbits. Those often remain stable, they're just variations that mostly move back and forth. See Eccentricity variation and Apsidal Precession. 

Maybe. But during the early solar system, once the sun has formed and starts pumping out light and solar flares, (and the early sun was likely much more active in shooting out solar flares in part due to a faster rotation), a key factor to consider is the Frost Line - which is well past earth. 

Tidal locking doesn't always happen. For distant orbits the tidal force that makes tidal locking happen is often very weak and very slow, often requiring more time than the lifespan of the star in that solar system. Also, for high eccentricity orbits, classic tidal locking is impossible though resonant orbits like Mercury's 3:2 around the sun are probably fairly common. And many moons will escape their planet or crash into their planet long before mutual tidal locking occurs, though it's not uncommon for moons themselves to be tidally locked. Also small moons don't have sufficient gravity to pull the object they orbit into mutual tidal locking. For mutual tidal locking, like Pluto-Charon, there needs to be respectible mass ratio or, perhaps an initial formation where orbital speed and rotation are very close, so it doesn't take much force to lead to mutual tidal locking. Our moon, at 1/81st the mass of the Earth, would eventually cause the Earth to tidal lock to it, but estimates say it will take longer than it will take the sun to go red-giant for that to happen, and the expected outcome of our moon is that it will crash into the Earth before there is mutual tidal locking. So, mutual tidal locking like pluto-charon is actually pretty rare because you need the smaller object to have a significant percentage of mass to the larger one. One-way tidal locking is quite common, but your question addresses mutual tidal locking. 

I can give a partial answer to this. In general, larger objects are more likely to break up than smaller ones, and comets are more likely to break up than meteors. A feather would likely burn up too, here's why: 30,000 KM above the surface, or roughly 4.7 earth radii, the escape velocity at that height would be the square root of that or roughly 2.17 times less or 46% of the escape velocity from the surface, so a feather dropped from that height would be traveling at nearly 54% of earth's escape velocity when it hit the atmosphere, or about 6 KM per second. That's about 7 times as fast as a bullet and I'd wager, that would burn up a feather pretty quick. Speed of space collisions is faster than free-fall velocity can reach cause anything that hits the earth from space is also in free fall and you can add to that any relative velocity between the objects. The slowest meteors hit the earth at about 11 KM per second, not surprisingly, the Earth's escape velocity. $URL$ Now, if you drop a feather from the highest hot air balloon, then it probably would float down to the earth, accelerating faster at first in the thinner atmosphere, then more slowly as the air got thicker. Small point to add, angle of approach matters too. A glancing blow and the object can effectively bounce off the atmosphere, not burn up in it. 

$URL$ You could potentially get a 3 body system where the 2 outer bodies are in Trojan points to each other (L4 or L5 only). I'm not sure how common that is but I'd think it happens occasionally, provided the central star had significantly more mass than the 2 outer stars. L4 and L5 Trojans 

The primary driver of ice ages over the history of the Earth is much more Earth science than astronomy. The modern ice age cycle (last 2.6 million years or so) is only possible with relatively low levels of CO2 in the atmosphere and land masses near the North Pole where glaciers can form. Other factors in the modern ice age period are thought to be the formation of the Isthmus of Panama, perhaps the relatively permanent antarctic ice sheet, and just maybe, the formation of the Himalayas as well. The set of circumstances required on Earth that make milankovich driven Ice ages possible are pretty complicated and have to be set just about right. When they are just right, then the Milankovich cycles, which are quite weak, can take over and be the drivers of ice ages. Prior to 2.6 million years ago, the last time the Earth went through a period of rising and receding ice ages was 440 million years ago when most of the land was on the South Pole. CO2 was much more abundant, but the single continent sitting over the south pole made the formation of ice sheets possible. Over most of Earth's history, the Milankovich cycles haven't governed ice ages. That said, onto the astronomy bits of this question: 

Source of picture here. Wikipedia also mentions Main-belt comets, but those aren't what I think of as traditional comets as they orbit within the asteroid belt and don't have highly elliptical orbits. Because the Asteroid belt is mostly stable in a kind of gravitational zone between Jupiter and Mars, those "comets" may have been there for billions of years, and are only beginning to show comet like features as the sun has increased in luminosity. The most common type of comet, long period comets, per the article, some 4,600 of them and about 10 new ones discovered every year and many many more exist but have not been discovered. The Oort cloud has perhaps more than a trillion "potential" comets, or cosmic icy objects 1 KM or greater in diameter. Source. I don't know enough to say how Oort cloud objects are directed toward the inner solar system on average. With so many objects, it's possible that some Oort cloud objects naturally formed with high enough eccentricity to pass through the inner solar-system once an orbit. Some might be deflected by objects like Planet Nine (assuming it exists) or by repeated passes of dwarf planets or by the occasional pass of a rogue planet or the very rare close pass of another star, but it's way above my paygrade to try to estimate by which method Oort cloud comets are usually directed into the inner solar-system. A percentage of those probably pass close enough to Jupiter or one of the other gas giants for a measurable deflection but I couldn't even guess what percentage. Since these are the most common comets, it's very hard to give an estimate to your question in relation to these. Loosely related, but Shoemaker-Levy was captured into Jupiter's orbit around 1960 or 1970. It's hard to know what it's orbit was before then because the calculations are difficult, but it had to be a Jupiter crosser of some kind. It's apogee (.33 AU) extended outside of Jupiter's Sphere of influence, which works out to about .22 AU, but it was a stable enough orbit to make a few cycles before crashing into Jupiter in 1994. Jupiter's sphere of influence (.44 AU in diameter) is barely over 1% of it's orbital journey around the sun, but over hundreds or thousands of orbits, 1% is enough to clean out or deflect most of the objects that cross it's path. Comet Ison, a long period comet was also (virtually) destroyed when it passed around the sun close enough to break apart in November 2013. Comets seem to die fairly frequently. Fortunately (or perhaps unfortunately), there's trillions more where they came from. :-) Hope that wasn't too vague an answer, but I think the short answer, based on deduction is that events like the one you mention with Jupiter deflecting Comet 67P are reasonably common, maybe every few decades, maybe once a century. They're not rare events. Earth will measurably deflect a small asteroid in 2029. Asteroids are much more common than comets, but Earth is also much smaller than Jupiter. Icy bodes are likely to pass close enough to Jupiter to have a significant deflection every so often and there's about a 50/50 chance on whether that deflection will push them closer to the sun or further away with a small chance that they will be caught in Jupiter's orbit. Hope that wasn't too general. Since this had gone unanswered, I thought I'd give it a shot. 

Beyond the frost line is best, cause that's where ices don't melt. Ices make up more mass of our solar system and probably most solar systems than rocky material and they break apart more easily, so statistically speaking, a ring system should do better far away from the sun, in our case, at least Jupiter Distance. Jupiter's enormous magnetic field might also not be long term ring friendly, so in addition to far from the sun you'd want a planet without too strong a magnetic field that's shooting high velocity charged particles through the ring. Here's a fun article about how Saturn's magnetic field erodes it's ring. Jupiter would melt any ice ring it had much faster than Saturn does. Hope that wasn't too long and it's more my trying to work it out than a definitive answer, but until we get much better telescopes, there might not be a definitive answer to this one. 

To the naked eye, the answer is almost certainly no because of the enormously slow movement of stars across the sky and because 5,000 stars may be a lot but only a tiny percentage of the sky is covered by visible stars. To Hubble, which can see perhaps tens of millions of stars, maybe more, the link here, has a picture of two stars that are approaching crossing each other's path from our point of view. With a big enough telescope it probably happens from time to time, though I wouldn't want to try to calculate how often, but to the naked eye, I'm comfortable saying no, in fact, it was often assumed that stars didn't move and were fixed in the sky (contrary to what Macrobius said). That was the popular point of view prior to Halley's observation. There was also Tycho Brahe's "De Nova Stella" or "new star" which we now know to be a super-nova, and that was quite the surprise at the time. Nobody thought a new star could appear because they thought the stars were fixed and permanent, but that appearance wasn't by the method you suggest. Consider how small stars are from our point of view. Alpha Centauri A, the larger one, it's about 1.7 million KM across and it's about 4.3 light years away, or, 41 trillion KM. It's diameter is 23 million times smaller than it's distance from us. That's the equivalent of looking at a golf ball from nearly 200 miles away. Now if you scatter 5000 golf balls each 200 miles away across the sky and you let them move around very very slowly, how often do you think one golf ball passes in-front of another? Not very often. Granted, that's not quite right as the atmosphere spreads stars out a bit so each golf ball is smudged to maybe the size of a basketball, but they almost never pass infront of one another, at least, not if we only take into account 5,000 visible stars. Now, binary stars, it happens more often if they are lined up right, then they can pass infront of each other and this has certainly been observed by telescope but not to the Naked Eye, we can't visibly tell that Alpha Centauri is 2 stars (3 with the more distant Proxima but that can't be seen by the eye). They are on average about a billion miles apart but that can't be seen by the naked eye. It was observed by telescope in 1689. There simply aren't enough visible stars (and taking HDE's point that most of the 5,000 visible stars weren't cataloged until recently), there's essentially zero chance that it was ever observed that a star appeared "new" by passing from behind another star. Using Hubble, it can happen, but not to human sight. 

The sun isn't as big a factor as you might think. Once something is knocked off a planet and it gets into orbit around the sun, gravitational assists can move it around further out or further inside the solar system. What presumably happens is that, with a big enough impact, many thousands if not millions of bits of debris get into solar-system orbit and from there, some of them land on other planets - probably much less than 1% of those hit Earth, but if it carries life that can survive the trip, all you need is one rock. 

I think it's a somewhat poorly written page and Xakarus Alldredge's answer is very good. I thought I'd add some pictures. The Tidal force the Earth exerts on the Moon is much stronger than the one the Moon exerts on the Earth and it's technically not a force either, it's a secondary effect from the force of gravity. But the tidal "force" on the moon is strong enough that the Moon is tidally locked and the same side of the Moon always faces the Earth. Any object in a very strong tidal force tends to become tidally locked over time. Being tidally locked, the moon has a permanent tidal bulge and that bulge doesn't move very much but it does shift side to side as the moon wobbles slightly and it does grow larger and smaller as the Moon moves closer to and further from the earth. Planets that rotate like the Earth have an equatorial bulge. The Moon, which rotates very slowly, only enough to keep the same size facing the Earth has a bit of an egg shape or tidal bulge, not rounder in the middle like planets with fast rotation, but stretched at 2 points, the part facing the earth and the part facing away from the earth both stretch outwards. This drawing is exaggerated but it gives an idea of how the Earth's gravity tidally affects the moon.