Due to the small market for the disabled, you really need to be creative. In some cases the disabled person will have equipment special made for them, and in others they will make do with something off the shelf. In the video, it looks like the person in question used an off the shelf strap that was tied in a way to anchor the bar. I've seen injured people make up for an injured hand using deadlift hooks (illegal in competition unless you get a special waver). I've also seen people simply not use the affected limb (example, Ali McWeeny). The video you had also showed the person perform her weightlifting techniques one handed. There's really no other way to do quick movements like that. The bottom line is you aren't going to find the equipment. You'll either need to special order it, adapt equipment, or simply do without. The biggest risk is that it's just easier to drop the bar and harder to do just about everything. The same guidelines apply for proper technique, but the balance points and finer points have to be adjusted for the unique situation. 

Bottom line is you need hydration, and anyone who tells you otherwise doesn't know what they are talking about. It is true that competitive bodybuilders and figure contestants do use temporary dehydration to ensure that they make a certain weight class. After the weigh-in, they will drink sports drinks or some other hydration formula to safely rehydrate. This helps them regain strength, muscle plumpness, and a more healthy look. If you use Creatine Monohydrate, which is very hydroscopic, you need to drink more water than you would otherwise. Creatine Monohydrate is a supplement that helps with recovery and work capacity, so it is very useful for any athlete. 

This can be solved relatively easily by using the "lap" feature on the heart rate monitor. Just start the heart rate monitor before class, but just before and after an exercise starts hit the "lap" button. The analysis software remembers these so you can easily see what's happening during a set and the rest period between. On my wristwatch, the same button that starts recording the heart rate doubles as the lap button. Just tapping it is enough. Most other HRM watches should behave similarly. When looking at the charts afterwards, it's actually pretty easy to see the difference between work and rest, so I started only hitting the lap button when starting a new exercise. You should see a sustained spike in heart rate while you work, and then it return to a higher baseline while you rest. 

I'll be honest, 6 months is a long time to see no change at all. Are you tracking changes other than what the scale tells you? For example, just using a tape measure will help you figure out if your gut is really getting smaller or not. Once a week I take several measurements to determine if I like the way things are progressing: 

Here's the deal, losing 100 pounds is a wholesale lifestyle change. Now I personally paid for help, as I needed that accountability and someone to help troubleshoot when the weight wasn't coming off that week. If you check out my profile, you'll find a bit about my story and where I went to lose weight. However, while the principles I learned there will also work for you, the supplements that are part of that program don't apply to your wishes. If you want to succeed, then you need to learn how to manipulate your pancreas. That is the one thing that has been proven to work time and time again. Essentially, low carb/high protein (in proportions) is the quickest way to safely lose weight. Unfortunately you aren't going to find something so simple as what you are asking for. If you are serious about losing weight (without exercise): 

Also note that when you exercise, your body will use those vitamins and minerals in greater quantities--no matter what the diet is. You very well may have to supplement even when you are maintaining. 

The community in the link I provided has a decent number of women lifters, and the group is very respectful. Worth checking out. A good starting program would be Starting Strength, or this newer spin on a beginner program also looks promissing: The Average F'n Program. Despite the name, it has a few good points to it: 

I've experienced that feeling before, when I was a student in college. It was related to not having enough to eat (for monetary reasons). Unfortunately, there is quite a number of causes of those symptoms that can range from: 

To make a long story short, it is very disingenuous to completely disregard the work that people put in to things. Hard work trumps genetics in the long run. In fact, the only way for an athlete with good genes to overcome an elite athlete who put in a lot of work is for the guy with good genes to put in the same amount of work. Put any gifted high school athlete against a pro like Larry Byrd in his prime, and they will be humbled every time. Larry Byrd was known as someone who outworked everyone else. There are plenty of athletes with disabilities of one sort or another who perform amazing feats. One example would be Lei Liu who bench pressed 498 lbs in competition without the use of his legs. You could say he got a raw deal, but he put in the work despite his limitations. 

A history of fainting for no apparent reason, especially if the fainting occurred during or immediately after exercise. Symptoms of an irregular heartbeat, palpitations, skipped beats or fluttering heartbeat either when resting or exercising. A close blood relative who died suddenly before the age of 55, or a family history of early coronary heart disease, high cholesterol, Marfan's syndrome or enlarged heart. A family or personal history of seizures. You are a male over age 40 or a female over 50, the American College of Sports Medicine recommends that you have a medical evaluation before you begin an exercise program. 

Anything above this, and you have to take the principles you've learned and manufacture your own program based around the way you train. There are other factors as well that determine what your program will ultimately look like: 

Both of these adaptations require food to fuel the added muscular potential. Minor reductions in food, or using poor sources for food, minimize the body's ability to create new muscle. The bigger question though, is can you get stronger while consuming enough Calories to loose weight? The short answer is yes, with a few caveats that are important to understand. 

That's a common approach used by bodybuilders and powerlifters (particularly in the off season) alike. At this point the program would no longer resemble StrongLifts. Another strategy is to continually increase weight, but change the shape of the volume: 

Eventually your doctor will clear you from the rehab work. That's the only thing really that should ever change from the basic structure I outlined. The older you get, or the more injuries you have to overcome, the more you have to prepare your body to do work. You will eventually outgrow Strong Lifts. That's what's supposed to happen. You can decide at that time if you want to continue pursuing a power lifting style training or if you want to branch into other types of training. 

That is said in the context of strength training. Basically if you start with an empty bar and increased 5 lbs every week you would be able to continue that pace for a few months. Depending on the size of the muscle group some will be able to maintain the pace longer than others. That fact is what Starting Strength or Strong Lifts are built around. Another part of that fact is the process of getting better technique which helps you lift more weight. Many times beginner gains happen as much from learning technique as they do just getting stronger. The technique effect is also what helps someone who is already strong get stronger at a completely new movement relatively quickly. All muscle groups are easily trainable, but the larger the muscle the more it can be trained. For example, you won't be able to put the same weight over your head as you can squat. So what about ellipticals? Ellipticals are designed to train your cardiovascular system. You will enjoy going from gasping for breath after a relatively short period of time on the elliptical to being able to maintain a very respectable pace for a long time. Both cardio and strength are important factors in being fit. Both are worthwhile efforts. However, cardio doesn't fix your posture or help you move better when you are getting up and down. What's the least level of strength needed to get a bit bigger? This question needs some parameters, so I will tell you what they are and you can fill in the blanks: 

The biggest thing I see going on here is your diet is very unbalanced. That is going to cause health problems if you don't make changes, soon. One of the basics of nutrition is that your body has essential nutrients that it must consume from food and cannot make itself. Unfortunately, carbohydrates don't qualify as essential. 

The number one defense against body fat is controlling your diet. Everything else supplements a proper diet. Most recommendations on diet are fundamentally the same, and the differences are often overstated. One thing is true: you can't out-exercise a bad diet. Always start with how much you eat, and then the types of things you eat. There are several ways to use exercise when you are emphasizing burning fat. Here are a few examples: 

There's a couple things, and one of them you'll have to rely on whomever you are coaching (even if it's yourself): 

One thing that can happen as you bring your hands in is the tendency to shift your shoulders forward to compensate for being in an unnatural position. That tendency is something that you much not fall in to. Keep in mind: 

In part 2 of the series, there's an outline for a 5 day a week program to help you make the most of the muscle you have. It's a prime example of what I mean by keeping most of your reps in the 70-85% range. In fact, I wouldn't test your maxes any more frequently then once a quarter. I personally only do it when I'm preparing for a contest which I do once or at most twice a year. 

That's very common. I call it a low back "pump" which is usually what happens when you do enough volume. It can be very uncomfortable, but it is a back pump it goes away within a day or two. However, to minimize the pain as you add more weight on the bar over time, you'll want to help your body out: 

These exercises will help strengthen and stabilize the shoulder area. I've seen some really great improvement in my overhead pressing by applying Kalle Beck's shoulder warmup (Starting Strongman), and the assistance exercises I've listed. Don't major on the minors, these are here just to assist your shoulder health and upper back strength. Both of those will help in bigger pressing and feeling a lot better after training. 

I have a mental picture of your upper body folding forward creating an impingement. That impingement likely bruised your intercostal muscles thanks to the force being transferred through your rib cage. If that's the case: 

If my pancreas is overworked, can I fix it? Yes. If you put your body into ketosis the pancreas rests. While it rests it secretes that hormone that burns fat (yay!). If it rests for three weeks or more it will return to a very healthy state. An added plus of being in ketosis is that every calorie not in your food will be taken from your fat stores. That means you can have 900 calories a day, assuming you found highly absorb-able protein sources, and burn fat even faster! I personally used Ideal Protein which originated in France from a Dr. Tran. They supply 97% absorb-able protein with their plan meals, so you can get those low calorie numbers. There's four phases to the diet, and its monitored. Probably not a bad idea. If you don't have something similar (like a Lindora), then doing the Atkins diet is perfectly acceptable. Just watch how much fat you take in and don't overdo the protein. Wait, can I stay in ketosis forever? It's not recommended. One of the side effects of having so few carbs is the fact you are likely not getting enough dietary fiber. Your body needs a bare minimum of 21g of fiber a day to stay "regular". If you have less than that you will have problems with constipation. I can speak from experience that it is not fun. You will have to reintroduce carbs at some point. But be careful how you do it. The problem with going straight back into eating carbs after your body has been in ketosis for so long is that it's not used to processing them anymore. When your body isn't used to processing food, it turns it into fat. Not what you want. To reintroduce carbs safely you should give your body at least two weeks of this: 

Now, if you intend on running, that will dehydrate you something fierce. In that case, I recommend changing Medhi's advice to training at the time you break your fast. That will allow you to remain hydrated, and get some serious food in you right afterwards. He even provides a schedule to help plan your day in the article. That said, you will need to eat some caloric dense foods, and food with plenty of protein. 

After a long layoff your recovery and strength has gone down. In many ways you are back to a beginner again--although due to your muscle memory you can get to where you left off much sooner than the first time it took you to get there. Assuming you haven't injured yourself, I would repeat the initial workout sessions until the soreness between sessions subsides. Once the soreness gets to manageable levels, you can start increasing again.