In Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern, when Moreta and Holth die between because they were too exhausted to envision their destination properly, Orlith (Moreta's queen) stays only long enough to see her eggs reach the Hatching Grounds, and then goes between on her own the morning of Impression. McCaffrey describes how Orlith is writhing on the ground in agony immediately after Moreta's loss because she can't go between just yet, until her eggs hatch. When Robinton dies of old age at the end of All the Weyrs of Pern, his fire-lizard Zair dies as well (although he doesn't go between, oddly enough; he just lies on Robinton's chest and dies). Dragons were bred from fire-lizards with genetic enhancements, so there's a strong correlation in their behavior. Beyond that, I don't recall reading about any riders who die dragonless and leave the dragon around to re-Impress. There are several riders who lose dragons and don't die, Lytol/L'tol and Brekke being the most prominent, but not the reverse. 

Turing is talking about gender purely to make it easier to discuss A and B, I think. He was a gay man who didn't suffer fools gladly; gender wasn't a point of discrimination for him beyond what living in the early part of the 20th century would make any white cis male. He was interested in thinking, in puzzles, in how the machines worked, in creating a computer (literally a computational device, not "computer" as we think of the word) which could answer any question or problem you put to it without being specifically programmed for that sole question. Andrew Hodges wrote a pretty exhaustive bio of Turing, Alan Turing: The Enigma, and there is no misogyny or gender bias highlighted that I recall. He was engaged for a time to Joan Clarke, another boffin, and ended things amicably over his homosexuality. But (as shown in the film The Imitation Game) he respected her mind greatly. There's no historical evidence that Turing would think a computer "only" had to clear the hurdle of "being as good as a mere woman" to fool a man. He was using contemporary parlance of "man" to mean sentient human. 

I believe all the Weasleys except Ron were named after either characters from Arthurian legend or historical royalty of England/Albion/Britain: 

The Wizard wasn't just trying to frighten them; he was trying to appear mysterious and inscrutable. The Scarecrow, who didn't have any brains, could not understand a wise and powerful woman. When he told his friends about her, the Tin Woodsman wasn't too worried; he'd been engaged before. But the Wizard appeared to him in a different shape: a great monster. So not only can the Wizard change shape, species, and gender, he can make himself into something wild which can't be reasoned with. The Lion might have been able to deal with a wild monster, being King of the Beasts, but fire can't be beaten with brute strength — and now the Wizard can turn himself in to a raw element. What hope could they have of defeating him? In each case, the Wizard was trying to present himself as something intimidating and unknowable, with a dash of fear on the side. 

The original, sans flourishes, runs "we remain half-creatures if the one you love does not complete you." It's the do not rather than does not which is really throwing you, I think. 

Strictly speaking, an adult does find one of them. One of the women working at the factory of Veruca Salt's father is the person who opens the particular candy bar with the Golden Ticket. But Mr. Wonka is explicit, as hobbs correctly notes, in saying that only five children would be allowed on the tour (with one or two guardians apiece). So while technically this Rosie the Walnut-Sheller would be allowed into the factory, it would be whatever child she brought with her who would be taking the tour (and competing for the prize). 

So the "grin" (the facial expression) is hovering in space, and the rest of the cat's face and body are gone (or invisible). This is not physically possible in the real world. 

The language of the time tended to be a little Yoda-like in its grammar, so you have to be patient with it. Also, all three of your lines run together to explain one thing: That Victor loved someone, and lost her, and now feels empty and alone without her. 1. “And expressed my conviction that a man could boast of little happiness, who did not enjoy this blessing.” This means: 

You need the rest of the sentence to clarify the next one: 2. “I agree with you," replied the stranger; "we are unfashioned creatures, but half made up, if one wiser, better, dearer than ourselves — such a friend ought to be — do not lend his aid to perfectionate our weak and faulty natures.” "Friend" here means lover, beloved, spouse, not "buddy." This starts 

Geddy Lee is explicitly, openly atheist and "Roll the Bones" (the bones referring to dice) is explicitly about rejecting the idea that a god or faith directs anything, so quite probably your answer is yes. ETA I should also have noted "Freewill" is another song with lyrics which reject the idea of a god directing human actions. 

"Turning back the clock," literally, would be to allow the narrator to re-live those hours/days/etc. It would give the narrator time. "I stayed in one place too long" gives the sense of wasted time — that the narrator is accustomed to constant movement, not putting down roots — and "give me some time" might mean the person wishes he could re-live some of the time he spent "in one place" and use it to go somewhere else. Since turning back time is a physical impossibility, he's not addressing any real person; it's just a philosophical cry into the wind. 

The FSOG series was originally written as an all-human AU fanfic of Twilight. Ana and Christian are expys of Bella and Edward. In erotic fanfic, it's common for Character A to feel an intense, unexplainable draw towards Character B when the writer intends for A and B to end up together. (This can be disconcerting if you misread the tags and think you're reading, for example, a story about Steve Rogers and Bucky Barnes and it turns out to be about Steve and Sam Wilson.) Iit's not a surprise if she feels the attraction simply because she does. Neither the FSOG series nor the source series are well written. Edit to clarify: Hamlet notes in his comments that the question here is about the choice of the word "irrational." There is no reason for that particular word. FSOG is badly-written fanfic based on badly-written source material. If the attraction were in fact irrational, that setup comes from widely-used fanfic tropes and clichés, which are not in and of themselves problematic. Since Ana does pile on the reasons why she'd be attracted to Christian, her attraction is not irrational. So James might have been word-salading because she's not a particularly attentive writer, or, presuming she had an editor, the editor didn't catch the mistake. 

Hamlet wants revenge for his father's murder. If he kills Claudius at the moment he's praying, Hamlet thinks, Claudius's soul will be pure and he'll be forgiven, and can therefore get into Heaven. King Hamlet died without a final confession/absolution/sacrament etc. and so his soul is wandering in Limbo. (I think that's the correct theological interpretation, but feel free to correct me if I have the doctrine wrong.) Hamlet therefore wants to wait until Claudius is "dirty" again spiritually speaking so that his death will send him to Hell, or at least keep him out of Heaven. Also, stabbing Claudius while he's praying is pretty cold-blooded. Making him drink the poison after Hamlet has watched Laertes die from the poison on the blade meant for Hamlet — and put there BY Claudius — is a rash act done much more in anger, and is vengeance for Laertes and the attempted murder of Hamlet as well (not to mention the death of Ophelia). In short, Hamlet is way more pissed at the end of the play than he is in that moment when he comes across Claudius quietly praying. His opinion of the afterlife is not the only deciding factor staying his hand. 

Now, as far as the political commentary, it's a bit hard to glean without more context, but I'll give it a go: the writer is saying that the Equality and Human Rights Commission had imposed rules on various other bodies (I guess?) to help people who needed assistance. It was not well-run, so even though it was doing good and important work (the grin), politicians saw the EHRC as something to cut so they could say they were doing something to reduce paperwork and spending. The "grin" of equality did not have the political or bureaucratic support it needed to continue — it was left isolated. Without the "body" of support from the government, the EHRC was gutted, and the work of helping people was curtailed. "False front" has nothing to do with the story or the metaphor. Both are talking about one thing which should be irrevocably attached to a larger whole but were severed from it. 

If the last name in question is Bech, and the similar word is a verb, my guess is that he was thinking of fuck (or possibly the Irish variant feck). It's "somewhat assonant" because it's really matching the hard -c, depending on how the -ch of Bech is pronounced. The only other similar epithet is bitch, which is much more often used as a noun when it's scrawled on a wall. (It can be a verb, but almost always in speech or in prose, not graffitoed aphorisms.) 

In Carroll's story, the Cheshire Cat is sitting on the branches of various trees, talking to Alice as she's walking along. The cat appears and disappears suddenly, but completely. At the end of the scene, she says the cat's teleportation is startling her, so it fades away slowly: 

Hippolyta is queen of the Amazons. (You may be more familiar with her as Wonder Woman's mother; she's the third woman from the left, next to Diana, in this photo.) Amazons are known mythologically for being fierce warriors. To woo (court, date, interest) a warrior, you might spar, or fight. Theseus is saying that instead of courting her with flowers and poetry, he did it by battling her in a swordfight. He earned her affections by getting through her literal defenses and injuring her with his sword, proving he was an equal or better fighter. The queen of a warrior race is a mighty warrior herself, and isn't going to settle for someone who can't fight as a consort. So Theseus says that while he won her with violence (fighting, injuries, which a warrior accepts as normal and possibly desirable to some extent), their wedding will be full of celebrating and fun. 

It's a test. Cupid is the heart, Psyche is the mind. The story is about trusting your emotions over your reason (or gossip, or relatives, come to that) when it comes to love/marriage. He wanted her to trust him (to trust in her emotions) until he was satisfied that she was loyal to him and not her birth family, or until she proved that she had conquered her own doubts and would obey her husband (appalling now, but an appropriate sentiment at the time). Tests in Greek mythology are not indefinite, although Psyche fails this one without the terms ever being announced, so we don't know how long it might have gone. In mythological terms, "until she fell in love with him" is probably a good rough deadline. She would have had to fake it ’til she made it, so to speak. 

3. “I spoke of my desire of finding a friend—of my thirst for a more intimate sympathy with a fellow mind than had ever fallen to my lot” This means 

He might mean boring bookstores rather than ones which sold "modern," more interesting fiction/adventure/romance etc. stories. The other images are of abandoned and broken buildings and businesses — places without hope, where no one wants to be. Remember that The Great Divorce is a Christian book, explicitly about various people giving up their earthly obsessions so they can accept God/Heaven as the true thing they should focus their attentions on (or not, and never reaching Heaven). This Springsteen kind of street is a place where the shopkeepers keep clinging to their dreams no matter how obviously they have failed, and Lewis is implying that if they would just let go of these mortal concerns, they would be welcome in Heaven. 

I carry mine in a sealable freezer bag (ziploc and the like). Water, food, etc. can't get in and the cover and pages can't separate to be peeled away. 

In addition to "crown=head" as noted, in Chris Roberts's excellent book Heavy Words Lightly Thrown, he posits: 

But he (the speaker of the poem) is exhausted with providing free editing and critique services for terrible amateur writers. One such amateur is a parson (who has to write a weekly sermon and so thinks himself "a writer") who builds up Dutch courage with a German import and can only write his (apparently horrible) verse when drunk. 

If you read the entire poem, the speaker is complaining to his friend that every Tom, Dick, and parson who can dip a quill thinks he or she is a poet, and then brings or sends the poem to him for his opinion. 

There were a few monochrome illustrations — maybe in brown? — and the one I remember is just after the two have transported back to the present. The brother is standing and the sister is sitting on the ground of the cave, knees up, head on her crossed arms, and he notices her Colonial-style dress and her long hair spilling over her shoulders and back. I would really like to read this again, so please let me know if this sounds the least familiar. I've Googled every combination of keywords I can think of. 

It sounds like the implication is that the son of a bitch is a worm — as in an invertebrate which lives under rocks in damp soil because sunlight and dry air are too hot and dry for it. The metaphor is that the SOB inherited a lot of money when his father died, and he's using it to protect himself from the consequences of his actions. The narrator is likening this money to a rock protecting a worm from the sun. If the narrator pulls off the rock (exposes the SOB somehow, by taking away his money, maybe?), then the "light of day" (public exposure) will hit the worm (the SOB) and make things hot and uncomfortable (expose him for being a fraud, disrupt his posh lifestyle). 

I think the best way to understand Hero is to read or watch The Power of Myth; the book is a transcript of the series of interviews by the same name. Bill Moyers sat with Campbell to discuss Hero, and frankly I wouldn't have attempted Hero without it. The Power of Myth is also a bit rambling, but it's two people talking, which is a lot easier to understand than the dense copy of the original book. Once you've listened to two smart people just talk about this stuff, you learn the idea of it and you can understand the disjointed "here's a bunch of stuff I found" nature of Hero. Separately, The Writer's Journey is a really good explanation of the Hero's Journey as a structure, which will help you to understand Campbell as well. 

From here this is a complicated hypothetical, so I'm going to put the sentence back in if-then order: 

I've never read the book, but I always assumed it meant something to the effect of "What happened to us in our past isn't gone and forgotten. It affects us all the time. It's with us in every moment." 

This was a Scholastic-type book, probably about 5th-grade level. I would have read it in the 1980s. I remember there were a brother and sister, possibly in upstate New York. They either found or fell into a cave, inside of which were hazelnuts. They ate? the nuts, and this transported them back to Colonial times. They ended up living with a friendly family until they could get back to the cave/hazelnuts to return to the present. I think the settlers were Dutch or German. There was one bit I remember vividly: upon arrival, they were taken in by a family, and saw something like a coal scuttle. When one of them asked what it was, the neighbor laughed and said something to the effect of "Well, if you're living with this family, no wonder! A coal scuttle is for carrying live coals from one house to another when your fire goes out, and Mrs. [Name] has never let that happen! Her fire has burned for years!" Later in the book, the family has rushed out for some emergency and forgotten to bank the fire. They run back, the woman feeds and fusses over the fire, and finally finds one coal poking out like a glowing eye: