TL;DR $600 million mechanically reliable dual-purpose short-to-medium-ranged death ray small enough to mount on technicals enters the arms market 20 minutes into the future. What would war look like then? 20 minutes in the future, Republic of Ruritania revealed their newest air-defense system: the Oxybelas air defense system, according to them, a weapon that will change the face of warfare. The Oxybelas is a synchrotron particle accelerator and power source (whose origin is jealously guarded by the Ruritanian government) that is small enough to be fitted onto a pickup truck, and yet capable of accelerating a packet of heavy ions to speeds of somewhere around 0.9c, leaving the target with very little warning. Each ion packet, upon striking a target, releases somewhere around 150 megajoules of energy. The Oxybelas is cooled with an advanced spin-cooling mechanism that cycles liquid nitrogen through the superconductive magnets, enabling a healthy sustained ROF of 6 rounds per minute. The beam itself has an effective range of 30 km before blooming starts to severely degrade performance. Reliability testing in almost all possible environments have indicated that the Oxybelas air defense system is, curiously enough, as solidly built and mechanically reliable as any current-generation air-defense gun system despite the integration of such radical technology. The Oxybelas also comes with an integrated phased-array radar, capable of tracking up to 20 targets simultaneously at a range of 40 kilometers. Of course, the Oxybelas is also capable of receiving information from more sophisticated sensors through datalinks, enabling it to fire at any ground, sea, and air targets that the sensors can track. Of course, such a system has its limitations: namely the per-unit price tag of $600 million. QUESTION How would the deployment of such a weapon with its price tag 20 minutes into the future affect 21st Century Warfare as we know it? EDIT Completely forgot about the effects of blooming at short ranges. Air within first 30 km of the beam's path is ionized and pushed out of the way with a "pathfinding" laser before the beam is actually fired. 

You probably need metal foam as a form of "spacer" in a series of spaced armor plates. although most people tend to use kevlar to stuff spaced armor gaps. The hard plates would deform the incoming projectile as it passes through and the metal foam absorbs the fragments. $URL$ $URL$ 

The population and governments of earth would probably have mixed to negative reactions to their estranged brothers. At least by our social norms, when you wish to establish diplomatic contact, it is commonly understood that you send diplomatic officers and never, ever, accompany the envoy with a very big army. While sending envoys with armies may be a custom in the magical world, the governments of Earth would probably remain inside the mindset of Terran international politics and interpret it as a thinly-disguised show of force to instill diplomatic pressure. Reactions would be polarized, between those who sees the magical worlds as a new world to explore and those who sees them as a threat. Xenophobic groups would probably spring up everywhere, as they would whenever contact with a new ethnic group or nation occurred, and quite a few of them would probably turn to terrorism. Whether these xenophobic groups could be handled in a mature manner would have a very large impact on the nature of the political relationship between the two worlds. Scenario: Acceptance If the rough edges and culture shock caused by First Contact would be sufficiently cushioned, then normalized diplomatic and trade relations could be established between the two worlds. Politics and society would largely play out as normal: alliances would formed, stronger powers preying upon weaker ones, and everything that goes on in international politics. Life, generally would go on a bit changed, or as normal. One of the more interesting things to explore in this case would be the relations between the existing nation-states of Earth in this case. It would be harder to say if the nations would want to band together under a "Terran" identity, or use the newly discovered magical world to get a better edge on their rivals. Post normalization society would see leaps and bounds in knowledge. The rational humans would definitely attempt to analyze and quantify magic, either within the current scope of physical laws, or constructing new frameworks of laws to accommodate new findings with the introduction of magic. A new golden age for humanity on both side of the old divide is probably the most likely answer. Scenario: Xenophobia If terrorism cannot be satisfactorily stamped out and/or xenophobic sentiments become dominant, then a Cold War would probably start between the two worlds, similar to the one between Terrans and "Spacers" in Asimov's robot novels. The Terrans would know that they cannot match the paranormals in a hot war, at least within the near future, which would lead to a siege mentality, knowing that their neighbors could, if they wished, turn their homes into craters of glass and there is nothing they could do about it. Militarization of the society would be inevitable, and so would be propaganda demonizing the enemy. The rivalries currently existing between nations would probably be put onto the back burner, and almost certainly the military powers of the day would put their heads together to figure out how to at least match, if not surpass, the magical world in terms of arms. Technological and cultural exchanges would still occur, as the Terran governments would like to know as much about their enemies as possible. The governments of Earth would probably also face the problem of "Erdeflucht", where sympathizers and those who prefer living the magical world try to cross over the other side. Because of the siege mentality, they would inevitably be branded as traitors. Brutal purges, either lead by governments or by spontaneous mobs, would probably be carried out to root out these sympathizers, along with moderates. These conditions would probably last until one of the following happens: A hot war occurs, due to some hothead on either side. This kind of war would be a war of subjugation at best and ethnic cleansing at worst. The odds of a Terran victory goes up with time in preparation, as the magical world is probably not accustomed to Terran wars of annihilation, and every year allows Terrans to better analyze and replicate or at least counter magic. Or, alternatively, the pressures of the Cold War completely shatters society on either side, in which case, whichever side shatters first would fall completely apart as hardliners that kept them together are ousted and moderates come into power. Just like post-Iron Curtain Europe, the two worlds would have a relatively normalized relationship afterwards. 

Generally, you want a multi-tiered air defense network, consisting of several layers: area-defense interceptors, point-defense interceptors, long-range air defense, medium range air defense, and short-range air defense. Area-defense interceptors would be flying combatants with extremely long endurance. They would be on constant patrol against airborne threats, directed by ground observers through whatever magical/technological means possible. Their job is to the first ones to engage the hostile force, as far away from the settlements as possible, and wear down their numbers and morale. Point-dense interceptors would consist of low-endurance, but rapid fliers. They would remain on the ground until they are notified of an enemy raid, and then rapidly take to the air, and with the aid of ground directors, find and engage the enemy, preferably with the assistance of long-range surface-based defenses. Long-ranged surface defenses would engage the intruders at as long a range as possible, preferably beyond visual range with magic or enchanted projectiles. Their job is to not to cause massive casualties, but to break up formations and organizations. It's hard to remain in formation or communicate with your comrades when magical flak is exploding around you or you are constantly trying to dodge the magical equivalent of a missile lock. Medium-ranged surface defenses would engage the intruders at a slightly shorter range. Their job would be to upset the attackers enough so that, after being thoroughly roughed up by the long-range AA, would give up on the mission and turn back. They would most likely consist of converted siege engines, such as ballistas, or magic. Finally, we have short-ranged AA. They would be either magicians with a very short casting time, or archers because of their volume of fire. They would be placed near places of interest, such as palaces, keeps, storehouses, etc. to put devastating firepower into anything that comes close enough to be exchanging blows with them. Unlike the previous two, the probability of either actually killing or mission killing the attackers would be very high at close quarters. Now, this system would need a good command and control system. Invest a lot in magicians with quick communication abilities and scrying. The sooner the enemy could be detected, the sooner they could be engaged, and the more likely they would be turned back or destroyed. 

Or, just to place as an alternative, we can limit the amount of blood the vampire drinks by simply using blood as an addiction or habit rather than a form of primary nourishment, like what heroin is to an addict. Our vampire must drink blood because without it, he or she will suffer severe and potentially lethal withdrawal effects, and he or she gets a high when drinking blood. In this way, we can have relatively plausible vampires that can live without drinking liters of blood. You will need to excrete that much liquid intake, and urinating all over the streets would not be a good method of staying undercover as a vampire. 

Okay, thanks for the clarifications, and pointing out that the current generation of humans are not isolationists like the Shogunate. Assumptions: 

New answer due to recent clarifications, disregard this answer The reactions would probably be a large war or a series of wars, since no one really likes being gun-boated into doing anything. Most people on Earth will be resentful of being visited by what they see as an attempt to strong-arm them into some commitment. War will break out, and it will only be a matter of time. We can look at the dismantling of the Japanese Shogunate as an example: Perry's fleet showed Japan what lies outside of its borders, and Japan assimilated as much as it could, before committing herself to expanding her borders a few decades later in the Russo-Japanese and First Sino-Japanese War, culminating in WWII. Since the fantasy universe is rather behind the rational humans in technology, it wouldn't take too much reverse engineering fro the rational humans to either figure out how the magic works (assuming it is rules magic). On a side note, it would not be too difficult to mission-kill a target armed as heavily as a battleship, even if it is doing 7000kph and pulling 4g turns (which is not exactly maneuverable for modern aerospace technology standards). Concentrated small-caliber fire have disabled battleships, and in many cases even destroyed them through fires that started on board. The technology for knocking these things out of the sky like big rail guns, gigawatt-rated lasers and hypersonic missiles (or even hypersonic nuclear missiles), wouldn't be that difficult to create. A lot of them are already existent in rather crude forms in the Strategic Defense Initiative. Actual pitched battles would be difficult to model, considering you have only provided detailed information on saucers, which would be only a single component of an entire armed forces. If most of the magical worlds are medieval high-fantasy-ish settings, then casualties would be significantly less for the humans, because then the saucers would pretty much be the only effective weapon system the fantasy worlds can field, barring hand-wavy things that directly manipulate reality on a massive scale ($URL$ Slade Stuart's "Salvation War" and Takumi Yanai's "Gate" would be the example here. Assuming the humans can counter the saucers in any way, then the rest of the fantasy worlds are done for. In fact, the saucers can even be left alone and the armies of Earth can go after what is behind the saucers in the Gyre. Armies only work when there is a country behind them, and with the industry and agriculture supporting them burned to the ground, the army will simply starve to death. On the other hand, if the magical worlds all have at least the saucer-level tech/magic content and has the magical equivalent to tactical/strategic WMDs (TSAB-style), then Earth wouldn't hold on too well in a war with early 21st Century equipment. In that case, the magical world wouldn't even have to send ground troops, burning Earth (or enough of Earth to force a surrender) to a wasteland from orbit would be the cheapest option if a war breaks out. And even if the fantasy worlds avoid WMDs, I'm pretty sure Earth armies will not like the thought of fighting an enemy whose basic infantrymen can take as much punishment as a main battle tank and dish just about as much in return. So anything from a quick victory for Earth to Earth becoming a ball of iron coated in glass, all depending on what the rest of the fantasy worlds look like. Since the saucers is only a single link the entire war machine, it is difficult to describe what would happen in the war that ensues. 

My current idea A combination of expensive FTL travel and alien bureaucracy. I am thrown into the solar system with the bare basic tools to establish a base of operations and a few samples of embryos to get my clone army started, and even sending this much stuff at faster-than-light speeds across interstellar distances is enough to bankrupt several planets. Reinforcing my forces is impossible, as the nearest Hrimfaxi world is a few hundred light-years away. I am also being constantly monitored by the empire, who set my objective to bring Earth into the fold of our empire, and any serious deviation from the plan will result in my execution through an implant. However, while the bloated bureaucracy is extremely keen on eliminating traitors, it is close to impossible to find someone to rescind my order of adding Earth to the empire or change it to "nuke the hell out of these damned humans and strip mine the system instead." So in effect, I am sent of a one-way trip with a mission of conquest that I have to either complete or die trying. Free free to point holes out of this idea.