If you're not timing things now, why are you worrying about timing things for a half? I'd recommend just building up your distance (the coach's favourite is 10% - try not to increase this week's total distance by more than last week plus 10%). Certainly you'll get a happier all around experience by starting to time yourself - the idea of doing shorter, sharper, harder runs as part of a training programme where you're also doing longer pieces is fairly well understood. Even if the timing isn't about setting targets - "today's run is going to be 10k at " - it is about learning about how your body should be reacting to specific pieces of work. Many plans will say things like "60 minutes at 70% of 10k pace" or similar. This is indicative of the effort you should be doing - but if you've no idea what that means, the plan isn't going to be helpful. It might be useful to consider what is stressful about the plan for you? Do you react badly to targets, to being pushed, to not just getting out there are making it up as you go along, the idea of missing a requested aim? Why have you decided to do a half? Work back from that to formulate your plan. If it's just to tick it off, time no option, then all you really need to is beef up your distance; so do 33mins next week instead of your normal 30, 36 the week after that - within a few months you'll be well over an hour and well on the way to covering a half! 

You should race as you train - otherwise why are you training like that? You're training to bring about adaptation to promote your body's ability to perform optimally in the task you're asking of it. If you're using a heart rate monitor to prepare for a race - whether it's 400m, 5k a marathon or anything else on the scale - then you're using the feedback to guide you. We all know that race day is full of distractions, unusual situations, the adrenaline of competition so using a monitor will, I would suggest, be absolutely vital to allow you at least one dimension that you can control. There's an old adage, "nothing new on race day" - normally this means no new equipment, so no new shoes that will rub in a new place, or a new gel or bar that might not sit quite as easily in your stomach or whatever. If you're not used to running blind (on speed or any other metric you normally track), then don't do it on a day when you are guaranteed to be feeling emotions that will make you behave very differently to normal. So your HRM based training will have led you to a point where you'll know the target zone for your run. Definitely use that information on the day. 

I currently play with a Nike DuraFeel golf glove on my leading hand. It's practical, it works, and it fits "like a glove" (as in perfectly; not too tight but nothing to spare). Sometimes I'll glove both hands; I usually only do this at the range when I'm hitting bucket after bucket, but usually on the course I need to get in and out of my right pocket for tees, spare balls etc which is more difficult with a glove. The problem is that this glove currently lasts me maybe three to four rounds and/or range visits before the thumb develops a huge hole, and by the end of the first round played they get pretty stiff so I often relegate them to range use after just one or two rounds. That makes worn-out gloves a bigger money sink equipment-wise than lost balls; I play C-grade recycled balls so each one I lose is only about $.50, and my lost-ball count is much lower in recent times than it had been. Questions: 

I think it depends on whether the local rules stipulate that players should play "Ready Golf". This is common at public and semi-private courses and basically states that all players through the green should split up to their lies and take their shots in their time, rather than travelling in a group from lie to lie. If a ball is thought to be lost, the player should always play a provisional ball from the previous spot. If it's the tee shot that got away, everyone else should tee off, then if Ready Golf rules are in effect, the group should split up and head to their lies; any that are close to where the player lost their ball should play their next shot and then help look. If Ready Golf is not in effect, all players should help that player look for his ball on his turn (the turn order based on distance, and thus on where the lost ball is thought to have landed). 

It is hard to say - so many factors. Jumps aren't uniform, all trainers teach differently and all skaters jump differently, hence it's impossible to give precise numbers on a question like this. I'll try to answer according to the techniques that my trainer taught me and that I'm teaching to my pupils. I'd like to mention that I don't allow my pupils to think about pre-rotating on the ice at all. It misses the mark because it doesn't aid in learning the jump. Also, the answers given below are for single jumps done correctly, even expertly at high speeds - not the pre-rotation a beginner learning them or just having learned them can do or should try to do. Why does pre-rotation on the ice occur at all? It is because all jumps are jumped in a circle, from an edge curving into the circle. The closer you get to the jump, the more rotation you create in preparation for it, and the stronger the edge curves, ending in a sort of hook before take off. That's where most of the pre-rotation of the foot/skate happens. Note that the torso may pre-rotate more than the foot, or even less, depending on the jump. The Lutz jump is the only exception - you skate in a circle/curve the other way than you are going to rotate, and pre-rotating the foot/skate on the ice is impossible. Unless you're doing it wrong. In a salchow, the left foot usually leaves the ice 1/4 into the first revolution, still on its edge (not on its toepick) with the shoulders having done 1/2 and already facing forwards. The toeloop is the most pre-rotated jump of all. The right foot can be as far as 1/3 into the turn, though still skating backwards, as it leaves the ice. The shoulders are about 1/2 into the turn ad facing forwards when the left toepick leaves the ice. Many beginners learn the toeloop as a waltz jump from the toe pick, that's wrong. The toe pick should only leave the ice after the right foot has skated (not swung) past it. Now to your loop. The right foot leaves the ice about 1/5 to 1/4 into the turn. But here's the thing: the torso and hips are actually under-rotated, still facing at most forwards at take off! You did have your shoulders face into the circle before jumping, right? As to helping you do this, it's all about the curved edge you're skating on. It's probably too straight. Making their circle smaller often helps beginners. The flip is the "straightest" of the jumps. The left foot leaves the ice almost completely backwards, at the very most 1/8 into the turn. The right toepick will turn some more, perhaps 1/4 of a revolution. The shoulders will be between backwards and 1/8. Now the Lutz is a complete anomaly. It's very different. Beginners might first stand on their right foot and then do a loop from there, resulting in pre-rotation, but in a real lutz, where the left leg on the edge does the jumping, there is no pre-rotation. Quite the opposite: the left leg leaves the ice up to 1/8 under-rotated because of the edge curve turning in the other direction than the rotation of the jump. The shoulders will still face forwards at take off. The right toepick might get 1/8 into the turn before it gets off the ice, but still: In a single lutz you actually have to do the entire revolution, usually even more, in the air. 

My original answer was incorrect. Matt's application of rule 7.08e is correct; once the force is removed by tagging out the batter (the following runner), R1 is safe on either first or second and is not required to advance. It's a tricky situation all around, but R1 basically made the right call by standing on first; 1B would have to both muff the catch and let the batter reach on error to force R1 to advance to second. If R1 had left the base and headed to second, that opens up a couple of DP scenarios; 1B could have caught the ball and tagged R1 returning to first, or could have muffed, tagged the batter, then thrown to second for a tagout or pickling of R1. If the basemen have some real cannons or the batter had given up halfway to first, 1B could have made it a force play at second and then forced out the batter back at first, but in amateur baseball pretty much any other scenario is more likely. 

There is no rule I can find in the rules of basketball that says a player must remain shod (shoed?) during play of the game while the ball is live. Therefore, a player who loses a shoe must stay on the court until the next stoppage (timeout or foul call, usually). They are not allowed to leave the court to put the shoe back on (that's a technical foul for too few players on the court). They may move to the side and try to put their shoe on, or they may continue to be part of the play, but if you try running along a basketball court and then suddenly stopping or changing direction with a stocking foot you'll realize there's just no way, especially for a forward or center who has to maneuver in traffic. A shooting guard, maybe. What should happen is the player's team should get a stoppage of play; get hold of the ball, take a 20-second time out, let the guy put his shoe on or bench him. However, that doesn't always happen immediately: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ (IMO that should have been a technical)