I will only focus on signs to assess the quality of a placed ice screw. There are many factors that influence the outcome like the location, temperature, ... but they deserve an answer of their own. The most important thing is, that the screw is placed all the way in solid ice. On the surface you can judge this easily. The deeper parts are assessed by what comes out of the hollow inside of the screw while "drilling". Ideally this is a compact column of ice that breaks off in one ore several big pieces. Usually though the ice will break off quickly after leaving the screw. This is still ok. The NoGos are: 

First I will describe the stages of frostbite focusing on how to detect them and what are the implications of each. Secondly I will address handling frostbite. Classification Stages of frostbite are divided into two classes: Damage to the skin (first and second stage) and damage including deeper tissue (nerves, muscles, tendons) (third and fourth stage). First Stage The skins gets white-marbled and becomes increasingly numb. Used areas like feet often hurt before getting numb, while e.g. the face can get numb without initial pain. After complete (!) recovery there is no lasting damage apart from an increased susceptibility of the tissue to frostbite. Second Stage In the field this is very often indistinguishable from first stage frostbite. The skin is certainly white and numb, but blisters do not necessarily appear quickly. They often develop after rewarming the tissue. The liquid in the blisters is clear. This can lead to permanently altered sensation in the affected tissue. Third Stage The liquid in the blisters contains blood and the surrounding tissue is reddened. Now deep tissue is involved and there will be permanent damage. Its extent can only be judged after days. Fourth Stage This is the stadium in which cell death and thus necrosis occurs. Tissue will be lost. Frostbite First-Aid In the field Most important is early detection of frostbite. Be vigilant for signs and most importantly, do not ignore them. As there is no or decreasing pain involved it is easy to just go on for the summit. When frostbite is detected, a judgment call has to be maid: In the current location and considering the way ahead, is it realistically possible to rewarm the affected area without danger hypothermia and can repeated frostbite be averted. Only if both is given you should try to rewarm in the field. Repeated frostbite will damage tissue for sure, never rewarm unless repeated frostbite can be surely prohibited. The affected area can be considered successfully rewarmed if within 10 minutes the tissue is well perfused and the numbness has completely disappeared. If these conditions are not given or the attempt to rewarm failed you need to get to the closest shelter. Ideally the affected area should be immobilized, so if it is a foot the patient should not go on its own but be transported. Often this is not possible or much slower so that further frostbite or hypothermia would occur, so the patient goes on its own anyway. Rewarming After Reaching Shelter Never rub the area in snow, this does more damage than help. Anyway the area has to be protected from mechanical injuries. To rewarm a water bath with a temperature of just slightly above body temperature (40degC) should be used. Ideally with some drops of iodine in it. This bath should not last longer than 30 minutes, otherwise the skin will be weakened and germs can enter. Give the patient enough to drink. While the pain during rewarming is a good sign (nerves still intact), it is very intense. Pain medication should be given, often strong ones are needed. While acetylsalicylic acid (Aspirin) should in general not be used as pain medication in outdoor activities, in this case its inhibition of platelets can increase blood flow and thus help diffusing the affected area. After rewarming the tissue the stage becomes clear. First stage frostbite will present without visible change in the area. It may still be second stage frostbite and blisters will develop later, so further observation is needed. All higher stages need to be treated similarly to wounds, as the primary concern is infection. So wrap it in sterile dressing. For second stage it depends on the progression whether a doctor should be seen. If pain raises, the area shows signs of infections or the blisters do not heal well, you should see a doctor. Higher stages have to be presented to a doctor at the earliest stage possible. In these cases gangrene can form (the tissue becomes black and completely numb) which will result in tissue loss, but nowadays is not amputated immediately unless there is infection of the surrounding tissue (the body separates the dead tissue by itself). This information is taken from a standard for mountain and outdoor medicine by the swiss association for mountain medicine and the swiss alpine club: A.G. Brunello, M. Walliser, U. Hefti, Gebirgs- und Outdoormedizin (SAC Verlag, Bern, 2011), p.227. 

Notice: I consider this a question about classical mountaineering. The question becomes very debatable if you include steep ice. In short: Do not use hand leashes on mountaineering ice axes: you attach a sharp tool to yourself which has a high chance of serious injury in case of a fall. Safety While there is a whole bunch of pros and cons, the one deciding factor that all mountain guides and instructors I met agreed on is the following: If you fall and let go of your ice axe, you will not get control of it again even with a leash. So the only thing it accomplishes, is that the ice axe remains close to you and will probably injure you. So no benefit but big security risk. Pros/Cons: There are of course some situation where a hand leash will benefit you, coming into my mind are: Accidentally losing grip and falling into a crevasse (lower risk of injury due to short fall). An obvious handling disadvantage is: Loosing time when changing direction and thus the hand holding the axe. All these factors however are much less important than the security implication explained above. Self arrest / falling: Most importantly: Train self arrest with your ice axe (without crampons or leash). This will show you that it is very important to stop a fall quickly. All people that I have personally see slipping on a snow slope stopped quickly by self arrest after falling. People that fell for a longer time all stopped their slide only when the terrain got less steep. Two friends who slided/fell for a long distance both reported that there slide quickly became and uncontrolled tumble after building some speed. The essence: You should never become fast but break quickly - recatching a lost ice axe takes too long and will quickly be impossible. A personal note on steep ice: I do not use leashes either. However I am no expert and this is purely on recommendation of an expert friend. His opinion is, that with hand leashes you will be more likely to drop one as you have to fiddle with the leash when placing an ice screw and leashes attached to the harness often get into the way. And anyway, you don't drop your axe as you depend so much on it. That is however certainly just a personal preference. Another note on shops: Most ice axes are supplied with a hand leash. However the mountaineering shop I go to advices all its customers to remove them before use. I asked them why they do this. Their answer was the safety implications described above. The second question: Why then are leashes still supplied. The answer is marketing. Of old hand leashes are part of an ice axe and customers might consider another ice axe if this "extra" is missing. 

Options As stated for a very long time, there was only one choice here: Dynafit. As I only know their bindings from my own experience, I will explain based on their models, but it is applicable generally. Here the tradeoff is in between weight and safety. The lightest models have barely any material on the skis and are mainly intended for races, they are not recommendable for backcountry skiing. The two kinds are the standard and the "Speed" versions. The main difference is, that in standard version there are stoppers, in "Speed" versions the ski is secured by a small leash at the toe piece. So in case of ejection, the ski will stay around you with the "Speed" binding. This can cause serious injuries. In my opinion, I would always got with stoppers, there weight is really not that bad. There are also "FT" vs "ST" versions, where "FT" have a plate in between the two binding pieces, supposedly increasing stiffness. No idea whether there is a notable difference. Since two seasons there is a pin binding from Diamir (Vipec) that has controlled ejection in the front piece in both up- and downhill mode. There were serious problems with unwanted ejection in ascent on hard snow and some problems with the step in. From what I heard this were resolved in last seasons model and I know several content users. Still this remains a niche product. When I switched to Dynafit Radical ST binding, it felt like the skis were missing. Admittedly the new skis were lighter too, but the rotation point really makes a huge difference. After some habituation to having "almost nothing" holding your boots to the skis this are now my goto bindings, I wouldn't switch for anything. Picture Sources Frame Binding: $URL$ Pin/Tech Binding: $URL$ 

This as well as remarks about coats conflate two different (while linked) issue: In these scenarios your main problem is hypothermia. This is a risk factor for frostbite, but you can contrive frostbite without any hypothermia at all. I think further discussion of hypothermia just distracts from the main issue of your question, especially given your very martial comments about nice ways to die ;) [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

Read the accepted answer by Rory Alsop for a comprehensive answer. This is just an addendum addressing the point that caused my original confusion and according to a discussion between DJClaywort and Rory as well as Wikipedia, does not seem to be undisputed: There seem to be two definitions of close-hauled in use: 

I was climbing around Ailefroide in the Barre des Écrins quite some time ago and my climbing level at the time was in the 5th French grade. Unfortunately I do not have a guidebook of the area and do not remember specific routes, but they were all medium long multi-pitch routes that are excellently bolted. So I guess they are well suited to your stated requirements. A guidebook to the area is Escalades autour d´Ailefroide. 

Depending on length and diameter wrap your cord neatly around a hand or around an elbow and the crest between the index and thumb until only a small amount is left. 

The problem is specific to all tuber type belay devices. The important factor is not the Bergschrund, but the direction of pull in case of a fall. The scenario describe is not falling into the Bergschrund, but down the slope past the belayer. It's the same problem if you belay from your harness in a multi-pitch, that's why you always clip the rope into a quickdraw placed on the belay anchor. A tube style belay device needs a high, ideally 180° angle between the loaded strand of rope towards the climber and the breaking strand in the belayers hand. That's why the base position is holding your arm down besides your legs when belaying. If there is no redirection of the rope on an anchor/protection between the belayer and the climber, the two strands will end up parallel pointing down, and the breaking force of the tuber will be approximately zero. Yes, in theory you could hold the breaking strand upwards, but that's against what you normally do (and reflexes matter) - so don't do that. The same strategy as with multi-pitch climbing as explained above is banned in the article: 

I assume you are only looking for options by going from belay to belay (as opposed to continuous securing like going on taught rope). Method using half-ropes: You tie in on both ropes, your partners on a single one each. They belay you normally on both ropes until you set up the belay-station. Then you secure them using a Munter hitch or a tuber like system to belay them. Using a tuber is preferable, as it autoblocks and does not twist the ropes around each other. They can climb simultaneously, just having to keep a minimal distance, which depends a lot on how fast the rope is pulled in by the belayer. Advantages: 

In general there is nothing better than what you said: Go select a hill and start running. If you have (possibly experienced) company all the better. There is one point that you should keep in mind though: Running technique. On flat ground technique is already important for efficiency and to go easy on the joints. This is even more important when running down. You need to take care to always run on your forefeet and make ground contact with legs slightly bent, otherwise knee and/or hip problems will ensue. This is especially difficult, as one usually starts a run at the lowest point, so in the end there is a descent. Therefore you must always reach the top with energy reserves for the final descent. For me this is very difficult, as a "summit" is always a great motivation, I need to actively break me down. Another option is to run from a high point or to a place where there is some sort of transportation down. 

TL;DR Vertical oriented V-threads (A-threads) are significantly stronger than horizontally aligned V-threads. The following numbers should not be taken at face value: Different test configurations were performed, but it is not clearly stated which are used to come up with these numbers. Tests by Beverly and Attaway showed an increase in mean failure load of 27% with standard deviation of 12%. Both are strong enough for abseiling (mean 11.3kN and 14.4kN, minimum 5.2kN and 10.9kN) but not suited as single anchor point for a belay. Experiment Description There were several experiments performed regarding rebored ice screws and ice screw angle (in case you wonder: positive angle is teeth pointing upwards). The here relevant experiments were sever slow pull tests on V- and A-threads. For reproducibility and ease of access, the tests were performed on lake ice (few tests on waterfall ice were done as well, but only in one configuration). Three to seven measurements per configuration were performed and the ice area included by the thread measured for each. The configuration varied not only by being horizontal or vertical, but also by the orientation of the thread. These variations were unfortunately not addressed in the discussion of the results. I can only assume, that they could not determine any significant differences. All these configuration seem to be evaluated to compare A- and V-threads. Results In general they found an expected, but nevertheless nice relation between the area surrounded by the thread (in the following just area) and failure load. As mentioned the comparison of V- to A-threads suffers from varying configurations and potential skewing by different mean areas. It can be assumed that these factors were simply failed to disclose, but were taken into account. The following values (all units kN) were obtained: