Partially yes, though doing it today would probably be hard. The problems here are threefold: No male gamete donors This may not be a problem. Viable bi-maternal embryos have been created in a variety of species at this point. The fact that both the gametes would be coming from the same parent is another problem, namely... Genetic Bottleneck Parthenogenesis doesn't tend to work for sexed creatures, even when artificially induced, because of imprinting locations in our genetic sequences. We're big into recombination, because it gives us additional avenues for beneficial mutation and recombination, without reinforcing negative traits. Potentially, you could use CRISPR to modify the genes in one of the manipulated gametes or eggs to increase heterozygosity. This is strictly experimental right now, though, and would be unlikely to produce viable offspring in this "one chance or you'll miss it" preservation of the species unless a desperate effort were made. Cloning potentially buys you some time here. Artificial Womb This is probably wholly unnecessary. While a Thylacine is part of a largely-extinct family, as long as its reproductive characteristics are sufficiently close to an extant mammal, a surrogacy could probably be maintained. Summary So, if this were to happen today, the species would probably be done for, though genetic samples could be preserved for cloning/recombination at a later date. We're very close, however, technologically, to being able to recover the species from a single specimen. The one caveat - no male specimens, until and unless we figure out how to manufacture a Y-chromosome from whole cloth. We could potentially find a close relative and do some substantial genetic engineering on its gametes, but that is not something we're close to being able to do right now. 

o.m.'s answer is pretty good, but does neglect one detail of the original question - this is a 100 megaton bomb. The fireball alone would have a radius of 8km, which would sweep out an area greater than the 50 square miles stated in the initial question (about 60 square miles, in fact). It would result in a crater 10 miles wide. The depth is somewhat more problematic, as there have never been any ground-burst tests in the thermonuclear range (atoll tests don't really count because of the water all around). I don't think it's unreasonable to estimate that at least at ground zero you could expect it to carve out a space a kilometre deep. Fallout would be astonishing, since all the dirt and rock that used to be in that crater would be scooped up in the enormous mushroom cloud and distributed over an absolutely enormous area (that is, in fact, one of the reasons that Tsar Bomba was limited to 50 MT). Depending on prevailing winds, you could see an area as large as the eastern seaboard of the United States rendered uninhabitable for decades. But even after the radiation had died down to levels that were within an order of magnitude of the background radiation for the region, I don't know if the results of a ground-burst full-yield 100 MT nuclear detonation would ever fade to the degree where the area would look "unaffected". In that power range, it's comparable to a meteor strike, so it would take thousands or tens of thousands of years of erosion and deposition before the crater was worn down and the bedrock eroded and re-covered with the soil and plants scythed from it by the blast. (All back-of-the-envelope calculations regarding radius and fallout spread provided by NukeMap, a fantastic resource for this sort of thing.) Edit: For comparison there's Lake Bosumtwi. It is the middle of an impact crater that is approximately the same size as this 100 MT bomb's hypothetically would be. It has also been around for approximately 1.1 million years. The area is green and fertile, yes, but geographically, any event of that magnitude will leave the area changed effectively forever. 

For bonus weirdness, you could have a similar creature living vertically in the sky - like an infinitely tall sequoia whose trunk and leaves are held aloft by vast hydrogen balloons. Tentacles swoop down to pluck up their prey. Male and female of one species? 

According to myth, they were created when great trees displeased the Gods, and were cursed to lose everything above ground. And indeed, they do seem a little like plants - each one an immense tap root, wider than a house, drilling deep into the rock. They branch. Branches snake off horizontally through the stone, beloved by miners because the bloody wood is easier to tunnel through than rock. The branch-roots always end somewhere interesting - porous stone saturated in oil, an underground river, or even a seam of precious metals that perhaps, eons ago, used to be a hot mineral spring. But the main tap roots go only down. Perhaps they are nourished by magma. Perhaps they have found whatever lies beneath that. One thing we do know, is that they eat meat. Near the surface, the root swells to the size of a sports ground, and ends in a flat top in the soil layer. Once every decade or so, a seemingly innocuous patch of grassland will collapse when a group of animals is walking across. Whatever triggered the attack - a herd of cattle, a pack of wolves, a legion of troops - all fall into an open maw. Huge tentacles sweep across the nearby ground, blindly grasping anything that escaped and hurling them into the corrosive mucous in the throat. Eventually they calm, and weave themselves again into a lid over the pit, to eventually be hidden beneath wind-blown soil. Why do they do this? The amount they eat must be insignificant compared to the infinite body below. Perhaps it is indeed a curse. Perhaps they just like the taste. 

Convincing 21118 Now that 2018 believes you, it's time to become famous. Accept every offer of academic conferences talks, co-authored history books and talk show appearances. Write your memoirs - if you can't write, make a deal with a publisher to hire you a secretary. If your English is too archaic for the mass market, work closely with a ghost writer. Money is no object - a book written by a genuine authenticated time traveller will sell millions. Have yourself 3D scanned, and get accurate statues made in granite and stainless steel. Spread copies all over the world - in public museums and protected vaults. Have big chunks of your DNA inscribed on vellum, and your fingerprints etched into titanium and launched into geostationary orbit. When it's time to leave, launch your time machine as a publicised event in front of a huge live audience. Have it recorded in every fashion - HD video, analogue film, monitoring by every scientific instrument available. Remove all doubt. Most importantly, every single time, state the date and place of your arrival in the future, as precisely as your time machine can manage. The aim is to get yourself mentioned so many times that unless civilisation collapses completely, some record of you reaches 21118 independently of yourself. Ideally, they are waiting to meet you. This works even if people in the future don't believe the old accounts. People will turn up at the time and place as an excuse for a party, expecting to have a great laugh at the expense of primitive 2018 people who actually believed in time travel! The very fact of materialising in front of their eyes and cameras will be all the proof you need.* If They Are Not Waiting... ...you will need additional evidence. Back in 2018, you need to have written a long message, and encrypted it. The encryption key must be very long, to prevent brute-force searches (remember, they have ~20000 years to crack it, with much better algorithms and hardware than we have today). The text must be even longer (otherwise a fraudster could choose a fake decryption key to create any plausible message). Perhaps it's the uncensored version of your memoirs. Perhaps it's an epic poem you write for a loved one you left in the past. When you encrypt it, do so repeatedly, with every algorithm your colleagues can track down, especially those that are thought to be quantum-safe. You don't care about public key, or "proper" digital signatures (you don't care about repudiation). Remember, it doesn't matter if it takes months of processing time to encrypt the message - you can spend as long as you like in the 21st Century before venturing on. Store your message in as many physical libraries, digital archives, vaults and satellites as you can. The people of 21118 must be convinced that you cannot possibly have corrupted so many copies in recent times, even with their technology. Hopefully, when you arrive carrying the decryption key, the idea that you are a time-traveller is more likely than your being a fraudster. 

All of these are potentially manageable side effects, but it would depend on the frequency of use, the size of the shuttle, the fusion fuel being used, the location of the launch, the propellant... Thus, a very definite maybe. 

As a different option, what about ultra-long-haul submarines? Nuclear submarines' propulsion is effectively unlimited (at least within the lifetime of the submarine), but they are limited by their ship's stores. So if you had several decks devoted to hydro/aquaponics to supplement what could be harvested from the ocean, you could have a submarine that could potentially operate for years without a resupply, and on which the operators could continue to eat healthy meals. This would, by necessity, need a lot more space, and would be more like a roving habitat than a battleship. 

I would say that part of the question would be whether you could freeze individuals in or filled with some sort of non-expanding liquid. If the lungs and major cavities are supported, brittleness ought not to be a factor, just the actual strength of the tissues and the surrounding material. As an explanation - your hypothetical traveler is frozen in their acceleration couch. It's suspended from a shock absorber (magnetic field, liquid, or mechanical) which prevents sudden, very high-G events (impacts) from shattering them. However, sustained G-force acts as a compressing force, pushing the body up against whichever surface is orthoganal to the direction of acceleration and "behind" the traveler. If their lungs, as the largest empty cavity in the body, are filled with (chilly) air, and the force applied is sufficient to substantially reduce their volume, the question would be whether their brittle flesh is then sufficient to withstand the force of compression - which is the second part of your question. If, however, the lungs were flooded with a biologically-inert liquid, itself frozen along with the traveler, then the force isn't applied to the structure of the body, but just to the individual tissues, and the concern is the tissues' crush strengths, rather than their strength as structural components. In that situation, while I couldn't give you an actual figure without knowledge of the properties of frozen flesh I do not have, I would imagine you could exceed normal acceleration tolerances substantially, since most of the normal problems associated with high-G have to do with blood moving about the body, or bad things happening to the vitreous humours of the eye or compression of the brain. The problem would be finding a fluid with which you could flood the body's easily-accessible cavities that wouldn't have negative effects a) when doing the flooding, and b) when defrosting your traveler. 

By 21118, I would expect manufacturing technology to be so advanced that they could fake any physical evidence you could provide. Instead, I suggest you first convince us, in 2018, using tree rings and isotope evidence. You will become so famous that you are mentioned in millions of different books and records - so many, that in 21118 they will be actively waiting for you. Convincing 2018 Combine Tree Rings, Carbon-Dating and Radioactive Isotopes In your own time, cut down a tree. If you can get one that's more than about 73 years old, that's ideal (see below). Oak is apparently best (assuming you're in Europe). Cut out a section of trunk (i.e. a complete "wheel"), as thick as you can possibly fit in the time machine. Scientists will analyse the hell out of this, and will probably destroy a lot of material in the process. When you get to 2018, visit a university with a strong archaeology or mediaeval history department. Ask them, acting all innocent, if they could possibly help you work out how old this tree was. When they compare the rings against their records, they will realise, with high confidence, that the tree must have lived in the 14th Century. But you could just have carefully cleaned an antique stump. The real proof comes by taking samples and analysing the isotopes. Carbon dating shows how long ago something died - because your tree took a short cut, they will see that it only died recently. But a sufficiently resourced fraudster could have grown the tree in a giant warehouse, with artificial lighting and heating to mimic old weather patterns. This would recreate the historic ring pattern in a recent tree. Your clincher is the low levels of radioactive elements that were created in nuclear weapons explosions. These have contaminated (at low but detectable levels) the whole world since the 50s and 60s, and they would be extremely expensive to filter out of the hypothetical fake tree nursery. If your tree is old enough, a sceptic would have to explain why you paid for expensive isotopic filtering before you could have known about nuclear weapons. Now you can tell your real story, and they have a high chance of believing you. Your Own Body Your own body will feature the same low radioisotope levels as the tree stump. However, as soon as you start breathing, drinking and eating in the modern world, you will start to collect modern contamination levels. If you can immediately find a surgeon willing to sample and analyse your tissues, especially teeth, this will be good evidence. But I doubt many doctors are both ethically flexible and trustworthy enough for this to succeed. 

TimBII said it in his comment, but I'll go ahead and make it an answer: No If you turn a sentient biological creature into programmable matter, you're not going to have a sentient biological creature anymore. Even assuming you could "prime" the user's atomic/molecular structure to become programmable matter at the push of a button without yet doing so, when you push that button, the user will cease to exist. I should also point out that if you can transform normal organic molecules into programmable matter, you don't really need to - you can just rearrange the user's molecules directly. Of course, in so doing, you will kill them, but Star Trek is alright with that. So, you could have your shape-shifting watch. It transforms the user's matter into some other form which is not the user for a given duration, then restores the user's matter into its previous state. The user will not be conscious (and will in fact, be dead) for the duration of this transformation, but it's a very effective disguise. Your power source, as was also commented upon, is implausible, but as long as you're not too tied to reality, you can hand-wave the energy requirements with zero-point energy or something similar. The remaining problem would be the ethical and philosophical conundra that this would create. Did the user die, or simply briefly cease to exist and then resume existing? Are souls real, and do they stick around when the user is not themselves? If your watch can record your complete state right before it transforms you, can that be duplicated on another piece of appropriate-mass matter? If so, is that new construct also you? These are all interesting things to consider, but you won't have a conscious-in-another-form shapeshifter as a result of your watch. Edit: There are also enormous problems with both "scanning" the target matter (ie. your user) to a level of definition that includes whatever states are relevant to allow you to reconstruct them after the fact, and rearranging their matter in a rapid fashion that isn't horrifically destructive to everything in their vicinity. But again, we let Star Trek get away with it.