Your teachers seems in the wrong to me. There is no giving a good description for these things. How can one be expected to describe the mirriad of sensations, workings of attention, succesive arising of knowledges and shifting of focus to fleeting disctractions according to conscious and unconsciouss volition on a moment to moment basis. Ill go ahead and start with arising of Body-Consciousness which lasts about how many smallest units of what can be called time, and we are not 0.0001 of a second in, not even close probably. It is way different every time. Maybe that is what he is trying to make you see, he could tell you probably make it more clear to you so you dont have to ask strangers. 

I think that many or most people are simply not capable of entertaining complicated ideas especially the ideas that are conflicting with their established values, bias, opinions or the ideas that would immediately affect their position of perceived relative advantage in the society. However the Doctrine is so comperhensive and versatile that people can still pick and choose what they can accept and can simply ignore the rest or even proclaim it as fake. There is a good amount smart-shaming among people and Buddhist circles are no exception. There is no immediate punishment for being stupid & irrational and this irrationality, this stupidity can be hidden from others by smooth rhetoric and a veil of authority and from oneself by ascribing it to non-omniscence, lack of development or mere negligible cognitive dissonance. There is not much one can do about this other than finding the smart people and alligning oneself with them. Overcome doubt by inquiry, balance skepticism with conviction and conviction with skepticism. Nowadays i would say try and find the most intelligent people who are also known as or alligned with the best of the meditation-monks in particular, i think that is the best starting position. There are several ways to learn and develop in the Doctrine as i see it. There is the analytical part of the teachings dealing with the theory, there is the disciplinary guidelines, there are analogies and similes which are semi-analytical and there is the poetry, the Gathas which will appeal to the emotional individual. Sometimes i think that people just don't like to admit that they do not know things. 

I think this will take you too far with the body contempletion meditation. And if nothing works contemplate on this story of buddha. 

I am glad that people here were considerate while stating their opinions about Osho. Osho cannot be considered Buddhist in traditional sense as He did and said many things that Buddha didnt recommend from an Enlightened being like lavish life style, music, singing, dancing etc But from an another vantage pount he really really was buddhist rather than anyone else... He stressed on becoming a Buddha yourself rather than following anything at all...which really the Buddha would have stressed that get enlightened yourselves... Osho stressed highly on meditation...which is really the Buddhist way to become arahant along with other things... Osho's comnentry on heart sutra, diamond sutra, dhammapada...is unparalled...He is only contemporary teacher who have spoken on Thervada, Mahayana, Zen, Vajrayana, Buddhist Tantra... He made his Sannasins wear a maroon robes like the tibetean buddhists...ok not yellow...but similar to tibeteans... Osho synthesized many things... He talked of rebirth, impermenance, no self, and dukkha...amongst othet things... So I really see their no reason why He cant be called a Buddhist....but he himself hated being pegion holed...so rather not call him a buddhist... But more and more I understand Buddhism...I understand that self is an illusion...so even calling my self a buddhist is somewhere wrong... 

I think that If you train at home eventually you will gradually become content with less and will come to see the drawbacks of home life. Longing for freedom from home life will arise. I think that is the best way. One could be going forth on conviction too, then just need conviction i guess:) One such as this will have easier time convincing one self to go back to home life without support in general i think. 

However All of these are ultimatately to be regarded as suffering because of their impermanent nature. Being conditioned all the impermanent phenomena are categorized as suffering in relation to the unconditioned element. Which is explained in the Nibbana Sutta: Unbinding 

IMHO introducing the abstraction of "virtues pleasing to Noble Ones" to me seems to be intended to avoid enumeration and getting into explaining how his sila actually works. In example there is a difference between states that will arise for a lay and monstatic sotapanna, Cula-Sotapanna is different from Normal Sotapanna, Solitary Sotapanna will not have the same Range of Potential experiences compared to a Sotapanna who lives with others, as the sense of respect for the robe or a cultivated sense of shame out of respect for the teacher would be instilled more in the former, a Sotapanna surrounded by the Sangha will lead a different life than a Sotapanna surrounded by Wrong View Ordinary Folk, a Sotapanna with Strong Faculties will make different decisions one with weaker, a combination of these and other factors (latent defilement etc) make one up ones behavior. In a similar fashion The Aggregates and States of Consciousness which delineate into mental, verbal and physical action are explained in more detail when we look to Abhidhamma and Teachings on the nature of experience and Behavior in general and in Regards to the state of a Sotapanna n particular. What is impossible is also stated in the Impossible Sutta where the things a Sotapanna cannot do are listed, there is also a list that comes with The Ratana Sutta, Them not killing or wanting others to get killed is from Dhammapada, this is what ive seen in the Canon, Sutta Pitaka and the Abhidhamma. It is stated in the Sutta Pitaka (Sutta called Recital is at least one instance), where it is stated "Five impossibles, to wit, for an Arahant intentionally to take life, or to take what is not given, so as to amount to theft, or to commit sexual offences, or to lie deliberately, or to spend stored up treasures in worldly enjoyments, as in the days before he left the world." This was never said about a Sotapanna. The argument for them being unable to break the 5 precept is based on the verses saying "when a Sotapanna has "eliminated/stilled/calmed(common translations)" the five fearful animosities and easily attains the 4 rupa jhanas then he can be proclaim himself to be a Stream Winner. In those verses it is not said that one becomes a sotapanna when one does not break precepts. It says that "when these have been stilled/eliminated in one (presumably he already is, that is the most face up logical interpretation), it is also not specified if it is dealing with a Sotapanna who knows the Cessation or the Cula-Sotapanna, it seems natural to assume that it means both if anything (but this is a different topic). There is also an ambiguous statement in the Buddhagosa s Visuddhimagga that kind of implies that they can do no wrong action. Venerable Mahasi Sayadaw was also convinced that a Sotapanna would not break the 5 precepts. Venerable Ladi Sayadaw afaik said he was not sure but leaned towards agreeing with Mahasi Sayadaw. Ven. Nanavira was raising criticism against the view of Perfect Sila in his time, so it has been criticised for at least some decades and as far as i am concerned the view was never properly defended and is held as orthodoxy by quite a few. I also have the impression that some Famous Ajahns could be capitalizing on keeping the five precepts and teaching that the Sotapannas dont break the five precepts, because that actually implies that a monastic sotapanna could get involved in some shady stuff outside of the 5 precepts for example and still be perceived as a Saint by layity. It is easier to keep 5 precepts for some people than to become enlightened id assume. The view i think could also be formed if there was like a Streak of very sober Sotapannas for some time and a view that all Sotapannas are like that couldve formed. These are my thoughts on it fwiw. A few things other things whch set them apart from Ordinary Folk are that they can do wrong action knowing it as bad with right view and cant do wrong action and hold wrong view about it, they can restrain themselves on account of Right View, there is no such possibility for an ordnary person. So rather than speculating about what they cant do one should focus on that view thing that they got imho. 

People who have children have them for the sake of their own happiness, and ultimately the child suffers. Can we justify not having children at all even for householders stating that all life is bound to suffering? 

As I have understood, Heavenly and Hellish realms are determined by state of mind. It is well said that two people can be walki g down the same street and one is in hell and other is in heaven. Heaven and hell is the way we experience this universe. So if you do meditation and you get born in a monastry world setting and it is still heavenly as it will all be experienced. 

I read on some online page that the time before going to bed and immediately after waking up is benificial to meditation. I searched over internet but there aren't any specific instructions about any such Buddhist practise. Is this true? Is there any special meditation we can do in this time? 

Are you not practicing mindfulness? Absent-mindedness is not something for a meditator. You should be aware. Later on, you will regret if only I would have been listening to him... 

These courses are the best imo, held in Hamilton, ON Canada, on an individual, on-going basis, free of charge, including room and board for the duration of the course dependent on keeping the eight Buddhist precepts for meditators Foundation Course – 21 days (approx.) ...Foundation Course in Satipatthana Vipassana Meditation as their first course. Meditation techniques include mindful prostration, one- to six-step walking meditation, sitting meditation based on the rising and falling of the abdomen, the sitting posture, points of bodily contact, as well as contemplation of daily activities from morning to night. The emphasis in this course is on learning the basic technique of recognition (sati – a.k.a. mindfulness) of the body, feelings, mind, and dhammas (meditation objects) in the present moment. The course follows, as its technical outline, the sixteen stages of insight knowledge found in primary Buddhist texts and commentaries; no formal instruction in the stages of knowledge, however, is given in the foundation course and not all meditators will obtain the same results from the course. Course content includes daily interviews with a teacher and regular group lectures. No previous experience is required, but advanced meditators in other meditation techniques may request a streamlined course to suit their needs. They also offer advandanced courses to people who have completed the foundation course or the online course, so one could theoretically streamline several courses $URL$ 

Kamma is largly based on intention...in both the cases you have given the intention is not clear. Moreover Kamma is not some measurable quantity that can be quantified...so you cannot ask such questions like whose Kamma is more bad... 

Vipassana needs higher levels of concentration and mindfulness. Instructions for Vipassana are little bit more complicated and difficult to follow than Samatha. Vipassana involves using the mind to sense the bodily feelings. Mind usually wanders. Learning Vipassana for first time requires a 10 day commitment to a retreat. But Samatha meditation can be learned at a days retreat. 

Hereditary illness or not...the offspring you will produce will become old, fall ill and die. The dukkha is inevitable. We may as well say that dukkha is hereditary to all humans so should we have kids? If your intention in having a child is good, if the child is born out of love and not lust, if child is born not out of any form of sexual misconduct...then you will be fine...there will be no bad kamma. 

Meet old people be aware of their bodies, facial features especially, pay attention to the wrinkled skin, stinky weak teeth, bad eye sight, feel the repulsiveness. If you ever happen to be in India visit the place called Varanasi, its the dead body burning ghat for the hindus. Not only they burn it they also just throw it in river to rot, if they are poor. There are also half burned bodies all over. See that sight. Try and attend a stomach surgery or a post mortem at a hospital. 

Loosely, They say the Buddha was asked: - What is the happiness there where there are no sensations? - Just that is the happiness there. The answer to OP question is in the definitions there, it is the core of the teaching on mechanics of reality. The sole postulation of existence of that something supposedly makes the teaching definitely not nihilistic unless there would be contradictions in that doctrine, there are no such contradictions. Surely someone couldve formed a more or less coherent argument if there were. As simply as i can: All or Everything that is, gains footing in the Deathless. In a fashion of unbinding, All that has a cause or supportive condition can cease, whilst that in which it used to gain footing, in that sense unafflicted. The Deathless as i wrote it is to be understood as a Name for and a quality of that something apart from Everything/All. It is the ultimate Reality. The way to make sense of how can something be said to be apart from everything, is to realize that ultimately everything can hardly be said to exist in first place. It is similar to saying that hearing gains footing in the brain and brain gets footing in the Mind, which is of course no less confusing for we usually assume that mind gains footing in the brain. Experiencing is definitely there and we can study that, that is a good start. 

I am riddled by this question lately and it necessary for my progress on path of Dhamma. My question is, why is it that in this life time I have became obsessively bent to attain nibbana while everyone around me is living in total oblivion. I mean if I had so many rebirths in past lives exactly what was I doing all these quantillion lives, was I never told the dhamma. If I was told, then why am I not already enlightened. Was I dumb or something all these lives not to have awaken to the truth of suffering? What must have been my mistake all these lives? How can I rectify that mistake so that I can felicitate my nibbana in this life? 

Meaning, all the politics, hatered, war in this world will always continue you need not heed them and instead you should work towards your own salvation... 

Further to the answers to this question, I want to understand what literally is 'see things as they are' or as the sutta states, Yathā-bhūta-ñāna-dassana. My questions are, 

You will not incur bad Karma for your actions because your intentions are not per se to deliberatly cause sufferring to living beings. In case you are doing research so as to make money i.e. develop a product which can be sold to masses based on your plant-insect interactions, then it comes under wrong livelihood. But as I assume you are doing this for your degree so Karma will be merciful. Now, how can you approach this, so before killing the insect you give it your kindness and compassion. You ask it to be forgiven as you have no other choice. And you kill it with minimal suffering incured by the insect. 

Not much comes to mind but there is the Dhammapada verse from the Violence Chapter: Whoever uses violence .. Quickly goes to one of ten conditions: ... Bodily injury or insanity, .." When it comes to hell realms, it is too abstract to say. The question is always what particular views, perceptions, tendencies and volitional formations are in play in the process of death because these will be giving rise to consecutive formations and desireablity of the result will be determined by the nature of the parent-states. From Dhamma point of view you reap what you sow, so when asking what caused X, just by knowing things about X we can know some things about the things that caused it. So in example good is caused by good, bad is caused by bad, otherwise it would be paradoxical if something rightfully discerned as good was caused by something rightfully discerned as bad. If one doubts, pounders and does not gain conviction because of hypothetical situations in which bad actions seemingly have good results, that would be dependant on wrong understanding of the mechanics of Contact and therefore the Aggregates, basicly the whole analytical aspect is not grasped. 

The concept of rebirth is an axiomatic corolary of 'Karma'. Also if rebirth does not exist then nibbana i.e. 'blowing out' doesn't make sense. For e.g. without rebirth and without afterlife in heaven or hell you will be essentially 'blown out' nibbanafied without doing anything. So nibbana makes sense only because rebirth exist, because in rebirth the flame continues. Also, murdering sentient beings (in a painless way) would also be equivalent to liberating them from suffering if rebirth does not exist. So it is a pretty central doctrine, even if you don't emphasize on Karma. 

As I have learnt in S.N. Goenka's Vipassana course, you have to be aware of normal breath only. If you are not able to concentrate on breath in normal mode only then you make a forced breathing to be long or short. So the normal is norm. 

People who have done wrong to me remain in my memory and continuously stay in my mind. I have feelings of ill will and hatered towards them...to revenge...how do I get out of the feelings of ill will... 

Did not read all the answers but if suicide would work it would be the way indeed but it does not work. Before we were born there is seemingly like a void, so from a void we came to be, after death seemingly there is a void, so its perfectly reasonably to assume that that void is no different from the one before we were born and that from it Experiences of a being can potentially arise. As disciples of the Buddha we try to eliminate the causes for such arising. 

You can establish mindfulness by discerning the arising and passing of "boredom" and reflect on how that very boredom is conditioned. Also one needs some patience because eventually boredom comes and goes, have to wait it out and keep looking at its arising and ceasing, eventually perception and discernment will be appropriately conditioned by such reflection and mindfulness. Take it one moment at a time, meditating on a moment-to-moment basis if you find yourself impatient and bored. Recognizing, discerning, perceiving and learning about those phenomena. Noticing the states of mind that are of likes and dislikes, wanting and restlessness in particular.