From my perspective, as someone with a small ribcage and long arms (fortunately, my humerus is longer than my radius and ulna), the bench press poses some risks. Someone with a barrel chest and short arms can perform the bench press in a safe range of motion, whereas if I were to consistently do a bench press with bar to chest, my elbows would actually be lower than my back - that would not be good for my shoulders. I generally do my presses with the inside of my elbow no lower than my back, but the bar doesn't touch my chest. I'm not entirely certain what the advantage is of using a board over other options. I would think doing the press inside a squat rack with pins at the lowest height you want the bar to go would make more sense, and would be safer. Alternately doing a floor press instead, with the boards (if necessary) under the plates would also make more sense to me. 

If it's a light amount of soreness, it's a good sign. If it's a significant amount of soreness, you've gone too far. It's quite possible to make strength progress without significant muscle soreness (fatigue is another matter). There are people who will say that the muscle soreness is necessary, spouting crap like 'no pain, no gain', but those people work themselves to a pretty much constant muscle soreness, while plateauing. Also, soreness will often be felt near the joints rather than the muscle belly, which is tendon soreness, and not muscle soreness. There's less blood flow to the tendons, so you really don't want much discomfort there at all. If you feel the soreness near the joints, but not in the muscle belly (which isn't uncommon among certain lifters), you're making zero progress in strength while damaging your joints. 

I've got a routine I can finish within 5 minutes + time spent waiting for the squat rack. I've usually done the following order, Squat > Overhead Press > Deadlift > Chin Ups, but other orders could work as well. The squat and deadlift by themselves already target the majority of muscles, the overhead press and chin ups have a lot of overlap but use the muscles differently (there's a good mix of pulling and pushing with those 4). I do 1 work set of 5 reps, where 5 reps is usually the max I can handle at that weight (going up 5lbs per week initially for the press, 10lbs for the squat, 15lbs for the deadlift, and as many reps as possible in one set for chin ups), with each work set preceded by 1, and occasionally 2 warmup sets of 5 with ~40%-60% of my work weight. I had quite good results with just that, and I don't think it gets more efficient than 5 minutes, once per week. 

Ectomorphs automatically win when it comes to long distance running and rock climbing, as well as any other sport where being light is an advantage. Being unable to gain weight easily means strength gains are almost entirely without a matching weight gain. That's great if you want to keep your own weight low while getting stronger. Also, a lot of designers only make clothes for ectomorphs, if you're fashion conscious that's an advantage too. 

I don't have the book with me at the moment, but in Tom Kurz's book Stretching Scientifically, he says something to the effect of if you can't deadlift 2x your bodyweight and squat your own bodyweight, you have no business training martial arts. I think that's good advice, so we're there with the old stand bys of deadlifts and squats for strength training. Honestly, squats are my pet leg flexibility exercise - I've had incredibly tight hamstrings since what feels like forever, and with various stretching routines, yoga and the like, only squats (initially deadlifts to get to where I could do squats) have helped me. It's been ages since I've done forms, but looking at that video, I would think cable exercises could be useful. Wood chops and reverse wood chops, and supine grip rows off the top of my head would likely help. Also, some kettlebell floor to standing lifts, like Turkish get ups look like they could also be of use for transitioning. Also, I couldn't say if this would help for forms, but it should definitely help for sparring. Buddy Lee has a book on rope skipping out that should definitely help with the quickness and being light on your feet that's necessary to get in, score, and move out before getting scored on yourself. 

You use your biceps and triceps to do the other exercises, even though they're not the primary muscles, so if you've already fatigued them, then you won't be able to lift as much weight and won't adequately stimulate the shoulder muscles. The first selection shows the workouts loosely in the order of largest muscles to smallest, the second looks quite arbitrary to me. Working larger muscles first is also important as working them stimulates the most testosterone production for later working the smaller muscles. So you should really be working the deadlift or squat first, before working any other muscle groups. 

I was going to guess it was that part of your palm, as I've experienced it there too (and in the left hand). Sadly I don't have a good answer for it (yet). My solution was to switch to knuckle pushups, or use a pair of dumbbells or kettlebells and grip them. I don't experience the pain either when I do wide grip pushups, so that might work for you as well. It'd also be worth trying headstands (and handstands if you can do them) to see if you experience the pain with that too - I'm not sure what the presence or absence of pain doing that would indicate, but more information always helps, and maybe that'll be enough for someone more knowledgeable to have an explanation. 

While the popular notion is that spot reduction is a myth, there are plenty of popular notions that are wrong, so it might still be worth exploring. Bud Jeffries has an article on using isometrics for spot reduction. I'd say it's worth a shot, as isometric exercises make a lot of sense for the core and even if it doesn't work out you end up a lot stronger. On the other hand, unless there's a particular reason why you want to keep your belly and chest fat, you might as well go for getting rid of it all. 

Possibly, yes. Certainly if you start an exercise, after a certain number of reps you will start feeling pain. However that's not the only reason to be feeling pain, there could be some muscular dysfunction, but that's not something anyone could determine over the internet. I would suggest scaling back the reps for a while, if you start feeling pain after the 10th, then stop at just 8 for the next few weeks, then slowly creep back up and see if the pain comes back. If the pain starts manifesting even with lower reps, then perhaps you should see a doctor. 

Above all else, do deadlifts and/or squats. Add any other compound lifts that you'd like, such as overhead or bench presses, and other compound exercises using cables. Stronglifts 5x5 is a good, free program to follow for this. One thing to note is that the 3 days per week routine might not be good. I've found my largest gains come with 4-5 rest days between workouts, so following the SL program but increasing the number of days off might be crucial. Remember, you don't build muscle while lifting weights, you build muscle while sleeping. It takes a while for your muscles to recover, and once they have recovered, it takes a while for them to start growing. You could be looking at 2-3 days for each. Many people will recommend eating a lot; that might help, or it might do nothing. I've made absolutely no size gains regardless of how much I eat (what I eat, and the quality of the food makes a difference though), but the vast majority of my gains have come from lifting heavy. 

The shin splints likely have to do with your shoes, not your routine. The best shoes just keep your feet warm (if it's cold) and protect them from scratches. They shouldn't be tight on your feet, they shouldn't slide around too much, and they shouldn't constrain how your feet can move. Nike Frees, Vibram FiveFingers, Vivo Barefoots, Innov8 BareX, Feiyues and a number of other similar shoes would fit the bill. 

The biggest factor of the grip is whether you'll twist it off or snap it off. The wooden one you posted on the left is at a high risk of that happening. The carbon fiber one on the left could still be at risk of twisting, but at least it won't have part of it snapping off. Ideally, it'll be a single piece, rather than having the grip glued to the shaft. There are many opinions on technique. Some coaches will hold that there is one right way of doing it, and that everything else is wrong. However my best coaching came from a friend (who's now a U-23 world champ) who suggested several options qualified based on what worked well for her, and suggesting modifications based on my body type. That ended up being confounded by the fact that I could really settle on what worked best for me on OC-1, but when I went back to DB it ended up being more important that I fall in line with how everyone else was paddling, and I also needed to make adjustments so I wouldn't punch the guy in front of me in the back of his head while I reached. Incidentally as far as grip goes, I always take a thumbless grip, even though the convention is a thumbed grip, and that's something the coaches were always willing to compromise on - so evidently none of them thought the grip specifics mattered all that much. I just confirmed the answer with said U-23 World Champ. She said it doesn't make a difference, it's just a matter of comfort or preference, with a caveat that there is a coach who insists on the T-Grip, but there isn't a practical reason for that, again, just coach's preference. If everyone on your team has a particular grip, you might want to ask and go with that, simply because of the nature of a team sport, but other than that, pick whichever one you find more comfortable.