The answer was obvious. Reset the cable tension on the brakes! Problem solved. Well in my case I bought new cables and due to the fact I had to take the old ones out and set the new ones with correct pressure settings, the lever does not touch the bar tape anymore. 

The question is about focusing on something other than the wheel in front of you, whilst using the rollers. Am I right? In that case, my best tip is for you to do exactly that and NOT look at the bike or the rollers. That will throw you off balance, because your mind sees the ground around you and the rollers, but it's not "passing you by" as when you're out riding for real. The only thing moving are the rollers, and as far as physics is concerned, you're balanced by the fact the bicycle and yourself are riding. Both your body and the bicycle "think" you're out on the road. So to focus on something in front of you like a video etc is exactly what you should be doing. You'll regret getting a stationary trainer. Boring as %^&%^&^%% 

What road pedal system can you recommend? They should be durable (pedal and cleats), have no tendency to fail hazardously and work well (a bit of float, support against rotation around the forward axis (unlike SPD), fast and reliable to enter (I can click into RXS faster and more reliable than into SPD, mostly because the pedals are in a predictable angle. I miss the Xpressos more often that not) I'm especially curious about SPD-SL and Look Keo, since I have no experience with them. Backstory: I'm currently riding Time Xpresso 4. The cleats wear far too quickly to be acceptable (5 month / 4 Mm to get uncomfortable, after a bit more I rip the cleats out the pedal on hard acceleration). So instead of replacing the cleats I tend to replace the system. I had Time RXS before and switched over to Xpresso because the RXS were good while they lasted (~30 Mm) but one broke and caused a near-accident as well as a nasty scratch from the exposed axis on my shin. I hoped Time had addressed this in newer pedals, since others report the issue as well. I realize similar question have been asked, but I still could not find one that answers the aspect of durability. 

How long is a piece of string? Any bicycle is possible, which is the beauty of a bicycle in general. Bicycles can be anything really - roadies, MTB, single-speed, recumbents, even giant A-frame types that have steps to get to the saddle! Your question is very theoretical and will require a proper re-write because you're not being specific to a particular bicycle or size that we could say ok.. here's what you need. As an "answer", all I can say now is that you take your frame and your new build to a competent bike fitter and get fitted for the bike! You may find all that geometry might have to be thrown out the window for the sake of your posture, back and skeletal health. Good luck! 

I recently got myself a cheap pair of 650B Wilkinson wheels to train on. After doing 50+ miles over 8 weeks, I'm having shifting problems when I change over to my WTB knobbly. The shift is inconsistent at best. I noticed it appears the chain is slipping. The chain indicator does say it's 0.75% worn. but my bike is fairly new. I probably done at absolute most 100 miles on that chain between the two wheelsets. I have tried playing with the cable tension to no avail. Why has it worn so quickly? Do I just need one chain for each wheelset since ones a road cassette and the other is mtb? 

most shimano derailleurs will do, as long as you keep them "9-speed" and below. See also the biggest table here (the biggest table with the 1.7 derailleur ratio). Make sure your replacement has at least the tooth capacity you have / you plan to use (big chainring + biggest sprocket wheel - smallest chainring - smallest sprocket wheel) Do not replace the shifter with one for a different amount of gears, as that is the part that determines how far the derailleur will travel per gear change. 

If you ride alone you could try clip-on aerobars. With these you basically get rid of all strain on your hands and better aerodynamics 

I have an old kids bike. It has been in our family for at least 30+ years. However it was left in the rain by the our resisdent bike killer. Its a bloody mess so unless am told otherwise i think its best to buy a new rear wheel But am unsure the difference between the two sizes. $URL$ 

Let me get this straight. If I turn the knob to the left it reacts faster. If I turn the kob to the right it's slower 

It maybe necessary for me to remove the chain for a deep clean. I dont think it's ever been cleared by it's previous owner. So just to be sure I can use one of these to rejoin the chain: $URL$ wanted to make sure just in case I screw up a perfectly working chain. It is a kmc chain I believe. 

osmand is really good when it comes to routing - it uses openstreetmap material, which is in many regions excellent, supports displaying, directing by and recording GPX-tracks. It's map display is highly configurable, e.g. it can display all kinds of POI, one of it being drinking water wells. There's also a router plugin, brouter that takes climb into account. However osmand is primarily for routing, monitoring activity comes second. ipbike on the other hand is a bike computer app supporting ANT+ and Bluetooth Low Energy sensors that also displays maps and tracks. I don't know how well they do with Strava since I don't use that. For hardware, you might want to take a look at $URL$ especially the product comparison. 

I finally managed to get the SOB crank arms off the bike. It took a spare seat post and 100mm enginners vice, and perseverance. Anyway I'm on the home striaght now in terms of getting the bloody thingy painted finally. I want to know what tools I need to remove the BB and the cups off the head tube? Here are some photos of what am talking about 

The GPS on my phone KILLS the battery life. If you going on a decent ride which I will be once i have the fitness required, then you'll need a portable battery of some sort. Is it not possible for a speed and candence sensor to track distance without gps signal? Mine doesn't seem to be working. IT's one of these $URL$ I.e. have I bought something that doesn't do what i need it to do. the fallowfield loop isn't 0.06km long 

This is the best test of chain wear I know of: it's in german, but the graph should speak for itself. His comment: "Chains were used under subjectively similar conditions - with exception of SRAM PC69 which, in nice conditions, lives for 1500-1800km" Personally I think I rode unknown KMC, Shimano (probably HG-53), and afer having stumbled upon said findings, the Record C9. Different chains definitely have different lifetimes (and failure modes: some tend to tear, some lengthen quickly thus unusable). I have very good experience with C9, however, it is harder to mount (no missing link), and apparently it is incompatible with some slightly worn chainrings, but I'm not sure there. I posted a question on that problem here. IIRC, with me, Shimano chains wore fastest, KMC were somewhat better, maybe in the 2000-4000km range. The C9 lives some 10000 km for me. However, you seem to be located in the USA, apparently it's quite expensive there. With cheap no-name chains I'd guess it depends on your luck. A bad quality chain will wear maybe in a couple 100km, and may tear. 

The way I know how to measure frame size is by measuring from the center of the cranks to to top of the seat tube. I ordered a 16" bike from Halfords but the seat tube is only 9". On the box it says 16" x 9" what???? sso where does the 16" come from? So my neice is 115cm tall. According to halfords size guide a 16" will be fine for her since her daddy has got her a 14" but thats in london. Is it me thats order the wrong size or has the oem packed in the wrong bike? 

There is not that much load on the light - just add spacers or bend the mount as @super proposed, you'll be fine. 

Newtons second Law: F=ma where m is your mass (including everything, bicycle, luggage), a is acceleration. you look for solutions with a=0 here force F consists of: gravity: m* g* cos(α), g is gravitational acceleration, earth average: g=9.81m/s², α is the angle between path and vertical. air drag: ρ/2*c *A * v² where ρ is air density, c drag coefficient, A reference area, v your velocity friction: d*v, where d is your coefficient of friction your input: Fh. If you have a power meter Fh=P/v where P is your power. than you solve for α: α = acos((Fh - ρ/2 * c * A * v²- d * v) / (m*g)) now you're somewhat stuck, because some of the parameters are hard to measure: c *A and d. There are numbers around for that ( c *A= 0.4, d=1Wh/km ) but the air drag part depends on your clothes, how you are actually sitting on the bike etc. Friction coefficient depends not only on your tires and wheel ball bearing but also on the road surface. However as a cyclist you rarely get too choose your slope of descent, and there is always some equilibrium velocity where you neither lose or gain speed, since air drag grows with velocity squared - at high velocity it will dominate. At low velocity, without input of you, either gravity or friction will dominate, since they grow linearly in velocity. Of course that equilibrium velocity may be beyond what you can go through curves or what you're comfortable with, or what cars are going.