If there was a fork with it we could see more hints, but I guess its a beach cruiser, something similar to this: 

Upshot of that is my bike will "spin" the cranks more on the same grade that your bike mashes the pedals. Also, I have to do 4 pedal rotations where your bike does 3 at the same speed in low low gear. Limit of Balance To balance a 2 wheel bike comfortably you need a certain minimum forward speed. If that was 3km/h then your bike has to roll 3000 metres per hour. You're getting 2.15 metres per full pedal revolution, which is 23.3 RPM and that is a horrible mash cadence which will hurt your knees. My bike would be doing 30.6 RPM which is bad but not as-bad. Limit of Gradient This is hard to quantify. As the road pitches up, there is more weight on the rear wheel and less on the front. At some angle, there is NO weight on the frnt wheel and it lifts off the ground, making steering impossible. Depending on your bike that may start becoming evident at 10% and impossible to ride a slope of 25%. This is why people get off the saddles for the steep bits, to move weight forward and to recruit different muscles. It also doesn't help that short wheelbase bikes crossed with tall riders are very "lifty" 

Solutions The best solution is to tweak your strava recording using SNAP (strava needs a polish) However I've noticed this site has become increasingly harder to get to. When it does work, you can load your activity from strava, push the lines back onto the road, and it will create you a GPX file to download. Then you upload that fixed file to strava and once its looking better you can delete the original ride. Do it in that order for safety, I've lost one big ride by getting it wrong. Second option is to use your garmin to to the logging and leave the cellphone recording as a backup, deleting the worst once once you return home. 

What you call screws are really axle nuts. Fortunately your hub appears to contain sealed cartridge bearings, so there are no cups or cones to tweak up. The axle nuts should be done up close to the bearings and then locked in place against each other. Your frame has horizontal dropouts so try sliding the axle back a bit to see if that provides enough space for the tyre between the chainstays. I can't comment on the chain length, never owned or worked on a single-speed bike. Otherwise, the tyre/tire is too wide for the frame. Its possible the rims are not original either and the current ones are a bit larger in circumference than the frame was built for. Sell off your trendy red tyre and go for a rear tyre that is smaller in width by 5 mm. Or store it away as a replacement for the front tyre. 

Halfway between Nate and Dutch's answers, you can buy a trike conversion kit. I've never used one, so can't comment on their effectiveness. Note the unit bolts to the rear chainstays and replaces the rear wheel completely. You end up with a wide axle in the same place as your rear wheel, but this kit has a stub chain so it probably only has one driven wheel. Other kits offer band brakes for the rear, or disk brakes at the rear. Some kits give you a differential, making turning easier. Not sure if this is useful or a gimmick. 

Whether you'll find one new, or used and in good condition is a completely different problem. The lugs and the tubes are fastened together with epoxy, which makes swapping out a tube difficult. Also, the stress point on the CF tube is now where it enters the lug. The modern monocoque construction of a CF frame does away with those stress focus points, so "should" last longer. Plus popping the frames out of a mold in one piece is a lot less work than assembling and epoxying tubes and lugs. Answer: No you can't just change tubes, because the tubes are epoxied into the lugs, and you couldn't change just one because the angles of the lugs would require all joints loosened to slide apart. Homework: OP should consult with a local carbon frame maker/repairer who can give a definitive answer. 

Yes - the bike can stand higher speeds fine. Generally. wear is caused by distance travelled, not the speed it travels. You might suffer increased wear through increased vibration but this would be very hard to measure and is likely quite small. On the other hand you might suffer increased damage through accident or sudden pothole, which would have been more avoidable at a lower speed. Additionally, your bike's braking distance will be increased as velocity increases. So your electric bike requires more defensive riding, anticipation and prediction of what will or could happen. Consider replacing brake pads with really good ones (like kool stop) and consider your tyre tread too. I rarely mention head protection on SE, but do consider that your momentum is increased by riding an electric assisted bike. That energy has to go somewhere if things go badly, best not through your head. 

You need a standard 3/16" wide 5 speed chain. They're relatively uncommon now-days, so you may end up with a 6-7-8 speed chain which should be adequate. Downside is fitting a new chain to a worn cassette/freewheel will probably run even worse. Do consider fitting a new freehub too. Lastly, check the front chainrings for wear. If the teeth are worn-looking then consider a hat-trick and replace all three. At this point you might be looking at more cost than the bike is worth, at least as far as new parts go. You'll have to make a call if its financially worth doing. 

Squeals tend to be brakes or bearings because most rubbing noises sound exactly like rubbing noises. A squeal is higher-pitched. 

No - you don't ever oil the friction surfaces of a brake. Ever. If you have oiled it then try this repair: 

I don't have a bone spanner here to test but I'd expect around 60 grams of useless. So a 6" crescent is useful, because 4" is too short for leverage and may not open enough to go around an axle nut. 8" gives lots of leverage though. The lightest tool would be as @Moz suggests, a sawn-off/short ring spanner at ~50 grammes, and big boots or a short length of tube as a lever. Making sure you have the right size spanner for your nuts though. 

You're on the slippery slope of knock-on upgrades. Its cheaper to buy a new bike equipped with disks than it is to upgrade an existing bike to discs from rim brakes. Look for Kool Stop brake pads for your existing rim brakes, which are often salmon-coloured. They work really well, and aren't stupidly-expensive. Don't buy $2 brake blocks and expect improvements. Also, discs don't stop any better than rim brakes - so you might want to search this stack for "adjust rim brakes" and see if you can make yours work better. 

Your best and safest option is to replace the rotor with a new one. Bend metal enough and it will deform permanently. In addition, rotors do wear away slowly over time. There's a chance yours is getting thinner, and more vulnerable to bending. Generally they're ~2 mm thick when new and unservicable at 1.6 mm thick. Finally, if your rotor has overheated at any time (IE its blue or rainbow-coloured) then the rotor has also been weakened and is vulnerable to bending and warping. Brake systems are the one part on which you don't want to cheap-out. 

So your boy is simply sitting and not pedalling, so you push him along? Of course he's not going to pedal when he's getting a free ride from you. Stop Pushing! Firstly, does he understand how a bike works? Do you ride? Does he see you or others riding? You might consider going the other way, and remove the whole transmission and the training wheels. Essentially revert the bike to a balance bike until he gets the idea that he has to push. Something like this: 

Tyre Clearance or Tire Clearance A measurement of the gap between the outer surface of your tyre/tire and the non-wheel parts of your bike. Smaller gaps are better for aerodynamics, but larger gaps are needed for mud clearance and MTB/cross riding. Narrow (or negative!) gaps will impact the life of your tyre and will slow you down, potentially wearing through your frame's paint and worst case wearing away your bike frame structure. A better, longer, and illustrated answer has been posted here What does 'tire clearance' mean? 

The vent holes around the positive end are NOT a sign of electric protection. Instead they're vents for any gas buildup. Reconnect your new battery to the wires, reinsert in the housing, and test. Then use superglue to close and seal the housing. This will be a one-time repack, it should give you another couple years of usage. 

Clean your bike. Noone likes getting messy working on a bike, and turning up fresh from the paddocks will it take that much longer. Mechanics will charge mechanics rates for removing dirt and oil, which is something you can do yourself. Understand the problem - explain the symptoms clearly, what you have done, what you think needs doing. A good mechanic will talk over the options and involve you in the process. Where possible, buy parts through the LBS. Don't rock up with a bit you sourced from elsewhere, and expect them to fit it for cheap. Don't come across as a know-all prick. Defer to the mechanic's skill and experience. Patience. Let them keep your bike in for a week or however long it takes. Fast turnaround costs more. 

Both will be workable solutions, provided they are applied correctly, and sealed/painted after. Do remember that rust is pervasive and never-ending. So you have to de-rust what metal is left properly and not just bog over it. Also consider that the underside needs to be smooth like the top/visible side too - otherwise water and muck will collect on any protrusion. If you're not fussed about originality then consider replacing the mudguards/fenders with modern-day plastic ones. They will never rust and will provide a weight saving too. 

Cause Tacoing normally happens on the front wheel, and the usual cause is side-loads caused by having the wheel not facing the direction of your travel. That is, an aggressive turn, or a poorly landed jump can all push the rim over, exceeding the wheel's lateral strength maximum limits. A Taco in progress: 

Throw it away. You've compromised everything that is plastic or rubber or sealed, and also any metal parts that are bronze or brass. You need a complete new brake system, and stick a label on it to remind you what fluid to use next time. Don't feel bad - I did this to a car once... it was a lot more expensive. 

If everything else was the same, I'd choose the bigger pair over the smaller. More teeth in contact with the chain means slower wear. Play about with Sheldon's calculator at $URL$ 

$URL$ is a great read on the subject. Personally, I am on the hoods most of the time, moving to the tops for a steep climb, and pretty much never on the drops - My thighs hit my stomach while pedalling which is horrid, plus the other crunched things complain. Edit: after a couple years my belly no longer hits my thighs while on the drops, so I can stay there for a good 10 km if its windy. 

There's almost nothing height-specific in a pair of biking shorts. 335 km in two days is a lot of riding - 167 km a day is huge! You're going to be sore after that kind of ride no matter what. Can you tell us more about the injury? I'll guess for now based on my experiences. Saddle/arse pain If your problem is in the bum muscles, then its a weight and saddle issue. No amount of padding will help if your saddle is too thin or too thick. Search this site for "sit bone width" If the saddle checks out, it might be time for a bike fit. They're not cheap but they do pay for themselves in comfort. Us lanky types need extra consideration about how the bike fits, and how we fit the bike. You might benefit from putting a tiny bit more weight on your hands and on your pedals. Periodically get out of the saddle for a short sprint too, this allows the blood to flow back into the deprived areas. A short rest every hour is always a good idea. Eat, 3-5 minutes of standing and you're good. Even standing over the bike is fine, as long as your posterior is getting a break. Chaffing I found that the more I biked, the looser my pants got because of weight loss over time, and as the pants aged the elasticity decreased. Together these add up to baggy pants, which induces chaffing. 

Its a rough tough place on a bike. I have used cheap PRS radios (UHF frequency) because they can be found for $30-$40 NZ used, they run off normal AA batteries, and earpiece/mike sets are $10 each. I clip the radio onto my collar so its up high enough for good signal, or on my belt and use the PTT mike on my collar. Example radio $URL$ 

Insurers make money by promising the customer coverage and then refusing to pay up You do not need to accept their statements and valuations as indisputable facts. Instead - get your own valuations and find replacements that are the same brand, spec, and age. Answer Don't sell that bike - its evidence. Take this to the next level and dispute the payout, described by yourself as a pittance. Depending on your location, that may be a Small Claims tribunal or something similar. Don't roll over because an insurer has done their damnest to not pay you your costs. What you do with the payout is your business, buy a new bike or old bike or repair this bike, that's your choice later. 

Disassemble wheel. You want bare naked rims with no spokes. Store the loose parts safely. Get it sand-blasted with glass or walnut or some other suitable abrasive. This will clear the old coating off leaving bare metal. Take the advise of your blasting company on the material. Get it powder coated in bright orange or whatever colour you like. Talk to the powder coating company about protecting the brake track if you intend to brake on it. Otherwise powdercoat the whole thing. This will take days to cure and harden. Rebuild your wheels, true them, fit up and ride. 

The word is "repacking" where you swap out the rechargable batteries inside a pack. Generally speaking the pack's design does not make this easy, but its not impossible. Its normally done at the end of life for the batteries, so after 500-4000 charge cycles. Note this is quite different to fitting primary cells (ie disposable batteries) that you can throw away once they are discharged First budget for a replacement battery, in case you stuff up the original one. Can you afford $40 for the new one? Then closely examine the pack. There will be a seam somewhere, either at the end or down the side where the original battery was inserted. If you're positive its an 18650 then the hole will need to allow that size through. 18mm in diameter and 65mm long. Crunch up the seam in a bench vise, they're normally built with an inside and an outside clip. You want to compress the "inside" part of the shell. Then use a wood chisel directly on the seam. A light but sharp tap with a hammer should pop the seam without damaging the old battery. Figure out how to get the cell out, and eyeball it. Its probably unlabelled. The battery on the left has protection, the cell on the right probably doesn't. The rim you see is a small circuit board that does the voltage sensing. You need the same kind as you removed. Its possible the voltage protection circuit is built into the plastic housing already, and two of them in series is bad. 

Open Google's timeline at $URL$ then click Today and see how your ride path was - if its no good then give up here. 

Eventually he'll realise how slow the balance bike is, and want his pedals back to go faster. And that's awesome. 

Outside the box possibilities. Is there something that stops you riding your bike in the winter? Yes winter is colder and wetter, and depending on your location there may be snow. Perhaps a snow bike would be more year-round.... that's a rigid MTB with studded tyres for winter and commuter tyres for summer. Second option is to look at hanging your summer bike without disassembling. Wash and dry it, and hang it up high out of the way. When summer (or a warm snap) comes you lower the bike, lube it, and ride. Final option is to ride/ship your bike home and leave it there for winter. You want as little stuff as possible in a dormitory.