To place these comments by Glasner into context one should recall Feynmans advice in the introduction to his Lectures in Physics, where he said if he had to encapsulate for future generations the whole of physical science in one sentence he would say 'everything is made of atoms'. Also, Glasner points out the role of the commentary as a genre as to why Avveroes physics as a contribution to physics per se has been overlooked; I'd also point out along with Edward Said the role of the Orient as the playing the role of the Other in European thinking and such an Other could not be, even indirectly, responsible for the content that inspired Europes fascination for the natural philosophy, aka the physical sciences. 

Japan is well known for being a highly industrialised and technologically sophisticated East Asian country; if one was to say that Japan owed its technology to the Greco-Roman influence of Europe this would miss out the large contribution that modern Europe has made to both science and technology; likewise with Islam in relation to Europe. Karen Glasner wrote the following in her introduction to Averroes Physics: 

He believes that 'the first explicit reference to Muhammad in a non-Muslim source' is in a 7th Century Manuscript by Thomas the Presbyter 

Given that the earliest prehistoric art dates from around 35-40 000 years BCE, we can cautiously say that by then they were capable of symbolic representation, and potentially capable of writing. Writing in at least one sense is much more difficult than art of any kind in that it requires a sustained development of vocabulary and grammar, probably over several generations, and this means a large enough group of people willing to sustain this development; I imagine that need wasn't felt strongly enough until things need to be accounted for in settled communities such as cities. 

P.S.:- To those who may wonder why "six" is important to this question --the colour black, the season winter, and the number six are associated with the Chinese element "Water". The Qin's associated element was "Water" as they had displaced the Eastern Zhou (周朝) whose element was fire. 

A History of Ancient Egypt (2011) Chapter 7, The Birth of Empire: The Early 18th Dynasty (ca. 1550-1390). Read specially, 7.2 and 7.5. Wikipedia (mentioned in links inline) 

Short Answer The second one. Long Answer Many historians believe that at the very beginning King Henry VIII was driven more by personal reasons than theological reasons. Quite a lot of good sources are cited in this wikipedia article and this one. It all started with Henry's troubles with Queen Catherine --his first wife. Henry was obsessed with a male heir to his throne and Catherine had only provided him with one child (who survived infancy) --Mary (later to become Queen Mary I of England). Henry wanted to annul his marriage to Catherine so that he could marry Anne Boleyn but Catherine (daughter of Queen Isabella I of Castile and aunt to the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V) had the support of Pope Clement VII, who would have obviously feared Charles's armed forces. Indeed, when the matter was first raised the Pope had been imprisoned by Charles. The Pope delayed the issue and insisted that it be settled in Rome and not England. Henry made several attempts to persuade the Pope to side with him and grant him the annulment but the Pope never did so. And thus Henry started challenging the Pope's authority over religious matters. I quote Wikipedia now: 

This was actually a truth first established by Aristotle; but only on Earth; in the heavens he assumed that the natural motion was not rest but circular motion. Hobbes however goes on to say: 

However in a unanimous decision the Sioux Tribal Council refused to accept the awarded Compensation with the intention of forcing the US Government to return the land. Thus the legal struggle is roughly 90 years; is this the longest legal case in the US or elsewhere, or are there others go beyond this one? 

It was Gassendi round about the same time that Hobbes was writing who made atomism respectable again in early modern Europe: 

In a word - prestige; and thus legitimacy. Its a similar sentiment that revived the Roman Empire after its dissolution, first by Charlemagne in 800 AD and then an aborted attempt by Hitler (The third Reich) in the early 20th Century. In contemporary politics one can view attempts to establish the Islamic caliphate in a similar light. 

One major difference is that in the Greek conception by Democritus, and taken up later by the Epicureans is that atoms were taken to be permanent ie eternal. Whereas, I have read in places that the Buddhist conception is that atoms come to be and pass away - this I take to be because of their commitment to impermenance (anicca) 

The successor to the Roman Empire is the Roman Catholic faith. Christianity began in an obscure corner of the the Roman Empire, eventually made it self a home in Rome, converted the emperor and 'spiritualised' the Empire by which it loosened its attachment to actual physical geography and temporal power and refocused it on the spiritual. The popes official residence remains in Rome and he is the head of the Roman Catholic community worldwide. 

I know this question seems a bit absurd, so let me preface this by saying that it stems from a 1994 history-based edutainment game titled Mario's Time Machine in which the main character travels back in time to various historical periods. While it's obviously not the most reliable source, it is supposed to be an educational game, and I've yet to see the game get something completely and utterly incorrect (though it occasionally mixes up when certain events happened for the purposes of relaying information to the player). This is an in-game image of the character who claims to be the King of England (without providing a name), as well as the relevant line of dialogue below. This is the full script between the main character and the self-purported king. To sum up the script, he is in attendance of one of Michael Faraday's Christmas lectures, and he makes special note of the fact that it's for "juveniles", indicating he is some sort of youth (at the bare minimum, I would consider that to be someone younger than 19, which is probably too generous). He also idolizes Faraday to the point where he is more interested in being a scientist than the king. As the player can only travel back in time to 1831, this year is certain. These all seem like really specific details that would easily narrow down the king's identity, but I've come up with nothing. The then-reigning king at the time was William IV of the United Kingdom, who took the throne when he was 64 in 1830. His brothers include George IV of the United Kingdom, who was the previous king until he died in 1830, and Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover, who was born in 1771 and thus far too old. The same story goes for all of the children of George III of the United Kingdom (William IV's father): either they had already passed away or they were too old to apply. Even William IV's children would be just too old to qualify. The royal family trees that I've looked at have given me no help. If I attacked this issue from the opposite direction and looked at any kings or heirs around this time period who were connected to Michael Faraday or science in general. I've thrown every combination of "king", "england", "science" and "faraday" into Google and hoping for the best, and I cannot find anything that's relevant to what I'm looking for, let alone anything that directly answers my question. Ignoring the time-traveling premise, this game is supposed to help its players learn about history. Either it somehow got this fact completely wrong or it intentionally lied, and both possibilities seem rather odd. At this point, I'm morbidly curious about this more so than anything else. Is there a kernel of truth anywhere to this? 

Seoul: Seoul in 1988 earned mainly through sale of TV broadcasting rights (₩224,694 million) and marketing (₩70,833 million). Commemorative coins, lotteries, and admission tickets also added to the revenue significantly. These figures are broken down in considerable detail in the Vol. 1 of the official report published by Seoul Olympic Organization Committee. Please see section 7 (in particular 7.1.2, 7.1.3, and the balance sheet on page 211) of that report for more details. Beijing: Beijing 2008 games remain much of a mystery. A detailed financial report is not included in the final report (three volumes) published by the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Games (BOCOG). However, that report does mention a dedicated investment fund that raised $40 million in interest and RMB-USD exchange rate pegging that averted losses to organisers from exchange rate fluctuations (thereby encouraging more investment). The report also details tax breaks and debt extension schemes introduced to encourage more investment in the games. For full details please see Chapter 5 (Finances) of Vol. 3. 

Clarification: The author's writing style is such that he encloses modern equivalents of ancient Chinese terms in single quotes and omits the mention of the ancient Chinese term (presumably to maintain an easy reading and avoid unnecessary deviations from the main analysis). Thus --'counties', 'courts', and 'feet'. 

P.S: I am analysing vast amount of World Bank data concerning GDP, infrastructure metrics, tourism, foreign investment, exports/imports, inflation, and national debt. At the end of this analysis (may well take weeks) I should have something to add to this section. In the meanwhile, I hope I have answered your current question.