In this case the first query returns all the account and address records updated since a specific date (2015-07-01) and the second query returns all the accountshare changes updated since a specific date (2015-07-01) and I need because that table along with group match targets to territories. 

And basically the same goes to each player type. I have made this small DB containing only two tables but I am not sure of it because I need to make a lot of queries to obtain what I am looking for. 

Ok, finally I found where the issue was! For some reason I delete file (perhaps when I uninstall MySQL or something else) and that's the file including everything under because of that changes don't take effect. My bad. Thanks for your time 

I am working in a DB diagram and I have a table called . Each record of this table can have or not a downloadable file (saved a file path). I have identified two possibles ways to achieve this. 

So, how do I apply my query to the trigger in order to get right results? Can any give me some help? 

I need to set only one possible combination of the columns message_id, owner_user_id, to_user_id meaning the combination (for example) 1,1,1 only can exists one time so no duplicates is allowed. How I do this? Creating an index between them? Cheers and thanks in advance 

Having this see possible cases below (with examples after each one): Case 1: row with field_seq=36 exists on table already 

I don't know if the column has to be the first one on the table definition and if there is anyway to let it be wherever I want to or the solution maybe would be import the data by skipping the column (supposing it's the first one). I was checking the syntax here but I don't have a clue in how to skip a column during load: 

As you can see is simple and hasn't no constraints which relies on duplicate and wrong values. The problem happen exactly on where a is assigned to one or more . In the new DB that is not allowed so I need to find - from - those reps that has only one and I got that through this query: 

I have two tables stored in two differents DBs and I need to perform some sync between both tables based on and . Let's call them as and . This is the DDL schema for table - the one who needs update through sync: 

So this will be the dummy question of the year but I need to ask since is not the first time I pass through this. Take a look to the following table definition: 

Why is that? I have others triggers created on the same way and them did works but this one doesn't, any advice or help regarding this? 

I have been working in a trigger for values for a given record based on same . What trigger basically should do it is, foreach when some happens on : 

Each time I try to INSERT a new record I get an error due to constraints, that is OK, now if I try to UPDATE the same record and I leave and/or or any other required field empty the UPDATE is executed and the column is set to blank, why? How I can avoid this? I am using MariaDB 5.5.46. UPDATE As requested by moderator below is the INSERT and UPDATE queries I have tried: 

As you can see there are two with the same value in this case. Let's say I am inserting a new row just after and the for such new row is coming as . I need to build a query or even a stored procedure where I am able to find out if there is a row with equal or greater than and if so then update the value of to the current value plus . Ex: 

But as I said before I want to run the same query in the 3 databases at the same time and not get repeated results? Any help? There are a few tables included on the query as you may notice but think that 3 databases are exactly the same and can share different or the same data in some cases so use or don't the tables as reference on your answer. DB's are running on the same server and share the same credentials 

Trigger won't work since it has a lot of issues and I am trying to fix them so, between lines and I should perform a query to and get current row based on because that already exists and then I should pass values on that to the statement just before comment, how I can achieve that? 

And I need to get those devices with no driver assigned, in other words the device returned on this query shouldn't be on table since it'll not have driver assigned, can any give me some help on this query? 

The query above guarantee to me just on reps to one territory as should be. How I should modify the trigger to accomplish this? NOTE: is a function I have for normalize strings 

is stored as a so this is where the problem is I though. How do get that rows in this case? Any help? This are some of the values on that column to play with: 

Right now I am running the same script (made in PHP) and changing all the time the slave database (in the figure db1, db2, db3 act as slaves) and I want to change that. I have the following query that returns data from table: 

I am sure the problem is on the but I can't find where exactly and how to fix this. Update #1: Using instead doesn't work either. 

I could do this by using programming but I want to know and learn, if this is possible, to do it through SQL. I need, foreach row, on perform an UPDATE on but just when , how? I must clear that should be updated to if a UPDATE was runned on it. This is what I did so far: