Mostly wires and springs. First of all, they weren't as powerful as you see in the movies. But they did indeed have amazing control of their own bodies. Now, I don't believe Ip Man was especially powerful. Wing Chun was primarily revolved around deflection, and maintaining superior balance while remaining rooted yourself, and Ip Man was especially talented in this. Bruce Lee, on the other hand, we have footage of, throwing few-inch punches that could knock a man off his feet. The key here is explosiveness. But also technique. Explosiveness is something that is inherent in a lot of the exercise modalities we have. Most exercises can be performed while adding an explosive factor. Athletes like sprinters, high-jumpers and throwers do this all the time, and are able to launch objects/themselves further and higher than anyone else. 

Background The past 6 months, I've been on a bulking phase, where I've been able to gain about 9kg (from 78kg to 87kg), a mix of muscle and fat. The past 6 weeks, I've been doing a benchpress program that increased my 1RM by 10%. I'm now looking to shift into a cutting phase, and lose some of the fat I've gained, while retaining as much of the muscle mass as possible. Question Are there any recommended workout plans for one's cutting phase? My plan is currently as follows: 

The smith machine is not a substitute for a squat rack, unfortunately. If you have no way of getting the bar onto your shoulders, you might be better off doing Goblet Squats instead, either with a kettlebell, or dumbbell. Then, you could supplement that with leg press, to get the more heavy stimulus. 

He's 12, and you're already heading down the vanity path of worrying about muscle tone? He should be playing basketball, and eating lots of food. His body will adapt to the lifestyle, and he'll get fast and big. Any weight training should be under the careful supervision of an actual trainer. You should not be his trainer. This is because he needs to utilize perfect form on every exercise, or it can lead to devastating injuries. And let's face it; if you're here asking our advice, then you're probably not the most educated on, say, bench press technique, right? So just to repeat, because it's important: If you want him to start weight training, hire a trainer, and ask them these questions. 

It's hard to find an optimal answer, because it's no an optimal question. There is no clear cut right-or-wrong answer to this question, because the effect of a full-body workout, or a split workout, depends entirely on you, your body, your discipline, your habits, your diet, your sleeping patterns, and the list goes on. 

This issue is pretty close to my heart, as I once had some minor back pain which was caused namely by tight hamstrings. And I felt the same way you do, that the straight leg, lean forward stretch wasn't cutting it. Static stretches Static stretches is something you usually do after the workout because as you perform contraction after contraction during your workout, your muscles are left in a shortened state. Stretching helps to reset your body to a natural position and posture. Some static stretches that changed my game were ones where you lie down. I think a picture says a thousand words (but takes less space) so here are the two that I started doing, and am doing after every workout to this day. 

There are many different formulae for calculating one's 1RM. I'll list some of the easiest-to-use ones. They'll all use two single variables; w = the weight used for testing, measured in kilograms (kg) r = the number of repetitions managed by the athlete at Lombardi 

This sounds like a very common muscular imbalance which can be brought on by tendencies in your sitting position, standing position, and a lot of other factors. What NOT to do You might be inclined to work one side more than the other to catch up, but that is a mistake! Let's say your left buttcheek is sagging because the right gluteus medius is stronger than the left one. If you start working out the left side more than the right side, you might end up with the same problem, but now your left gluteus maximus is stronger than the right side one, and you're back where you started. What to do You should do squats. It's an exercise which works your gluteal muscles a lot, and since it's a symmetrical movement, you will be training both sides until they are equal, avoiding the mentioned mistake. 

Yes, if you have running speed. Doing a dive frontflip is often very beneficial, because you get to land such that your feet are out in front of you as you land. When you have a lot of forward momentum, if you land straight up and down (i.e. perpendicular to the ground), you're going to have way less opportunity for your legs to break the fall before you roll. By landing angled, where you're leaning backwards, your legs will have more time to catch up, and you will have less downward momentum left as you lean forward into the roll. This is why you see traceurs often to the dived pike or superman frontflip as they jump down heights if they're running into it. For straight-down jumps, with no forward momentum, the flip is pretty much useless, and it's easier to mess it up. A lot of what makes the frontflip managable, is diving into it with running speed. As for the aesthetic aspect of the jump, the flip has an undeniable effect. But in my personal opinion, it's not the flip itself that looks the best. It's the dive into it, that looks most impressive. One then has the option to dive head-first into a roll (which is extremely advanced depending on the height), or front-flip out of it to land on your feet. 

Then there's the bigger collars like the ones we see in your screenshot. It's a sturdier type that slides on, and is fastened by screwing a clamp in place that fastens the collar's grip on the bar. Pros: Will hold any weight liftable by any human (to date). Cons: Takes a bit more time to fasten. Weighs a non-trivial amount, and will have to be calculated in as if it were a small plate. Note Both types come in a variety of shapes and sizes. There's a plethora of manufacturers, and they all have their own design. 

While I assume this question will be closed - it might fall outside the scope of this StackExchange - I'd still like to answer. Yes. It is absolutely time to lose some weight. Keep in mind, I do not judge you. Fat problems or heart problems? The reason I say yes, is because there is quite a bit of excess fat there. While that, in and of itself, isn't the biggest of deals, it does tell me something about your other habits. First and foremost, I see signs of bad dietary habits. Little regard for nutrition, and more regard for taste, maybe? Gaining fat isn't the only symptom. But excessive fat gain tells the tale of bad diet, which again is known to cause a bunch of other problems. Not least of which is heart disease. So while you may disregard the fat as OK, think of your heart. You don't need to diet just to lose fat. Change your diet for the sake of your heart, and the fat will naturally subside. Posture Additionally, there is the issue of posture. Might be you have a very seated lifestyle. Desk job and desk hobbies maybe? One very good way to combat this is to get a desk which can be raised/lowered on demand. I have one both at work and at home, and spend around 2 hours total standing, when I would normally have been sitting. This has done wonders for my back, as I was also bothered by poor posture. All that slouching is no good. So yes Again, while the fat itself is OK, it tells a tale. You don't need to be motivated to look better. Motivate yourself to improving your health. The body will look better as a result. 

I think you've heard the right idea, but you're misinterpreting it. Of course high reps builds some strength, but certainly not a whole lot. It's going to take a lot more effort (in terms of joules spent) to increase your 5RM by doing 15-rep sets, than it would to increase it by actually doing 5-rep sets. Don't think of it as "it does, or it doesn't". Most activities in the gym build strength. Just not to the same degree. It's not a dichotomy. It's a spectrum. 

No, nothing's gotta give. A 20k kcal surplus is going to kill you. 900g of protein is going to give you gastric distress. Zero stress is going to be impossible, especially with the aforementioned diet. Years of training is what we're doing. That, and a slightly more reasonable approach to dieting and rest than what you said. 

I feel like my calves aren't gaining size proportionally to the rest of my body. In terms of leg exercises, I do all the regular stuff like deadlifts, squats, and a bunch of isolation exercises, including calf raises. But calf raises only work in the sagittal plane of movement, i.e. forwards and backwards. I feel like I'm missing out on something by not having any calf exercises in the coronal plane (i.e. side to side). It seems like calf size is very genetically inherited. The fat deposits on my calves aren't very big, so even when I'm bulking... Seems like building muscle is the only way for me to gain any reasonable size. Do you know of any other stuff I can do to build more calf size? 

TL;DR Do all of them. Longer answer Whenever you're trying to decide between two variations of an exercise, you're essentially trying to trade in some benefits for other benefits. But ask yourself, why not reap ALL the benefits? Pin squats are an excellent extra exercise to add to your arsenal, because it allows supramaximal loading of the muscle fibers. It also has a decent isometric component, so you'll be priming your central nervous system in a unique way. I suggest ...that you cycle regular squats and box squats as your main exercise, and use the pin squats as an auxiliary exercise. 

It is both very accurate, and very inaccurate. When you gain fat, you gain fat in all the fat repositories. On the same coin, when you lose fat, you lose it in all the same places at once. Important: You can't pick and choose where to gain/lose fat. The reason why it seems like you gain it in certain areas more than others (like belly and butt), is because these places have the largest fat storage capacity. But equally, this is where you lose more as well, when you lose fat. 

find out how much protein you need to consume per day to reach your goals find out how much protein you can get from food find out if #2 is less than #1, in which case, you can consider adding protein supplements if you can't cover the difference by simply eating more 

That's ok. Nutritionists are quacks. The title "Nutritionist" is not protected, and anyone can say that they are one. If you do need professional help with your diet, you go to a dietician. It is a protected title, used (legally) only by those who have the proper education.