There can be more points added to the above list. If you are in service industry and your employees meets the customer frequently such as in banking and finance industry, a strict dress-code is must (Can be relaxed a bit for operations and processing guys). Generally in IT industry dress codes are more relaxed(Not for Business development guys). So until unless we have a subject industry, we can not say whether it's beneficial or not to have a dress-code in our company. 

When you should take the sick leave?? When you think you are sick. I think I am sick now. So take the leave as soon as you can. My employer won't give me frequent leaves. Then change your job. No job or money is more important than your health. You won't see the repercussion now, but they'll haunt you in the future. Just for an example my boss never let any of his employee stay late in the office, because when he worked somewhere else he used to push the limits at cost of his health and now he suggest to everyone to not to repeat his mistake. It's better to learn from someone else's mistake than to make the same mistake and learn. PS: The answer is just a friendly advice, telling what would I have done in this case. 

Disclaimer: I don't have prosopagnosia myself, but I do have difficulty remembering both names and faces (to a smaller degree). I feel that the best way to deal with this kind of problem is upfront, i.e. the first time you're introduced to a new person. "I have trouble recognizing faces, so please don't take it personally if I don't recognize you the next time we meet. If you want to talk to me, just say hi." Personally, I wouldn't use the more technical term unless someone asks about it. While people might have heard the term "face blindness", hardly anyone will recognize "prosopagnosia". Since you already have been working with your colleagues for a while, you might want to use a casual chatting situation (going to lunch together, hanging out by the coffee machine) to explain your problem. "By the way, I don't know if you noticed, but I'm unable to recognize faces. When I don't greet (any of) you I don't mean to be rude. I simply don't recognize you." Unfortunately, by now you probably have earned a reputation of being rude and standoffish, but if you explain your handicap often enough, chances are people will be understanding. Also, depending on how many people are in your office, you could just say hi (or nod or whatever) to everyone you meet as a friendly non-committal greeting, at least when you first arrive in the morning. After that, I don't think I ever greet my colleagues when I pass them in the corridor. 

I wouldn't ask for their personal contact no. on the very first day, except if someone just joined with me and we had a good talk already. In one of my last office, I was approached by my senior to take contact no. of immediate superior and HR, so that in case of any emergency I can contact them. However I don't think it's a common practice. Anyways your colleagues will exchange the no. when they feel comfortable with you. You don't need to approach them first. 

The shortened URLs don't look professional and most people like me don't trust shortened URLs, although provides a preview, but I don't think anyone would do extra work for it. Another drawback of using shortned URL is they are case sensitive in some of the site such as bit.ly and tinyurl, and people normally use lowercase while typing the url, ignoring the actual case, so it's another reason to use long URLs. Another point of view may be (not sure if its true everywhere or not) but once an interviewer told me that they treat shortened URLs like internet memes and shorthands (like using 'U' instead of 'you'). If your project URls are too long, you can have a blog explaining your projects and can put the blog link in your CV. Another way would be to buy a good domain name and put a redirect in it. It might impress your interviewer too. 

During an internship where you don't expect/intend to stay as a full employee afterwards, there's nothing wrong with interviewing elsewhere to secure a job after the internship ends. If the internship is comparatively short (about 3 months), starting that search even before the internship even starts makes a lot of sense. I agree that cancelling the internship would be akin to reneging on a job you already accepted. (However, if the internship is unpaid, an actual job offer might be a basis to renegotiate to see if it's possible to get at least some pay or shorten the internship.) 

In general, it's best to clear this up as early as possible. An interview situation in which you are on first-name with the interviewer is probably relaxed enough for you to state your preferred name during the introduction, though I wouldn't correct them if they slip up. (I say "probably" because that depends a bit on how you read the interviewer.) In your case, this is slightly more complicated because all the people you talked to in the interview know you by your first name. How to proceed depends a bit on the circumstances. If you talk to different people, you get a new chance for a first introduction: use it. Otherwise correcting an earlier assumption might be awkward. On the other hand, a friendly explanation ("Actually, I prefer to go by Sara but I was so nervous last time I didn't say anything") might also leave a favourable impression. Again, it depends on your interviewers. Either way, when introducing yourself to the team as a group, it's probably best to mention your full name (first and middle name, because some of them know you by your first name) and stress your preference to be called "Sara". When introduced to people one at a time, you can go directly with "Sara" from the start. If you're introduced by someone else, ask them beforehand to introduce you as "Sara". Later on, a few friendly reminders are probably okay, but if your nickname doesn't stick, it's best to just accept that. 

This calls for official process Either task management system (could be bit overkill), but it should be oficially known to everyone that: 

Tell something good about a part which needs to improve Tell what needs to improve in that part Tell something nice (something else than in step 1) about the part which needs to improve 

TL;DR: I am stuck in hiring process because of wrong validation of one of the automatic steps of hiring process for new tester. As already experienced tester I know that fixing bugs costs time. But recent communication with headhunter let me in belief that such issue should be fast fix. How much should I push the issue to know if its fixed? 

Now. As a tester I know that fixing bugs can take some time and sometimes much more than just several working days (especially if it is generally minor issue like validation affecting just one user). But, previous conversation made me feel like that issue should be fixed soon and I will be able to continue the hiring process. While nothing is critical on my side about if I will be hired or not, it makes me now bit nervous in how should I proceed next. On one hand I do not want to look desperate in needing new job by pushing the headhunter about how to proceed next. On another hand I would like to know if a job posting several levels better (and thus several levels more demanding) is something I could fit for or not. During describing this issue, I offered the headhunter that I could create new Skype account to meet the form validations. But obviously, I would like to keep this option as very last one. How should I proceed next? 

10 years is much too large a gap to leave unexplained, especially if it's a recent gap. I agree with Christopher that your would-be employer is likely to assume the worst. Also, you held the job for 10 years, and you'd lose out on all the experience gained during that time. I would list the job and any relevant skills, but don't include the reason for leaving in the resume at all, for any job listed. However, be prepared for the inevitable question in the interview. When that happens, don't lie! (That could be grounds for dismissal even if they only find out about it after you're already hired.) Without knowing the specifics for your firing, you can probably present the information in a way that doesn't entirely damn you: For example, if you were ultimately fired because of a mistake you made, own up to it (but maybe play it down a little) and explain why it won't happen again. 

A few members of our current worker's council ("Betriebsrat") are leaving the company, so we'll need to find new candidates. I've discussed this topic with some of my colleagues and it seems like nobody really wants to do the part (including myself) but pretty much everyone agrees that someone should. Because of that I'm at least considering the idea of candidating. I know about the short-term benefits of being in the workers' council (increased job protection etc.), but I'm not going to be in this company forever and I'm worried about the long-term consequences. 

In my country is usual to have two types of wedding announcement: Wedding announcement I believe this is the best for you. It is simply official info about the wedding: 

Also, my question is: What is the ratio? If you are only two people in team, then logically the ratio of answered e-mails should logically be 50:50 To me, it sounds like "one last drop" - your colleague might feel like he is answering all the e-mails, while you do nothing. So if someone tries to judge you for not answering low prio non urgent e-mail, their motive could be "I had it enough" So next steps: 

I got recently contacted by a headhunter about new job. While I am totally happy at my current position, the job offer was so interesting, that I decided to apply for the job and see how do I stack up. However, the new company hiring process is 100% online and one of the steps requires to fill in my personal data, namely Skype account for later interview (should I pass tests which are automatic) As a tester by profession, I discovered bug on the page: My skype account is connected through my Microsoft account and therefore my Skype ID is my e-mail adress. However, the web form for inserting skype account has a validation which refuses sign to be entered into the field intended for skype. So, I told as a form of joke, that I definitly fulfill requirements for a good tester, because I am finding bugs even before being hired. I got back answer that I should describe this to the support of that website. I did describe the issue and got back answer, that this id going to be escalated to the DEV team of the site and I will be contacted back. Next working day I have been contacted by headhunter about what is the resolution, where I basically copypasted answer from the support. The day after, I got again contacted by this headhunter, asking me about if I got any resolution of this issue. (No). So I got asked to let the headhunter know if I receive any answer from the support until end of the day (Did not get any solution and told headhunter so). The last e-mail from headhunter literally reads: