The main work which lays the foundation of Marxism is not the Communist Manifesto. It is the many-volume theoretic work which is called Capital (Das Kapital) by Marx alone. The Manifesto is just a short pamphlet, stating the main conclusions. In the Capital Marx, developed an economic theory, from which he concluded the inevitability of the development of the society towards communism. Many later socialists recognize the analysis given in Capital, though not all subscribe to the statements in the Communist manifesto. 

In Soviet Union in 1970-s all schoolchildren were taught to write with their right hand, no matter whether they were right or left handed by birth. Until the 5-th grade we could only write with steel dip pen. Since the 5-th grade fountain pens were permitted. When I traveled abroad for the first time in 1990, I was very surprised to see a substantial number of people who write with their left hand. EDIT. Here is a photo of the standard Soviet school dip pen: $URL$ 

My general impression is that in most great empires of the past, where the population was mixed, most of the times religions coexisted peacefully, like in Persian empire, for example. Some other examples are: 

I agree with Kate Paulk that "being divided" or not is not a crucial factor to look at. By the way, China was also divided during most of its history until 13 century. And on the other hand a large part of Europe (and Middle East) were united at the time of their greatest military domination. I mean the Roman empire, of course. Another example: very much divided Greeks were able to make enormous conquests in Alexandr's times. 

This is an extremely specific question, but I can find no resource that suggests that he went by Eric Blair except in his family life. I am curious if he introduced himself as Orwell at gatherings, or in private life on the street. Perhaps there is a letter or biography that I'm unaware of that would shed some light on this. Thank you! 

I understand just how specific this question is, but I'll explain what I mean. It is suspected that Aristotle, upon Alexander the Great's request, prepared a special edition of the Iliad, by Homer, which contained personal annotations by Aristotle himself. I thought "how incredible would it be to read Aristotle's personal notes on the Iliad -- to see his opinions on specific verses, and get into his mind when confronting texts which are not his own." The idea was so romantic to me that I couldn't help but hope that other examples existed. I understand that Aristotle's annotated Iliad is long dead and gone, but are there other examples of this? not master to student necessarily, but not excluding either. The texts can either be through tales, or texts that actually exist, and can hopefully be read. If I am not being thorough in my intent, please ask for clarification. And if no such examples exist, feel free to break my heart only 

Alaska and the Russian Far East are a terrible place to have a standoff of any kind. Alaska had a population of some 130,000 people in the 1950’s which rose to some 500,000 at the end of the cold war. Furthermore, it was not a state of the US until 1959. Russia’s Far East (not Siberia; ironically that is more to the West) was equally empty with only 100,000 people living in the Chukotka Autonomous Oblast (the bit just across the Bering strait) which rose to 160,000 by the end of the Cold War. Fighting a war is usually about strategy. You usually don’t aim for large, empty spaces like the Far East or Alaska. You want to bring down the enemy by taking their political and economic centres. For the USSR, that was Moscow, Moscow, St. Petersburg, Moscow and a few large cities on the Transsiberian string of pearls. For the US, that was the northern East coast (DC, New York) and the southern half of California on the West coast; maybe also adding some South coast areas to the list. Threatening to take over Alaska/the Far East was laughable. The more important bit, however, was the fact that both of them had important allies in Europe. This is more notable in the US’ case, since a nuke on Alaska from Chukotka would immediately be answered by a nuke on Moscow from central or southern Europe. For the USSR, it’s slightly less obvious but the last place they were going to fire a nuke towards if Chukotka were hit would have been Alaska. (Then came the Cuba revolution and the possibility of easily and quickly reaching the East coast from there.) The nuclear standoff was not about having two nuclear armies on each side of the inner-German border, each one ready to slap back should the other slap. The nuclear standoff was threatening to bypass whatever may have been in the way and just wiping out the important cities even from behind the initial lines. 

I do not think anything changed between 1900 and the spread of computers. The normal practice with mathematical journals was this: he journal offered to the authors certain number of free reprints, plus additional ones could be purchased. This number varied, usually from 0 to 100, sometimes more. Typical in the 1970s was 50. The author would send them to other mathematicians who on his/her opinion might be interested. Some of them would be sent to libraries. On the other hand, anyone interested in having a particular paper would send a postcard to the author, asking for a reprint. I have in my collection reprints of early 20th century mathematicians, including Poincare, but I cannot trace completely the way how they come to me. Some were discarded by libraries, some passed as inheritance from mathematicians who retired or died, together with some books. Many mathematicians did not care to send their reprints (an in many cases there were too many), so they usually lied in piles in their offices and every visitor could take them. Myself I discarded all my reprints in the early 90s, leaving one copy of each. 

UK, like most other developed (and not so developed) countries, does not produce all food that it consumes. Some food is imported in most cases. In the case of UK during WW2 much of the food was imported. As the war started, a) the oceans became dangerous. Because of the German cruisers and submarines. b) the shipping capacities were needed for other purposes (to ship troops and military supplies) So there was a shortage of shipping. For these reasons, there was a shortage of food, and they had to introduce rationing. A less important reason in the case of UK, but important for other countries like Soviet Union, was the shortage of labor in agriculture, because of the military draft. But I don't think this third reason was important for UK. EDIT. On the discussion in comments about "when was the world globalized". It is well known that the major source of food for ancient Rome was Egypt. And sometimes this was reason for major wars. 

My friend and I are from Britain and we were discussing which country was the least likely to ever see a successful invasion attempt. We reached the conclusion that the United States was simply the most difficult. There are two oceans on either side, with a navy unparalleled, and an airforce equally incomparable, massive swaths of difficult terrain to the north and south, and hundreds of millions of guns in the hands of citizens, militias, and very large gangs. Because we reached this conclusion, we started wondering how the British were successful in the War of 1812. Now, I'm not completely ahistoric here, as I know the United States had an extremely small force of men to defend themselves while we were an unimaginably large empire; but, nevertheless, I cannot imagine that it simply comes down to superior military numbers and equipment. How did they handle the mostly uninhabited terrain, and the native tribes bombarding them? And how was this feasible at all given that they were at war with France? 

The western accounts of the battles state that Alexander the Great won against Porus' armies, and then, once Porus amounted a larger one, a great deal of the Greek forces mutinied, and then Alexander the Great retired his conquest and returned to Babylonia. Thus, Alexander the Great did not necessarily tuck tail, but was forced due to the mutineers of his army. I have heard, though I have not consulted, that the eastern accounts of the war had Alexander the Great losing those initial battles and realized that he could not win, and then he decided to return to his kingdoms. What is the general consensus? I must say that the only source where I have heard that Alexander the Great lost is from Indians, which seems like a reasonably biased source. Did Alexander the Great win or lose the battles against Porus before leaving? (Keep in mind that I have not read his conquests since I was a boy, so please forgive any inaccuracies.) 

My experience shows that most people (who went to school in 1960-80) from the satellite countries could speak Russian, so the education system was effective. It mostly employed teachers from those countries (not from Soviet Union). I suppose that the system of training these teachers collapsed after dissolution of the Eastern block. But the system of training of teachers was effective, and I suppose many traveled to Soviet Union for practice. 

The correct question would be "Why the Chinese manage to change their leaders smoothly?" Lifetime leadership is typical for Communist dictators, not only in Soviet Union. Cuba, Yugoslavia, East Germany, Roumania,... you can continue yourself. The two leaders of Communist Russia who stepped down, Khrushchev and Gorbachev, stepped down as a result of coup d'etat. (Of course the second coup d'etat was sort of legal, they just dissolved the Soviet Union of which Gorbachev was president. But still this was a secretly planned conspiracy, not a normal legal process). Speaking of China, it is of course an exception among the communist dictatorships, and not only in this respect, but in many other respects. Perhaps the next stage of evolution:-) 

This anecdote is from Walter Scott's novel Quentin Durward. The king is Louis XI. The guy who predicts the future is Martius (Marti) Galeotti, Italian astrologist. The guard who is supposed to kill him at the exit of king's chamber is Oliver, barber and servant of Louis. I think Scott made it up. But possibly he read this is some historical source. Martius Galeotti (1442-1494) was a real person (see Wikipedia), as well as Oliver and Louis XI.