It varies. The best astronomical sites have a visual band extinction of 0.1 mag, which means that only $\sim 10$ per cent of light is absorbed/scattered in the atmosphere. In dusty, smoggy or polluted sites, this can easily reach one magnitude of extinction, which means that 60 per cent of the light is scattered. These numbers are per airmass - which means looking straight up at zenith. At lower altitudes, the baseline extinction figure would be multiplied by $\sec z$ where $z$ is the angle from the zenith. This amount of absorption doesn't sound like a huge difference, but what it means is that a large number of extra stars become visible, because roughly-speaking, you get a factor of two increase in the number of stars for every 0.5 magnitudes deeper you can see, and I think that is what is most striking about going to a clear, dark astronomical site. Thus there wouldn't be much of an improvement going into space over the best astronomical sites (in the visible band), at least not due to the decrease in extinction. You do also escape light pollution, which is a different effect. With light pollution it is the fact that the background sky becomes too bright for your eye to pick up the fainter stars. [As Carl Witthoft notes, it is a different ball game at other wavelengths because the atmosphere is significantly more opaque to UV, X-ray and IR wavelengths.] Another thing to consider is what you are breathing! Lack of oxygen can hinder visual acuity. $URL$ 

I can't give you an explicit ant mathematical explanation but maybe this simulations give you a hint. If you look at the bottom one with beta=0.01 (faster initial rotation speed) you will see how possibly a binary or even ternary system is formed. I guess this could be picked as an example for planetary formation. $URL$ 

Use Stellarium. You can set your location and date as needed and simulate all the conditions (ignoring weather...) :) $URL$ 

A quasar is a type of AGN. Its main property is that it's galaxy axis points towards the earth and this way we receive its light and radio signals. That's why they are one of the most energetic AGN. Here you can see a relation of all the AGN types: $URL$ 

This is the classic misconception about the expansion of the Universe: there is no center of the Universe. The whole universe expands as one, not from a single point nowhere. Knowing this it makes no sense speaking of the direction of an object due to the Universe. You could compare the directions of two objects in it though. Therefore star's direction depend on where and how they where created and also the interaction with other stars and their home galaxy. 

The answer is that in a pre-supernova star, most of its mass is still in the form of hydrogen and helium. It is only the central core where the primordial H and He has fused to heavier elements. This picture of onion layers is typically what you see in elementary text books. It is completely misleading in a quantitative sense. It schematically represents what's at the centre of the pre-supernova star, but in terms of the mass that is in each shell (it is obviously a 3d object) you get completely the wrong idea, because this diagram is only about 1 Earth diameter across, compared with the actual stellar radius of something like the distance between the Earth and the Sun! 

Ahh got it. The coordinates are given as latitude, longitude. Fortunately, the longitude hardly matters (depending what precision you need), but the latitude does. A star at the zenith will have a declination equal to the latitude on Earth. As far as Right Ascension goes, well around the March equinox then stars with 12 hours in Right Ascension will reach their highest point (culmination) at "local midnight". So one would expect roughly speaking for stars at around 21 hours, +40 would be overhead at 9h40m later. Checking out Stellarium for that location and time it seems that this is pretty much spot on and that Cygnus (the Swan) is overhead, with the bright star Deneb very close to being at Zenith. 

Try standing in a room, facing a particular wall. Spread your arms out to your sides, and spin slowly with your right arm leading, so that you’re turning towards your right. This is like the Earth rotating from west to east. Now notice that everything around you seems to be “rotating” in the other direction, from your right hand side to your left. This is the same as the Sun (and everything else in the sky) rising in the east and setting in the west. This is a similar effect to being in a car, and overtaking a slower moving vehicle. You’re travelling forwards, but the other vehicle appears to be going backwards from your perspective. 

Just to add to James' answer, we have amazing images of the stars very near to the BH at the galactic core. One star in particular, called S2, has had its complete orbit mapped. 

There's also a software package, called DS9, which I use for viewing both the image and the header. I edit the headers in Python using astropy. 

I'm working with some NEOWISE images that seem to have incomplete header tags. I've been advised by the SAO (because I'm using DS9 to view them) that I have "a partial PC matrix defined, yet it does not conform to the FITS WCS standard. With a combo of CDELT and PC keywords, the CDELT keywords hold the scaling factor, the PC keywords, the rotation matrix, which should be normalized. If you want the rotation matrix to also contain the scale factor, use CD keywords". Here's one of the headers I need to fix: 

Stars' light is produced by thermonuclear fusion of hydrogen, helium and other elements at their nucleus. This processes are impossible in planets since you need high pressures and temperatures >10,000 k 

The Sun will never run out of Hydrogen. This is a common misconception. At this moment the Sun is fusing Hydrogen into Helium. This fused Helium remains at the core until it will reach a critical mass. At this point the core will begin to collapse. This collapse increases the temperature and pressure around the core where Hydrogen is being fused causing the increase the Hydrogen fusion which also causes an increase of the radiation pressure making the outer layers to expand and cool. Once the core reaches a temperature of about 100 million Kelvin Helium fusion starts dramatically (Helium Flash) with high radiation pressure in the core. Here is where the Sun will reach 250 times it's current radius. When the Helium fusion stabilizes the radiation pressure at the cores decreases making the Sun's radius to shrink. The temperature will only drop at the surface because as it's expands it's further from the core. 

then do the units change? My thinking is that I'm taking something that is measured per steradian (which is a solid angle) and integrated it along a single axis, which would be in degrees. Would this make the units of my graph now MJ per radian? Or am I simply adding values in MJ per sr, so the units don't change? 

My guess, as @Tim said, is the ISS. I've seen it a few times, and it looks exactly as you've described. There are a few websites and mobile apps that can inform you of any satellites that are passing over your position; my go-to is heavens-above.com. 

The same way I can take photos of my neighbourhood without leaving my house; light travels from the surrounding houses, through my windows, and I capture that light in a photograph. No need to leave my house. The stars you can see at night would be like the houses in my street. The Milky Way Galaxy would be like the sky-glow I can see coming from the middle of the city I live in. I can see all of those things without leaving my house. On a dark night, I can even see sky-glow from the next town over, which is a bit like seeing a distant galaxy. In the same way, we don't need to leave Earth to get photos of things in outer space; light travels from those objects, through the Earth's atmosphere (which is like the windows in my house), and we capture that light in photographs. At the moment (and for the near future), we don't have any spaceships which can travel outside the Galaxy -- which would take millions of years at the speed of our fastest ships yet -- and our first interplanetary spacecraft (the Voyager probes, launched in the 1970's (before I was born), have only just left the Solar System. It would take them tens of thousands of years even to reach the nearest star (but they're not even aimed in that direction). 

The Tidal acceleration between 2 bodies is calculated with this formula: $$ a_T = \frac{2GM_MR_1}{Dm^3} $$ Where $M_M$ is Mar's mass, $R_1$ Earth Radius and $D_m$ the distance to the Moon. If you equal this to Moon's Tidal acceleration you will get $D_M$ as distance to Mars to get the same Tidal acceleration having $\frac{M_M}{M_m}=8.73328184501$: $$ D_M = \sqrt[3]{8.73}D_m\simeq2.06Dm $$ 

We could compare a big star to a small one like a Formula 1 car to a simple car: the F1 is faster, but it runs out of fuel earlier. 

Yes, and not only from space but from the Earth surface too. Stars emit in almost all wavelengths depending on their surface temperatures. The hotter the star is the shorter (higher energy) wavelengths it'll emit. You can try this simulator to check this: $URL$ 

I don't know any specific text but I can recommend you a course I took last year at Coursera.org. It says "introduction" but I can assure you it is really complete, 12 week that include a lot of mathematics and physics. $URL$ 

The deepest we look into the space the further in the past we look. So if we take pictures of galaxies that are 10 billion ly away we see them as they were 10 billion years ago. 

I am not sure what you are referring to; possibly it is intensity interferometry using the Hanbury Brown & Twiss method, but even this requires two telescopes. This kind of interferometry was used to estimate angular diameters for some tens of stars but is not generally used these days for this purpose. Instead, one constructs interferometers from separated telescopes using delay lines to compensate for path-length differences and maintain coherence between the different paths that the light takes. This then uses amplitude interferometry to reconstruct the angular diameter of a star from the interference pattern seen in different telescope baseline configurations. The radii (or to be more exact, the angular size) of many nearby stars and also of many giant stars at rather larger distances, have been measured using interferometric techniques. An accurate distance is then required to estimate an absolute radius. Relevant papers are by Boyajian 2010 and Boyajian et al. (2013). There are a number of such interferometric experiments, mostly working in the infrared. There are also direct radius measurements for stars that are occulted by the Moon and other solar system bodies - the time-dependent diffraction pattern can yield an angular size for the object. Absolute radii are also provided by eclipsing binary systems (independent of whether they have a known distance). See also How do astronomer measures the size of any celestial objects? 

It would be detectable due to its gravity effect on other planets, comets and the Sun. Check these sites for further info: $URL$ $URL$ 

It all starts in a molecular cloud, which are clouds in space with high densities. They can contain all kind of gases and dust and also due to their densities and relatively low temperatures they also contain molecules like H2, CO2 and H2O. These are in a thermodynamic equilibrium until something disturbs them (usually nearby supernovae). For some reason a zone of this cloud becomes more dense and gravity wins to and starts to collapse the could until it forms a star. Theses molecular clouds can be the remains of dead stars or simply a bunch of gas and dust collected and hold at the high density zones at the galaxies spiral arms or arround the core. 

This picture was taken by the WISE (Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer) space telescope. It is in deed an infrared picture of the entire universe but what you see in this line is our home galaxy, the Milky Way. This telescope has taken infrared pictures of the entire Universe (as we see from the Earth) and joined them in this full-sky view. More info: $URL$ 

I've been studying images from the WISE and NEOWISE missions. WISE used infrared cameras to survey the entire sky. When its primary mission ended in 2010, it was repurposed to look for Near-Earth Objects (described here). What changes to the spacecraft and software were needed in order to change its mission profile? Does it use the same cameras and instruments now as it did when performing a whole-sky survey? My thinking is that a whole-sky survey requires different equipment than a survey to look for small, fast-moving (compared to the stars) asteroids. 

The Universe Today has a great video on just this topic: $URL$ EDIT to clarify: If you look in the direction of the constellation Sagittarius, you're looking towards the center of the Milky Way Galaxy. You're correct that we can't see all the way to the center because of obscuring dust. Since we're looking out from inside one of the spiral arms, we can only see about 1500 light-years, which amounts to roughly 1.5 - 2% of the Galaxy's diameter. 

I've already managed to fix a couple of the invalid tags, but apart from these minor edits, this is unaltered from the file that my research supervisor gave me. The FITS standard here gives descriptions of each of the tags, but I'm not sure how to implement the SAO's advice. Can anyone help me fix the tags? 

As you said in your question we only know about Black Holes creating in Super Novae, which lead to relatively big BH. The reason they can't be smaller in these cases it that they are created when the core of the star reaches a critical mass that overflows both the electron and the neutron degeneracy. Lower masses can be hold by those degenerate mass states and won't collapse any further. Theoretically BH with masses less than the solar one could exists if there was some method capable to compress it's mass reaching radii smaller than their Schwarzschild radius. 

That situation would lead to heat transfer between the cold and the hot zones just like it happens here at the Earth. There is a paper on this that may help you: 

The amount and kind of gases a body can trap depends on the object's surface temperature, and its density & radius (which refers to it's gravity). An object with high gravity and low surface temperature will be able to hold more gases in it's atmosphere. In the case of the Moon, due to its low gravity it could barely trap an atmosphere of Xenon.