I'm familiar with bear bangers that you fire from a shotgun, but those are different, they're actually a large rubber wad that you shoot the bear with, so the bang is the impact the shot makes when it hits the bear. These pen launcher bear bangers get shot in the air, so the bang is the noise from the explosion. Aside from being a lot smaller and lighter (and cheaper), these seem to me like they could potentially be a lot more effective than bear spray, especially considering you could choose to aim the banger at the bear in desperate situations, and it would be effective from a greater range, and could be deployed against more than one bear at a time. How effective are bear bangers compared to bear spray? 

Simply put, lumens is the total amount of light coming out of the flashlight, and lux is the measure of how much of that light is focused in one area. One lux equals one lumen per square metre. If light were paint, lumens would be equal to litres, and lux would be how thickly you apply the paint. If you're only covering a small area, then you can make your paint pretty thick, but if you try to spread it to cover a larger area, then it's going to get thin. With your flashlight, the lumens don't change, but you can focus the lumens into a smaller area and up the lux in that area. 

If I may simplify your question, you have a sling of webbing, you've tied a bowline on a bight into each end, and then folded it in half and tied another bowline on a bight in the middle. Something like this: (Using Climbing carabiners and 120cm 22kN runner) 

Riding in a kayak is ok, but depending on how keen your friend is, she may have more fun if she was able to have a kayak of her own, you'd just need to find someone who rents out fishing kayaks. 

I came up with this variation of the flat overhand knot (also known as the Euro Death Knot) for pulling ropes on a rappel. I've never been comfortable using the Euro Death Knot (EDK), but it's hard to deny the virtues of the EDK for retrieving ropes. I set out to try and come up with a knot that had less of a tendency to roll than the EDK and eventually came up with this: 

It's obvious in some places where the cave dead ends that it used to go further, deeper, or higher, but the tunnel is blocked by scree. Even though many are filled in, there's still water flowing into or out of them, so who knows how far they may go, or whether they may connect to other unexplored chambers or even connect to other nearby caves. Chances are good that the entrances to lots of undiscovered caves in the area are buried by scree too. 

You and I would probably get a long very well. I ski downhill exclusively in the back country, and whenever I put my XC skis on I'm typically also wearing my skijor harness and getting pulled around by my dog. I have gone skjoring in deeper snow with m AT skis, but can't cover any great distances at speed or without exerting excessive amounts of energy, and light touring skis are just awful trying to descend slopes in any amount of pow. I've put a lot of thought into a system that would work for both sports, and I've decided my next setup is going to be for off-track touring. Off-track Touring Setup: 

Kerosene is different from other carbon fuels in that is has a much higher flash point, meaning that it has to be warmer than other fuels before it will produce a vapour that can be ignited. Other fuels with a much lower flash point produce a lot more vapours at warmer temperatures, making them much more volatile. If your lamp is designed to be used with Kerosene, then using any other type of fuel could cause the lamp to explode, or worse, vent vapours that could fill a room, find a spark, and catch a cabin on fire (worst case scenario). Only use fuels recommended for your gear, you're flirting with disaster it you start experimenting with other igniters. 

Fishing in the rivers around here is catch and release only on barbless hooks. The trick is to not get over excited when you get a bite, let the fish take the lure, when he runs it'll set it itself, so don't tug on the rod. While he's on the hook you want to bring him in gentle, don't tug on the rod, let go and let him run with the line if he starts to fight, if you fight back you'll lose him. Keep in mind also that it's not the hook that's going to hurt him, it's how you handle him on the shore, net him in the water, don't lift him out with your rod, if you drop him on the the shore he could give himself life threatening injuries by flopping around and bashing on the rocks. 

This question asks about bog-crossing grades of difficulty, and special equipment like bog shoes. What are bog shoes? 

I've been up close with grizzly and black bears before, I've had them come sniffing through my camp and I've done nothing but lay quiet in my sleeping bag and wait for them to wander off, which they usually do. Most of the time I don't even know they were there, I just find their tracks the next morning. Believe it or not bears spook really easily. I've never had to use bear spray or shoot at a bear, they always run off as soon as we let them know we're getting close. So if you're in your tent and a bear is taking his time investigating your site, all you have to do most of the time is just announce yourself and that should be enough to scare them away. The human voice is the number one deterrent for bears, so just start making loud noises. This will work most of the time, but the real problem bears are the ones that are used to humans, especially the ones that have been fed by humans in the past or found food in camps before, if one of these bears wanders into you site and doesn't act like it intends to leave without first finding something to eat, then get your bear spray out, get out of the tent, act big and keep shouting. You need to be pretty close for bear spray to be effective (30ft/9m or closer) so only spray it if your other attempts don't work and the bear is approaching you, or letting you approach him. Do NOT spray it inside of your tent, you will immediately regret it and possibly do yourself some serious harm. Try to get upwind of the bear if possible, and aim for his nose. One good blast and that bear should take off real quick. Most people only cary one or the other, bear spray or a gun. A warning shot from a gun does just as good as bear spray does. People around here (Canadian Rockies) that hike with shotguns load it with 3 different types of ammo; the first round is just bird shot, to shoot in the air as a warning shot; the second shot is a slug, to shoot past the bear so he can hear the ball whistling past him; the rest of your rounds are all hollow-point bear stoppers, to put the beast down, because if the first two shots don't scare him away then nothing else is going to stop him. Hunters have bigger problems with bears than campers do, because hunters typically have a fresh kill with them that the bear wants (usually grizzly bears), with campers and hikers, it's usually a case of the hikers sneaking up on the bear unintentionally and surprising it-in which case the bear acts defensively- or bears happening upon a campsite because it's on the side of a trail (bears use trails too) and finding food there. Shotguns are only necessary if the bear charges, tries to get into your tent, or is following you and you can't shake them off your trial. This is especially true with black bears, if a black bear is following you, and isn't scared off by any of your attempts to get him to leave, then odds are good you're going to have to either fight it off or shoot it, because there have been incidents where black bears have been known to stalk people for food. These incidents are very rare, and will typically only occur in the most wild areas where bears don't have much contact with humans. 

The carpet plastic isn't as durable as a solid anti-balling plate, but considering you can get about a dozen pairs out of one $5 carpet, I think you can afford to cycle through a few pairs. I'm still using the first pair I made, and I've been climbing with them a couple winters now. 

Lots of swim/board shorts come with key keepers in the pockets. Chances are you may even have one in the swimwear you own. It's simply a length of elastic cord stitched into your pocket. If you don't have one, it can easily be added. You attach your keys to the loop using a girth hitch: