"What would it take in a book to convince a rational person that it had been written by or directly inspired by a god?" What would serve as the best evidence? HOW DOES ONE ASCERTAIN WHAT IS THE BEST EVIDENCE? I can experience a circumstance, and know first hand what happened, and consider that to be the best evidence as to what it is I experienced. I may then conclude "experience is the best evidence." But, how do I share that experience with another who has not experienced the same thing? "Experience" suddenly goes from being "best evidence" to being "subjective claim." And may even go from "subjective claim" to "Misinterpretation of events." I would need to be almost an expert in some field in order to properly apply the interpretation of events into a proper application of facts, in order to reach a proper conclusion about the meaning of anything, from stimuli, to the meaning of my (subjective) reactions to stimuli, before I could communicate to another, just exactly what it was by which I was "stimulated." But one thing I know, My "experience" is really that something took place "as I understand it." So I then begin to look for a way to share my "experience" in a way that removes all doubt that the event took place, and that its ramifications are in line with my understanding of what they mean. How to share THAT becomes my goal. So I begin to testify as to every aspect of my experience, and tell loud and long about what it is that I perceive took place, only to have someone respond, "Yes, that looks like what happened, but how do we know you didn't write about it from someone else's record of events. In other words, how do we know it was YOU who experienced it? And if YOU did not experience it, but only recorded it for our information, how do we know it even happened according to your testimony? So, testimony may be better than experience, but still does not satisfy as "best evidence." There must be something more ABOUT testimony that presents itself as "best evidence." I then inquire into "kinds" of testimony; there must be a certain kind of testimony that serves as "best evidence" for sharing an experience. Immediately I think "of course, it must be "first hand" testimony. "Eye witness" testimony become the focus of my search, only to have someone point out, "yes, eye witness testimony certainly beats second or third party testimony, known as "hearsay" evidence, but what if you have conflicting testimony from several "eye" witnesses? Back to the drawing board. O.K. What if I describe events AS THEY HAPPEN, is that not equivalent to letting you share in reality? Does that not consist of "proof?" Well, not quite. THAT assumes the accuracy of my subjective reporting of events, as being objectively reporting. In other words, do I allow my own prejudices to color my reporting? Is my reporting "subjective" or is it "objective?" Suppose I discover a way to share with you an event that has not yet happened? I find a way to include details that are easy to look for? I even name names of persons that do not yet exist? Suppose that event takes place generations later, and the person involved has the name I said he would have, and the events happen as I outlined them in the telling? THAT WOULD BE THE BEST EVIDENCE. I tell you of an event that will take place two hundred years in the future, name the person involved, tell you what he will do, and even convince HIM, the person I name, that I am real BECAUSE I could name him well in advance of the factual demonstration. AN ACTUAL HISTORICAL EVENT One who said "I AM GOD," named a man who is going to allow the children of Israel to return from captivity, Over two hundred years before he was born. But the children of Israel were not even IN captivity when God wrote about it. They had no reason to believe they would BE in captivity for they were not even at war with anybody when it was written. God told about a king that would send the children of Israel back to Jerusalem, to rebuild the temple, which at the time of writing had not even been destroyed. They would also rebuild the walls of the city, which at the time of writing had not been destroyed. What is the best evidence? "FORETELLING IN DETAIL" of events not remotely likely to happen, is the best evidence that God wrote the bible. If He can produce statements about a foreign king sending the children of Israel back to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple, not yet destroyed, and rebuild the walls of the city, not yet destroyed, and name the foreign king by name, there is no evidence stronger among men. God named Cyrus, king of Persia, as his "anointed," Beginning in Isaiah 44:28 Jehovah God said of Cyrus, king of Persia - "He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid. "Thus saith the LORD to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loins of kings, to open before him the two leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut; 2 I will go before thee, and make the crooked places straight: I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and cut in sunder the bars of iron: 3 And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I, the LORD, which call thee by thy name, am the God of Israel."[Isa 45:1-3] AFTER NAMING CYRUS, GOD TELLS WHY HE NAMED HIM. "For Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel mine elect, I have even called thee by thy name: I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known me. 5 I am the LORD, and there is none else, there is no God beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me: 6 THAT THEY MAY KNOW from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none beside me. I AM JEHOVAH [THE LORD], and there is none else.[Isa 45:4-6] No other God named among men has EVER performed such a happening. There is no religion among men who has a God who could do such a thing. ONLY Jehovah, The God of Israel, ever told events two hundred years prior to the happening, and told the name of the one who would perform the act. THAT is not only the "best evidence" because it not only can be expected by later generations, it can be verified as to accuracy, and it can be witnessed by doubters, and proved to THEIR satisfaction, leaving no doubt remaining. CYRUS king of Persia was convinced, as were the children of Israel. PRETESTIMONY is the best evidence. God pretestified as to the events, the person, the how, the when, and the why. ANY God who can do THAT, has the right to tell us of man's origins, and how we should respond to the reality of who and what we are, as God's image. And He even tells us of the inspiration aspect of the book authored by Him - Deuteronomy 18:18 - "I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee, (Moses) and will put MY WORDS in his mouth; and he shall speak unto them all that I command him." Isaiah 51:16 states - "And I have put MY WORDS in thy mouth..." Jeremiah 1:9 Then the Lord put forth his hand, and touched my mouth. And the Lord said unto me, "Behold, I have put my (logos) WORDS in thy mouth." Many other verses proclaim the same thing; It is God's word that the prophets proclaimed. Concerning what was written, Exo 24:4 says, "And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord..." and verse 12; And the Lord said unto Moses, come up to me into the mount, and be there. And I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and commandments which I HAVE WRITTEN; that thou mayest teach them. And Exo 31:18 And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, WRITTEN WITH THE FINGER OF GOD. Exo 34:27 And the Lord said unto Moses, WRITE THOU THESE WORDS: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel. With MANY other words, God testifies as to his authorship of his book. So, God tells us he wrote the bible, and who is there among us who can "prove" that NOT to be the case? Later testimony of eye-witnesses verified to the minutia of detail that was fulfilled. And eye-witness testimony does not have to be reiterated to each succeeding generation, in order to be declared "valid" or "true." It only has to be proved once for all time, which it was by the eyewitness accounts of those who were sent back to Jerusalem to rebuild the walls of the city, and rebuild the temple. 

The notion of a reality is most certainly not a proof. This can be demonstrated via counnterexample: I can have a notion that the Reiemann Hypothesis is true, but nobody in their right mind would consider that to be a proof thereof. More interestingly: 

What you would have found is a logical inconsistency. If a series of numbers is random, it is random. If there is a pattern beyond the distribution of numbers that series is drawn from, then it is no longer random, by definition. Of course, if you consider infinite strings of random numbers, it is highly likely that every finite series will show up somewhere in every infinite string. The more interesting question would be what it means if a particular string doesn't appear. It's not forbidden for a string of numbers to never appear in a sequence of random numbers, but it is peculiar, and frustrating in that you cannot prove it is meaningful! 

They wont have any reason to disagree with this, for their beliefs are typically in the form of an axiom (which the trilemma admits). However, the more they push on the trilemma, the more they are going to have to clarify their opinion on what a "belief" actually is. That can be used for further discussion if you like. More aggressive, one can argue that beliefs are only required if one is certain about things. If you can be comfortable with only being 99.9999999% certain and can act on that level of certainty meaningfully, you can dodge around the need for beliefs. However, this may lead to them poking at those uncertainties and you may be obliged to poke back at theirs. The most aggressive approach, of course, would be to go on the full on attack, and try to dispel their beliefs. However, I don't recommend this unless the person is really trying to get your goat. It's really hard to dispel someone's beliefs (they tend to believe in them anyway), and it's a good way to not make friends. Of course, the other approach is to refuse to answer at all. If I feel that my mental state is more calm and confident than theirs, I may try to simply smile and say "I have my thoughts" and leave it there. The more interesting question, to me, is what do you do about the fact that this question bugs you? It seems like an excellent study piece, if you ask me. What answers to this line of questioning make you comfortable? When we find little things like this, it's often an excellent place to learn a little more about ourselves. 

I find much of this dualism comes from the march of science, explaining more and more of our world with physical explanations, but always coming up shy of explaining "everything" for most people. 

Over time, the formal systems that are accepted shift to accommodate new discoveries or problems with old results. In the case of the infinite sets you describe, it was the shift to the set of axioms towards modern set theories that lead Cantor to challenge the conventional thinking. As a result, you could still write any of the old proofs, and claim them to be proofs, but they would no longer be of value because the newer set of axioms had become the "preferred" set of axioms. Proofs using other axioms were simply less useful. We also see this today with the difference between proofs in ZF and ZFC. Mathematicians are divided about the validity of the Axiom of Choice (the C in ZFC). A proof done in the formal system of ZF's set theory is considered more valuable than a comparable proof done in a formal system of ZFC's set theory. 

That last axiom is the one that causes so much interesting behavior to occur. It's the one that tries to reach towards infinity, and claims to offer ways to grasp it. And, like all axioms, it does not necesarially state that it is "correct," merely that it is declared to be true within the confines of the rules of arithmetic (as defined by Peano). Much of arithmetic was formalized onto what is known as "set theory," which is the foundation of a great deal of our mathematics because it appears to be fundamental as to how the universe is organized. Sets deal with particular collections of stuff, like "the set of natural numbers that are smaller than 5," which is written as . Peano arithmetic is most commonly mapped onto set theory using the following construction: 

It could be ethical if the withholding of information could reasonably do more harm to the individual than the sharing of information. Rumor is a powerful force, especially in the internet era. Without any facts to draw on, it often invents its own facts. This can be more damaging than the unveiling of actual factual evidence during the proceedings. Consider the recent trial of Darren Wilson, the police officer who shot Michael Brown. The verdict was innocent, so it fits your argument as a case where it would be unethical to release information. Nearly 5000 pages of documents were released. Because they were released, nobody can question what the Jury did or did not have to work from when making a decision. Anybody can freely decide to themselves whether the jury arrived at a just answer. Nobody can undo the past, so of course we have to rely on imagination. Can you imagine how the populace would respond if the verdict was "innocent, but we won't tell you why. You have to trust us?"