The only way you are going to convince someone this bull-nosed is to prove your way is better through example. I suggest using high-visible production incidents, or new feature requests that are difficult to implement because of the lack of standards. Throw these in his face (nicely, not with a see-I-told-you-so attitude) and let him argue with cold hard facts. For example, if he's deploying directly to production, does this ever bring something down and make for angry clients/executives at your company? You need to professionally communicate the lack of standards are causing these problems, and suggest your approach to fix it. If he will have nothing of it, I think you might just want to go over his head on this one, though don't be surprised if that backfires on you. As a last recourse, you switch jobs, but that wasn't really what you were asking. 

(Not really a Workplace question, but I'll give you an answer anyway) You can argue semantics across the languages and get nowhere. My main two arguments would be a) The community knowledge share uses C#, search out an example, or error message, and you'll likely find a StackOverflow or some other similar site, and 99% of the time these days you are going to see C# code related to .Net code. b) The talent pool of applicants will want to use C#, if you ever see yourself hiring, many developers will flat out refuse to work with VB.Net unless they are desperate for a position. 

If he was your LinkedIn contact, I'd say go for it as LinkedIn is a professional networking group. Unfortunately he's not, he's your Facebook "friend", and it doesn't sound like a very close friend at that. While of-course there are exceptions, I tend to think of Facebook for your personal life, and LinkedIn is for your professional life. I wouldn't mix work with pleasure. But, feel free to email him at his work email and ask for a status update if you have any sort of "in" with him, and hopefully he would recognize your name in his inbox and give you a serious inquiry though. 

This is a good thing. If the company wasn't interested in hiring you, they'd cut you loose and tell you straight out. They wouldn't want to "Catch up" only to let you down hard. At this point, given the timing, I'd probably expect two things. 

I'm in an interesting situation at work. I work with "Joe". Joe and I are both programmers, having both been professionally programming for about 20 years. Joe does some of the worst work I've seen in my professional career, and in my personal opinion should have been fired years ago. I've discussed this ad nauseam with my direct manager, who Joe doesn't report too, mostly because Joe is wasting my time asking questions he should know the answer too. My company is finally waking up to Joe, and his bad work quality and terrible work ethic. Unfortunately instead of firing him, they are trying to push him off on another division of the company, with a separate management structure. Joe essentially needs to be re-interviewed by this other division in order to be officially transferred. Tomorrow, I've been asked by the development manager of this division to provide a reference of Joe, this will be done over the phone. I want to come off as professional as possible to this manager, as we have worked together before, and will continue to do so. Unfortunately having worked with Joe for about a year now, I have a lot of "dirt" that could immediately seal his grave at this company. My question: Do I tell this manager the whole story about Joe, every negative detail? I'm just concerned if I do this, I may come across in a negative way and my bias toward Joe being fired is going to be blatantly obvious. If not the whole story, at what line should I draw in this conversation? ** Closing thoughts after this phone interview ** I had my phone interview reference about Joe, we used a massive code review as a base for evaluating Joe. Joe did these changes solely, so it was a good factual representation about what Joe was capable/not capable of. We both came to the same conclusions, and the manager definitely read through the lines and noticed I wasn't saying anything positive. The message was received well, and I can feel good that I didn't get into a bunch of gossip and mud slinging about Joe. 

This does seem a bit excessive of a questionnaire given the type of job/pay rate, but the company is just probably interested in hiring good people. I just hope for your sake there is a good career path within the company, because other near-minimum wage jobs are much easier to get! 

As with any private information you want to keep off the internet, you simply don't update your resume publicly on these large sites. The downside is, companies/recruiters won't see you, but hey, you already have a job right?, you're in no rush and you are going to pick your next job carefully. Not to mention, you won't get tons of spam emails/calls from recruiters, that alone is worth the downsides. You will have to be a bit more proactive, and sign up for job alerts that match your search criteria, then apply on what you find using a private copy of your resume. I say all this to say I don't know how necessary this is. I just recently changed jobs and I put my information all over the internet. My current company was actively hiring positions like mine, and it was a complete shock when I gave my notice. There are just a flood of candidates out there, so unless your company specifically searches out you, they probably aren't going to find you. It's just easier for them to put out a job and wait for applicants to come to them. 

My company (around 250 employees) has a very tall man working here. I'm not sure of his exact height, but he's a head above the 6 foot high bathroom stalls. I felt very, very uncomfortable today when I was sitting on the throne, and he came in and used the stall next to me. For sure I don't believe he ever turned his head, but literally he could have and seen me in all my bottom-half-birthday-glory. I'm sure his peripheral vision gave away something at the very least. These bathrooms are shared across the whole company, and the only bathrooms available to me. I also don't know/met this man, he works in another department. He's probably a really nice guy who does extremely well on the work basketball team (if such a thing existed!) How should I approach management about my discomfort? I don't want to single him out as he's done nothing wrong, but on the other side, I really feel uncomfortable using the men's bathrooms now. The obvious solution to me is to install taller stalls to prevent this, but perhaps there are other options that don't immediately scream out to this man "Hey, we're making the stalls taller because of YOU". 

I live in the USA, My wife and I have 4 natural-born children (13, 13, 9, 7 years old). We also are foster parents, and recently took in 2 more young children (2yrs and 6mo old baby) while their mom works out her issues. We also have a relationship with a former foster child, and take in a 7th child (2 years old) like a nephew every month or so for a weekend to give his single dad a break. I've been reluctant to discuss this arrangement with my work colleagues, as I feel management may look down on me for future career advancement/promotion/bonus/etc. When we meet new people (outside of work), and they find out the size of the family, we'll usually always get comments like "You sure have your hands full", or "You must not have much free time". I don't want these types of thoughts spilling over into my manager's mind when he makes people recommendations to upper management. Would you, as a manager, think slightly less of an employee having a large family, even if they got their work done and did a great job? 

This is where you are just going to have to swallow some pride, there isn't much you can do in this situation and you come out looking good. Management in companies often work like just this. I'm a technical lead at my company, and I report to the stakeholders the status of projects I haven't done any active work on, just "managed". It's not that I'm taking credit, my stakeholders just trust me to give an accurate report, and so long "Stuff's getting done", everyone is ok with the status quo. Many colleagues (unfortunately not all) give credit where credit is due. Maybe Bob is this type. A good manager takes all responsibility on themselves when something goes wrong, and gives all credit to his subordinates when there is a success to be had. 

First off, if these are untrue/unfounded accusations, he should have a case for libel against his ex. A cease and desist letter from a lawyer can go a long way... These days employers definitely search out employees social presence. Is this page like the top google result for his name, or in the 3rd page of results? It's doubtful a potential employer is going to search but a few minutes on a candidate, at least for that first interview. If HR does find it, it definitely could spell bad news, whether they believe it or not. Likely they'll just move along to the next candidate and avoid the drama. 

The dirty truth here is that independent recruiters are sales agents, and you and your talents are what they are selling. They will always be up to "selling" you in the future should you show interest in a current opportunity and haven't burned any bridges. Ignoring an email is definitely not burning a bridge between you/them. I accidentally tested this when I was finding a new job recently. A recruiter was consistently "spamming" me with local opportunities. I always just ignored the emails. Finally he sent me a job I was interested in, so I replied. Boy did he jump at the opportunity to speak with me and discuss my skills. 

You (or ideally your manager) needs to have a conversation with the stakeholder of this project to address this resistance from the finance folks. Otherwise, I don't see how this project is going to succeed. Without an expert in finance to bounce ideas off of, test your work, and actually incorporate your work into their daily work, it's not going to happen. Resistance from internal folks could be an indication that your automation work might be a perceived threat to their job security. The stakeholder needs to be the one to convince them otherwise, or address their concerns about your work. In my career, I've automated plenty for individuals such as these, and they are usually very excited at the prospect of their job getting easier. Once you get them on your side, you should have no issue getting the information you need to complete this project. 

If your references don't feel comfortable or capable of answering some of the questions, then that is their answer. 

I would not mention this until you were actually hired, then you can suggest they improve their applicant process by showing this example. If someone truly copied your example code, he'll likely hang himself in other areas of an interview, so don't sweat it too much. 

Unless you've misrepresented yourself in the interview, you don't have to make the call yourself if you are prepared or not. The real question you should be asking is are you ready to learn? It's up to the hiring company to determine if you are prepared or not, and in this case, you have an offer, so apparently they think you are. Speaking from a development experience, I would jump at a company that offered experience in the "latest" stuff, this is the kind of stuff that can set your career in motion with future advancement. 

It may be their positions, but remember it is YOUR career, and nobody is looking out for you other than you. I'd absolutely jump around if the opportunity is right. I've found in my career moving positions is the only way to really get a good pay increase these days. You have it good in that you can stay at the same company, so any benefits you're getting based on years at the company won't go away. If they are considering you for a senior position, then you'd do well to check out the local market and make sure you know what you are worth, don't let them short-change you on the salary! 

These days, you are really empowered through social media. These big companies go to great expense to keep their name clean. If all other avenues fail for you, I suggest you post your concern to the companies Twitter page. You'll for sure attract some attention to your cause and hopefully will get some followup. 

If you are looking to move up in your career, you'll do well to learn the other processes around software development, things that aren't tied to a specific programming language. Getting a good foundation in a language is great, but you need other experience in software development to be really valuable. The follow list highlights some of the skills you can learn about software development that aren't tied to any specific language. You can use these most anywhere. Here are some examples, but isn't intended to be a complete list: 

The main reason the conditional offer would fall through is if something comes up on your background check. Only you know the truth behind that. If you have reason to believe they are going to dig up something that would make them not want to hire you, then you should accept company B's offer. If you are "clean", then I'd wait around for company A's final offer. 

Don't you dare have this conversation, ever! It's your CEO's money, blood, sweat and tears invested into this business. You don't have much to lose other than a steady paycheck if things go bad. Unless he asked you point blank for an opinion about the viability of his entire business plan, I would never offer your opinions, because your opinions here are going to show him your lack of faith in the business. If you convince yourself you can't do it, you'll succeed every time, and I personally wouldn't want someone working for me that didn't believe in the success of the core of the business. 

First off, I'd really question an employer that expected you not to work out a notice period at your current job. Even if this is your dream job, that doesn't seem right, and if it were me it wouldn't be a company I'd want to work at just for that requirement. Given that you've only worked at this job for 2-months, and you really want this job, I'd definitely consider doing it though. Just don't expect any favors from your current job (PTO paid out, letter of recommendation, etc.) In fact, never expect to work there again. 

If it was me, I wouldn't quit till the money was in my bank, no matter what the official verbiage reads. You can be sure they won't want to pay you if you depart like this, and unless you have this language in a signed contract they can (and likely will) find any reason not to pay you. Even with a signed contract, they may be completely happy letting you have your day in court, so to avoid all this mess, just hold off. 

You should be able to tell with those questions what type of feedback culture you are going to encounter at the company, and how the manager will approach feedback with you. 

In addition to the other fine answers, I would suggest hiring a third-party infosec auditor familiar with this type of development to validate your application/plan. In a few hours of time you can share your requirements, plan and get their feedback/suggestions which will definitely help bulletproof your development. Also, if there are any ISO standards for this time of work, you should definitely set out to maintain compliance in your applications. 

This really depends on how far along you are in the interview process: A failure very early in the interview process, before you really got a chance to really interview with someone would most likely be the end for you. If however, you took the test in-person during an actual interview, and were able to discuss with the interviewer the questions you have wrong, there may be some hope depending on your responses.