P.S. We use light-weight trangia camping stoves, as they are quite efficient and their fuel can be bought almost anywhere. I'd rather not rely on open fires as this will limit our treks to routes that go through territory where open fires are allowed and where there is plenty of firewood. P.P.S. Somebody is bound to bring this up, so I'll just say here: fishing/hunting is not an option for me. Both require a lot of time (and often permits/licenses) and are simply not reliable enough: I can't stake the meals of our group on getting a lucky catch. 

I enjoy doing quite extended treks in the backcountry that rely on us (mostly 2-4 people) being independent from any kind of civilization for up to two weeks. For me the foremost problem in these kinds of treks is the weight of the food: I've been on treks where we easily started out with 15kg of food per person, which is obviously a big strain for everyone carrying it. I have already spent quite a lot of thought and time optimizing our trail food to reduce weight: 

While there are the official Swedish maps, the only available scale I know of is 1:100'000 - quite large for hiking maps. On the other hand this also prevents the avid trekker to carry an entire backpack full of 1:25'000 maps. Especially the northernmost section (1-2 weeks) is fairly popular, and there might be a fair demand for dedicated trail maps for this section. The guides that I own/saw personally only include very crude and essentially useless maps for tiny sections of the trail. Apart from that it is also a wonderful trail. Highly recomend it. :) 

My research has shown that a common technique used to protect turtle nest to build a nest cage over the nest. A nest cage is basically just a wire/mesh cage without a bottom/floor that will prevent predators from accessing/digging up the eggs, while still allowing for the normal climate and weather (e.g. sunshine) to reach the nest - meaning don't build a solid wooden box. 

First of all: try to think and plan ahead. Don't get caught on a mountain top during a thunder storm... Keep an eye on the weather and change your route accordingly. Location: Make sure you're not exposed and not the highest point in the immediate vicinity. So stay off of summits, hills, and don't stand upright in the middle of a vast field. 

As an answer that will be of immediate use without investing a lot of money: You can wear two wetsuits, one over the other. I have done this in the past when the rental place couldn't provide a warm enough one in my needed size. It will restrict your mobility a little, so this is certainly not an optimal solution - but it's cheap, and you can probably ask for it almost anywhere you're renting a wetsuit (maybe pay a bit extra). Of course buying a properly fitted wetsuit in the thickness that you need is still the far superior option. 

Fun fact: the route you linkd in the question above was actually part of my first proper trek. In 2006 I trekked the Kungsleden from north to south (Abisko to Ammernäs). 

It is normal to a certain degree that wet leather, after drying, is a bit stiffer than before. The effects will generally be worse 

I guess the answer really is It depends As a general purpose solution I normally bring sturdy trekking/hiking sandals on my trips. Something like the models from Teva for example (many pictures on Google). I specifically look for models with have sturdy rubber soles with good profiles, and which come with velcro straps that I can fasten/adjust quickly and safely. Note that I'd forgo the models made from leather - while comfy for walking these mostly don't handle getting wet very well. Advantages: 

First: it is very difficult to exactly determine the species of a skeleton, much more so a partial one (at least if you can not do DNA analysis). I have worked on archaeological digs where we consulted experts for this, and even they were clueless in many cases when it came down to identifying the origin of small sets of bones. An educated guess: From the size this cannot be a racoon. If the pictured remains are 30-40cm long that will put the whole spine at some 80+cm easily - waay bigger than a racoon. Actually, there are not many animals this big in German forests, which makes this somewhat easier. Guessing by the size, the form of the pelvic bone and also how common they are I would guess these remains could belong to a roe deer, potentially a young one. Some possible alternatives (just judging by size): 

One good source which will explain how to do this: Ray Mears - Harvesting Spruce Roots and creating a Fish Hook (In case you didn't know Ray Mears, his shows are all well worth watching. Not as sensationalist as other modern survival shows, just solid proven bushcraft techniques from all over the world. Also you find many of them on YouTube.) If you search Google for 'spruce root cordage' you will find a ton of resources, ranging from historical accounts, detailed tutorials and of course videos of people harvesting spruce roots and processing them into usable cordage. 

It does not. Except, well, at certain altitudes people would rather stop to survive, so everything above that will be similar in terms of performance. ;) Edit: 

As a middle ground between the two I have seen people use fast-drying trekking shoes which are maybe ankle-high max and mostly made from purely synthetic materials to allow for quick drying. Advantages: 

Case in point: I've been using a tunnel tent (similar to the Hilleberg ones, but a less known brand) for more than 12 years. The tent has been used on easily some total of 12 weeks of proper outdoor treks (mainly northern Scandinavia) and on dozens festivals all over Europe. It still serves me well and the only thing I ever had to fix was one of the zippers. 

Frame challenge: You should probably not be heating your tent at all. Instead I suggest getting a better sleeping bag / thermal mat / clothes to sleep in. --> In combination with a decent tent they will provide you all the warmth you need to sleep comfy in most any circumstances, especially the ones where you have a power outlet nearby. 

Position: Priority one really should be to get to a safe location. If this is not possible, or you have reached the safest (but still potentially unsafe) location nearby, keeping correct body position can help: 

If you're looking to cross more dangerous waters, for example rather high, fast-flowing and cold, it can be necessary to wear your regular hiking boots. This is not something I would normally suggest, but I have been doing it on occasion when the crossing is really tricky. I realize that OP specifically asked for other solutions, but I think sometimes this is the only reasonable option: I suggest rather risking some blisters and discomfort than a broken or twisted ankle 5 days from civilization. Advantages: 

Basically you apply a solution to the hide (here made from water and the animals brain), whereupon you stretch, knead and work the hide while it is drying to avoid it going hard again. 

Identification Wikihow has a decent enough page on identifying flint if you are lucky enough to find yourself in an area where it occurs naturally. Occurrence But flint is a natural resource. As with all natural resources they will occur in some places in abundance, while not at all in others. We sometimes have this idea that in prehistoric times everybody was able to find and work flint - this is simply not true. Like all other 'geological' resources flint was mined and traded for long distances. See for example this study flint-bearing formations in Southern France, which among other things presents us with this map: 

This answer is kind of tailored to kids but it might be so obvious that it's actually easily missed: For kids wanting to learn about TGO or for parents who'd like their kids to experience TGO having them join a scout organization will be one of the best and most comprehensive TGO experiences they can get. I guess this depends a lot of the kind of scout organizations you have around and the activities they do - but I'd assume that most of them will spend a great amount of time in TGO, building camps, making fires, cooking outdoors, hiking, navigating, braving wind and weather, learning about local flora and fauna, etc. 

Body If you're already moderately in shape (i.e. able to do some proper hikes of 20km with 10kg weight as you say) I don't think you'll have to to any specific training per se... But of course training always helps: 

On a side note: Recently spear hunting has lead to a bit of controversy, see for example this story where a filmed spear hunt of a baited black bear led to spear hunting being banned in Alberta. 

Storing tents follows the same rules as storing anything basically, with a couple of important additions: 

Not wanting to go into detail I'll just point out: there are long stretches and vast areas without known flint formations. If you find yourself in one of those, you will have to resolve to tools made from different materials. 

From my experience the arrow shafts will be exactly the length as specified, at least with all the vendors I dealt with so far. (It might be safest to just ask them however!) If you're putting together your own arrows from scratch, you're sort of expected to tinker around to a certain degree, and this might include shortening the shafts to your optimal length. This is easy for wooden/aluminium shafts, and a bit trickier for carbon shafts. In the latter case however, it is likely that you'll be shooting recurve or compound bows anyway. On these bows the last bit of arrow length fine-tuning is generally done adjusting your clicker * rather than having millimeter-precise arrow lengths. 

I can give an answer for Switzerland: Orienteering in Switzerland is comparatively popular and widely known - and also called "OL/Orientierungslauf" (incidentally, Switzerland is also rather good at this in competitions). I don't know how prevalent this is, but in my childhood orienteering was one of the subjects taught in physical education/sports during primary and secondary school - i.e. all of us kids got to team up in groups, each group got a map and they sent us into a nearby (small) forest. I have to say, however, that I haven't yet heard of an orienteering event that uses fragmented/obfuscated maps of the kind that you described - though that doesn't mean that it can't exist... 

One trick not yet mentioned, but surprisingly efficient: When I start sweating in this area (and I'm out in the woods where I won't meet a lot of people) I usually just open the zipper on my pants. This helps wonders to boost air circulation, thus preventing sweating. For me this also 100% prevents the hiking rashes. Sometimes I walk for an hour like that, it can be really comfy... And using this trick I'm essentially able not go get rashes anymore. 

So... we're set on carbohydrates, sugar and fat, but I'm guessing what we're still struggling with is protein intake: many protein-rich foods are either fairly heavy (dried meat, hard cheese) or spoil quickly. The few I know that are both light weight and durable (like beans and lentils) take forever to cook, meaning that we'd have to bring a lot of extra fuel. 

Make sure you'll be warm enough Trying to mess about with your equipment in these conditions might be rather hard, do prepare as well you can: 

I think one of the reasons for the popularity of fishermen hat types is that they are easily rolled up/folded and put away in a pocket. The same is not possible with most traditional (felt) hats, and even if you get a folding/rolling felt that they'll still be a lot heavier and bulkier. Fisherman hats are also fairly light, made from cotton (or nowadays synthetics) - an other advantage over heavier traditional felt hats.