Many problems ultimately come down to survival. For example, consider the problem that I have no job. I will wish to solve this problem naturally by finding a job, but alternatively I could just no longer consider it a goal of mine to get a job. This latter alternative however leads me to a new problem. Consider now that I have become hungry because of a lack of food, due to not having any income. Now I could eliminate the problem by no longer making it a goal of mine to be satiated. But if I have the goal of surviving, then I have a new problem, because I cannot survive unless I eat. Now the only way to solve this new problem is to remove the will to survive. One could argue that this is possible, and then all problems have now been solved. Most problems that we have, ultimately link to physiological requirements of our body that is required for either individual survival or reproduction. In turn these requirements create physiological instincts, such as hunger, thirst and the will to live, which motivate us to solve problems. Because physiological responses such as hunger, thirst and pain are very difficult to control with our conscious mind, solving problems using your suggested method is not always practical. This is ultimately because many problems ultimately do not stem from a conscious definition of them, but rather from a physiological desire eliminating an uncomfortable or painful physiological response. 

In order for it to be a critique, it must address a very foundational part of of the theory. However, you have posited a hypothetical which in itself questionable. In fact, a pure concept. Ask yourself, where do the parts of the mechanized factory come from? Who extracted the resources that built those parts? Marx will say that the question of labor is not diminished. This is not a critique. 

Your question leads directly to 2 important considerations. First, whether the physical laws we discover through science are merely 'resemblances' - that they reflect but are not actual natural realities; and Second, that the laws of physics do reflect physical content or constituents themselves as it is like in nature. This in turn depends on your own metaphysical view of what is possible to be known by the human senses. The problem with the term 'Laws of Nature' that is often used in science today (or in textbooks) is that it is a misleading way of putting what in actuality are our best theories. These theories are what, after multiple tests and confirmations, verified as they are separately in experiments, are considered to be true because they give us the best results. They are not considered final. In this sense, 'Laws' as they are used, are actually tentative theories, they are not the final say in any descriptions of reality. This is because even the most well tested and described laws, such as Newton's Laws of Motion and gravitation, have limits. For instance, after Einstein, the laws do not give predictable results at high speeds or small quantities. Thus, Laws can never be Laws in our modern sense of certainty because they are incomplete. They raise further questions about physical phenomena that require further experimentation and testing. These questions are raised when we synthesize it with other laws that we know from other experiments, or from before. For example the recent discovery of the Hiigs Boson can be considered a result that has been built upon not just our knowledge of quantum mechanics, but also our understanding of electromagnetism and classical mechanics. The lack of a unifying theory does not mean that we do not understand nature. Often, we are dependent on these theories to built upon our understanding of reality and nature. It is fundamentally important then to distinguish between the metaphysical question of whether nature can really be discovered as it is by our senses, and whether there are laws of nature that are scientific theories to be discovered through experimentation, that are dependent on our senses. 

If there is a God, it is conceivable that God created the universe and all of its physical laws. Most people are able to comprehend this bit quite easily. What is harder to conceive, is the possibility that if there is a God, not only did he create the physical universe and all of its laws, but also that he could have created the abstract universe of logical reasoning and mathematics. If this is so, then it is conceivable that outside of our universe, in the realm where God dwells, that he could easily create a new universe that is not bounded by a current laws of logic and reasoning that was created by God. God could thus express Pi however he wanted, by altering the laws of logic in a particular universe, or creating a new universe with new laws of logic, and expressing Pi in whatever form he wishes. 

There are two useful branches of logic to apply in philosophy and science. Inductive logic and Deductive logic. Deductive logic begins with a set of premises, from which conclusions are formed. Inductive logic begins with an examination of specific results, from which hypotheses are made about general results. Both branches of logic are useful in philosophy. If one starts with some basic assumptions, and wants to deduce consequences of such assumptions, deductive reasoning is best. If one wants to determine the underlying principles behind why people act the way they do, or why things are the way they are, then inductive reasoning, followed by experimentation is suited. Often inductive logic is useful in reflection of personal experiences, which is important in practical philosophy. 

Consider your first scenario. You question if an instantaneous state can lead to good outcomes. The answer a Consequentialist will tell you is no. There are no good outcomes where time for reasoning is not allowed. Consider your second and third scenario (which are inverse propositions). A consequentialist will tell you it depends. The length of time do not affect the amount of possible outcomes, because the possible inputs are infinite at any point of time. Thus, at any point of time, use the greatest possible information that are relevant to the consideration in mind. Keep in mind the difference between 2 things. There is the point of time in which you choose as your 'function'. And there is the amount of inputs, which ranges. However, at any one point of time, you are given only one set of inputs and a specific evaluative criteria, taken from the point of view of an actor. If in that shorter period of time leads to worser outcomes than the longer period of time, both using the same set of criteria to evaluate the value of outcomes, then a Consequentialst will not go ahead with that action. Again, it depends on what criteria you use to evaluate the outcomes. Some consequentialists will say it is greater happiness, some will say it is greater security. Your outcome will depend on this evaluative criteria. If the consequences in the longer period of time justifies and overrides the negative consequences in the shorter period of time, then the consequentialist will go ahead with it. Consider your fourth scenario. You consider groups. You cannot simply add the inputs together because the evaluative criteria (the equation) changes. How would a consequentialist deal with this? Ignore the individual actors totally and consider the group. Determine the evaluative criteria and inputs possible for this group that you choose, and draw the function. You will get the answer. The questions you raise are not new to Consequentialism as a moral theory. There are mainly two types: 'Act' and 'Rule'. Act consequentialism says that the rightness of the act depends on what the individual knows at that point of time, and choose optimally upon. Rule consequentialism says that it is the group's, or more complete information, that should determine the rightness of acts. This is the subjectivist vs. objectivist concern. 

Let us suppose an actor believes that morals are objective, and one believes they know what actions are ethically "good" and "bad". Why should this individual bother acting in a way that is "good" as opposed to "bad", particularly if the "bad" action results in a net benefit to the actor? 

The Christmas Dilemma: Suppose there are 2 children siblings and 3 Christmas presents. 2 Christmas presents have a value of $20 and 1 Christmas present has a value of $200. Each child can be given one and only one Christmas present and no child can share their present with the other child. The present that isn't used will be destroyed. Is it better to give one child the $200 present and another the $20 present, or give both children the $20 present, and destroy the $200 present? The Extension Problem: Suppose there are two identical twins starving in a desert and there is enough food to allow just one of them to survive if they eat that food. If they share the food both will die. Should we arbitrarily give the food to one of them, or give the food to neither of them? 

In order to answer the question and find a satisfactory solution, it is not possible to consider only disparate problematic scenarios. You have to get down to comparing and ask linearly for instance, why a group's impression of a scenario should triumph over the individual's. Or why the greatest happiness principle should take precedence over other principles. It will lead you to other moral questions, and you have to argue for why they are so, positively, not why they should not be, negatively. 

I would like to answer your question directly and succintly. First, you need to start reading a lot. Philosophy helps in that, it presents arguments that requires you to dissect those parts of the proposition, and reconsider it. Read introductory books on critical thinking, philosophy, but also expand your horizons and see what is going on in current affairs. This is because most of the fallacies are out there in the media, that often present a biased point of view, subtly or covertly. Second, discuss with people good in understanding arguments. Not just any person who is familiar with philosophy or critical thinking, because such a person may not be a good arguer, or someone who understands argument. Third, practice. With increasing practice breeds familiarity, and you will be good over time naturally. Doing nothing leads to no improvement and subsequently, nothing. 

Let me ask you this. Do you think the Cystic Fibrosis gene should be removed from human beings? It would sound reasonable to say yes. It turns out however that the Cystic Fibrosis gene could provide protection from Typhoid Fever. The disease Sickle Cell Anemia also provides protection against Malaria. Suppose Malaria strikes a population in which Sickle Cell Anemia has been eradicated thanks to gene manipulation. This population will then have lower survival rates than a population of people who possess Sickle Cell Anemia, and have the extra protection against Malaria. The point is that by selecting favorable traits, our population looses its diversity. But the more diverse a population is, the more likely the population will survive unexpected environmental changes. Because we cannot predict the future, we can't know what traits may be desirable in the future, and therefore we need encourage diversity to enhance the probability of survival. Designer babies discourages diversity, and encourages parents to choose babies which conform to the social standards of the present time period only, to the detriment of the future of mankind. 

I'm just getting seriously into Nietzsche. What I can answer in response to your question is that you might want to look to the Presocratics for answers. Nietzsche was a philologist, and his specialty was in linguistics. He admired the Presocratics (and the Sophists) and despised Plato. If he might refer to in any ancient society, it will most likely be Greek society. However, I think it is more important not to conflate Nietzsche's ideas with historical facts. In many cases he uses words interchangably to denote the same thing. For instance, he often uses the word 'Jew' or 'Jewish ideas' to denote what is essentially Judeo-Christain ideas and moral philosophy. They have nothing to do with the people per se. Thus, if you try to find a resemblance to facts in reality to what he writes, you run the risk of mis-interpreting him. One important thing in that passage you referred to is that he is simply relating ideas of 'purity' to certain physical activities in primitive man (or humans). It need not refer to any group or society. What he is saying is that notions or concepts of purity stem from a certain physical fear of unhygienic-ness or dirt. It has nothing to do with a priori concepts of 'pure' or perfection, which is what Christain moral philosophy posits. In other words, Nietzsche is saying that there is a biological/social origin to these concepts which, after many generations, got lost and became thought of as pure by later society, which have forgotten or misconstrued where it originated from. That is the purpose of the genealogy, to link concepts of pure, perfect, the moral uprighteousness that is an intrinsic part of christian moral philosophy, and to undermine it by linking it to an intrinsically biological/social process, that over time, was inverted from what it initially was: a fear of the dirty, unclean etc. - a very primitive, raw human basis from where it came from. 

Is it ethically wrong to kill an innocent person (or people) for the purpose of self preservation? Are there ethical theories that cover this? An example may be a traffic situation whereby one can either divert their own vehicle into a wall risking their own life, or striking pedestrians, saving themselves. I know for example utilitarian principles of ethics that imply what is right and wrong are dependent on maximising the greatest good for the greatest number, but are there exceptions for self-preservation in this framework? What about other ethical frameworks? 

No it isn't a good argument. A "good" argument is grounded in reason and as such will be persuasive to a rational individual. The argument that "this is morally good because it is natural" isn't convincing at all is it? That is not to say necessarily that the conclusion is incorrect. To enhance the strength of the argument, one would need to know and explain why being natural makes things morally good. One would need to understand the true essence of what "morally good" means and understand why something being "natural" is necessary and sufficient for "moral goodness". Basically to make a good argument, one needs to begin with assumptions that everyone agrees, and deduce logically from these the desired conclusion. 

Empirically, no. In our imaginations, yes. That is essentially what you have referred to in the conception by children from images and symbols which seem to refer to their existence. You cannot prove an ideal conception conceived purely from objects situated in reality. For one could almost conceive of any imaginary object if we put them together. Consider what David Hume says, that there is a difference between 'matters of fact' and 'relations of ideas', in Chapter 4 in his Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. To simplify, matters of fact are things that, no matter what word we assign to it, are true in this world because they exist. They are established by evidence, which in turn are presaged upon 'cause and effect'. Relations of ideas are when, based on certain ideas we hold in our mind, establish them to be true by the mere thought of it. This includes mathematical and geometrical ideas, but also ideas we put together from different 'matters of fact'. That is, things that we hold true from evidence. So Santa Claus is a combination of many ideas from evidence put together as an imaginary whole. The idea of a man in a red costume, with his moose and a some 'human' looking elves, are taken from real life. We distort this picture by making this man and his moose fly, jumping into the chimneys of houses, carrying a host of goods into them (even apartments without chimneys), and give him a sense of humor. This is the imaginary picture we transmit to children, through word-of-mouth and images we draw and enact, therefore to them, there is a possibility that this imaginary figure is real, given that the empirical evidence was not told to them truthfully, but turned into a festive season made real.