Powder coating, done right, is quite durable. I have had it done on an old steel frame a few years ago and have been happy with the result. The more expensive alternative is regular paint. As far as vehicle owners go, you can't find ones that are more vain than motorcycle riders. These people often get paint or powder coat jobs done. The good news for us is that that means there's always a nearby facility that can handle bike frames. Bicycles are just like motorcycle frames except more simple. So, look for places that handle motorcycles and you then know they can do bikes too. What you need to do first is to take off all parts from the frame including the bearing race on the fork (will require a bike shop or very special tool). The shop will then be able to blast the old paint/coat off your frame, clean it with a solvent and apply a base coat and paint or powder coat. If the shop has done motorcycle frames, they will know what to do with holes and threads and know which areas should be free of paint. 

Much easier to wear cycling-specific clothing and just carry a change of clothes/shoes with you in a waterproof bag/pannier or leave some at work. Anything more than fenders and flaps is going to be a hassle to deal with. 

Not requested by your question: The rear light usually had connection to the frame via the mud shield (either it was made of metal, or had a metallic strip in the plastic body. 

Without entering too much in material science, when a metal is permanently deformed it is because it has worked out of its elastic region and has gone into its plastic region. This highly reduce the ability of that part to absorb energy, which is highly desirable in all the impacts. Though somebody may have straightened it back, it can always happen that as soon as hit a bump or have a sudden load on your rack, it will bend again, with obvious consequences on your stability. 

I recently rode my bike on some steep hills. After descending on a 4 km road with some sections at 21% slope, I realized my rims were pretty hot not only where the brake pads operate, but even up to the sprokes connection. Though I realize that keeping the bike moving will allow for a more effective cooling, should one let the rims cool down to preserve braking efficiency in such situations? 

I have checked the worn pads I recently replaced on my bike. The remaining of the grooves were filled with debris from the pad wear. Therefore I think the grooves serve the purpose of discharging the worn layer of the pad which is removed during the braking action, so that the action itself can be more effective. Imagine what happens when you brake: the pads push on the rim, and being the rim metal it's not going to wear that much against rubber. Therefore rubber has to wear. The debris will be transported between the pad and the rim surfaces, aggregating with each other as the travelled distance increase, acting as rollers and decreasing the friction coefficient and therefore the braking power. If you have some grooves in the surface the debris can be captured there without lowering too much the braking effectiveness. 

There's really not much you can do to prevent the onset of such feelings. It is your visceral response. I also think that if you're riding hard, there may be some biochemistry involved that makes angry emotions more pronounced. Just accept a certain amount of anger. There's nothing you can do about it in the brief moments during and after the incident. Smiling and waving is perhaps one way to respond. But if you're actually angry, it comes off as sarcastic and some drivers might take even more offense to that than almost anything else, escalating the situation. The best immediate response is to just focus on the safety of yourself and others riding with you. If possible, try to remember details about the vehicle and its driver because sometimes you might get another "round" with this person if they didn't get their satisfaction. After the initial rush you have an opportunity to cool down your emotions. I have found it helpful to realize that part of the intent of aggressive driving is to get a rise out of the victim. In a way these hostile drivers are spreading grief like a virus. There's no trick to mitigating this. You just have to deliberately put it out of your mind. 

If you ride several hours a week and you're still in discomfort after a few weeks it is likely the saddle. Everyone is a little bit different, not every saddle is appropriate for everyone. Many folks (especially men) find that narrower, stiffer seats are actually more comfortable than wider soft seats after the initial acclimatization of riding. 

Lately I have been using a head lamp, installed on my helmet, while commuting to work. For improving safety, and considering that I have a bar fixture for a handlebar bag which is unused for my commute, I was thinking of having a 3D printed thingy to attach the head lamp to the steering bar via the fixture. Is there any shortcoming on this? 

I have recently been in a neighborhood watch training. Bike theft was one of the topic. They showed us a footage where they asked a skilled thief to break various locks, from low end dental floss (10 Euro worth) to high end sturdy looking one (60 Euro). The thief was able to take rid of all of them in a matter of about 30 seconds, with few difference between flimsy and sturdy ones. Bottom line: the only way to safely lock your bike is make it an hassle to remove all the locks with respect to the other available targets. 

I have often noticed that, whenever a race bike is running with free wheel (so no active pedals movements), I can hear a distinct "tick tick tick tick" coming from the rear wheel, sounding more or less like a speedy clock. That doesn't happen neither on my cheap city bike, nor on my more expensive tourism bike. Is it a matter of proper lubrication, or is it also an indirect index of how good the gear is? I would guess that if I hear a sound, some energy is being spent to generate it, and that energy comes from the bike motion. Therefore I would assume that a better bike with lower resistance would be more silent. 

Check alignment of frame and fork, check that spacing is correct for your hubs. (see sheldon brown article) Look for cracks. Should be easy to see with yellow paint. Have BB professionally installed. This will ensure that your cranks are in proper alignment. At 15 years old, the frame may or may not use recessed nuts on the brakes. If not, your brake caliper choice will be limited. 

Your caliper should stay reasonably well-centered. Are you certain that all the nuts and washers are in place to allow you to adjust the position of the brake with a thin brake wrench and then tighten the the other two nuts to keep everything in place? Other than that, a track fork really isn't designed for a brake. Yes, there is a hole in there for that but it is more of an afterthought than a critical design feature. One can't expect any caliper to fit. I would consider the following in this order: 

You absolutely can shift front and back simultaneously. However, there is only one scenario where it makes sense and it does require that your mechs to be in tip-top working order and some level of finesse on your part. Moreover, it might only apply to modern Campy derailleurs (don't know about sram, shimano). The one scenario where it makes sense is if you have rapidly come to the bottom of a steep hill where you KNOW you're going to HAVE TO be in your small chainring. In that situation, I will use both my thumbs to simultaneously thrust the chain to the small chainring and to a small cog (on campy you can sweep across more than one cog with a shift). Doing this will keep you from suffering a huge discontinuity in cadence and you'll be ready to shift one at a time to bigger cogs before your cadence is about to drop. Everyone I know who uses campy does this type of shift at the bottom of very steep hills. This is good to do because shifting the chainring is somewhat dicey under high torque and low cadence. Better to do it earlier rather than later, and if you are doing it earlier, you'll ALSO want to be in a smaller cog initially so you don't mess up your cadence. 

When you are braking you are putting quite some load on the frame where the brakes are installed. (Newton's 3rd principle of dynamics: to each action corresponds an equal reaction with same intensity and opposite direction) If the frame is not designed for this, you are aiming for disaster. So, if the fork was not designed to have disc brakes installed, don't do it. 

I commute on 28 km/day at 22-25 km/h average. I normally use a city bike, where I am not exactly leaning forward but neither sitting at 90 degrees. 

When choosing a rear bike stand, does it make any difference that it clamps to 1 or 2 tubes of the chassis? 

My personal experience: I (re)started biking on commute last October, 26 km both ways. Though I believed I was not rusty (I was able to cycle 80 km in one day without complaints), the first few weeks it was really demanding. I was able to cover the one way trip in somehow 45-50 minutes, and when it was Friday I could feel really empty and craving for rest. Now I do the same distance in 30-35 minutes and it has become my substitute for morning coffee. Long story short: your body needs time to get used to the routine and also to the different post-effort routine. Try to keep a constant pace until you get used to it, and then try to push your effort a bit further. In this way you won't get worn out. 

If you look at drawings of old bikes, both types of brake configurations are depicted. This supports the idea that it was merely a design choice with no significant pros and cons over other configurations other than aesthetics. I suggest that it just so happens that builders in the place and time period you cited used this design because it was fashionable. There is very limited risk here for "catching" unless the rider is literally going through shrubs (and in that situation, catching would be the least concern). Also, bizarre freak-accidents aside, no one is going to be "speared" by a reverse brake handle. Think about what would actually have to occur for that to happen. 

Yes, as others indicated, it is for the same reason that runners don't just stop and sit down between intervals. I would add that it is also a matter of form. As much as they are about power, intervals are also about developing good form. If you punctuate them by totally slacking and using the bike as an easy chair that's somewhat counterproductive. 

Aluminum is the worst culprit for fatigue cracks. Aluminum seatposts and steerer tubes also have a tendency to develop aluminum oxide blooms that may permanently jam the seatube/steerer-tube in the frame. Carbon typically won't survive a bad-enough crash. I've heard of long-term delamination issues, but never saw one personally. AFAIK every carbon frame "dies" in a crash or mishap that damages the frame to the point where the owner no longer trusts it. Anyone have stories about what happens to carbon that is not crashed? For a concrete example, below is my own failure from a few years ago. It happened as I was cresting a very steep hill. I heard a loud "pop" and didn't realize what happened until I looked around and saw the chainstay separate from the dropout with each pedal stroke. This is a steel bike and was totally repairable, BTW. I didn't crash as a result (but neither was I going fast). Note the little bit of rust visible at the top of the crack. It indicates that the crack had been there for some time before the total failure. 

you end up having 6 to 8 actual speeds (2 or 3 rear on each front gear). Then there is the point if you would ever use all of them. You probably will if you use your bike in a hilly region or on challenging surfaces. I now cycle in the Netherlands and I see fellow cyclists switching to a lower gear when they stop at a traffic light, like they would do with a car or a motorbike. IMHO that's really nonsense, as I catch them without changing gear before they are even done crossing the road. 

Remove bottle from bottle cage and keep riding using the hand not holding the bottle Pull up the cap with teeth Squeeze bottle in the mouth (if soft bottle) or suck liquid in (if hard bottle) Swallow and repeat if necessary Push back bottle cap with mouth/teeth Place bottle back in bottle cage 

Is there any good reason to go for an high end-ish or for the cool end-ish, or is it just plain old marketing tricks? 

When it happened to me and I could not ride elsewhere, I preferred first to acknowledge the waiting drivers I noticed their presence (by raising my hand, so that they don't get into the mood of " this guy is not giving a dam about me") and then taking the first chance to stop on the side and let the queue proceed. I did this even when going downhill on a mountain road and I was travelling around the speed limit of 50 km/h and had trucks and cars behind me. In your case you can consider using the pavement strictly for the time necessary for the waiting cars to take your over.