Dog are man's best friend. Just bring them into the shop at closing and lock the doors. They have keener hearing and much better noses for smelling trespassers. They can also be quite fierce and drive away sneaky thieves. Then there could be physical protection like complicated locks, metal bars, or multiple security points (different locks). Pay protection money to the thieves so that you aren't a target at all. 

Desalination- Involves heating saline water, collecting the steam/condensation Polar Ice caps- Glaciers store about 69% of the world's freshwater, so find a hunk of ice and melt it. Freshwater underwater- There are freshwater springs under the ocean, find one and stick a straw in it. The article/reference mentions: 

Based on the assumption that this human can just fly and is invulnerable (can't be damaged) without any other powers this is quite simple. To neutralize is to render (something) ineffective or harmless by applying an opposite force or effect. If the human is average in other regards all you need to do is to contain and/or restrain him. This could range from a straight jacket to solitary confinement. Depending on how much he can lift while flying to bring the man down might include heavy nets, ropes, or missiles (he can't be harmed but the force of an explosion could knock him down). If the goal is to kill the man I think suffocation or drowning would be the best options. 

Given that many Dragons also have claws, the wing spikes could be vestigial appendages that once were claws. They could also possibly be used in self defense, though the movement of a wing isn't designed for stabbing forward with significant force. 

Alright, I am going to try and get past the fact that your story seems to have some sort of hybrid star-gate/vagina that teleports babies out of nothingness. On to your question, they can't produce genetically viable babies with only one genetic source. Bacteria and other organisms that reproduce asexually are far simpler, and still mutate rapidly. Bacteria can survive because they replicate so much that genetically nonviable offspring can simply die. If humans were to mutate rapidly they would lose to significant an amount of children, and if they didn't mutate and had a single parent they would be clones. (so again doesn't work in your story.) Also, if they were all genetic clones they would all be the same gender as their parents, and mutation would not reliably create males from females. There must be a second gene source. If you want to avoid the male passing on genes, you need another gene source. Since you're already getting this magical aether involved, you could simply make them get genes from the aether magically. 

While most Mexican states don't have their own flags, each US states do and the provinces of Canada do. There is also already a vague ethnic diversity among the states/provinces, you can tell where someone is from just from their accent, slang, or language. Also to take into account is the Native Americans who were here before colonists. Their land could have become a country if colonists respected their land/rights more. 

The simplest solution: Slime sealant Similar to what is used in tires to fix holes. When there are no holes it sits on the inside of the armor. When there is a hole the slime will get sucked out (by the vacuum of space) and harden (chemically?). This will only be a temporary solution though and won't last forever. Replacements With a smart system, and an armor system made of up equally sized segmented parts, when the exterior receives damage then said segment(s) could be discarded and replaced by new piece(s) until the new pieces run out (from storage/armor repair layer). You would need an additional minor armor/layer of protection to protect against radiation. 

Solar Radiation may be best suited to your needs. If Solar Radiation were increased it could kill plants over vast areas, starting spreading from the equator. This would also be very inhospitable to humans without protective suits. Volcanic Activity is of course another option, if your planet is very geologically unstable then it could have large areas be prone to lava flows, covered in volcanic rock, or poisoned with acid. Post apocalyptic radiation Did they drop the bomb? If so it was probably targeted at more heavily populated regions built in fertile areas. These may no longer be inhabitable. Low Water Content Planet Obviously your planet doesn't have to share Earth's exact composition, if it has less water then it would have larger desert regions. Frozen Deserts Antartica is the worlds largest desert, but it doesn't seem to be exactly what you had in mind. 

So how do you board a spaceship that is able to defend itself without teleportation? I am aware of this question How can a pirate board a spaceship without teleportation? but it only seems to answer what would happen boarding a defenseless ship. In this case the accepted answer involves space harpoons, which would likely be broken off by shots from the spaceship being boarded if it had any kind of defenses. So my question is would there be any way to board a spaceship given that: 

Any entrance/exit/doorways windows/viewing opening Space being a vacuum The type/amount/duration of damage being inflicted 

Depending on the height of the floating landmass they may not receive much rain. Rain clouds (stratus) are at 6,500 ft (1.98 km) or lower. Landmasses above this may not receive much rain, and any lower than 2 km would block portions of the earth from receiving rain beneath their floating mass. However thunderheads (cumulonimbus) can reach up to 50,000 ft (15.24 km) and have hail, lightning, and torrential rain. So with this type of cloud it is fully possible for higher floating islands to receive heavy rain and other intense weather conditions. Floating islands present a different condition than mountains which have a base and cause air to go up cool and lose its moisture. With no base the islands won't catch as much air (and their shape may not be conducive in making air rise) so most weather should be natural and unaffected by the floating islands, ie carried by the wind. Especially the smaller islands, if they range from , then you can compare them to hot air balloons or planes which are bigger than a car and don't affect the weather at all. Something else to keep in mind is the freezing level, about 2 degrees C per 1000 ft (.31 km). So if on the surface its 75 deg F (23 deg C) the freezing level is about 11,500 ft (3.5 km). Any floating island above this height will most likely not have rain but snow and ice.