Now you might argue why then there is such a temperature rating for sleeping bags or the unit Tog for duvets. Well, things are a bit easier here, since some of the aspects above are not present with sleeping bags or less pronounced. First of all, you normally do everything to keep your sleeping bag away from water and build your camp site in a way to keep wind away – hence those external influences are normally eliminated to some extent. Then, people are (usually) not physically active in a sleeping bag, so you can assume less variation in internal heating. What stays is the cold vs. warm people problem. This is addressed in nearly every text about sleeping bag temperature ratings by saying that these ratings are generated using a (more or less) standardized test procedure and telling everyone that their actual comfort perception may be shifted with respect to that rating. 

So, yes, more SPF means more protection. How much protection you need depends on how intense the sun is where you are, how long you are about to stay in the sun, and how sensitive your skin is. In general one can say, that if you are somewhere with highly reflective surfaces (snow, water...) you need more protection than somewhere in a light forest. Also the higher you are, the more SPF you should take, as in higher altitudes less of the UV radiation is absorbed by the atmosphere. Therefore one cannot give a definite recommendation on what SPF you should use. Also if your skin requires an SPF of 50 or higher, you will need it – male or not male – and in high altitudes on a glacier you might need it. If you are totally unsure about what is suitable, I would recommend seeing a dermatologist to find out which skin type you are and what protection will be needed for it. 

Therefore what is "inside" and "outside" to the membrane is basically defined by the local conditions on both its sides. That does also mean, that reversing the conditions – i.e. drying the inside of the boot while the leather or fabric on its outside is still wet – could make the membrane work in the opposite direction and dry the outside through the membrane and the inner fabric. That would in the worst case increase the time needed to dry your shoes but not damage the membrane. Even if you consider other breathable fabrics, where the fabric itself contains a physical-chemical preference to transport water vapour into a certain direction (Sympatex for example), those will not get physically damaged when moisture is driven through in the "wrong" direction, it just takes more "force", i.e. a higher gradient to do so. For both membrane types, to really harm their function, you have to physically work them by repeated mechanical strain. In addition, I doubt that a newspaper is able to create a strong enough vapour pressure gradient to "suck" the moisture from the boot's outside through the membrane to the inside. So I'm quite sure that your idea of the newspaper only drying the inside is correct. But you should of course after some time remove or replace the wet newspaper from the inside. Otherwise you won't have won anything since the paper sucked the moisture from the boot but then kept a neat little atmosphere of dampness in the shoes which is the best way to make all kinds of bacteria feel well in there and make it a place of permanent bad smell... 

I use the (double) Fisherman's knot for such cases. It's easy to tie and has a clear and concise form (easy to check if done right). As already mentioned in nivag's answer, it can be hard to untie if it was heavily loaded. One of its drawbacks is that it is not applicable for webbing as it is not possible to tighten it there to be stable. Here the waterman knot comes in handy. 

Conclusion Basically you have to decide yourself and I hope to have given you the most important properties to influence your decision. If the device is somehow part of your survival plan (this is what your question sounds like) then I for myself would go for a dedicated device since the smartphone solution appears to have many more modes of unwanted and unexpected failure. 

The most simple solution is keeping them close to your body somewhere within your clothing. This shouldn't be a problem with small items like phone batteries or small power banks. However, to make sure that they don't get damaged as your clothing gets damp from sweating, I would advise to pack them into some lightly waterproof container. An old plastic bag or a freezer bag will do. Camera batteries (depends on the camera type) can be a different issue since they can be quite bulky, so carrying them in the pockets of your jacket might be a bit umcomfortable. Unfortunately they don't produce heat by themselves (if they do, get rid of them as soon as possible ;-) ), so just putting them somewhere into your backpack between your spare clothes to provide some insulation won't be enough and they would get cold rather quickly. However, if you pack some heat source with them, this might help. Consider for example one of those gel filled hand warmers that reversibly transform the gel into a solid while producing heat. That should be enough for several hours of cold exposure, especially, if the whole thing is surrounded by some insulation. 

One approach I learned when playing beach volleyball in Egypt are a pair of thicker socks. With these you still get the barefoot feeling but have a layer of insulation under your soles. For me my old socks from my military service do the trick, but a pair of old tennis socks should also work fine. 

water cannot pass it while vapour can and the vapour is pushed through the membrane by a difference in vapour pressure between its in- and outside, i.e. a combination of temperature and moisture difference. 

If I interpret your question correctly, your problem is not so much about the climbing itself but more about the strategy, i.e. to identify where to rope up and where to remove the rope again. As you say, this can cost you lots of time if you recognize those points too late. This isn't something that you can train by climbing but more a thing that should be part of your planning both at home and in the climb itself. Planning skills I guess you have some description or topo of the route you want to climb and don't just run up some undocumented piece of rock. As you plan your ascent, try to identify those stretches where you have to go roped and where you can leave the rope in your backpack. And even more important, identify points where it is good and safe to change between both. In the end, you should come up with a plan like 

I'm actually shopping for a new sleeping bag and am a bit in doubt about a question that I do not find treated anywhere: By investing an arbitrarily huge amount of money I can buy a sleeping bag to sleep snuggly down to -30° C and even below. But what about the other side? Let's say, I buy a sleeping bag with a comfort rating of somewhere between 0 and -10° C, can I use it also in a warm summer night? Or is there some temperature where it will be just too warm to use it even with zipper fully opened and used more like a blanket? I'm aware of the fact that I will carry more weight and volume than necessary for an insulation that I would not need. I'm just interested about the comfort at the warm end of the temperature scale. So if I buy a bag with some reserve for cold fall or winter nights, will it be unusable in summer or only not the best choice I could have had? If it is unusable above a certain temperature is there some rule of thumb that says something like "a bag that has a comfort rating of X won't be of use for temperatures roughly Y degrees above that X rating."