Consider another angle... Assuming you have a VR that somehow can transfer REAL damage and pain to you (electric shocks would be my vote) I dont see why you would you want to play in it (outside of sex of course, which I'm sure will one day be a market; but I digress...). Unless... A) what if you've been forced against your will in gladiator style VR arena? B) what if its a contest for big prize money? C) what if an evil programmer traps you in the VR? D) what if they're high tech adrenaline junkies? My point is, create an interface with the player that transfers pain/damage to them (electrodes, whatever...). Your audience will accept it. WHY your characters are submitting (or not) themselves to said lethal damage is more important. 

$URL$ That might help you understand something about predators. Basically if too many predators live in one area they will eat off all the prey in that area. Nature makes it so that the predators spread themselves out over wider areas so that each predator has enough prey. In short your area will not have SO many predators that humans have to run from them all the time. But... I get that you want monsters killing people, so how about this: they build their towns and farms on fields abutted by natural cliffs. 

While most plants have 'nervous systems' which trigger in one direction only (Venus fly traps close, sundew plants curl up etc) - it's not impossible to imagine a mechanism where the Bernoulli principle causes a fluctuation of parts, which in turn, through another development of kelp-like gas sacs - allows a mechanical suction and storage of air. 

The shell could also have the same chemical qualities as a mood ring. The creature flushes blood around that section of the shell to change its colour. Finally, given that your creature has a whole day to prepare, it might use versions of camouflage other than colour changing. The assassin beetle, for instance, is covered in small barbs. It kills its prey, then wears the bodies on its shell. 

Entry eighteen, day 52 "Being low on supplies, Faraday called the suggestion that we make anchor on a nearby island to collect water and food. It was on gathering from a selection of fruiting trees that we detected a foul odour on the breeze - something akin to sulphur or decay. On checking our baskets, we found none of the fruit to be bad, nor could a place be found for the smell's origin. "As the weather closed in and took a turn for the worse, we gathered underneath a branching tree. Overhead, a large, dense cloud drew in, carried on the breeze. "It soon became apparent, however, that it was not a cloud, but a continent-sized growth of lichen - wiry as beard-hair and as light as spider webbing - which descended upon us like a snow. Light wisps at first, followed by large clippings. It soon threatened to engulf us, and we had to make a concerted effort to prevent it from compromising our shelter. On attempting to shift it with our bare hands, we found our skin to become rashed and chemical-bitten. "As the wind picked up again, the lichen was blown away in large patches - the hairy barbs caused it to clump together and take with it patches of fruit and bark from the nearby trees. It would appear that this is how the colony of lichen fed and received moisture, moving across the land like a travelling blight or cloud of locusts. "Large patches were left like carpet in the aftermath of a barber's shop, where the dry lichen had become too damp or laden to be carried by the wind. On the return journey to the ship, we were careful to avoid contact. Indeed, we saw some creatures which had not been as lucky as we had been to find shelter, and they had died of their afflictions." TL;DR: a lichen which, when dry, can be borne on the wind in large quantities resembling a mobile island without need for a root system 

I don't think a person from the years of WWII would be completely lost in our modern day. Sure the technology has moved on but not so much that its unrecognizable. I'm assuming since your aliens have WWII tech that they're at least as smart as humans were then. People then had phones and we have portable cell phones. They had planes, and we have faster, bigger ones. They had bolt action rifles and we have machine guns (they had machine guns too, but you know what I mean). The only things we didn't have then are computers and the internet, but even a cursory briefing could give them an understanding of that. Plus, so much tech now is user-friendly. Its not the technology level, its the level of intelligence and capacity to understand. If your aliens are relatively smart they should be able to adapt. Its not like they're cave men. 

This question assumes that there is complex, intelligent life on some other world other than the kind found on Earth. Carl Sagan allowed that silicon and germanium might replace carbon, and ammonia is thought to be the next thing that could be a conceivable replacement to water as a solvent. From wiki - Astrobiologist John Baross chaired a committee of scientists under the United States National Research Council that published a report on life's limiting conditions in 2007. The report addresses the concern that a space agency might conduct a well-resourced search for life on other worlds "and then fail to recognize it if it is encountered". I saw a science TV show that postulated that Silicon based life might present itself as a rock floating in space (hand wave the possibility). Say we had a method that we could use to recognize that floating space rock as a living being, how would we then interact share complex abstract concepts with it? Could life based on these other biochemistries interact with humans or would we be poisonous to one another? Could we share sciences? Would we even recognize one another? Or are the things that make us "alive" so different that we couldn't even interact? This question is probably too broad as written but I thought I'd roll the dice. EDIT: maybe the question suggests that I'm getting hung up on the "intelligence" part of the scenario. But actually not so much. No matter where we go in the universe the laws of physics will always be the laws of physics, 2 + 2 will always = 4, green will still be green no matter what we name it. On that basis alone we would have some way to start a dialog with another species no matter how alien. But what if that alien is ammonia based? Wouldn't its body literally be poisonous to us? What if there was an alien that was made of energy? What if there was an alien whose physicality was such that we couldn't even detect it with any of our five senses (a concept I'm toying with now)? 

There is no chance a reptile will be able to survive the cold of antartica - even in a sheltered valley - without some kind of heat source. Let us assume that the valley is heated by a series of hot springs which come up and form a river which runs end to end. The heat of these hot springs can be above boiling temperature - which would provide a humid environment that can fill the open-topped valley. To prevent contamination from external organisms, the river runs out to sea via a crevasse and is dug deep into the rock with steep, sheer sides. Looking at the dinosaur population from the point of view of a food web, your ecosystem will need some manner of food source to maintain it. It's possible that there is some sort of algae or seaweed that has evolved to live off the steam and low-light conditions of the hot springs - and perhaps some plants that were introduced in the dung of migrating dinosaurs. For large sauropod dinosaurs, I've looked up the home range (where it browses/forages for food) of the giraffe which would have a similar diet and walking speed - and it can reach roughly 160kms (99 miles) or 25600 square km (9801 square miles). With the assumptions: 

If its "not in a way that's immediately noticeable" then I doubt the average citizen of the place would detect the difference; unless they could see that they are physically lower by comparison to another landmark, another physical object in the distance. And even that might not get their attention, since after all its a living creature they're living on. They're probably very used to it going up and down and what not. Look to the scientist types in your story. They'll be the ones who are keeping information that they compare from time to time which could tell them something's wrong. Gas giants atmospheres are very interesting and the changes in the gases themselves could tell them a lot. It would be one of the big focuses of their scientific community. Also, the creatures bio-rhythms would be of great concern to them. They wouldn't want it to get unhealthy, since they are, y'know, living on it. Its health is their health quite literally. Other than that I might change it so that it IS immediately noticeable; sudden drops from time to time, before the creature rights itself, would be very dramatic; akin to earthquakes. 

Remember, your valley could be wider and narrower in places, riddled with caves and be a tangled, winding shape as is natural for gullys cut by rivers. If this were the case, it could easily fit within the silhouette of the UK. In actuality, this would not be such a stretch of the imagination and could, potentially, exist were Antarctica a little closer to the edge of its tectonic plate. 

Your valley could be 3 miles wide and 3267 miles long. (3.737 times the length of the United Kingdom) Picture for comparison with Australia in there for good measure: 

Entry 22, day 102 "We were travelling the gulf when we came across a rather quaint thing. We could neither decide on plant or creature - but from here on we shall describe it as a plant. Details on this shortly. "As we had encountered it, the plant was floating above the water at a degrading altitude. We caught it before it had become submerged and thoroughly inspected it. "Its stems were knotted and bulky, yet tubular and empty like plumbing pipe, perhaps like a succulent bamboo - which made capturing it with the barge hook from the port side of our boat an easy task. On its apex, a single, withered grapevine split like hollow veins to encapsulate a partially filled ballooning membrane. On the dexter side of these veins, small holes with wrinkled grape-like valves which must have, in a previous evolution, been stomata. "After our analysis and samples were taken, Charles released the plant into the water - at which point this seemingly dead plant sprung back into life. "The roots and stems began to swell (you could see the water being drawn up through the pipe-like stems) and the outsize plant stomata began viciously gulping air by action of their fluctuating turgidity. The weather-balloon at its topmost point began to inflate and it was not long before (now laden with water) the plant began to ascend into the firmament. "It was only later on this trip that we discovered this plant to be a juvenile, as indicated by its nut-hatchings and partially discarded shell. Fully grown plants, in our experience, might reach the size of a small continent - given that it does not drown itself under its own weight first." TL;DR: Strange mechanical action is sometimes stumbled upon in nature - the valves of the heart, the undulations of jellyfish or, even in the plant world, the exploding cucumber or the sensitive plants. 

I want to create a gas giant planet. The parameters I would like for it to have are: It should have a large layer of gas within its atmosphere that living creatures including humans can survive and thrive in, and I would like for that area to have zero-g. It should not be ridiculously windy. And it should include plant life and water. I’m assuming that such a gas giant would be within its solar systems Goldilocks Zone, but it doesn’t have to be. Is this gas giant possible? 

I'm trying to create a massive contained zero-g environment that can sustain many life-forms including humans. The research that I'm doing doesn't make it look good. Seems like we just need gravity. But say we could build a human to survive in zero-g without the problems astronauts have encountered so far, what changes would have to be made? Or maybe another way to approach this question is what would make a human who can survive in zero-g different from us, who cant? 

IRL the reason why I cant just wave my hand and make anything appear is because those are the laws of physics in this reality. In order to stay alive I need to breathe so its a law of this reality that I cant survive in a vacuum or underwater. Etc. etc. Establish the laws of physics, of reality, within your virtual world and you wont have everyone doing just anything and everything. Maybe there's a limit to things. You can die five times and after that you die for real! That sort of thing. 

If the creature had refractive hairs on its outer shell, it could refract light into prismatic colours. Depending on the environment, this could either dazzle predators or blend its outline. This is evident in creatures such as the bobbit worm, which has an exoskeleton covered in fine hairs. At a push, these could be used intelligently to blend in with an environment. 

"...It was on such a day that we came into contact with the war-like people of Phlogiston. On arriving in our dimension-hopping machine, we stepped out and immediately began taking notes. "The planet seemed to act like an outsized hive - with various specialised members of the race taking part in this or that aspect of society. Accounting, transport and socialites were the first to greet us - shortly followed by those dedicated to cleaning the streets and waste disposal. "It seems they had never seen outsiders before - indeed they seemed started to find that they were not alone in the universe. It was at this point that they bought forth what I can only analogise as their racial equivalent of 'soldier ants'. "These great, hulking creatures had been gym-trained and fed on sport. War had become as a game to them - much like the javelin and boxing is a sport to us, theirs were laser weapons and neck-break. They'd engage in 'friendly' rutting rituals which encouraged the survival of the strongest of the species and the withering decline of their weaker cousins. "A later analysis of their culture showed particular dedication to the heroes of their classical era - their fighters of monsters and slayers of dragons. "This last point - on which we shall end on - was our root cause for concern. A pair of bearded Victorian gentlemen in full dimension hopping gear, such as we were, must've been a frightful sight for such hairless brutes - and they reacted much as one might expect an Argonaut might. "It was a good week before I could calm Charles from his shaking and convince him to return to gather notes." TL;DR: nobody in the army actually kills anyone in basic training to be trained with a gun, and many of our games and sports reflect the survival instincts we as humans were born with. War may even be a hobby interest for your species - and they've just been waiting for the right targets to practice it on. 

Some research, and some answers from others, have suggested that a massive (planet sized?) sphere of gas in space, with no hard core, but breathable air inside some part of it, can create enough of its own gravity to keep it stable (hopefully long enough for life to form there). The massive sphere of gas would exert its own gravity thus keeping the gasses contained, even without a "cap". Inside the sphere one would be pulled toward the center, but once at the center one would experience a sense of no gravity since the gravity would be pulling on you from all directions. That is if the center doesn't have massive pressure. Or would it? Also, if the sphere were close to a sun the gasses would remain gaseous, be warm enough to sustain life, and have light. There might be water there too. I'm desperately trying to create a zero-g world/environment, that has native animal life in it, that humans can visit and live in. Is any of this possible? 

In a Rocheworld scenario where two planets are tidally locked and share an atmosphere, but where both the planets are so small that their gravity is very little (as low as one of the dwarf planets in our solar system, such as Ceres, for example), is it possible for creatures that can fly to go back and forth between the planets via the shared atmosphere? Handwave the existence of a breathable, dense Earth like atmosphere of course. Could a humanoid character fly from one of the planets to the other through that area of shared atmosphere if he/she had wings (again, handwave), or one of those flying squirrel suits with something like a Buck Rogers rocket jet pack? The way I understand it is that: They’d need enough lift to get off the ground (this place has low gravity and they’d have their wings or jet pack), and they’d have to be able to push further than the Lagrange points because if not they'd be stuck in orbit (but again, wings/jetpack, right?). So is it possible, or am I missing something else?