Yes, they can ask you this, and depending on the country you live in, there is no legal reason why they couldn't use your answers against you, however I'm not sure why they would. Having a part time job while in school is a good thing. Having a part time job when you're out of school and not trying for a full time one is a red flag. I can't think of any legitimate reason why the number of hours you worked at a previous job would be basis for denial, unless you can't work the hours you are interviewing for. 

Verbal agreements are only worth the paper they are written on. If you still want the 3rd job, go back to them and say 

Etc... This way you are not only showing that you took the appropriate action based on the available information but you noticed an opportunity to improve the existing system and support. As a manager I never liked hearing problems without having suggestions about how to solve them. I hired people because they could perform the job, and if they have an issue performing the job I didn't want to hear "I did my best", I wanted to hear "this is how we do it better". 

Some days ago I met the owner of my previous company (it's not a really big company), let's call it company A. He asked if I still have his contact and my personal name card (which I don't have). He then said they need some people. Some days after I met him, I sent him an email to keep in touch with him along with my personal contact. He replied me that they are looking for a person for specific vacancy and asks me if I am keen to apply. However, currently I am in midst of applying other company (company B) and just got reply from them that I am invited for interview. I am now in my birth country and those companies are abroad. The country those company reside in, is strictly process 1 application only to get the working visa. How can I delay my application to my previous company, company A without making them negative thinking, because I don't want to break our relationship? 

The "Thank you for your reply" is a nicety to start an email that is going to be very disappointing. 

We've been given a number to hire somebody, we offered you what we thought was a fair offer but you replied stating our offer is not adequate. We do not feel that negotiating is going to be productive, and we have a candidate that meets our requirements that is willing to accept a salary in our budget. 

The worst that would happen is they say "sorry, we can't match that" and you then decide whether its worth to go with the lower salary or tell them that you'd rather accept a position with better pay. 

You are technically qualified for the positions we hire for. If something comes up in the future we would be happy to interview you again. But do note: they now know your perceived worth relative to what they need, and may not be so quick to interview you for a position in the same salary range as the one you applied for. And in case it still isn't clear, the entire email pretty much reduces to: Thank you for your time but we've decided to go with a different candidate. So yes, it means they retracted their offer and rejected your counter-offer. They probably took 2 days to reply to you so they could contact the next candidate and see if they would accept what they were offering. If you want to try and reply and say "wait, I'll take what you've offered", then you are welcome to try. They've probably already keyed up the next choice so if you are going to accept, don't wait, do it now. The company is probably not going to retract an offer to another candidate because you've said you want the job now. 

At this point, he really fed me up since I have trusted him to do task A (in his own initiative anyway), but he sent me that email and that deadline is 3 days from today (since 2 days ago upto today I couldn't do task A because I am on deadline of task B). How to react to this situation? Should I tell my manager about this condition? Is it ethical in work life? 

I am in condition that I and my colleague have some deadline. When I asked him which task he wanted to do (task A or B), he answered he wanted to do task B. Task A is on deadline two days from today and it need some days to finish. Then in the midst of I am doing task A, he suddenly showed me he was on doing task A, so I switched our task. Up to this position, I was doing task B and he was doing task A. Two days ago, my manager said to me (my colleague wasn't there) that the deadline of task A will be 3 days from today. Then, on afternoon, my colleague, suddenly (again) he sent me email. Following are the important points: 

Yes! Not sure why you even have to wait one year, technically one day is experience and can be counted, although if it was that short you would have other issues. 

Believing you are the only one who can do your job and then trying to tell your employer that while asking for a raise or other benefits is a quick way to find out you really are replaceable, even if it causes them some pain. Instead of "you can't survive without me", try "look, I'm doing all this work and I think my output speaks for itself, would you be open to negotiating a raise"? I've been in both sides of this argument, where I had employees think that they were irreplaceable, offered ultimatums, and found themselves replaced. I've also been in the "I don't think they can do it without me" side and found myself replaced. Tout your accomplishments and value, not their failures without you, you will get a lot further. 

I have been working in a liquor store for the past several months, though my previous jobs have been office oriented so I may be going about this wrong. In general things have been going well and I like the work. Last week I got a new shift and learned a new task. I have been counting inventory on the shelves and comparing the number to what we have in the database. This is all done by hand with paper (I know some places use a bar code scanner but we just look at the product name and right down the number we count). My boss has complained I take too long to complete the task. I have tried my hardest to go my fastest and am using the most efficient method I can think of doing. So I do not know what else I can do to go faster. Whenever someone tells me I’m taking to long to do something, I ask how long it should take. My boss said 2 hours, though I’m surprised as it has been taking me between 2-2.5 hours. Should I mention to him that by my timing it is taking about 2 hours? I asked him if he has any tips for me to get it done faster and he explained to me what he does is start in a certain section, get it all done, then move on to the next. I asked him how that’s different from what I’m already doing and he said he doesn’t know what I’m doing. This seems to be the same method I use. He said it takes him 2 hours, but as I said it seems to take me about that long. Also since he’s been doing it for 10 years I’d expect him to be faster than someone who’s just starting. I'm definitely getting better and faster at the task but I think my boss is expecting to see a sudden jump in performance. I don’t mean to argue with my boss, if he perceives there’s a problem then there is a problem. Since everything is done by hand, I notice it does take awhile flipping through the pages to find the product listed, if this was done with a computer or barcode scanner this wouldn’t be an issue but we don’t have this. I noticed today when I was finished I didn’t inform my boss immediately because he was having a long conversation with a wine rep. Maybe this caused him to think I took longer than I did? Also, I get fatigued with the task. We are supposed to get it done as fast as possible because if someone buys something before we are finished counting it, this messes up the count. I get quit hungry towards lunch time and would think I would be able to get the task done more accurately if I took a break, and then I would not have to go through things a second time to fix mistakes. (considering there are hundreds of items I think it’s inevitable to get it perfect on the first iteration so I go back and fix mistakes). In a past job, my manager complained during a meeting I took to long to do things. I didn’t find I had enough specifics to fix the problem as he just said “you take a long time to do things” so I asked if he had anything in particular in mind. He gave one very specific example about how I took a long time to migrate someone’s email client. After the meeting I gave it some thought and realized I had to wait for the person to come back on vacation so she could enter her password and this had delayed the process. This experience greatly influenced my thinking. Should I speak up to my boss and say “you said it should take 2 hours and by my count it is. What makes you say I’m taking too long?” or “I am already doing this as fast as I can without any further advice”. 

I am applying an abroad company and they offer me to become their employee, without send me any offer letter or other letter, only by conversation in email. Then, they ask whether they can proceed to apply working visa for me. I feel this is unusual, so I ask for job agreement letter prior to proceed applying working visa to evade any disadvantageous things in future. It seems that their HR now finally wants to make the job agreement letter for me. However, the HR says that she need my passport number for appointment letter (which I assume it is a different letter than the job offer letter) and asks me for my passport number. Since passport number is very private information, can anyone advise what exactly passport number in appointment letter for? Update: I have got the Appointment Letter from HRD. In this letter, it consists the sections similar with job agreement with sections, for example, salary, duties, working hours, etc, etc, and she put the field of passport number under Employee's Acknowledgement which this section is right after my user's (manager) name. So I assume this is safe to write down my passport number there.