Per RedGrittyBrick's reference data the density of crude oil varies from 0.79 to 0.97. The second-highest density of all the oils listed is 0.915. The density of fit young man is about 1.08 (very close to 1). A 70kg man swimming in oil whose density is 0.915 would therefore experience negative buoyancy of about 6 kg. This weight increases to 12 kg if you choose the 2nd-lightest crude (density 0.825) instead of the 2nd-heaviest. These numbers imply that it would be like swimming in water with a 6..12 kg weight attached, which may be feasible for some but is not easy: Lifeguard Certification FAQs says that the hardest part of the test to become a lifeguard is the lifting a 10 pound (approx 4.4 kg) brick. The amount of swim force you could theoretically (assuming for example that you can breathe in the fumes) generate is IMO slightly greater in oil than water, because oil has a higher kinetic viscosity ... but not very much more: approximately 50 SSU for crude compared with 38 SSU for water. 

The savings alleged in the OP are "close to 40 TWh": which is approximately 1% of the total. The first link above claims to be able to measure small percentage differences: 

This Health Canada page says, "For most people, an inexpensive pair of sunglasses will do the job" and "Look for a label that lists the type and amount of protection" (with details on how much protection to expect). It also says, "Sensitivity to ultraviolet radiation varies from one person to the next", and "Some scientists believe that routine exposure to blue light over many years may age the retina and increase the risk of blindness in some people over the age of sixty", and more. 

Wikipedia's citation for its 1987 number is IRAQ: Christians live in fear of death squads which says, 

Well, yes: any number of things. More air travel; different factory farming techniques (resulting in e.g. 'swine flue' and 'bird flu' in humans); increased life expectancy. You could almost ask instead whether there's anything that hasn't changed. 

The principal claim in the OP seemed to be, "It's not worth getting the flu shot: because although it is 'efficacious', it is not 'effective'" -- where, "effective" was defined as "observed reduction in incidence and risk after the treatment has been given" as well as the "functional measures" listed at the end of the first paragraph, and where "effectiveness" was purportedly measured (or immeasurable) in individuals. Conversely, by talking about "herd immunity", my doctor seemed to me to be saying that it is effective (at avoiding epidemics) when sufficiently many of a population have been immunized. Even (or especially) if you are a healthy individual and could therefore afford to risk not having an injection (because, you can fight off the flu if you get it), perhaps you should get it anyway to benefit your herd. On whether it is "effective for the herd", Economic Appraisal of Ontario's Universal Influenza Immunization Program: A Cost-Utility Analysis says, 

Here are other references saying almost the same thing as the Washington Post, Rubber stamp for the prosecution 

The List of findings in the Hurt Report is quite interesting. Although (as stated above) it shows that, more often than not, it's the car driver's fault, that (it's being the driver's fault) doesn't help you to avoid accidents. Fortunately the list also gives many ways in which motorcyclists contribute to accidents, for example: 

Possibly yes, depending on your definition of "your immune system": I suspect that something like the following is their justification for the claim. Functional food science and gastrointestinal physiology and function includes, 

From an archive from NASASpaceflight.com (which is not an official NASA web site), NASA solves YERO problem for shuttle: 

I think that suggests that battle, killing soldiers, enslaving their children and so on would have happened to the Indian "ruling and military elite" ... and not to Buddhist ascetics nor to Buddhist lay folk (farmers and artisans). This book titled Indian Religions in a chapter titled "Declined of Buddhism in India", says, 

So those "Hindu rulers" might have been defeated in battle, after which the populace might have welcomed the conqueror (which corroborates rather than contradicts the claim that "India was won peacefully"). 

It suggests that perhaps there's a law which defines a doll as being "something with a human face". The 3rd May 1999 edition of Hansard is where that legal definition was discussed in Canadian Parliament in French (in the context of a rejected law making it illegal to sell dolls towards which the buyers are encouraged to be cruel). I confirm that my search for "poupée" on $URL$ using "Rechercher ces mots parmi les mots du texte (depuis 1990)" returns nothing -- or more precisely it returns 31 hits, none of which are related to the alleged law in question. 

I don't think one would want to argue that "frostbite" for example doesn't exist or is an urban legend, nor blame it on the medical establishment, merely because it's diagnosed clinically rather than in a lab. 

2. The new seeds, specifically Monsanto Bt Cotton, routinely does not perform as promised According to Bt Cotton and Farmer Suicides in India - Reviewing the Evidence (referenced in Sancho's answer): 

The mainstream news stories, reporting people who were there, are of Christians having been expelled from Mosul, not of Christian children being murdered there. 

At least the sentiment if not the exact phrasing pre-dates Medgar Evers (who lived from 1925 to 1963). 

Something similar happens in other countries. Big misunderstanding sparks hijack alert at Amsterdam. F-16 fighter jets scrambled, Special Forces dispatched. 

I'm guessing that they probably are quotes (but that sites which quote them may be quoting them out of context, and/or giving tendentious translations). 

The third part of your question was, "marijuana means any unpurified parts of cannabis plants (as opposed to purified extracts such as THC)". It says things like, 

Maximum legal power for a green laser pointer is 5 mW (which can damage eyes if held on the same point of the retina for several seconds from within 50 feet); but distract can happen at 3,700 feet, and flash blindness at 1,200 feet. 

National health authorities publish assertions (citing scientific/other studies) that cigarettes are addictive: 

The text of that convention is easy to find; but I haven't found (except for the Encyclopedia Britannica article mentioned above) a statement of what motivated that agreement. and here is the Report of the International opium commission, Shanghai, China, February 1 to February 26, 1909 (620 pages) which preceded and motivated that agreement. However it seems that commission is more about how to stop the trade: for example the introduction on page 9 states as a given that it's a harmful "bane" (which may be why they called that Commission to discuss it), and the message from the President of the United States is headed "Opium problem", as if the fact that it was problem was common knowledge. Wikipedia's article about Hampden Coit DuBose says, 

I would guess that many claims come from the same source, i.e. the writings of Bartolomé de las Casas. I won't read it all, but Chapter 2 describes "the first island which was found by Christians": 

In summary the extremely high number is widely reported, but disputed in a subsequent study; and is probably based on estimates rather than officially-reported and certified cause-of-death. 

The info-graphic says there's a problem in "Democrat Inner Cities". Apparently, inner cities in general are Democratic. 

According to the above, granite, being a "plutonic" rock, will have cooled very slowly (more slowly than a volcanic rock), i.e. over many thousands of years. The above description is consistent with Merriam Webster's dictionary definition of 'plutonic rock' 

I take this as evidence that people have been thinking and writing about monism, pantheism, monotheism, etc., since the dawn of recorded history. Furthermore, the following quote describing the origins in Judaism describes Zoroastrianism as "dualist", in spite of the quote in the other answer which defines it as "monotheist". Second Temple Judaism - Babylonian captivity 

If torture is used then it is sometimes useful. Information obtained from torture may or may not be accurate, and requires outside confirmation. Can interrogators determine whether information is accurate? There are two problems: