Your question is rather strange, it mixes rather heterogeneous things, and the example you have chosen to introduce it and help your readers answer it is completely inadequate, for reasons already pointed out in part by user66554. If what you really want to know is whether ellipsis is subject to rules as rigid as those that govern the construction of phrases, the answer is yes. If by 'abbreviation' you mean the diverse strategies used to reduce the redundance (concerning the phonetic content or the graphic representation) of expressions used in context, that includes at least two kinds of resources, one syntactic, the other not. Syntactic abbreviation resources include coordination, substitution by pro-forms, ellipsis, and the use of sentence fragments (in focus) instead of full sentences, and those are also subject to rules and principles as rigid as those that govern the construction of the corresponding unabridged expressions, depend closely on such 'basic' construction rules, and can be formulated with the same degree of accuracy. As to non-syntactic 'abbreviation' devices, e.g., the use of acronyms like NATO, USA, TV etc., the use telly or fridge for television or refrigerator, Mr. for Mister, etc. (there is enormous variety in this chapter, see e.g. Hans Marchand's English Word Formation), the answer is that they are also subject to rules that can be accurately formulated, but they are lexical, morphological and/or phonological rules that by their very nature apply less generally than 'basic' syntactic rules because the development of the lexicon is subject to contextual and historical factors that tend to produce irregularities, exceptions, or plain singularities, as is well known. However, as I said, your example - which is colloquial at best, but not really well formed, either syntactically or semantically, for reason also pointed out by user66554 - is not appropriate as an illustration of almost any of those resources except coordination (with or without ellipsis of black before wings depending on the scope assigned to black, which alters the sentence's truth conditions), but that is not what seems to worry you, since you focus the discussion leading to your question on the use of with instead of and, which is deviant, and, anyway, not an instance of 'abbreviation' in any of the senses relevant to this discussion. 

Sentence c) is grammatical because 'dummy' there forms a single chain with its 'associate' NP, four men. The chain minimally has two 'links' in this case (more if you consider the hidden structure between Comp V and Spec Tense, but that is inmaterial now). Any chain, whether it is constituted by a 'dummy' there and its NP associate, as in your c) example, or by a displaced DP and its 'trace(s)' (= its 'copies', under the 'Copy Theory of Movement'), as in your b) example, needs 1) a valued theta role feature (a 'Theme' one, here, supplied by the unaccusative verb arrived to its complement four men), 2) a valued Case feature (nominative, here, supplied to the 'dummy' link of the chain by the Tense element visible in the finite verb *arrivED), and 3) a set of valued 'AGR' features - [Number: Plural], here - supplied to the chain by the 'associate' NP link four men and inherited by 'dummy' there - which inherently has no valued Number feature and so is compatible with both singular and plural NP associates. Furthermore, if the chain is the only argument that can become subject of the sentence and satisfy EPP, as in this case, 4) one of its links, the NP/DP or its associated 'dummy', must be inserted/land in Spec T/Infl to satisfy EPP. As in your c) example the two links of the chain {There-four men} jointly satisfy all such conditions, the derivation complies with all the output constraints established at the interfaces and the sentence is grammatical. The same happens in your sentence b), except that in b) it is the NP four men itself that directly raises to Spec T, receives a valued nominative Case from T there, satisfying the Case Filter, and thereby also satisfies the EPP constraint at the same time. In your sentence a), on the contrary, the chain has a single link, the NP/DP four men, which contributes 1) a valued Theme role feature, and 2) a valued plural number AGR feature, but, as it remains in situ and, there being no 'dummy' there associate, the subject position (Spec T) remains empty, the chain neither acquires a valued (Nominative) Case feature nor satisfies the EPP. With the 'Case Filter' violated and the EPP unsatisfied, of course, derivation a) 'crashes' at the interfaces and the corresponding sentence * Arrived four men is ungrammatical. 

If your aim is to understand modern Chomskian syntax, in the sense of work produced between the original presentation of the 'minimalist programme' in 1992 and Chomsky's latest published technical work on the matter, dated about ten years ago, McCawley's book (or C.L. Baker's, or A. Akmajian's, or N. Smith's, all of which you refer to) will not help you at all. They are all excellent textbooks on syntax and on the early development of TGG, but appeared long before the minimalist programme was conceived (and positively 'destroyed' much of the theoretical basis of previous transformational generative grammar). I would recommend you to, instead, read, first, Andrew Radford's Syntactic theory and the structure of English (Cambridge UP, 1997) and the same author's Minimalist Syntax. Exploring the structure of English (Cambridge UP, 2004), two excellent and detail-rich textbooks (with glossary and exercises), then a very different earlier book by Juan Uriagereka, Rhyme and Reason. An Introduction to Minimalist Syntax (MIT Press, 1998), which offers a comprehensive account of both the minimalist philosophy in the context of general science and most of its technical apparatus at the time, then, Howard Lasnik's Minimalist Analysis (Blackwell, 1999), Norbert Hornstein's Move. A Minimalist Theory of Construal (Blackwell, 2001), Liliane Haegeman's Thinking Syntactically. A Guide to argumentation and analysis (Blackwell Publishing, 2006), and, in no particular order, Howard Lasnik & Cedric Boeckx's A Course in Minimalist Syntax (Blackwell Publishing, 2005), Cedric Boeck's Understanding Minimalist Syntax (Blackwell Publishing 2008), and, to gain a wider perspective on 'biolinguistics' - apart from Uriagereka's already cited early Rhyme and Reason - Massimo Piatelli-Palmarini, J. Uriagereka & P. Salaburu's Of Minds and Language. A Dialogue with Noam Chomsky and Chomsky's recent video lectures on YouTube. At that stage, you could perhaps go 'backwards' and read Chomsky's own technical papers in The Minimalist Program (MIT Press, 1995, especially chapter 4), his papers on semantics and the philosophy of language in New Horizons in the Study of Language and Mind (Cambridge UP, 2000), and his last major technical papers, 'Minimalist Inquiries. The Framework' (MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics 15, 1998), 'Derivation by phase' (MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics, 18, 1999), 'Beyond explanatory adequacy' (MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics, 20, 2001),'Three factors in language design' (Linguistic Inquiry 56.1 (2005):1-22) and his paper 'On Phases' (initially 2005). [All the latter papers - except the LI one - preliminarily published in MITOPL, have since been republished as book chapters in later compilations, but, as far as I can tell, with no significant revision, so it's not worth your while to spend two hundred dollars or so to buy the 'definitive' versions]. Reading just that will give you a sound technical basis to tackle the thousands of broadly minimalist papers and monographs that have appeared in the last two and a half decades. As far as I know, no major theoretical breakthrough has occurred in 'minimalist syntax' since about 2008. On the contrary - as I extensively argued elsewhere - with the adoption of 'just-recursion' and 'no tampering' as the core principles of the Language Faculty (as now understood), Chomsky's 'minimalist programme' has virtually reduced his initially ambitious and interesting view of the Human Language Faculty to near emptiness. The 'real action' from about 2008 onwards has been taking place, to my knowledge, in cognitive psychology, psycholinguistics, neurolinguistics, brain science,..., but not really in Linguistics, something you should perhaps consider very carefully if you are about to start an academic career as a linguist.