Create a Culture Where Long-Range Attacks are Considered Cowardly One of the reasons we don't use tanks much anymore is that the countries that can afford tanks would prefer not to put their soldiers in harms way. Why use tanks or soldiers when you can use drones or missiles fired from planes that your enemy is unlikely to shoot down? However, if the culture of the world were one such that it was universally considered "cowardly" to attack from a distance then suddenly you're looking at a lot more soldiers on the battlefield. At that point I can't think of a reason for tanks not to be involved (they are still filled with people and are therefore not "cowardly" weapons, just good tactical choices). Edit Also note that terrain that makes tanks feasible is also necessary. Fighting in mountains or jungles is not conducive to tanks, nor is guerrilla warfare. So maybe another point to the culture is that it is cowardly to attack-and-run. Edit II - Clarifying Points based on OP Comments Let me clarify my points a bit. By creating a culture that believes anything worth fighting over is worth fighting in person you remove planes from the battlefield (at least most of the time) and any weapons that are fired from a considerable distance. Those are considered "cowardly" attacks because they do not risk the life of anyone pulling the triggers. (note: I am not saying aerial combat is "safe", just that it is substantially safer than being anywhere on the ground... well, unless you count the surprisingly frequent crashes on takeoff/landing - particularly in that era - which I think we can assume are not considered as part of the cultural definition of "safe" combat). At this point your wars are waged with a lot more soldier presence. No more advanced scouting with planes/helicopters or clearing paths with huge bombardments from the rear... no, you're running forward with guns held high into the unknown. At that point you need to find ways to limit losses to your side while still inflicting more damage on the other guys. That screams for tanks. And because anti-tank weapons are readily available they are still vulnerable, so they don't get the "cowardly" trigger. As pointed out in the comments though, for obvious reasons guerrilla wars and wars fought in jungles/mountains won't see much/any tank use. That's just not what they're for. Fortunately, without ICBM's stopping superpowers from fighting there would probably be a lot more large-scale/active wars to write about. 

Bullets (Unless the Ships are Armored - Not Stated in Question) Note: OP states that ships don't want to get moved out of their orbits during battle, so I'm not assuming a particularly high-velocity fight. Basic, standard bullets would be pretty devastating to any ship in space and easy to carry/fire. No energy buildup, no drain on your power, and as long as you could hide a muzzle flash your enemy wouldn't even know you were firing on them until the holes started showing up in their hull. You could also have many, many turrets able to target different ship trajectories or areas of the ship. Sure, they won't blow up the enemy with a great fireball, but how many holes to the great void of space do you think a ship could have before you consider it a big problem? It's not exactly equipped for warfare, but just a few shots could probably wreak major havoc on something like the ISS. Bullets also have a few advantages over larger weapons - you can carry a LOT of them and they're so small that tracking them seems infeasible. That creates a situation where maneuvering is very difficult for your enemies (where to go?) and ensures they also won't be prematurely blown up by antimissile systems. Plus explosions from larger ordinance in space would create a lot of random debris that could come back to haunt you. Since there's not a lot to get in their way in space, despite some considerable distances they won't be slowing down either. Then ensure YOUR ship is full of anti-missile systems of course... 

This is going to create a situation where, like the sabertooth tiger, the Orc is necessarily largely (if not entirely) carnivorous. Unlike in a hippo or warthog, I would guess that the jaw structure leaves too little space for grinding teeth for plant matter to be a substantial part of the diet. That does jive with many descriptions of Orcs though, and there are many instances of carnivorous animals out there that demonstrate it is a successful survival strategy (though I am not convinced it could give rise to a sentient, social species). Health Impact Jaw-attached tusks have many of the same problems as teeth, though to greater and lesser degrees. For example, while cavities (or cavity-like issues) are still a problem, it would be less a problem for orcs than for people. This is because cavities are often caused by a buildup of acid between teeth, but tusks require the existence of space between the tusk and other teeth, which reduces the occurrence and impact. Issues that would be higher though include the fact that, being larger and external to the face, they would be more likely to be knocked/impacted and chip/break. They would also force the owners mouth open somewhat, which introduces a vector for pathogens. However, it is likely that orcs have other adaptations to assist with that issue, particularly because they are also likely carnivorous and used to eating raw meat. Musculature Impact This is probably the area where most depictions get things wrong. Usually we see orcs as humans with some big teeth, but it doesn't just work that way. To support the added weight and distribution, the entire complex of muscles that works the jaw would need to be re-worked, which would impact neck, shoulder, and back musculature as well. The most noticeable difference would probably be that their face would tend to bulge more where the jaw attaches. It would probably move them closer to the uncanny valley and make them even more repulsive to humans. 

It's not Unreasonable... Depending on your Definition This kind of question is very tricky, because you need to really specify exactly what you mean. "Closest relative" is a tricky term, with some pairs of "closest relative" animals being separated by 100,000 years and others by a million year or more, depending largely on how many other relatives have died out. Specific to this question, kill off all other "close" relatives of the duck and suddenly ducks and herons will be close living relatives (by default). From a science-based perspective it is very helpful in these questions to state that you want two animals to be in the same Kingdom, Phylum, Order, Family, Genus or Species (and/or subgroups thereof). It's far from perfect, but that ordering is the basis for understanding "closeness". Next... "Duck" is a bit of a broad term in the common lexicon. No, seriously! Let's look at two birds people would commonly call "ducks": A Loon 

Yes - The Weather Would Be Different Before we begin, let's go over what jumped out at me here is that you stated that your world has: 

The logical outcome of perpetual cloud cover is a world that is exceedingly wet. This would have a number of effects, but I'll just list 3 as I'm guessing this is not exactly what you meant. 1. Disease Spreads more Rapidly / Medicine Advances Faster (When Possible) The very wet environment would help transmit a huge number of pathogens. As a result, people are very motivated to solve medical questions. When advances are possible, those advances occur quickly. But note that not all advances are always possible. Without the microscope, for example, microbiology would not be an available field. Of course the microscope would probably take longer to invent since there was no need at all for anyone to work on improving lenses for Telescopes except for basic navigation or warfare. 2. Cities Form More Slowly Due to the wet climate breeding parasites people learn fairly early on that living in close quarters with other people is much less advantageous. In fact, it seems like every large community has a massive disease outbreak every year or two that you might better avoid by living further apart and interacting less. The only large/successful cities would be those that evolved following fairly strict practices which - as they would discover many hundreds or thousands of years later - happen to be more hygienic. 3. Shipbuilding & Exploration Occurs Faster Being very wet, everyone needs ships to go any notable distance. Rivers everywhere. So ship building takes a big leap forward. Exploration of new lands occurs much faster as a result of both increased numbers of ships and faster improvements in ship building techniques. As for how people feel when they do get above the clouds... In awe, I would suspect. We were pretty surprised when we got into space and found out it wasn't made of ether, but as we'd been staring up there for a long time we had plenty of evidence to help us get over it. Your people would have no idea about what to expect at all. Send up a plane in the day: The sky is blue and there is a big yellow thing in the sky! Send up a plane at night: No, the sky is black now and there are stars everywhere. And a moon! Only this civilization literally no words for "stars" or "moon", so they have to describe them in other ways. Send up a plane at twilight: No, the sky is reddish! I can see the moon, but no stars??? The huge conflict in the day/night cycle and the discovery of all celestial bodies would be significant drivers to motivate people to build more planes and send them up day and night. Space exploration would probably happen at the first opportunity. Oh, and surely all sorts of religious heck would break loose. 

You Cannot Survive on an "Oxygen Island" Consider standing on an island, somewhere near the beach. While the sun is a bit hot there is a wonderful breeze coming off the ocean to cool you. Except this is your world where oxygen does not exist outside of the island except in trace quantities. You breathe in, but your lungs are only sucking carbon dioxide and nitrogen. Within two breaths you become very tired, and with another you fall to the ground. And that's how you die... seemingly relaxing near the beach. That's the problem with a lack of available Oxygen. Having no available Oxygen is not synonymous with not having any atmosphere; you still have wind, and that wind is going to be lethal. With a single good gust of wind (as occurs regularly on islands, and everywhere) your entire population dies almost instantly. The problem would actually be made much worse by a lack of plants in other areas, as wind speeds would increase globally - driving more deadly wind your way. Also, your jungle won't create an "oxygen bubble" that people can live in; trees are not THAT efficient at scrubbing oxygen for us, and are even worse at trapping it into habitable zones. Trees aren't even the major contributor of oxygen to the world; look to grasses and algae for that. 

What Does an Average Joe Actually Have to Use? A truly Average Joe does not have the money you described ($1,000,000 AUD); they have much less available, particularly at the start of things. They may be able to get a few thousand dollars together without much hassle, but it may actually be too little to even invest. So they would necessarily need to turn to ventures which accept little money and which can, with some foresight, provide significant returns. Option A - The Lottery (But we can't do that) You have already ruled out the lottery, though it is the real first answer. I agree it is probably a more common plot for this kind of thing, but there's a reason for that - it's what everyone would do. The current PowerBall lottery payout in the USA is more than 200,000,000 right now, and for $2 it could be Joe's. Picturing another option seems difficult in comparison, but I suppose we can try something. Option B - Gambling I think this is a fun area for a plot, because it has so many major flaws that your Average Joe wouldn't be thinking about. If you know the outcome, gambling in a casino is a great way to multiply money quickly, which you could then use to fund other ventures. There are some major complications though. Such as: 

I assume you mean teeth like people/dogs have, and not teeth in the way that many birds already possess, right? Having evolved from reptiles, many birds do already have teeth. Ultimately the lower beak doesn't tend to do a lot more than house the tongue and those teeth. Here's one example: 

An Alien Could be Much Larger or Smaller than Us, Regardless of Gravity First, let's all take a look at Twelfth's comment to the original question. It brings up a good point that gravity's effect on a body may have contributions other than simple "weightiness" of a body. Less atmosphere tends to reward smaller bodies, more atmosphere larger bodies... and similar effects will occur elsewhere in the environment. Second, consider that those factors which will change body construction will affect both the aliens and any flora/fauna on the alien planet - which will significantly impact the evolution of said aliens. The ability of the aliens to compete with their natural predators is going to be key to whether they grow large, small, or end up at a natural human scale. Lastly, there is no stipulation that gravity = one size or another. Consider for example Dinosaurs. They were objectively significantly larger than us on average and it took a cataclysmic event to wipe them out. We also have many living human colonies who are quite small compared to the average human due to environmental pressures they faced in their past, and ape cousins who are much smaller still. Caveat - When I say "regardless of gravity" there are boundaries to that statement. A planet with extreme gravity would have a hard time supporting very large animal life because it would be difficult (and probably not efficient) to create bones and muscles that could put up with the weight. Similar things happen at the reverse end of the scale. 

Given all that, here are the issues with the Estoc: Women wouldn't elect to pick a heavy, unwieldly weapon if they had a better alternative. Even if some women have the necessary strength to use it correctly, they are the significant minority since this is a tool designed for sturdier men. Especially if the position goes to well-born individuals your available pool shrinks considerably, to the point where suitable candidates are not likely to be available. Even ceremonially it would make very little sense for a woman to wield an estoc. Better alternatives are everywhere. The Estoc is an awful weapon for indoor combat, particularly as is a very long weapon (that could replace a lance if need be). A dagger would be a better option - and that's saying something. Edit: Issues Even as a Ceremonial Weapon The Estoc is a long and heavy weapon. It is not meant to be held all day, and it would be expected to be rested (in fact, you would HAVE to rest it). The challenge though is that if you want to show it off to make a point, you need to have it bared - which means you're putting it point-down and resting your hands on top of it. That's something you would never do to a piercing instrument in a room with a hard floor, least of all if it's highly decorated. This is compounded by the issue brought up earlier regarding sexual dimorphism of strength amongst humans, wherein women would be more likely to find holding this all day a struggle. Added to this is the fact that as a long weapon it is out of place indoors. Taken together, the visual impact is more silly than intimidating or impressive. It would be like saying that extremely fancy daggers are a good ceremonial weapon for the head of a mounted unit. It may not be clearly spotted today in a movie, but at the time it would be a source of ridicule at the expense of the royal family. Thus the Rapier 

Answer: Write a Preamble This is just the cleanest way to do things. Write 1-2 paragraphs informing the reader about Homo Floresiensis, including their size, where they were found, etc. It's informative and (more importantly) serves your purposes of establishing location, timeframe, and size better than any half-done measurement. As long as it's provided in advance of the story the reader does not have to be taken out of the moment while you take them on an adventure. If You Don't, There are 3 Major Problems to Overcome To convey scale in a prehistoric sense without using measurements from today you have two major problems: 1. People are Bad at Scale If your goal is to describe small (~1m) humanoids, you need a scale that people definitely understand and that is not entirely subjective. To make my point, just look at some of the answers you are getting here. People are talking about using apples grains of sand or snowflakes. Snowflakes! Those literally require a magnifying glass to see well! Not to mention the huge variation possible in grains of sand, snowflakes, apple sizes, plant sizes, etc. Consider the case of apples, which is intuitive to most people. If you buy organic apples they can literally be half the volume of an apple produced for size (not half the diameter, but half the volume). Using that as a guide, if YOU were thinking of a small apple and your reader is thinking of a big apple, your humanoids would be as tall as homo sapiens today. Going the other way around, they would be half the size you intend! 2. Many Plants and Animals have Changed Size since Prehistory In one comment you stated that people with an interest in prehistory would know about prehistoric plants. Well, maybe. Doubtful, actually. But what is really going to bite you is if you use a current plant or animal and assume that the size remained the same over the last 12,000 years. Going back to apples, apples as they existed 12,000 years ago would at best look like crabapples of today! 3. Homo Floresiensis lived in Indonesia This is a real killer. Anything native to North America or Europe that you introduce as native to your protagonist is not only likely to be anachronistic, it's not going to be native to the region either. And even things that are common - alligators, for example - are going to be from different species, which probably has a different size. If you are indeed writing for people who are interested in pre-history you will probably leave those who understand the region scratching their heads.