No but you might be able to make it appear that there is a lake on the ceiling. Here's why it won't work: There is a vast difference between levitating a water droplet and levitating enough water to create a lake. The water droplet is suspended in the wave trough of the the sound. Also, the water droplet is small enough that its surface tension is strong enough to hold it together against the forces acting on it. Sound waves that we can create are just aren't big enough to support a water droplet the size of a lake and reflection off of the solid surface of the ceiling would likely interfere with the waveform. Also, the surface tension of a lake is not likely strong enough to hold it together under the weight of all the water. Finally, any force that is strong enough and evenly widespread enough to push the water to the ceiling, is strong enough to make the ceiling the local "down." It wouldn't appear to be the ceiling when you are walking/swimming on it. One thing that could make a lake appear to be on the ceiling would be to have a mold or fungus that has microscopic fine hairs. Those hairs can be hydrophilic, holding a thin layer of water. The water layer would be thin enough that the hairs could hold it against the weight of the water itself. So, no actual lake but the layer of water could look like a lake surface. Another option would be to have a clear mold living on the ceiling. It's jelly like composition would allow it to be deeper than a thin layer of water. It might also break loose if subjected to vibration (not fun for the explorers). 

Glimmer: As far as we can tell, gas giants cannot form near the star since star ignition tends to blow the gas away. So, Glimmer had to travel inward from the outer reaches. I find it unlikely that it could have made it that close without disrupting the other inner planets. If it was off the plane of the ecliptic it could be a capture (either an outside planet or a planet that was thrown out by another gas giant and then recaptured). Sojourn: I find it unlikely that it could be that affected by Regis without getting kicked out completely. An interesting possibility would be for it to orbit Regis' L1 point. The Expanse: for multiple rings, you would have to have shepherd planitoids look at Saturn's rings. Also, I find it to be less plausible for it to occur outside Regis' orbit than inside. It is just that an asteroid belt inside of Regis would make Sojourn too far away to be influenced that much. So, given how many odd things we've seen in the planetary systems that we have seen, you are probably safe in leaving it as is and just having the observers say, "well, lookit that." 

Things would slowly clump together or come to rest near a wall. Anything moving slowly will hit a wall or hit another object. Unless the walls and objects are hard sided (like pool balls), they will lose more than a little energy every time they hit something. Eventually, the object will lose the energy to move after a collision. This will place them near something. If passages are narrow, that location will likely be a wall. If it is a wide open space, there will likely be several clumps. Also, any hits against the station will move the station faster than they move the objects inside it. I don't know for certain but I believe that a station with a wide cross section will face fairly random accelerations from micro impacts. Also, solar winds will cause regular accelerations. the accelerations will not be from a constant direction (unless solar tracking is still active in the solar panels). This will produce a cycle of accelerations that may bias the movement of objects in the station. 

Incite a dogooder (Paladin) to challenge the dragon. Then, when the dragon is busy, snatch and run. Fast. Far. Hide. At some point you or your descendants will die a horrible death but you may have the egg long enough to sell it. 

A wind turbine mounted on the ship would do it but would only capture a small fraction of the energy you are talking about. Impact with the ground transfers all the energy of the drop (less wind resistance). However, you would need a way to convert it into a form that is more useful than terrain excavation. The longer the "impact" takes the easier it is to handle the energy. So landing on a long ramp or rails would make the energy easier to handle. 

Study up on wolf pack attacks. Your best bet is to use them for what they are good at: hit & run, ambush, and confuse & strike. The pack can treat the opposing formation like a large animal or a herd. Send in a few (10-100) to make a quick flanking attack and try do do some damage and then run away. Then hit them from another angle. Set up ambushes if they send anyone out to attack the small group of wolves. They can send a group up to feint while another attacks during the distraction. Using a combination of tactics the pack can usually wear down stronger prey. If you can't get them to completely disorganize, move off for a while and hit them again when they relax. However, as has been mentioned, good luck keeping them fed. Also, good luck maintaining Alpha position. 

Well, positing photosynthesis in the ocean, I don't see why not. Land masses don't have any kind of special effect on the atmosphere. The weather is a different matter. The weather would not be fun. Without large land masses to take power away from them, hurricanes will be stronger and last much longer. Any land life better be able to dig into or hold onto the land very tightly. The one thing that land masses (on Earth) are good for is providing nutrients to the coastal communities as soil gets washed down rivers. Though, you can get the same thing from upwellings from the ocean floor. The main thing to consider is the general depth of the ocean. On Earth the oceans tend to have more biodiversity where they are shallow (which also corresponds to being near land masses). 

The tome is an enchanted device that burns the energy channels through the reader's brain and body as it is read the first time. Once that is done, the magic in the book is used up and, depending on the worlds laws, it either remains as a non-magical readable book or it disintegrates. In the case of a book that does not disintegrate, it is possible that reading it will allow the reader to gain insights that will allow them to, with diligent practice, burn the energy channels without the magic. However, it would be almost as hard as researching a new spell. 

To expand on what John said (I love the river map BTW), very little is actually flat. Any plain that does not end up being a lake has a slope and the water travels through that plain to the lowest point. The plain generally has high and low spots (from less than a meter to 10s of meters) and the rivers tend to follow those. So, the slope and the terrain and the "bumpiness" will determine the shape of the river. If the terrain is flat and the slope is low, you tend to get "squigglier" rivers. In the first photo in John's post, the force of the water overcomes the terrain features. Since the water on the outer side of a curve travels faster than the water on the inner side, the river erodes the outer bank faster than the inner bank. That causes the loops to extend outward over time. Then they can get pinched off by the water finding a more direct path and you end up with those "arc lakes" around the river. If you are writing an algorithm, I'd have the brownian motion biased by the slope and the bumpiness of the terrain. If the water ends up somewhere without an outlet, make a lake and raise the water level to the lowest outlet and begin a new river. Using this method, the water will eventually get to sea level. However, if you factor in evaporation, the water may never reach the sea in dry areas. 

Any creature that is better than us at survival is less likely to develop intelligence. Just look at the Shark. The above list is not exhaustive and, given out limited data set of sentient creatures, some of the above may not be important. 

I agree that a spear or spear like weapon is the best for this unless the critter stands around and lets you whack at the same spot like you are cutting down a tree. Here are a couple of considerations: In most areas of the human body a weapon needs to penetrate about 4.5 inches to hit something vital. So, how much bigger is the critter and how much deeper in to you have to go to hit something important? You also have to consider total mass of wielder and weapon. can the wielder actually penetrate the skin of the critter or will he be pushing off against a stone wall? Bracing might be needed here. 

As @GerardFalla mentioned, the walls of the hair would need to be pretty thick. So, think of circular fingernails growing out of the head. What could be the benefits and issues of such? More than a eighth of an inch long (.25 cm) and it becomes pretty brittle unless there is a supporting, living medium inside. If they are dense enough, they would support each other and operating like overlapping armor. The scalp would have to be at least a quarter of an inch thick (probably closer to half an inch) for the follicle of the hair. If the hairs were not dense enough to support each other, then to get any kind of length, there would have to be living tissue inside the hair. That would mean that any hair that breaks off too far from the tip would bleed (like trimming a dogs claws too far). All that thick hair would be very heavy and would require thicker neck muscles. Also, one of the main reasons for hair is to provide evaporation cooling. The brain is one of the big heat generators of the body. Unless the people lived in a cold environment, they would cook their brains without some other means of cooling their heads. I suppose you can use active cooling by running blood vessels up the hairs and use them as radiators but hair breaks would cause much more bleeding. So you could bet the benefit of armor and/or spines but at a pretty high cost. 

There are other really good answers here so I'll just touch on where the sand is likely to be. Sand and dust will be blown by the wind. So, check your prevailing winds. If your wind blows from west to east (like on Earth's northern hemisphere), the sand will blow with it. That means that the western side of the desert will be rockier than the eastern side. One neat feature may be a low spot in the mountain ridge on the east side where some sand can spill out, making a small drift of sand stretching toward that sea. One feature that doesn't really work is the mountain range crossing the top. It is possible to have that configuration if the top range is much younger but a more believable configuration would be to have the two side ranges form an inverted V. I do see an issue with the desert that is below the mountain ranges. Maybe that is due to volcanic activity. That would give you 3 types of desert. If it suppose to be non-volcanic, it is too symmetrical. The side that the winds are coming from (I'll assume west to be consistent with above) will have fertile lands extending further inward than the eastern side. If there are any sand drifts, they will form a crescent like shape with the bottom tip pointed toward the east. 

Just using the device doesn't break any laws unless he breaks a law while using it (eg. using it to pull a bank robbery). The only thing he could possibly be guilty of. based on your examples, is entering a nation without proper visas or other permits. It would be up to those countries to prosecute (if there was any evidence to back up their claim). The one with the biggest claim would be the National Graphic Institute who may sue over trademark infringement. Of course, that doesn't mean that if the nation wanted his secrets badly enough that they couldn't just make something up. If they call him a terrorist, they can mostly do whatever they want. 

People would still need to pay for the energy to run the "replicators" unless the energy was also free. In that case, being pessimistic, you would have 1% of the population available for the workforce and 99% sitting around expecting to be entertained. 

You only need time, not guilds or worldwide schools. Lets take DnD as an example since I've played it on and off since 1978. The earliest versions of DnD assumed a great civilization sometime in the very distant past. Wizard: There must have been someone a long time ago that either developed study based magic or received it from some outside source. He/she would have taught it to a few people. Whether there was a formal school or not is largely irrelevant. Since magic was useful, people learned it and the study spread, often with distinctions of various flavors as people learn different portions of the available knowledge depending on circumstances, skill and interest. Fast forward to "modern" times and you have wizards most places that have a large enough population. Cleric: Clerics worship various deities. Presumably, it is difficult for a deity to show up and offer power for worship. So we can posit that they show up in only few places on the world and convert a small group each time. The worship spreads like a virus across the world (small pockets of worshipers who send out people to convert other small pockets). Fighter: This is the first class that has a real world example. Just look at any weapon wielding group on our history. The club, sword, axe, and bow have sprung up multiple times in multiple forms as materials become available just because they are good tools for what they do. Sword techniques, for example, develop to take advantage of the shapes of the various swords. They can spread where ever the sword style goes. It may also be developed spontaneously whenever a sword style is common. There don't need to be specific guilds. Rogue/thief: Like in the real world, these skills can develop several times in different areas. Where ever someone has something that someone else wants, people will learn how to get it. There are other classes that are either similar to the above or combine lesser versions of the above with something else. These are all variations that can be spread with sufficient time. 

Short answer: Lobbying Long answer: It would take a long string of lobbying to find/build loopholes into anti-trust laws. The only reason for an oligopoly to develop is if they are prevented from forming a monopoly. So, I envision a long string of small events where they use the oligopoly to "prove" that they aren't a monopoly. Once the system is set up and the 4 power bases are stabilized, they can begin the process of getting the public to forget about monopolies (or keep it, dealer's choice). The would always need to have something to point to that is worse than the current system so they can harp about "how good we are compared to...". Note I would study Japan for the way conglomerates can work. Honda and Toyota make a whole lot more than cars. We just don't see it in the US. They also have non-confrontational unions. So, a system that you are describing can work. It will just take a long road to get it to work in the US. I would say 2-3 generations of concerted effort. Here are the ways that a small business would be "absorbed" by one of the four: 

For semi permanent, chemicals would work but they would likely dissolve away over time. Early writing may involve placing items in specific patterns. This is pretty temporary since it is easy to disrupt this. Making scratches in a solid surface is much more permanent if their sense of touch is acute enough. Unlike carving, you don't have to swing anything against the water to make an impact. All you need is something to hold onto for leverage. Another possibility would be using a chemical to change the texture of a surface. So the smooth polymer (or whatever) pattern on the rock would be the writing. If you can alter the texture of the polymer, you can encode more information in the same area. You could also change the chemical composition to, for example, add emotional impact to the writing.