The point of my comment was that the connection between CMEs and flares would make for a good 20 page research paper in a college course. The connections are still only understood at a kind of cartoon level, after decades of concerted research. But I can tell you what the basic cartoon is, and you can think of that as a kind of operating hypothesis that helps organize many of the observations, but is still a long way from a predictive model. The basic idea is that the energy for flares and for CMEs both seem to come from magnetic free energy stored in the corona due to the magnetic and turbulent nature of the convection zone. The magnetic field is capable of trapping pockets of hot gas that has been energized by this magnetic activity, but then when the field lines get significantly twisted up they reach a point where they can release that energy and relax to a smoother configuration. This relaxation does two things-- it releases energy, and it reconfigures the field such that it can release these pockets of trapped plasma. The former is the solar flare, the latter is the CME, and that's why the two often come together. However, there seems to be a full range of weak to strong flares, and weak ones would not be associated with CMEs. On top of all that, there may be other processes that heat the corona, and other processes that lead to the solar wind, so one big question is if the heating of the corona is mostly from lots and lots of small flares, and the solar wind is lots and lots of small CMEs, or if the general heating of the corona and general driving of the wind are separate processes from flares and CMEs. Also, you mention closed and open field regions, so these questions can be asked separately in those two domains. But CMEs would normally come from closed field regions that open up when the field reconfiguration occurs, I believe open field regions tend to be rather sedate and not associated with either strong flares or CMEs, but rather a more steady wind. In the closed field regions, CMEs are often associated with features called "helmet streamers," which are regions of trapped plasma that are kind of combed out at their highest point by the solar wind, creating an interface between closed and open fields that is a good setup for getting field reconfiguration that could launch out some plasma. 

There remains a question of semantics, which is simply, what is meant by the "observable universe." The fact is, different people are going to mean different things by that very phrase. Indeed, the Wiki on the "observable universe" contradicts itself in its very first paragraph, stating first that "The observable universe is a spherical region of the Universe comprising all matter that may be observed from Earth at the present time, because light and other signals from these objects have had time to reach Earth since the beginning of the cosmological expansion", but then four sentences later it changes its meaning, saying "Every location in the Universe has its own observable universe, which may or may not overlap with the one centered on Earth." So they seem to pick a particular universal age for their meaning, but not necessarily a particular vantage point. But note that in this meaning, there is no way to answer how it changes with time, as it exists only at a single time. This meaning gives us various choices for how to extend the "observable universe" forward and backward in time. For example, we could take all the stuff in today's "observable universe" from Earth, and ask where that stuff will be in the future, and where it was in the past. Then we can use language like "when the observable universe was the size of a grapefruit," etc., but notice the ambiguity: when applied to the future, like "what will the observable universe be at such-and-such a time," we invariably imagine updating what could be seen by the beings of the day, but when applied to the past, we generally don't imagine there are any beings at all, so we don't update what their observable universe would be, we take our own and just shrink it. So quite frankly, the term is really something of a mess, and so to answer your question, we would need to clarify which meaning you are taking. Let's assume you mean the "obserable universe" that is constantly updating what hypothetical beings could observe had they existed on Earth at the time, then we do have a time-dependent mass. As the Earth ages, there will be more time for light to reach us, so the observable universe will increase in size, but it will not necessarily increase in mass. Assuming the acceleration continues as expected, the observable universe mass will increase by something like a factor of 2, reach a maximum, and then begin to decrease. Its size will always be increasing with time, but its mass will then be decreasing. 

It has long been one possibility that gravity does not work as in general relativity, or as in the Newtonian limit that is relevant to the gravity in a galaxy. Thus, many different modifications to gravity have been tried. But the reason they are generally not very successful is that dark matter seems to alter gravity on many different scales, from within a galaxy, to over galaxy clusters, to the expansion of the universe as a whole. Thus it generally requires multiple different modifications to fit them all, and that makes for a very clunky model of gravity-- one can fit anything if given enough free parameters. That sounds like it would be the problem for trying something based on the speed of gravity-- the timescale for propagation of changes would be very different over the three scales I just mentioned, yet dark matter has a similar influence on all three scales. 

There is no such unique point, because a key element of the Big Bang model is called the "cosmological principle," which means that every point in the universe is taken as essentially equivalent to any other. The idea there is that as the universe ages, it changes, but it changes in the same ways everywhere so there is nothing going on that distinguishes one region from another. This is a simplifying assumption that is supported by the fact that we see no boundary to the universe, and we see no evidence that anywhere else is different from here, the differences we see appear to be due only to the fact that we are seeing farthing into the past as we look farther away. This assumption means you could pick any point you want, point to it, and say "the Big Bang started there," and you would be no more right nor wrong than if you pointed anywhere else.