No, not for the case of taking side, not in a wordily sense. He would nevertheless speak of what is good, explain cause and effect but never making a favor, never "playing" world empire king or judge. Mara often tried to bring him to become a leader, a judge in wordly views. Knowing kamma, knowing that beings are heir of their deeds, wise don't do such, letting beings chose their deeds and defent or shelter, devote only to the Dhamma. For more to understand, read: 

It's just a matter of the object, of the food, but at it's root, if observing well, there is no different. Views, either greedy, aversive or defuse appearing are views. And for politics increasing greed and pleasure is more conductive. One can say that it is like controling the markted of drugs. Sometimes east did it, sometimes west. Currently Asia has it under control, made it their tool. When ever on hears that people of certain geografic or birth are inherent different, one can be sure that the observant is/was not very attentive and took either this world and views or that as real. Wordlings from Buddhist Countries are interested in the marked like popular Western teachers. An all tolerating, all serving business bring fast costumers, since the mass is not very smart but greedy and full of conceit. Since many eastern still learn service and devotion as a tool from child on, they have it generally easier in this regard, but on the other hand, those rejecting service and devotion are fastly winning people in the east. So so called "open-minded" comes generaly for a certain purpose and was always a good tool acting smart to again just win. So no hope for refuge in regard of realm of certain birth, because their conditions change as well by time, better by deeds. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

The Buddha states that he sees no other thing that is so much responsible for the arising of unwholesome qualities in a person as bad friendship, nothing so helpful for the arising of wholesome qualities as good friendship. Is associating with good and wise people only useful for direct experience in this present life or is it right to assume that it will carry on to the next life e.g. reborn among the wise and good people or have good companionship? Thanks. 

It's said that our actions are originated from unconscious mind. People are trying to become more patient, more tolerable, etc. but there are anger type of people, lustful type of people, etc.. Once the circumstances change, people also change according to their nature. So can we change our 'true nature' by just doing good deeds? Or good deeds have to come from our true nature? Thanks all. 

When we practice mindfulness we notice our mental habit and mental pattern. What makes us angry, jealous, greedy, etc.. My question is, when you notice them, do you change it to positive mental quality or just watch it? Someone angry for 'no reason', but actually there is a reason if one keeps the mindfulness. With mindfulness, we realize that the trigger of the anger is for example a certain situation happened yesterday. By realizing this we are no longer angry. Is this also a practice of mindfulness or analyzing? Which one is the correct practice? Thanks all. 

Based on this, I would guess that the Manimekalai is a literary work of fiction, based on Faxian's story that came not long before the authorship of the Manimekalai. While it is unknown how Manimekalai's author derived the number "1616", we can speculate that he intended his readers to look forward to the coming of the future Buddha within a few centuries, perhaps to motivate the Tamil-speaking Buddhist community at the time, and also to kindle the interest of the non-Buddhist Tamil-speaking people, in Buddhism. 

From my understanding, the first three are about vipassana (insight) and samatha (tranquility). Questions: 

There is no OM or AUM in Theravada to my knowledge. It's found only in Mahayana and Vajrayana. The 14th Dalai Lama explained here the meaning of OM in "OM MANI PADME HUM" as: 

In the essay "The Four Sublime States" by Ven. Nyanaponika Thera, there is a chapter entitled "The Inter-relations of the Four Sublime States". I quote a part of it below: The translation used here: Love = metta, compassion = karuna, equanimity = upekkha, sympathetic joy = mudita. I would have preferred to translate mudita as "empathetic joy" rather than "sympathetic joy". 

There is a good commentary on the eight precepts here in the Questions and Answers format, originally written in Thai by Ven. Ñanavara Thera and translated into English by Ven. Kantasilo. 

It's often used, this argument, for a good or a bad: "there are no people" equal to "there is no self": My person doubt either out nor for wisdom. Did the Buddha ever use such abstract arugents? What are possible bad impacts if arguing in such a way? How would people react if you tell them that they are just an illusion? Whould they be free of fear from you who thinks of others in such a way? Didn't the Buddha teaches cause and effect? It seems that an "is" argument is far away from Dhamma: How would people aruge valid to maintain such ideas? Can those who tell such things bear it to get beaten while the harming person says "Nobody get's beaten"? Would my person fails if saying that's the "Dhamma" of the foolish Jhains? 

And who does not simply help his defiöements, to identify him/herself to gain, sacrify pointless and does not keep Silas, doing his obligations? Do you? Watch out the worthy guṇa for your sacrifies! Render help and assistance, doing ones duties, is a factor of the merits of virtue and is called Veyyāvacca One who is not devoted to anything suffers, the Awakened saw, and that is why he devoted all lasting fuel in service for the truth, the Dhamma, yet free of any duty at all. See also The Arrows of Thinking Papañca & the path to end conflict 

When you are sharing merit with someone, are you visualizing the person you are sharing the merit with? When you are sharing merit with all living beings, are you imagining all beings? How do you do that? What do you really do from Theravada perspective? Thanks all. 

Intention that is good will have a good result and bring happiness, bad intention will have a bad result and suffering as a result. But many things have been experienced in life, one thing can be experienced many times in different situation, condition and time. These all together with one's habit will give rise to different kind of intentions only for one action. The first intention will be followed by the second or maybe the third. Normally intention that first comes up is closely related to someone character/behavior, realizing this he corrects his mistake. Along with this correction, there will be another intention over two previous intentions. In that case, is one intention better than the other? 

Reading the Sutta, 'fool' is described in many different situations and conditions. Sutta doesn't define exactly what is the meaning of 'fool'. It's us with our own understanding, try to understand Dhamma. Our understanding itself is subject to change. Endowed with misconducts, someone is a fool. A person who is attached to worldly pleasure also a fool. Even those who have left home for the life of homelessness but is attached to jhana, deviate from true goal, is also considered as a fool, etc.. From my understanding, Buddha encourages us to strive to Further Shore. Be diligent and learn from those who are endowed with purity in conducts. Be compassionate to those who need our guidance as we would want to be treated. Our practice in helping others should not affect and deviate us from the path, if we are not ready, it's good to take a step back. While learning and practicing, we need to keep wise companion and strive to the state 'devoid of foolishness'. Edit: Just to add, the word 'fool' is translated into English as 'young child' or childish. It's figurative language to describe someone who is spiritually immature and certainly is not the same as 'fool' in English word. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Supportive case samples: Just to give a possible graspable case. One is asking you a secure way through the dangerous forest. You tell him what you think. Later you find out that this way leads through minefields. Maybe apply-able by replacing "intent to kill" with intent that one takes on ones understanding? (Thinking: "Who ever might come accross my answer, way he fall to that."): 

The fact that "selves" get reborn is at least no encouragement to seek for it, and as also mentioned in the question: the Buddhas teachings are about getting dispassionate with1 all kinds of becoming. It (notion of self and it's possible harm or support) just used as a governing prinziple to gain a good notion of self. When ever there is no more notion of any self indentification then such as rebirth has come to an and. Of course it is nonsense to speculate about "what" kind of rebirth if still subject, if there is still a condition for it. Of what rebirth one may gain next, the Buddha described with the falling of a stick thrown into the air, one time falling on this end, then this, or on the side (link later) But in regard that certain actions give certain results on ones being, when ever such may ripe, and there is rebirth if the is the condition for it, in this regard the Buddha was clear and did not let any door for speculation but encouraged one with it to better take the secure way and let short timely "fortune" and "misfortune" better behind: in putting an end to birth. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Here, he says "don't bear down too heavily with your focus". That means, that goal of this exercise is not to investigate how the movement of air is working on the nostril. Rather, the goal of the exercise is to focus or latch the mind onto something it can concentrate on, and keep it from wandering. 

While BonnWarapol's five higher fetters would be the most difficult to eradicate for all non-arahants, for a beginner in meditation, the hardest to eradicate would be the five hindrances (pañca nīvaraṇāni): 

I could find lying, stealing and coveting which is close to cheating. Illicit sex can also be considered, if it's with another person's spouse. From the Maha Kammavibhanga Sutta: 

(and the same applies to the other four aggregates of sensation, perception, fabrications and consciousness) Hence, you should not feel trapped to be here now and you should not feel the fear of not existing after enlightenment. Rather, you should understand and acknowledge that there is suffering, and find means to become free of that suffering. This then leads to the Noble Eightfold Path. 

If you're practising samatha meditation, you can get pleasurable feelings of piti (ecstasy) and sukha (joy) on entering the first jhana state. In the article entitled "Entering the Jhanas", Leigh Brasington described the first jhana: