I haven't been able to find any data on the known crash locations of any of the bombers lost. I have found a website that list's most of the bombers included in the raid, and looking on the Wikipedia articles goes some way towards making the list look genuine (as the squadrons listed did take part in the raid, according to wikipedia). However, to find more information on the lost bombers the website I've linked to may provide you with some pointers. For example, the list linked to lead me to a veterans group website for the 98th Bombardment Group. The page linked to lists the bombers included in the raid and many are listed as "Shot Down in the Target Area" such as the Margie (the aircraft name) 

As you quite rightly mentioned, in the late 19th century London was the focus of one of the first instances of state involvement in Urban Renewal (previously it was a process that was privately initiated, a notable example being during the industrial revolution) in order to combat the unhealthy living conditions in working class neighborhoods. (As an unrelated side note, the Boer War illustrated to the British Government that there was a serious issue with public health in some areas as "in some towns as many as nine out of ten recruits for the army were rejected because they were so unfit" - BBC). This principle of urban renewal, public health and safety, can be seen as a driving force behind the process of urban renewal in Hong Kong that took place in 1954. The renewal of the Shek Kip Mei district was initiated by Governor Alexander Grantham after a huge fire in a slum saw some 53,000 people become homeless in 1953. As a result the Shek Kip Mei Low-cost Housing Estate was constructed. The urban renewal that took place in Singapore in the 1960's was also as a slum clearance measure as some 25% of the cities then population was thought to be living in as little as 1% of the available land. This was a result of the huge amount of damage done during WW2. The importance of both world wars in terms of urban renewal cannot also be understated. Huge amounts of damage were done to cities across Europe as well as cities in China, Japan and northern African nations. Rather than write my own summary, the following quote from "Neighborhood Regeneration in Beijing" seems to fit perfectly with what I have found so far, and with what I was taught when studying Urban Geography while at college. 

It is worth mentioning that a Knight that was the retainer of one lord could have their own retainers. 

We can immediately discount the 155mm Haubits FH77, as that wasn't produced until ~1978. I can't find much information at all on the "Metamorphosis", so I can't say with that. But the M-46 was first produced in the 1950's and the D-30 in the 1960's, so it is likely that those were used. Where the 105mm Indian Field & Light Field Gun's are concerned, it seems likely that they are names for the L118 Light Gun as used by the British Armed Forces between 1961 and ~1975. It's quite possible that the Indian Field Gun is a locally produced version of the L118 and the Light Field Gun was an import. It's also possible that the Indian Army had access to the Abott Self Propelled Gun by this point, as a version was produced by and sold to India, although I am not sure when this occurred. The WW2 vintage artillery that was likely to be used by India - and reportedly up until the 1980s - was the Ordnance QF 25-Pounder which was used by the British Army and many Commonwealth Nations throughout WW2 and into the 1970s/1980s. I don't know if they were still in service with the Indian Army in 1971 but they were in service with the British Army well into the 60's and only stopped being used ceremonially in 1992. 

The Meiji Restoration that took place between 1868 - 1912 saw many of the traditional rights and privileges of the Samurai class drastically changed or removed entirely. In 1869 all Samurai were renamed as Shizoku and the Samurai class ceased to exist. 

Source I have been able to do some verification on these figures as they appear on several websites (Such as Tommy1418 and "Innovating in Combat") but I've not been able to find a digital image/copy of War Office Instruction 166 (1914) yet to fully check the figures. 

Subsequently, Shizoku saw many of their traditional rights stripped away. The right to carry swords was abolished, conscription in the Imperial Japanese Army was implemented and the traditional stipends payed to Samurai were converted to be government bonds. The book quoted above goes on to say that these changes combined to undermine the traditionally privileged position of the Samurai. Despite this, the Shizoku began to dominate the social, political and economic life of Meiji Japan. However, the importance of the class was further eroded when the class of an individual was no longer officially recorded from 1914, making the term an indicator of Samurai heritage more than it was a privileged position. This was a fractious time, and the changes being made caused several rebellions stemming from the Shizoku class, as well as peasant classes. One example of such a rebellion is the Satsuma Rebellion that took place in 1877. In 1871 the first units of the Imperial Japanese Army were formed. 

Having done a bit more research I have found this page concerning Awards and Promotions on a website regarding Werner Voss. The website states that, as would be standard, all soldiers started of with the rank of "Soldat" or a unit based equivalent. It also states: 

The full Bill of Rights Act 1689 (Recorded as the Bill of Rights 1688) can be read at Legislation.gov.uk. The Bill Of Rights act was recently amended when the Succession to the Crown Act 2013 was passed into law. One of the key parts of the Succession to the Crown Act was to allow the first born child to ascend to the throne regardless of gender. More information regarding the succession of the British throne is summarised here. 

The answer is, quite simply, yes. The daily ration of alcohol traditionally existed to help soldiers cope with the stress of combat and daily life within the military. In WW2, the British Army did continue with a Rum ration to troops, but only in some situations and only with the consent of a medical officer. This ration was generally given before attacks and during protracted periods of combat. The Royal Navy continued the practice of a daily alcohol allowance up until 1970. Today, the order to Splice the Mainbrace can be given by Queen Elizabeth II, a member of the Royal Family or a member of the Admiralty Board, where a tot of rum will be issued to each member of the ships company of an RN vessel. The paper "Alcohol use and misuse within the Military: A review" by Edgar Jones(King’s Centre for Military Health Research) and Nicola T. Fear (Academic Centre for Defence Mental Health, King ’ s College London) is a fascinating read that gives detail on alcohol consumption within the military for a number of more recent conflicts - including WW1, WW2 and Vietnam. As per the drink of choice, the officially issued spirit (as I have mentioned) was Rum, although it is likely that this could vary depending on availability. Grog, was a drink made from a mixture of water or a small beer (weak) and rum that was introduced into the Royal Navy in 1740. The juice from citrus fruits was later added to prevent the spoilage of the mixture. 

As mentioned already by Mark C. Wallace, one of the key aspects of the English Civil War was the divine right of the Monarchy. The Bill of Rights Act 1689 established that the succession to the throne is regulated by Parliament and not by any divine right. The following lines state that James the II abdicated the government and left the throne vacant when he fled the country. 

This was set out as part of Regulations and Instructions - 1808, Relating to His Majesty's service at sea, Section IX, Chapter 1 - Of the Provisions, Article 1. Article 2 set out suitable substitutions for these measures. Article XI defines the rules for the provisioning of ships with water: 

I have found a source, "Intelligence Estimates of the Warsaw Pact" from "Studies in Intelligence Vol. 51, No 4 (Extracts-December 2007)", which is an academic paper that covers Western intelligence estimates of the reliability of Non-Soviet Warsaw Pact forces. Fortunately, it also contains several quotes from Warsaw Pact Generals. It covers estimates from the late 1940's/early 1950's through to the end of the cold war, and tracks how the Western intelligence community perceived the reliability of NSWPs. It frequently mentions that the military reliability of NSWP forces varies depending on the country, and the event in question as well as the nature of the conflict they are involved in. For example, the below quote covers a 1977 estimate regarding the issues the Soviet Union was facing within Poland at the time and it concludes that the Soviets could not have confidence in the reliability of the Polish military in resolving the issues. 

HMS Spurious was a 1930's Albion Bus that, as your quote says, was converted to resemble the island of an aircraft carrier. It was used by the Deck Landing Control Officers school based at RNAS East Haven. 

So, assuming we have a ship with a crew of 150 (Lower estimate of the crew of a Sixth Rate Frigate) - that intends to be at sea for 26 weeks of the year - the following amount of provisions would be required: 

As stated by Pieter Geerkens in his answer, the Royal Navy had 181 destroyers available to it in 1939 (including any that were in refit). I'm posting this in order to expand on the other answers. In 1939 the Royal Navy maintained a large number of fleets and stations including (but not limited to): 

Well, according to all sources I can find they issued free travel vouchers - in the form of "First Moon Flights" Club cards - that could be redeemed for a trip to the moon when the service started. 

Well, I've found a couple on WWII Archives. USS Enterprise (CV-6) War Damage Report - 5 September 1942 (Eastern Solomons) - War damage report of Captain A. C. Davis of details of damage to USS Enterprise (CV-6) as a result of three direct hits during the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, 24 August 1942. USS Enterprise (CV-6) War Damage Report - 8 November 1942 (Eastern Solomons) - Captain O. B. Hardison's report of damage from 2 direct hits and several near misses which caused extensive damage to USS Enterprise (CV-6). Photographs of damage are enclosed. USS Hornet (CV-8) War Damage Report - October 26, 1942 (Santa Cruz) - War Damage Report for Hornet (CV-8). Loss in Action. Santa Cruz. 26 October 1942 USS Lexington (CV-2) War Damage Report - June 15, 1942 (Coral Sea) - War Damage Report for Lexington (CV-2) Coral Sea. 15 October 1942 USS Yorktown (CV-5) War Damage Report - 28 November 1942 (Coral Sea) - War Damage Report for Yorktown (CV-5). Bomb Damage. Coral Sea. May 8, 1942. USS Yorktown (CV-5) War Damage Report - May 20, 1942 (Coral Sea) - War Damage Report for Yorktown (CV-5). May 20, 1942. USS Yorktown (CV-5) War Damage Report - March 9, 1943 (Midway) - War Damage Report for Yorktown (CV-5). Loss in Action. Midway. June 4-7, 1942. In fact, this website has plenty of information, including Action Reports, War Diaries, Casualty Lists, Code Books and Intelligence Summaries and Intercepts and a fair bit more. 

While I can't find much on when the sword was adopted (at least for the moment) I have found several sources that point towards answers for some of your other questions here. It appears that the method of death varied depending on who you were, or who was punishing you. The following refers to the reign of Caligula. 

One example of land grant's as a reward for military service can be seen in the history of the United States. The Military Tract of 1812 was an Act of Congress passed to reward, partially compensate or encourage soldiers who fought in the War of 1812. In fact, the policy continued until 1858 when they stopped issuing the Bounty Land Warrants and the rights to locate and take possession of the land ceased 5 years later. Each soldier was rewarded with the rights to 160 Acres of land in tracts that now form part of modern day Arkansas, Michigan and Illinois. An act of the 14th Congress, April 19 1816 An act of the 12th Congress, May 6 1812 

Furthermore, the supremacy of Parliament was established after the signing into law of the Bill of Rights Act 1689. The bill set in stone the sovereignty of Parliament by making a number of things illegal, in direct reference to the actions of King James II. 

So, I'd agree with the others when saying that it appears to be the uniform of a Russian firefighter in the years leading to the revolution. 

Despite the fact that World War 2 ended on the 15th August 1945 with the surrender of Japan, two belligerents are yet to sign a peace treaty to end the war. As of today neither Russia or Japan have officially signed a Peace Treaty to end the conflict between them. This stems from a territorial dispute over the Kuril Islands situated to the north of Japan, Etorofu/Iturup(in Russian), Kunashiri, and Shikotan which are currently part of Russia. The islands were invaded by Russia in 1945 in the closing stages of WW2. There have been a number of attempts to conclude the signing of a peace treaty, most notably from President Boris Yeltsin in 1990 and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and President Medvedev in 2009. These were met by a number of setbacks, firstly in the form of Prime Minister Taro Aso saying the islands were illegally invaded, and then by Russian military exercises near the Islands in 2011. Sources: ForeignAffairs.com, Wikipedia, TheDiplomat.com 

Elsewhere in the article it states that on the outbreak of war all conscripts were obliged to serve until their 45th birthday (A reasonably standard measure, the same happened elsewhere). This change effectively put them on a par with the long term volunteers, as far as term of service is concerned. 

The waiting list for Pan Am's first moon flights was closed in 1971 as the company was suffering financial difficulties and decided to remove the administrative cost of the cards. (Quote from the same article as above) 

After reading this BBC article about the new SACEUR, General Philip Breedlove, United States Air Force, it occurred to me that SACEUR has always been an American officer. 

My recommendation would be to see if any newspapers in the area talk about the finding any wreckage, or if any museums about the city in the war/about the raid (if they exist) can help you to narrow it down further. 

The encyclopedia only states that the men were drawn from feudal armies so we can assume that the majority of the men were once either Samurai or Ashigaru (Professional Foot soldiers employed by Samurai). Evidence of the of importance of the Shizoku in it's formation can be drawn from the fact that the commander of the newly formed Imperial Japanese Army, Yamagata Aritomo was a member of a Samurai family from the Choshu domain and that the initial commander of the Imperial Guard, Saigo Takamori (the eventual leader of the Satsuma Rebellion), who was a Samurai from the Satsuma domain. Further more, there are many other examples of members of the Shizuko class holding high rank in World War 2. One of the most well known examples of this is Tadamichi Kuribayashi, the commander of Japanese forces during the Battle of Iwo Jima. Kuribayashi was born in 1891 to a minor Samurai family in the Hanishina District, Nagano prefecture. The Imperial Japanese Army did not issue any insignia or special weapons to officers drawn from the Shizoku, but the influence of the Samurai culture can still be seen. When specifically looking at the IJA in WW2, a sword known as the Shin Gunto was issued to NCOs and Officers of the IJA between 1935 and 1945. While different swords were issued to NCOs and Officers of different ranks there was no special variant issued to Shizoku. (The Japanese Army 1931-45 (2): 1942-45, Philip S. Jowett) The Shin Gunto swords were close enough in aesthetics to appear to be traditional Katana, but were however of inferior construction as they were not made using the traditional materials and methods but were instead mass produced using western steel. (The Connoisseur's Book of Japanese Swords, Kōkan Nagayama) 

These two parts of the Bill of Rights Act 1689 establish that the Regent cannot legally suspend or execute laws without the consent of Parliament. As so neatly summarised on the Royal website 

Given that wiki page you quoted mentions that the standard conscription period was 2-3 years it would appear that NCO's of a rank exceeding Gefreiter (Obergefreiter and above) would be drawn from the pool on Long-Term Volunteer Enlistee's, as I mentioned in my comment. EDIT I have found the following quote on greatwar.com, which also states that only career soldiers could be promoted. 

Examples can be seen all over the web with a simple google search, but the advice included building shelters using cushions, and closing windows. Steps that would have given you something to do, but not have provided any long, or most likely short, term protection. Seeing as, for the most part, the general population was expected to basically fend for itself until the regional control centres could begin to enact the various plans (that are likely still classified) it seems unlikely that pets were accounted for at all.