To what extent does the pregnant one have any right to decide over their body? Should the state guarantee and improve alternative means which are [allegedly] proven as a failure? (here you enumerate: sex-ed, adoption, access to resources,...). Should we punish people who aborts? Should we only punish doctors who aid and actually execute the abortion procedure? How should you consider handling the same contextual situations described in the pro-choice side? 

Said this, you could somehow remind yourself about Adolph J. Ayer who talks about verification instead of falsification. The concept of verification is rarely used to generate a strong and useful concept on science (Popper himself argues a lot against verification), but you can quickly grasp here (after all this is the dual proposition!!) that falsification of a proposition is exactly as powerful as verification of its complementary, since it is the dual procedure. 

These questions are part of this hot topic of debate in Argentina, right now, so you (or your state in question) would like to start from these ones to define the axiology beforehand. Remember: the answers to these three questions are choices, and not an absolute fact which is true or false here. Once you define your axiology, avoiding cognitive dissonances will imply you will take, now, a "should" (this implies that doing the right thing should also consider this matter of cognitive dissonances) like the one you are asking for. Avoiding cognitive dissonances is quite important in laws, since most of the trials and definitions or laws are based on precedents. A precedent reflects the need of people like you and I (and even more in the case of a desperate person who wants to abort) to receive a predictable response from our laws system (specially the criminal code) regarding our actions: should I / will I be punished for this, or not?. Avoiding cognitive dissonances will move you (or your state) towards equal treat of different cases (under similar circumstances) along time, and perhaps you'd like to have this feature. In particular, if you are pro-choice, at least one of those questions will be answered as no. Don't worry, since more questions will arrive later. Remember there are many flavors of being pro-life or pro-choice. Those flavors are given by the context you ask for, and so more questions appear. Let's assume you are pro-choice. People will ask you many questions (specially pro-life people) like these: 

This event remembers the history and, if you pick them all, or you pick just one, the odds were the same: 50/50. But your problem is the contrast between the uncertainity and the already-known events. All the times you should look at the definition of the problem. If the past is not a constraint (as it was in my example) then forget the damn past and move on: 

Most of the times the fallacy -and your problem- become true only when the events reduce the odds of getting the same values in the future, say: 

There is no should here, without anyone here imposing their ethics over what you ask. Despite most of us expecting and wanting our laws be based on science or another intersubjective (take this one as the first keyword before asking, again, anything regarding society) behaviour or tradition, that does not occur. Quite frequently, the king, ruler, dictator or major/winning political party imposes their agenda. Democracy is not about should, but about people electing you for your charge, and your charge giving you the right and duty to define new laws. Usually, these laws can be constrained by international treaties, but in the case of abortion, no international treaty strictly enforces yes or no to abortion. So, just for start, once you're in charge you should do what you believe is right (beware! more on this later). It is widely accepted that we should obey what the people outside claims for, but that doesn't mean you are compelled anyhow to do that. Now, getting deep into abortion, you have two boundaries (and their middle/gray positions): 

It says nothing regarding the past, because flipping an ideal coin has nothing to do with any physical property (a non-ideal coin, i.e. a real world one, perhaps gets their edges less sharpened when they hit the ground and the future result may vary...). Edit: Indeed, this wikipedia article related to entropy contains a graph with the coin flip distribution, and people knowing this would never commit this fallacy again since it is allowed to have coin flips where an ideal coin would have 1 in each flip, although that would only be a limit case. Most fallacy-holders think the problem like this: 

You cannot, at least not under their definitions. You did not specify what religion are you talking about, but from the Christianity point (the ones who make emphasis on criticizing atheitsts' morality) God is the source if good (and bad) and so if you don't believe in God, you have no such sense of morality, so I will assume that (please correct me if I'm wrong). Usually, morality is defined in terms of the society you live in (so the initial answer is: yes I'm a moral person in terms of the society I move in, if you are). This means: you can distinguish doing the right thing or wrong thing depending on the society or group you move in. I will assume you, or someone close to you, is an atheist. You have your own principles, and the main of them is that you do not believe on any kind of god, spirit, or goblin. Perhaps your morality (which is like a skill or trend you have) is defined in terms of the world you move on: you don't kill, you are not a sex-offending person, you don't steal... It is not that you have your skill somehow diminished wrt to the religious people, but as for christianity, moral is based on bible commandments. This means, your morality -from their viewpoint- should make you obey stuff like this in the worst case. Depending on the christianity school (say) they follow, they will try to bury you with their comments (you deserve hell), or just try to measure their accusations against you (you are partially immoral, you commit this sins a, b, c...), but remember always something: They accuse you of being immoral under their own moral principles, which you: 

They take (or observe) the initial problem like this (without math jargon; otherwise they would not incur this fallacy): 

The point here is that facts are propositions, and are an abstraction of what we pick with our senses (they abstract the energy and surroundings we can perceive) and what we describe with our core values and our languages (which are abstractions of the stimuli provided by our senses). There is something that is stated in Fides et Ratio which, believer or not, you should take as starting point if you defend the facts: You are defending the path of obeying your direct (or indirect) senses. This is important: There are sciences having an object of study which is not related to our senses. One of them is theology, which studies what is written in the Bible (regardless the actual truth of what is described there as things that actually happened or not). Formal sciences also fit here (math, logic). Finally, when you study laws everything gets more complicated (as an introductory subject, they tend to discuss whether it is a science, it is not, or it has a scientific component aside to other types of components). So you must remember which one is your starting point, object of study, or core set of values before even starting to debate. You cannot prove anything, in your corrent system, which is beyond your starting point (thanks, Gödel). My tip to you: Don't go that way. There is no way you can prove or disprove anything going the way of the solipsism. Either you find a starting point you both share, or every discussion will be pointless. And Rivière's corpse is opening a Chandon while we discuss this topic. 

The saddest part is that Kuhn describes the interaction of different paradigms more like a darwinian struggle than an actual evolution of knowledge, on which you just get convinced or stay in your paradigm (however, when he writes an addendum regarding others philosophers calling him irrationalist or relativist, he argues than such struggle heads always towards an evolution of sciences with more precise knowledge). So the answer is yes and no regarding the existence of facts: 

Most of the scientifically useful propositions satisfy the 1st (They have a method to test the truth) and 3rd point (they want to be generic across time, and want to be... true). So they can be expressed in a shorter way: 

One book that can quickly clear your doubt regarding this topic is Fides et Ratio. This book tries to distinguish between reasoning and faith, and tells to what extent one can combine both. We use to think -and is generally right- that faith is against epistemology. However, epistemology is more like a knowledge management discipline, which has nothing to do with the mean of acquiring such knowledge. Said this, the opposite of faith is not epistemology or reason, but empirism. The sciences we use to consider useful are all based on empirism: they tend to describe our real world. Such world is described through experience (which is directly or indirectly derived from our perception). But while empirism is the choice to assert as true what your perception brings to you, faith is the choice to assert as true what you read somewhere or someone with authority tells you. Said this, we hold faith most of the time: at least I did not experiment anything which is said about Quantum Mechanics. Let me call that empiric faith. The Faith we are used to (you know: religions), however, lacks of something the empiric faith doesn't: the ability to experiment, measure, and perhaps discard (in a quite cunning way, that topic is never mentioned in Fides et Ratio!). This means: you can contrast the empiric faith with experience, and share it with the only effort, from the other side, of just watching the repetition of the experiment or measure. Saving this difference (which is quite important in the real world, but less important in this theoretical discussion), both faiths are choices, and such choices are the starting point of what you will do later: learn more. This means that you can apply reason (intellegus fidei) over your faith (auditus fidei) in the same way you can apply reason over your experience. Said this: yes, theology is also a science: the science that studies the Bible and its content. So, yes: it could count in the same scope of epistemology, since it could (and quite frequently: it does) need some sort of knowledge management. Let me go further: You could take the whole bibliography of Lord of the Rings, Magic the Gathering or Dungeons and Dragons, and make some sort of science (one different for each biblio set) out of them. As long as you need to manage knowledge, the concept of epistemology is valid.