I don't think I agree with Pat Kirwan here at all, unless you have more context for that quote. Anyone who watched LaDainian Tomlinson play knows that a running back in the I formation is a capable receiver. The Chargers used the I formation and standard Shotgun almost exclusively, and very frequently ran play-action passes where the RB is a significant target. I would guess his comments are primarily along the lines related to the latter reasons from your question, though; the I form is certainly not a formation for a regular passing play to the RB, given the RB has only two or three seconds to get significantly downfield in a non-play action passing play; given his position far behind the line (4-5 yards back) and centered (so another 3-4 yards at least from the outside of the tackle box), it's not a great position to go downfield from. Halfback screens and play action passes work well here, but regular routes don't. It's also simply not a formation commonly used by heavy RB passing teams; they'll use the Pro formation (both backs behind the QB 2-3 yards back, one on each side), which still has significant ability to run the ball but also has a much quicker route to beyond the line of scrimmage. I suppose your former reason then has some truth, but from the other direction: you use I formation more often if you plan on doing less designed pass plays to the halfback. But I'm ultimately not sure that Kirwan's correct here in the modern day; between play action passing and screens, there's plenty of action involved in the halfback passing game nowadays. Even 'big' runners can still be good receivers. 

The NFHS rulebook - sorry only 2010 was easy to find - also would consider this possibility, though they cover it in an oblique way. Under Stolen Base, they have only: 

I think "side" plays was meant to mean "sideline" plays - i.e., plays that involve a sweep, a toss, or otherwise require defenders to run all the way to one sideline. Those can be quite exhausting, as you have to run a lot - and all eleven defenders will be running full bore. The offense, on the other hand, won't be running all that hard; after all, the way a play works, the offense goes somewhere and the defenders have to run to that place to stop them - so they have to run a lot more. Substitution of course can help, and having a deep bench with lots of quality players helps. Good defenses are often not the ones with one or two stars, but with five or six linemen and five or six linebackers who can rotate in and play well. And - I wouldn't say it didn't work. 40 points is a huge number of points for that defense to have given up (only Ole Miss scored as many on them this year, and even most good teams only scored in the teens). 

In part, the answer is because it is in the rulebook. Often these rules arise over time in the early part of the sport simply because it was done that way, and then codified into rules. Sometimes rules even refer to the "Traditional" way of things directly. In this case, that is probably part of the reason: football teams lined up that way in the 20s and 10s, and so it became part of the rules as they evolved. The forward pass wasn't originally part of the rules of American football (it was originaly more like rugby: running and lateral/backward passes only). Thus some rules - likely, including who is eligible to receive passes - came later, and came in an attempt to balance the game. Allow all 11 players to catch passes, and it's hard to defend, so the offense would have a great advantage; so you limit the offense to only having six players eligible to receive passes. The specific reason for "eligible players" and "ineligible players", as well as the number who line up on the line of scrimmage, has to do mostly with deception (or, avoiding deception). See for example how the Patriots played in the AFC Championship last year; they deceived their opponents by changing who was eligible and who was not in odd ways, and that led to quite a bit of confusion on the defense. As such, the rules were changed this year to prohibit that. So, the defense knows from the snap who is eligible to receive passes (and thus, who the individual coverage assignments are) in two ways: 

These are players who the bonuses make the most sense for - players where you might want to give a contract to that is low in guarantee but allows them to make more if they do well. 

A save cannot 'change' as it is defined as finishing the game. A hold does not change, either; if reliever A pitches a clean 8th inning, before and after his team leading 4-2, and then reliever B comes in and serves up a grand slam, reliever A still receives credit for a hold. As far as wins, the winning pitcher is defined as the pitcher who was the pitcher of record when the winning team took the lead for the last time, subject to the restriction that the starter must have completed 5 innings to be able to be credited; and subject to the restriction that a reliever must be deemed "effective" (usually, 1 IP or < 2 ER given up). It's to some extent up to the scorer if several relievers pitch and are effective early in the game (if the starter gets hurt after 1 inning or something and a bunch of relievers each pitch one inning, the scorer has a bit of leeway as to who gets the win, though it would be unusual not to give it to the pitcher of record when the last lead was taken in my experience). You can read the MLB Official Rules: Scorer for more details on the specifics. Holds aren't an official stat at that level, but the rules for holds are generally the same as for a save (except that the pitcher must not have been the last pitcher in the game).