A partial answer: In Bradford Lyttle's Apocalypse Equation is a stochastic model, initially proposed in 1982, linking the risk of (accidental) nuclear apocalypse with the number of nuclear weapons being stored. [Ref, Ref] Audrey Tomason's alleged master's thesis is allegedly about economic collapse being triggered by an unsustainable oil industry. [OP's ref] These are unrelated issues, and therefore there is no relation to terms "Apocalypse Equation" between the two uses. 

Peak Month of Influenza Activity 1976—77 through 2008—09 Seasons The source for this is the US Center for Disease Control. They are an authoritative source for disease information, but their information is poorly cited on their web-site. (The bait-and-switch was that the OP asked about common colds, I generalised to Influenza-like Illness, and then gave evidence about Influenza alone. I should only get away with this if you agree that Influenza fits as one of the key diseases referred to under 'Summer Cold'.) 

Note: The second sentence, read literally, would actually refute the claim (and the first sentence), but it appears this is a mistranslation of the confusing triple negatives. I think the word "Except" is missing at the start of the third sentence. That's a bold claim for me to make, so I looked for some other evidence to support it. USA Today confirmed, in a 2012 story, with interviews with appropriate officials that the id IS strictly required: 

Politifact.com's "Truth-o-meter" has looked at this - or at least Gabby Gifford's softer variant, which answers the question here too. They found recent polls support that a large majority in favour of an expansion of the background checks: 

It seems reasonable to provisionally accept these findings until counter-evidence is found. It almost goes without saying: Correlation does not imply causation. It may not be the tobacco alone that account for the increased costs. 

I've only found two contradictory studies to choose between, so it is hard to form a firm conclusion, but my interpretation would be that the Zajonc paper was a preliminary investigation in 1987 that suggested there may be a correlation worth following up, and the Caspi paper in 1992 finding that any effect was just an anomaly. 

So, regular flossing of children, done right, and done daily seems to help (especially where there is low fluoride - I don't know if that is referring to water, or toothpaste exposure). Other situations are not as clear. 

The anonymous author fails to demonstrate that this is the true cause of the unhappiness of Generation Y in their working life, but more importantly, fails to demonstrate that the young adults in Generation Y are any less happy with their place in the workforce than the young adults in Generation X, Baby Boomers, in the Depression Era, or any other demographic age groups you might fail to clearly define. Which leads to my question: Are Generation Y members any less happy than previous generations at the same age? 

The Top Conservative News web-site provides a reference from an article from Swedish Public Rado. Using my rather rusty Swedish, confirmed by Google Translate, the original source makes NO mention of the religion of the perpetrators. The anti-Muslim slur has been added by Top Conservative News. It says there were 300 reports of rapes of girls under 15 in the first seven months of 2013. Given the percentage of Muslims is estimated 1.8-4.4% (let alone Muslim immigrants), it is fanciful to assume that they are responsible for 300 rapes in that time. 

This is the key table from the study. It is tricky to understand. The important point to notice is that the numbers against "Normality of Rapists" under Citizens and under Rapists both have the same a super­script, indicating they are not significantly different (at p < 0.05). Summarising the weaknesses of this evidence: it's about "normality" not frequency, it is from 1978, the sample size of rapists isn't huge and all the rapists were drawn from a mental hospital. Nonetheless, it shows the attitudes of regular people and rapists were not significantly different when it came to the normality of rapists. Segal and Stermac: Survey of 40 rapists, 40 other offenders and 40 non-rapists I'm veering a little off-topic here, but I think this addresses some of the questions about the above study. In a response to the Feild study, in 1984 Segal and Stermac attempted to address some of its shortcomings. 

I don't completely trust this old sample of convicted males (a subset of a subset) to exclude the chance that any homosexual men are guilty of child sexual assault. However, it becomes clear that a naive Bayesian analysis, that assumes that boys assaulted by men are being assaulted by homosexual men, is going to lead to false conclusions. The bias doesn't stop there though. A 1996 review mentions another source of bias, which contradicts the claim that "male children are not so well protected as female children" 

So, the wings would not merely need to contain antibacterial agents (which might be theoretically feasible), but antiviral agents and protozoacides, suitable for knocking out all the different diseases. (Why would only one wing contain these toxins, while the other, apparently identical wing, does not?) 

The study does not say that. The LiveScience article attributes that to "previous research", linking to another page that gets closer to this claim, but still doesn't quite seem to make it. You write: 

The number of billions of miles driven and the number of fatalities on US roads increased slowly [data from Table 1 and Table 2]: 

It depends. There have been several experiments on the effect of white noise on sleep, under different conditions leading to different conclusions: 

I found several small studies looking at (a) the effectiveness of flossing, and (b) the amount of flossing that happens in different groups. However, you seemed to be after larger studies. I couldn't find any large studies, but what I could find were meta-analyses, where they systematically look for small, high-quality studies and put the data together to get stronger conclusions. 

The OP expressed skepticism about the quality of Happiness research, so let's look at those references: 

This paper was useful to me in demonstrating some of the complexity behind the question - there has been a fair amount of research, and it has revealed geographic differenes. 

This is supported by a bilateral comparison from the last century: Wealth Dynamics in the 1980s and 1990s: Sweden and the United States, which says in its abstract: 

There are many causes of hair loss. As the claims do not clearly specify which one is intended, it isn't clear what to search for. Nonetheless, I have been unable to find any studies of the effects of Castor Oil on androgenetic alopoecia - i.e. male pattern baldness. When it comes to alopecia areata, alopecia totalis and alopecia universalis, I can be more categorical. A Cochrane review of the evidence revealed that: