Then it follows that human will can make irrational choices that have no constraints (physical or otherwise). 

Can anyone repeatably get the same results if the test inputs are the same As I vary the inputs, how well have I defined the transfer function to the outputs. 

Why Is Free Will a Greater Good? Some will ask why allowing free moral will is a "greater good" which overcomes the fact that evil must be allowed in this world. I believe this can be answered as follows: 1) God is love, he made us to be in relationship with him and with each other, to love and be loved. This is evident throughout the entire metanarrative of the Bible from a Christian perspective. For example, Jesus said, paraphrased: "Love God above all, and your neighbor as yourself, these commands sum up all of the law". The ability to love is therefore the essence of all good moral conduct. 2) Given #1, the argument is that the greater good for allowing evil is to allow love. Therefore, an assumption made is that free will is required in order to allow love. If one cannot choose to love, one cannot love. The definition of love must require free choice to love - if one is compelled to love another being it cannot properly be called love. A world without free will is therefore a world without the greatest moral choice - love. 3) Given #1 and #2, it follows that for God to create a world where the highest moral good is possible, he must create a world with love. To create a world with love, he must create free moral actors. Free moral actors must be allowed to choose either good or evil by definition. Therefore, evil must be allowed in order to allow free will and thereby allow the greater good of love to exist. A good God therefore must create a world in which free moral actors other than God himself are allowed to commit evil moral acts, because that is the only way that the greater moral act of love can also exist. Put another way - to create a world without evil is to create a world without love. Note: Free moral will in this defense is Libertarian Free Will, not Compatibilist Free Will 

Is theology considered a proper subset/branch of philosophy overall? Does it depend entirely on which of the above 2 definitions of theology fits a particular theologian as to whether he is a philosopher or not? 

So, I take the position that any possible or real world, dimension, or force which does not interact with our world or reveal itself to us in some form or fashion, is irrelevant to my life. Granted, I believe this with a sort of blind faith. Note that this is the basis for many worldview claims and clashes. The argument among adherents of various worldviews are generally arguing the validity of difference evidences for their faith. For example, is the the Bible real as a source of information/revelation that tells us about a greater reality than the objective world we directly experience. Is there such a thing as feeling the presence of God? Etc. Skeptics attempt to deconstruct the evidence or even positively deny it (atheism, etc.). But in the case you describe, my examples #2-4 above - we have zero evidence for them, so they should be ignored. There is no reason even to debate among them. They can be trivially ignored, other than perhaps for use in thought experiments that attempt to discover some way of obtaining evidence about them. 

I do perceive an objective world and other people who behave like they have a mind really do have other minds. I am really God and have constructed all of space and time, but am hiding that fact from myself (solipsism). I live in the Matrix. Some other people are really other minds (also plugged in), while some are simulated minds and/or computer programs (e.g. the Oracle, Agents, etc.). I am really a brain in a vat and this world is the simulation of someone controlling my reality in a variety of other ways. 

In attempting to wrap my mind around the basic vocabulary, concepts, and methods of philosophy, I find myself wondering what the difference is between a philosopher and a theologian. Theology (link to definition in Wikipedia) can have two meanings: 1. Theology is a rational study of the existence of God/gods and the nature of religious ideas. 2. Theology is simply a study of a particular religion (or all religions), really more the practice than the theory, but maybe a mixture. It seems from an immediate reading that definition 1 would lead to the conclusion that a theologian is a philosopher (perhaps that theology is a branch or subset of philosophy), but definition 2 appears to be rather unphilosophical in nature. 

This is illustrated by the conclusion of Dr. Kelly James Clark, in an Essay in which he argues - to the best of my understanding, that belief in God can simply be accepted as a propositional truth, without needing any evidence for it (emphasis added below). His reasoning ultimately is not that there is no evidence for the propositions of the existence of God, but that completely rational people using completely rational reasoning, just plain end up disagreeing on which philosophic system is correct, and no propositional belief can be fully proven. Neither person is "wrong" from a philosophic standpoint. All primary beliefs are based to some measure, on faith. 

For determinism, based on Wolpert's theory of maximum knowable information it appears impossible for us to prove determinism. Now, this doesn't shut the door completely on getting awfully close. For example, in the future we may be able to sufficiently simulate a real brain enough to answer this question generally to the satisfaction of most people by predicting outcomes, but somehow I think between Godel's limit of proving a system, Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, and Turing demonstration of the Halting problem is a way to show that determinism can not be proven. Since compatibilism rests fully on determinism (it is compatible with it, after all), that reasoning extends to compatibilism. I am finding compatibilism really to not be about free will anyway - as others have commented, it's really just a redefinition of terms to say that the free will is not really free - it is limited to certain choices. It then goes on to essentially say that we deterministically choose from among those limited choices. This is not a free will at all, from a perspective of being able to choose differently then I ultimately did. The only other alternative is libertarian free will, and this too cannot be proven. As it really requires dualism (or at least some separate level of existence or dimensions of reality, at least as I see it), it lies in a realm we have not figured out any way to test empirically to date. By the preceding I mean to imply that free will requires an actor outside of determinism - which would mean separate from the physical brain (although I do leave a small bit of room for the brain to create indeterminism on it's own at some quantum level or due to some physical law or dimension which exists that we don't understand yet). 

Granted, most of these will have limited to no power to change the physical situation their body is in (based on general understanding of our universe - cannot truly leave out solipsism, idealism, etc.), but the point is that doesn't affect their will to try to take action, or not take action, in various rational or irrational ways. One thing I do know - it is highly likely that the subject will soon find out if the mind/will survives the physical body or not. Well, if it does not, they really won't "find out", but you get the point... 

Edit to add comment regarding last 2 paragraphs: 1) A world without Hitler would thus be a world in which no human is able to love each other or have a relationship with God, greater than perhaps a dog might have with a man. Is a world of "not-evil" robots better than a messy, but meaningful world of real humans with real relationships and choices? I say no, but your mileage my vary! 2) It is wrong to say heaven is the best possible world - your view here is too narrow - you must include all of creation/the universe/the multiverse in order to make this argument. Thus a universe including both existing earth and heaven, future earth and heaven (if different than current), and also hell, must be considered. If you boil the defense above down to allowing relationship with God and choosing either for his way or against it, then heaven just ends up being the place where you continue that relationship, and hell is the place where you go to continue not having a relationship with God, so they are sort of just an extension of your choices in that regard here on earth and morally the spiritual world is not then much different in analysis from the material world. 

This does appear to get at the general problem with these two terms. There are "hard" and "soft" forms of both, and sometimes the formulation for what is "hard" and what is "soft" (or strong and weak) overlap each other, depending on who is creating the formulation. For example, one can use the term agnostic to simply indicate that one doesn't have enough information to make a decision yet. This is the "common" definition (or "man on the street" version). In this sense, it typically also implies that one feels no urgency to make a decision and/or is not urgently seeking more information. In this sense, one can be agnostic about just about any subject - you could be agnostic about theism, or atheism, about the origin of the universe (in either case), or practically about any worldview or philosophical framework. If you state you are an agnostic according to this "common" definition, the proper follow-up question is "agnostic to what?" Are you agnostic to theism, or agnostic to atheism, or agnostic to both, or agnostic to any philosophy at all?