Well, I think the "coolest" way to do this would be with a substance like rubbing alcohol that the creature sweats. Of course, having your sweat on fire would kind of defeat the purpose of sweating, which is usually to cool off. But a low temp. alcohol can sustain a flash point at room temperature, so they wouldn't necessarily need to actively keep an ignition source once the flame is lit, as long as they kept producing the fuel. I was looking for specific temperatures of rubbing alcohol flames and didn't see any from good sources, but I did find this article on a 75C flame - $URL$ (though that requires exotic chemicals). I've read/seen magicians perform tricks with alcohol and while it still gets hot, a thick skinned creature could definitely do it. 

It took until the 1900s to eradicate wolves in parts of Europe (and in some places they still survive). A creature that was regarded as "more noble" might be protected earlier and not experience such a decline as technology allows better hunting techniques. The interactions will start with the stronger species being dominant, until technology allows the weaker to first develop defensive methods (fire, melee weapons), then offensive methods (distance hunting weapons, traps). Then there will be an era of small scale hunting, which will ramp up as the technology gets better. Hopefully about that time someone will adopt the creature as their coat of arms and become dominant, which will allow at least some to survive in domestication or zoos. Eventually, after significant habitat depletion and extermination, the creatures will be protected by people who don't experience significant impacts from their presence. At that point, survival is pretty likely, preserves will be set up, and they will be studied. Your species just has to survive long enough to get there. 

The Moon IS the weapon The Eel people agrees immediately, which confuses the lizard people. 'We're their betters, and they know it', say a Hawk lizard in triumph; the Dove lizards aren't so sure, but can't put a finger on it. The Eel people asks for more time - there's a lot of eels to move around, you see. given the swift acceptance, the lizards add another year out of 'condescending acknowledgement'. (Or maybe that's a condition: 'If you give us two years, we'll accept your terms.') The Eel people starts moving to the moon. One day before the 2-year period expires, they issue an ultimatum: The Lizard people must now pay tribute, or face consequences. The lizard people laugh it off in disbelief. A couple of hours later, their military centers are vaporized. At the end of the day they capitulate, with minimal loss of civilian lizard life. The Eel people now rules the system. How, you ask? They cut hundreds, maybe even thousands of large chunks (10-tons or more) of moon-rock and put it in orbit around the Lizard planet with the help of rockets, or a highly precise mass driver build on the moon's surface. Less gravity means less fuel to move things around, and you have two years to position them. Using simple ballistic calculation, they can make them drop over military bases, cities and other strategic points. Once these enormous kinetic projectiles start falling, they can't be stopped. (Just as a comparison, a 10-ton falling rock from around our Moon's orbit (384,400km) would carry the energy equivalent of roughly 627 Hiroshima atomic bombs.) Disclaimer: Idea totally stolen from 'The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress' by Robert A. Heinlein. I used this calculator for kinetic energy evaluation. 

We all have seen gobs of energy beings in movies - but one thing that's always bothered me is how an energy being lives. What's life like in the energy world? The Ergs are energy beings on some planet. They're pretty standard shiny-type. They have the ability to manipulate matter, but they can also move through any physical material at will. They aren't omnipotent like the Q; they have strength and intelligence limits similar to a human, except that they are made of energy. They prefer to live at or near the surface of the planet, though gravity seems to have negligible impact on them. Like any advanced society, there is a whole continuum of creatures of various sizes and intelligence levels - wildlife similar to the beings themselves, but far less advanced. I'm trying to get at how an energy being is structured - presumably not with cells. What do energy-bacteria look like? This question started out in the sandbox: $URL$ 

I think that bacteria are intrinsically better-suited to such environments - by default, there really isn't a "metal-cycle" in the same way as a "water cycle" to supply the raw ingredients. But plants like this would be amazing. You could have junkyard-plants that grow in caves filled with rusty cars and turn them into...tomatoes or something. And heaps of rust. You still need sugar. Ultimately, your plants need carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The exotic elements seem to come in along with one of those three elements. So to answer the question about environment: 

You'll need processing power: Your animal may be able to fuel a brain by burning a lot of energy in bursts (in which case oxygen and sulphur may be your friends), live very long lives, distribute the processing across peers or a combination of these. And if you're wondering about permanent external memory storage... how about a virus? Maybe a evolutionary hiccup in a virus allowed the cephalopod's memories to be transcribe to the virus' genetic payload. Every 'infected' member shares the whole species' ascending memories, and new 'infections' updates the individual payloads. The virus itself transcribes the memories back in unused spaces. That would help with information density. 

Prologue A kid finds an abandoned iPhone. Excited, he picks it from the floor. As the camera focus on his face, we can hear Siri saying... 

Have someone from the International Space Station use a Soyuz-TMA to come down with a still-working laptop with all compilers they have available. (Hey, they aren't technically in the world...) 

(Given the interesting points of view of some answers I dropped the tag, but would still like to keep it reasonably not so mushy.) 

If you asked me if a genetically modified terrestrial race can have cat-, dog- and bunny-like features, I'd say yes, probably. Convergent evolution is a thing, even among completely different species, so add a bit of near-future bioengineering and voilá. But an alien race... I don't know, that may be a bit too much. The Alien race need to be carbon-based, possess body mirrorring, fur-like external structures... the list of necessary coincidences is simply too high. But then, space is big. Like, really big. 

Most plants that grow foods are herbaceous, meaning that they have supple stems and die each year, but also that they generally grow relatively fast. Herbaceous plants focus their growth on fruit production at the end of each season. Trees have woody, stiff stems, which allows them to grow taller and survive multiple seasons. They generally grow slower. Trees focus on long-term growth and fruit production is not as important. So plants that stay small and focus on fruit production are good for people food. Plants that focus on growing large don't have excess energy for large-scale fruit production. You're going to need a very specific combination of factors to make this happen. A specific kind of GMO: a tree that has been designed to have the characteristics of an herbaceous plant like fast growth, but later grow stiffer cell walls to help it stay strong and survive multiple seasons (think of tomato plants - they get very large, but crawl or must be supported). A very specific food source: high-density energy sources, either from a very very sunny area or special mineral deposits. But, it's going to need to be in the tropical latitudes. Up in the north there just isn't enough sun to facilitate fast plant growth. 

(Assuming average word length in English (according to Wolfram Alpha): 5, ASCII representation of a single character: 8 bits) So yes, books are very slow bandwidth, but hey, they work. So the answer to: 

He woke and found himself lying in bed. At first he thought that he had slept late, after a long unpleasant dream that still hovered on the edge of memory. He opened his eyes to an unknown ceiling. 'We are in the House of Healing, Dae son of Aik,' he heard a familiar voice say. 'We're back home.' 'Hidr!...' he shouted, but only a mewling left his lips. 'Shh, rest now. You have been asleep for three days; your body is broken, and it's a miracle that it survived that long. But your feats of courage where witnessed by all, and this morning the Voice of Malik called for you. Today you join the Immortals,' She said, that lovely smile in her face. They won. He would join his famous grand-grand-grand-grand-grandfather among the sacred warriors of Malik. And, most important of all - she survived. And the kiss they shared afterwards would be the last he would experience while still breathing. 

Floor Metal Plate 02, Filter Forge, CC BY 2.0 I know, not really 'gravity', but hey - Nostromo wasn't any space Ferrari either. Advantage: UHV-free proposal.