You're almost certainly better off spending that money on going touring. I'd go so far as to say that until you have done enough touring to have a list of things that you want from your touring bike that you can't get from any production bike, don't bother thinking about it. Well, unless your other hobby is spending money, in which case I suggest buying one from each custom builder and seeing how they compare. The main advantage of a custom frame is that it's built to fit you and has exactly what you want on it. Long term tourists often develop quite specific requirements and no mass-produced bike will satisfy them. Even simple things like built-in racks are depressingly rare in mass-market touring bikes, let alone more specific things like eyelets for tying things to. But again, unless you already have that list of things you're wasting your money getting a custom bike. The main risk is that you spend a lot of money then decide that it wasn't what you wanted after all. This is especially the case with people who haven't done a lot of touring, and I know at least one builder who refuses commissions from novices for this reason. Every unhappy customer they've had has been a newbie to whatever they wanted the bike for. The solution is to put them on a cheap bike and wait a year. With S&S couplers you're likely to need those added after you buy a mass-market bike, which is an opportunity for you to get the framebuilder who does the work to add any little extras you want. It'll very likely be cheaper to buy a new mass-produced bike and have the couplers added than get a customer bike. But it's likely to be cheaper to pay a freight company to ship the bike around the world a couple of times than to get the couplers fitted. As Alan says, you can tour on any bike. I've done a 5Mm trip through northern Australia with people who rode BSOs (bicycle shaped objects), one of whom did the last couple of megametres with no balls in their bottom bracket (and hence, no front derailleur). They didn't enjoy the riding as much as they could have, but they did it. As far as comfort goes, you will very likely be more comfortable on the cheapest recumbent you can find than the most expensive upright bike. 

I'm not sure why you're asking this, because as far as I can see the answer is in the question. You want to "keep it functional for the longest time" and then you say "should I discard a part that extends the life"? Ball bearings without separators/retainers wear out faster, so there's more metal fragments in the race and the whole unit wears out faster. A much better way to extend the working life would be to extract and preserve the original retainer, and use new retainers and bearings. If you replace those more often than strictly necessary you'll minimise wear on the races. But remember that the headset is very rarely the first part of the bike that wears out. Unless the bike is stored in atrocious conditions or terribly badly adjusted, by the time the headset wears out the derailleurs are normally gone, you're on the fifth to tenth bottom bracket, third or fifth wheelset and so on. A better question might be whether you have a stock of those parts to use as spares in order to maintain your bike in original specification. But note that this only applies if you ride the bike, and since you're asking about keeping it working for time rather than distance, that may not be a factor. To keep the bike functional for the longest possible time you should dismantle the bike and pack all the metal parts in heavy grease to preserve them. The plastic and leather parts are more problematic, they probably need to be chilled and kept in an oxygen-free environment. That should allow it to be reassembled and used at any time in the next 100 years or more. If you choose a good storage location (a dry cave, for example) and a proper container (a sealed stainless steel case, perhaps), extending the functional life by 1000 years isn't out of the question. 

Trivially: yes, of course you can. You almost certainly won't be able to ride that bike, though. The problem is not the weight of the frame, it's the weight of the rider compared to the strength of the gold. Essentially you have an 80kg rider on a frame that might weigh 20kg if made of gold rather than 5kg in steel. The dominant mass is still the rider. The problem is that the maths is complex and I'm not a mechanical engineer. Broadly, we need to find the yield force at which each key component breaks, and that's determined by how the gold is formed, the temperature, the rate of change of the force and a few other factors. So you can't just say "shear modulus 27GPa" and move on. To make a bike frame you'd want to quench the casting to harden the metal as much as you can, which would help, but it would still be weak. I am not certain that quenching works on gold. I suspect the main issue would be the dropouts, and you'd need to use long, fat axles - like the 14mm thick axles used on some load bikes - to spread the load and stop the axle just cutting straight through the frame when the rider sat on the bike. Likewise, big, low-pressure tyres to reduce peak forces on the frame. As you make the "tubes" (probably solid, for practicality of construction) fatter you'll start to run into scaling problems. Beam strength scales as the square, but mass as the cube. At some point my initial claim that "rider mass is dominant" will stop being true. It might be easier to fabricate the frame as a one-piece casting using I-beams rather than tubes, so that it can be cast and quenched quickly. There doesn't seem to be a lot of research in this area, probably as there's no practical use for "the strongest pure gold beam" but the experiments are expensive (and toxic). The reason that gold plating and alloys are used is that even small sculptures have structural issues when made of 24 carat gold. The largest pure gold statue I can find online is only 10cm tall and that's labelled as fragile (but that search is fraught as there is so much "huge ... 24 carat gold... plated"). Edit NHinkle suggested in chat that if you float the bike in mercury the structural issues are greatly reduced, so a (solid) gold frame would be ridable, at least for someone willing to immerse themselves in mercury and for the brief time before the gold dissolved in the mercury. The general principle holds though, so "yes, you can make a ridable bike frame out of pure gold". The question is, what would you have to immerse the bike and rider in to balance the weak structure with the load? Water might work, but you'd probably need a denser fluid. Nearly saturated metal salts in water, for example, might work. Or simply doing the build and ride somewhere that gravity is not as strong. The moon, for example, or Ceres. 

There are two tests for each brake. With the bike stationary, squeeze the levers hard to make sue that nothing is on the verge of breaking or has been mis-assembled. That test may seem silly but it reliably detects cables that are frayed to the point where they're dangerous, and also cheap shitty brakes (which will fail when you do this). You can't effectively test braking power without having someone on the bike. The force required far exceeds most people's arm strength (could you catch someone thrown at you at 30kph?). So, jump on the bike and grab one brake then the other, rocking backwards and forwards while you do so. That tells you whether the brakes work at all. If they do, start riding, then tap the brakes as soon as you're moving enough to do that without falling off. Make sure you're riding somewhere that a: you can fall off safely and b: you can stop safely without using the brakes. The whole point of these tests is that they might fail. If you're confident the brakes work reasonably well, find a quiet street or carpark and do more of those tests, speeding up slightly each time. A good bike shop will have someone other than the mechanic that worked on the bike do this test (and a bunch of other tests) after they service every bike. Once you've done it a few times it becomes fast and almost second nature. Swing a leg over the bike while holding the brakes firmly, rock it a little, tap the brake as soon as you're rolling. That helps avoid nasty surprises. If you have a front disk brake and not a through axle, that first tap will also tell you whether the front wheel is seated firmly in the fork. It will do that by lifting out of the fork, so it pays to keep that in mind (yes, disk brake mounts were designed for through axles on motorbikes, then the design was copied straight to bicycles with no thought whatsoever. My bikes normally have the calliper on the right hand form blade, in front of the fork, so this can't happen) Adjusting the brake depends on what sort of brake it is. Do a little research to find that out, then use the search box on the top right to find instructions for your brake (most likely it will be a V brake, but disk, calliper and cantilever brakes are all common too). Poor performance in the wet is normally a consequence of cheap brake pads, poor adjustment, or poor brake design (in that order, but you can suffer from all of those at once) 

If you can't precisely specify the expectations it will be impossible to meet them. You need numbers here, and both precision and accuracy. Ending up with "head angle must be 78.24°" means you need a minimum of four significant figures at every stage right from the expectations. So "I require not more than 4.123N of input force at the centre of the handlebar grip to maintain the centre of mass in a straight line path when hitting a 45.01° barrier 100.4mm high at 12.62m/s" would be an example of one test case or "expectation". There's a book called "Lords of the Chainring" that analyses all these factors in combination, and it is arguably the definitive work on the topic (I don't think it's as complete as the author does, but there is nothing better that I'm aware of). The author used to teach an engineering course in the subject and has extensive experience both theoretical and experimental (from years of students experimenting and reporting results). I have a copy and have used it to design bikes, but I decided that in most cases it was more effort than could be justified for my garage builds. I still use it to get an idea of the desirable values for a particular design, but I've also discovered that I can comfortably ride bikes that are on the fringes of what Bill says is stable. This might not be true for you.