Plasma weapons are a popular SF concept that just won't go away. They are encountered in such diverse places as the original Star Trek TV series, and the Babylon 5 TV series. They play the role of a futuristic flame-thrower. Their main draw-back is that they won't work. Plasma is the so-called "fourth state of matter", and is basically hot air. When we say something is hot, we're actually talking about the speed with which its individual component atoms wiggle around. Room temperature gas moves at about 500 m/s. Obviously, plasma is really really hot. That is, it is a gas heated to temperatures comparable to the interior of a star or the center of a thermonuclear explosion so that all the atoms are ionized. Unfortunately, according to the virial theorem, the plasma wants to equalize its internal pressure with the external, i.e., it wants to expand into a diffuse cloud of nothing. And since it moves really really fast, this means that after the plasmoid travels for one second, its diameter will be approximately five thousand kilometers, i.e., it has dissipated into nothing. More cool info here So I'd go with lasers. :) For extra oomph, make them gamma ray lasers. 

That society will last until the first crime or until the first disagreement. Once you have a crime, no matter whether is big or small, the society will realize that they need surveillance to prevent further crimes. When you have a disagreement you need someone to break the tie and make a veredict, hence that creates hierarchy. 

Under the assumption of no data loss during the transfer (due to any object in the transfer medium). Your system still has two problems. 

Basically you need to shut down inmune system in order to perform any kind of transplant. Most tissues in mammals are quite similar, to the point that laboratory rats are good experimental subjects for many things that later will be used in humans. For example, the growing of a human ear inside a rat: 

Maybe your issue here is more a problem of weight and availability instead of a problem of health. A way to protect health would be a cyst around each zone with metal, so that might not be a problem. About the weight. Let's imagine we select iron (poor choice because it rusts, but just as an example). Iron density is close to 7800 kg/m3. So a plate of 5mm of iron (enough for your purpose) of 1 m3 would have a weight of 39.4 kg. Human skin has 2 m2 of surface, so you would need almost 80 kg of iron or its equivalent to cover the body. Other metals can be used, but the weight might be similar. Maybe your creature can keep those 80 kg extra. But here is the main issue: ¿From where that creature is going to absorb that amount of metal? ¿How that metal is going to form a crystal in absence of high temperature? After all, a plate of metal requires high temperature to be formed. Otherwise it would be only a bunch of separated atoms. Hence, what you need is a polymer or a compound instead of a pure metal. Something that can be synthetized at lower temperatures; natural examples are spider silk, tooth enamel, silk or lignin. 

Technological spin-offs directly from that particular rocket design probably not so many for the average Joe, probably some new types of materials: 

Well, given that beaks are hard, the solution is obvious: Have the avian dinosaurs use their closed beaks for breaking stuff (like other dinosaur's heads), the open beak for grasping (between lower and upper beak-bit) and their tongues as delicate manipulators. 

Well, it all has to do with RATE of FIRE. Does your airship have capabilities equivalent to the US AF AC-130, which is capable of blowing to smithereens a football-field's worth of enemy combatants every second? Most importantly can you blow enemy flyers out of the sky before they get within range? Does your Big Bertha-like mega-canon fire at 200 km ranges and leave a 100 meter crater where the enemy general's HQ tent used to be? And then can fire again, a minute later? If it can be this precise and accurate, Big Bertha is the way to go. Does your Spellarm tower have the capability of sustained fire? Is it a ray of death, dancing merily amidst the burning or panicked and fleeing soldiers of the enemy camp? Does lifting one's head above the trenches for a single second leave a charred stump where the soldier's head used to be? Spellarm towers it is. Given equal rates of fire (casualties per second) the Airship has the advantage of mobility, and the disadvantage of being within line of sight. Perhaps it can be disabled by enemy mages? Given equal rates of fire, the Big Bertha has the advantage of causing utter horror out of the blue, with no possible defense. Especially given the massed troop formations common in medieval-tech armies, this should be horrifying to enemy leaders. However, this comes with significant supply issues (must have a steady supply of 1,000-7,000 kg high-explosive rounds. Some of these are about the size of a passenger car. Not an easy ask for a rencently medieval tool-kit. Given equal rates of fire, the ray-towers would make a traditional siege of your capitol virtually impossible, since any open structures in line of sight would be vulnerable, the most common medieval construction materials are either flammable (wood and hides), can be melted through (iron), or cannot be produced in sufficient quantities fast enough to shelter a million-man army (porcelains and baked clay). However, they are obviously immobile, so no offensive capabilities and no use beyond direct line of sight. The enemy might be seizing your mines and killing your peons, if it's around the nearby mountain, you're helpless to do anything. All in all, if all solutions had similar killing power (casualties per second), I'd go for the airship. If you are in a defensive mind-set and worried about sieges, the light-towers will help. If you just want to rain death upon enemies within a 50 mile range and have the industrial chops to supply the shells it needs, definitely go for the mega-cannon. 

You might have that effect with tectonics, just before when two continents separated by a sea meet each other. For example when Indian plate hit Euroasian plate. That crush started to create the Himalayas. When the continents met the mountains stated to elevate and the sea between both plates started to dry (Tethys ocean). So for a short while probably a deep valley was created between both continents, an later on the Himalayas grew bigger and the valley between both continents was gone. But in the meantime, you had a valley between both continents. Another possibility is the East Africa Drift, where former mountains are separating, creating several valleys between them, valleys that later were filled with lakes. 

Napoleonic wars were the continuation of the French revolution. Therefore, these wars were between the old and new order. All monarchs saw France as a potential danger to them, in the same way as Russian revolution was a danger to other countries during the XX century. So I think the best parallel is indeed the Russian revolution. The Soviet Union didn't try to expand its influence beyond their frontiers and that helped them to survive, even though they were isolated. While Napoleon, by extending his influence beyond France doomed the revolution. Because no prolongued peace was possible, only ceasefires thanks to his military talent. He was a virus that other monarchs must destroy in order to preserve themselves. By 1812 no step back was possible. If any it would have been only another truce. He must defeat completely all other monarchs in order to preserve his empire. 

It would be a three step process, in many ways similar to the concept of "secure second-strike-capability". 0: Ensure Secure second-strike capability Place secure second-strike capabilities in a location that is secure from nuclear attack. Your options are underground bunkers (can be iffy against direct attack), moving underwater, moving over the road network, moving over the countryside, in the air, or in space (that would break some international treaties). 1: Detect nuclear detonation over protected area Nuclear detonations are extraordinary events, in terms of the physical effects they produce, and as such they can be detected through a large variety of ways. Forensic seismology: the shock waves emanating from nuclear tests/blasts are quite strong – a 2009 North Korean underground nuclear test registered as a 4.52 on the Richter scale. Light flash - nuclear blasts are bright. A Network of sensors over the protected area can detect the characteristic nuclear double flash. Soundwaves Hydroacoustics or Infrasound - nuclear blasts are loud. A Network of sensors over the protected area can detect the telltalle signs. Radionuclide detection - nuclear blasts are never clean burning, they create a vast amount of short- and long-lived radionuclides that can be picked up in the wind by a network of sensors placed over a protected area. Satellite surveillance can detect nuclear blasts over a protected area. 2: Evaluate impact damage. 2.a. Evaluate damage to chain of command Hardened electronic life-sign monitoring ankle bracelets on either the top officials or their body-guards, or manually answerable encoded radio pings can act as keepalives. If a certain high fraction of the chain of command goes dark outside of regular maintenance and simultaneously, the chain of command can be assumed to have been severed. The program will move to the next step, evaluating whether the nuclear wipe-out condition has also been met. 2.b. Evaluate damage to protected area A series of satellite or even video monitoring feeds can be fed to image analysis software and be used if atomic flashes are detected to assess the level of damage. Moreover, damage to the existing sensor network placed sensibly around high value targets (like urban and industrial agglomerations), damage to weather stations, TV and radio stations, traffic signal infrastructure, CCTV networks, all can be assessed and a damage score calculated. If a critical threshold is passed post-nuclear flash, the nuclear wipe-out condition can be assumed to have been met. 3: Trigger retaliatory counter-measures. This part is simple. If the nuclear wipe-out conditions are met, deploy all surviving nuclear assets. Rain righteous death upon all enemies, guilty or not. 

Another problem would be the ramification of new nerves inside the new tissue. So maybe you need to relax the constraint of nerve growing in order to get a limb useful after few time. Also is present the problem of body temperature, this constraint demands that you must use organs of animals that require the same temperature. In the case of limbs it doesn't matter, but a liver needs a precise temperature. Some hormones might not be the same, either by structure or concentration. Summary, most differences are not quite difficult to solve, but the inmune system will always reject foreign tissue, but if you relax the inmune system your Frankenstein will probably die quite fast due to any infection. 

It could have been the same but with a different religion. In case that Christianity did not develop, another religion would have taken its place, after all Roman religion was weak during the end of the empire. For example, manicheism might have replaced Christianity during its early stages, or Islam in the latter. Since United State was colonized by people who was running from religion persecution in England, in your alternate history the founding fathers could be shiites minorities while in England most people are Sunni. Judaism probably would be the same, because judaism is inherit, hence is more difficult to convert people from other religions to judaism. 

As we all know, Santa loads his sleigh with gifts for millions of children around the world and sets about distributing them during the night of December 24/25. To make them all fit in his stylish truck-sized sleigh, he obviously uses the same compression technology that enables him to jimmy up and down chimneys, infiltrate through A/C units, drink milk and eat cookies while evading bio-containment filters, intruder alarms, and such. We won't worry about that at the moment, but we can assume that the device does not modify mass (otherwise it would break all sorts of conservation laws, and make our physicists look silly indeed). 

Neurons are slow, so beyond a certain size the time delays will be too large (if it takes over a second to get signals from one end to the other, can there be meaningful computation? I don't think so.) There may be issues with cooling a big brain There may be overwhelming vascularization needs (or whatever artificial substitute for blood vessels), but I don't know how to even start putting numbers on that... 

Energy. The amount of energy to convert mass to energy (twice) is huge, remember the formula E=mc2. This means that transfer a 10 tons of mass means 10^20 [J], which is insane. Information. You are not transfering energy, you're transfering information, data related to how mass should be built. A human body has 7*10^27 atoms, while a terabyte are only 10^12 bytes. So the data transfer assuming a single "wire" will need so much time that the system would be useless to transfer more than few molecules. 

Astrological readings. Astrology describe a moment of time with planet positions and the relation between them. For example, a moment of time can be described as follow: Mars in Aries, Mercury in Libra... conjuntion between Jupiter and Mars and Saturn in opposition to the Moon. Each combination might be unique. Neptune for example needs 165 years to make one orbit, so this kind of calendar can be used for a long period of time. 

I chose this because it illustrates beautifully the difference between efficiency improvements of existing technology (which, at best, can get you to the PPC) and the shift to new PPFs through the discovery and implementation of new technology. Here's a practical example (notice the inverted Y cost scale): 

As a Transylvanian native with a strong affinity to dark offices, I believe I can shed some light on your question. Since I'm typing this on a computer, it should be obvious that at least some of us are up to date in technology, so have kept up with the times. If I were to engage in introspection, I'd say that my memories of the distant past recede as a function of the distance in time and the emotional importance I attach to them. So participating in my nephew Vlad's games with the delicious Turkish forces in the 1450s was so much fun that I rememeber it all as if it were yesterday, but much of the 16th century is a blur (partially due to a recurring bout of madness that century, probably triggered by something I ate.) Now in modern times, you'd be surprised by how many of us have servitors working for the Red Cross and other blood-banks, looking out for good rare vintages. It's all very civilized, aside from some reckless youngsters messing about in the more troubled regions of the world. Now due to our telomere relengthening (dis?)order our bodies are essentially stuck around the biological age of 5-35 (it is a long-known fact among us that most bites over 35 don't 'take' very well, for some reason, probably too much gunk in the genecode, while the few attempts to turn people under 5 also seem to universally fail, probably due to the weak immune systems) So most of us have the brain plasticity and energy levels of a young adult, with our superior, uh, persuasion abilities, and centuries of refining learning techniques, building memory palaces and mnemonic systems to boot. Why, if you looked at Fortune 500 companies and hedge funds, you couldn't swing a garlic wreath without ... uh, perhaps I should not talk too much about that. 

Probably the subject would be already dead by a fungal infection. In case the subject is still alive: 

It would be plausible for communication only in absence of verbal language and (maybe) facial expressions. Since humans have language and no-verbal communication (posture, tone, volume of voice, facial expression), there is no need of another communication system. Facial expression in your case is not needed, because bio-luminescence develops in darkness. It would be plausible for attraction. But this kind of solution for attraction usually happens only in enviroments with abundant resources (darkness isn't a place with abundant resources), where a species can waste effort for attraction. That is why birds in jungles are more colorful than birds in tundra. 

Low chances due to tectonics, because the crust that is lost by the movement of tectonic plates usually is the crust that is below the sea. The surface that covers continents might move or go up due tectonics, but almost never disappear. The worst case would be that the remnats are buried in a mountain like the Tibet or the Alps, but never below the sea. Yes by other force of nature. Like any other fossil, the remnants of your civilization might be convered by sediments and later on turn into stone or leave their mark in the stone.