The book 'Naming Jack the Ripper' was published in 2014 by Russell Edwards, a businessman who bought a silk shawl in 2007 on the understanding that it was the same piece of cloth allegedly found next to Eddowes alleged to be killed by the serial killer Jack the Ripper. Edwards commissioned Dr Louhelainen, a molecular biologist at Liverpool John Moores University, to carry out a forensic analysis of the shawl, including the extraction of any DNA samples that may be present within the cloth, which had been supposedly stored unwashed all this time by the family of the London policeman who had acquired the artefact. According to a detailed analysis of DNA extracted from the silk shawl allegedly found at the scene of one of Jack The Ripper murders by Dr Jari Louhelainen, a world-renowned expert in analysing genetic evidence from historical crime scenes, the claim was that a 23-year-old Polish immigrant barber Aaron Kosminski was "definitely, categorically and absolutely" the man who carried out the atrocities in 1888. However, 'The Independent', a British paper, reports that the scientist, Jari Louhelainen, is said to have made an "error of nomenclature" when using a DNA database to calculate the chances of a genetic match. If true, it would mean his calculations were wrong and that virtually anyone could have left the DNA that he insisted came from the Ripper's victim. "The apparent error, first noticed by crime enthusiasts in Australia blogging on the casebook.org website, has been highlighted by four experts with intimate knowledge of DNA analysis – including Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys, the inventor of genetic fingerprinting – who found that Dr Louhelainen made a basic mistake in analysing the DNA extracted from a shawl supposedly found near the badly disfigured body of Ripper victim Catherine Eddowes." "Dr Louhelainen appears to have made a basic error in calculating the frequency estimate. There are currently about 34,617 entries in the GMI database, and the figure would have been nearer to 29,000 when Dr Louhelainen carried out his research some time ago. So failing to find a match for a non-existent mutation should have given a frequency of about 1/29,000 – an error suggesting that he had placed a decimal point in the wrong place. "The random match probability of a sequence only seen once [as claimed for the shawl] is therefore roughly 1/34,617. With a database of this size, it is impossible to arrive at an estimate as low as 1/290,000," Professor Jeffreys said." "Experts with detailed knowledge of the GMI's mtDNA database claimed that Dr Louhelainen made an "error of nomenclature" because the mutation in question should be written as "315.1C" and not "314.1C". Had Dr Louhelainen done this, and followed standard forensic practice, he would have discovered the mutation was not rare at all but shared by more than 99 per cent of people of European descent." "If the match frequency really is 90 per cent plus, and not 1/290,000, then obviously there is no significance whatsoever in the match between the shawl and Eddowes' descendant, and the same match would have been seen with almost anyone who had handled the shawl over the years," Professor Jeffreys said." "Other scientists echoed Professor Jeffreys' concerns, including Mannis van Oven, professor of forensic molecular biology at Rotterdam's Erasmus University, Professor Walther Parson of the Institute of Legal Medicine in Innsbruck, and Hansi Weissensteiner, also at Innsbruck and one of the scientists behind the computer algorithm used by Dr Louhelainen to search the mtDNA database. They say the error means no DNA connection can be made between Kosminski and Eddowes. Any suggestion therefore that the Ripper and Kosminski are the same person appears to be based on conjecture and supposition – as it has been ever since the police first identified Kosminksi as a possible suspect more than a century ago." Crime enthusiast Stephen Ryder, writing in casebook.org, said that Mr. Edwards' claims must be taken with a heavy dose of salt until they have been independently verified and published in a reputable peer-reviewed journal due to Problem #1: The shawl has no provenance linking it to Catherine Eddowes, problem #2: The vagaries of mitochondrial DNA evidence and problem #3: Issues of contamination. The Publishers Sidgwick & Jackson of the book 'Naming Jack the Ripper' said that “the author stands by his conclusions” and they are “investigating the reported error in scientific nomenclature.” They added that “However, this does not change the DNA profiling match and the probability of the match calculated from the rest of the data. The conclusion reached in the book, that Aaron Kosminski was Jack the Ripper, relies on much more than this one figure." 

Referring to RMIT professor Des Cahill's 2012 analysis, the answer is yes to the '1 in 20' figure based on a population of 378 Corpus Christi priests graduating between 1940 and 1966 out of which 14 were convicted of child sexual abuse, and also the church authorities had admitted that another four who had died were also abusers which gave a rate of 4.76 per cent. This percent is rounded off to 5%. 

They're black, so they absorb heat and maybe transfer it to the water? No, the air in the shade balls prevents any heat transfer to the water according to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP). 

Lithium ion batteries are considered as hazardous materials for purposes of airline transportation regulations because they can overheat and ignite in certain conditions and, once ignited, can rapidly spread and be especially difficult to reduce. Research into lithium ion battery fire and explosion shows that the fuel, oxygen and energy existing in lithium ion battery system provides the necessary contributions to the combustion triangle, and thus there is the possibility of fire and/or explosion. 

TL;DR: There is not a great deal of difference about organic milk when compared to conventionally produced milk in terms of nutrients once the different factors that influence milk production were compared or adjusted from a 2015 review of close to 200 publications. 

Elective induction of labor is associated with decreased odds of cesarean delivery when compared with expectant management. 

Per UK NHS, 1. Combined contraceptive pill is more than 99% effective if taken correctly. Less than 1 woman in 100 will get pregnant in a year while taking the combined pill. 2. Progestogen-only pill is 99% effective if taken correctly. One woman in 100 will get pregnant in a year while taking the progestogen-only pill. The AHRP site clearly mentions "to be fully effective, birth control pills need to be taken correctly. Missing even a few doses greatly increases your chances of pregnancy: while only 0.1 percent of women get pregnant when using the pill properly, pregnancy rates soar by 30-80 times when pills are missed. Because of the missed pills, you have a much greater chance of getting pregnant. So even though you’re back on schedule, you also need to use a back-up method of contraception — like a condom, or spermicide — for the rest of your cycle." Also if emergency contraceptive Pills treatment is initiated within 72 hours after unprotected intercourse, this reduces the risk of pregnancy by at least 75%. Quoting Oddthinking, "differences among probabilities of pregnancy for various methods will increase over time." 

The Phyllomedusa genus to which the South American Giant Monkey Frog belongs is known to produce biopeptides from the skin secretions which are used in development of new anti-infection drugs. 

Rudy Tanzi, Ph.D director of the Alzheimer’s Genome Project and a leading researcher in the field at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School states that eating fruits and vegetables through diet, exercising, sleeping and stress reduction helps in the prevention of Alzheimer's. 

Per Kenneth Anderson MA, "Heavy drinkers outlive abstainers because heavy drinking is defined wrongly by the definitions of heavy drinking used in Charles J. Holahan et al. study in 2010 which were far more liberal definitions of moderation and heavy drinking since the cut off level between moderate and heavy drinking in the Holahan study was 3 times greater than the U.S. government definition of the cut off level for women, and one and a half times greater than that for men." Also another study by Ulrich John et.al. in 2013 found that in DSM IV alcoholics "annualized death rates were 4.6-fold higher for women and 1.9-fold higher for men compared to the age- and sex-specific general population" which meant people who met the DSM IV criteria for Alcohol Dependence had lifespans an average of 20 years shorter than those who did not. Alcoholism treatment also had no apparent protective effect in preventing premature death. Per Richard G. Rogers et.al.'s study in 2013 "nondrinkers include several different groups that have unique mortality risks." Per UNC, "the risk for coronary heart disease even for heavy drinkers remains below the baseline; but risk of death from other causes goes up. The risk of death from liver disease skyrockets off the chart after only a couple of drinks a day." Per G. Testino et.al. in 2014, "it is ethically inconceivable not to condemn the consumption of a carcinogenic substance and even moderate alcohol drinking is harmful since alcohol was found to cause more harm than good per points mentioned below." 

The touch of death is known in Cantonese as Dim Mak and in Japanese as Kyusho Jitsu. Traditional Chinese medicine claims that chi or energy flows through the body along lines called meridians. A study published online by the British Medical Journal found that Acupressure (applying pressure with the thumbs or fingertips to the same points on the body stimulated in acupuncture) seems to be more effective in reducing low back pain than physical therapy. 

A UK data survey estimated that 20% tax might lead to a reduction in the obesity rates prevailing in the United Kingdom. The research is further explained here. 

A) Glycerin containing cream appears to be suitable in the treatment of atopic dry skin. B) Allantoin is a natural soothing, anti-irritant, and skin protectant that increases the water content of the extracellular matrix which provides structural support to cells. C) The term "provitamin" is used when it is desirable to label a substance with little or no vitamin activity, but which can be converted to an active form by normal metabolic processes. Vitamins C and E inhibits the acute ultraviolet damage of erythema, sunburn, and tanning as well as chronic UV photoaging and skin cancer and are highly effective depigmenting agents. Topical vitamin C also increases collagen synthesis and because vitamin C regenerates oxidized vitamin E, its combination is synergistic in cosmetic formulation, particularly in UV protection. 3. A) Parsol is the trade name of a number of UV absorbers including Parsol Mcx and Parsol 1789. Avobenzone's (Parsol 1789) ability of absorbing ultraviolet light over a wider range of wavelengths than many other sunscreen agents has led to its use in many commercial cosmetic preparations marketed as "broad spectrum" sunscreens. B) TiO2 powders are used due to their ability to confer whiteness and opacity on products such as cosmetics. Until relevant toxicological and human exposure data that would enable reliable risk assessment are obtained, TiO2 nanoparticles should be used with great care. 

TL;DR: Referring to Dr Du and Prof Feng, physiological similarities between pigs and humans was maintained at a genetic level of 84% homology between the two species. However, detailed analysis showed that there were several important differences. 

The mechanism which underlies social facilitation of eating has been termed “time-extension” and has received the most empirical support. Specifically, the presence of people at a meal lengthens meal time which, in turn, promotes further energy intake. The point is important because, "there is evidence that the tendency to eat with others may be genetically influenced. Thus, the fact that some individuals are more likely to eat in the presence of others may not be a random event; rather, eating in the presence of others may be a trait that is influenced by genes that indirectly promote social facilitation of eating at meals." 

Recent research evidence suggests some benefits of including saturated fat such as dairy fat or high-fat dairy foods such as cheese in diet. However, these recommendations are based more on the influences of fermentation/probiotics, calcium and vitamin D contents rather than their complete cardiometabolic effects. The American Heart Association (AHA) advises to keep the intake of saturated fats less than 7 percent of total daily calories. 

Electronic vehicle immobilisation in Australia through Australian Standard (AS) immobilisers typically disables two or more electrical circuits (linked to either the ignition and/or fuel pump circuits) built into the engine management system. 

Per meta-analysis by Larsson SC et.al. in 2007 on coffee consumption and cancers of the liver showed an increased coffee consumption is associated with a reduced risk of liver cancer, both among individuals with and without a history of liver disease. However per the authors, the observed finding may not be generalizable to other populations. Per meta analysis by Ji Dong et.al. in 2011 coffee drinking was associated with a reduced risk of pancreatic cancer in men, while this association was not seen in women. Per metaanalysis by Tian-bao Huang et.al. in 2013, coffee consumption may reduce the risk of prostate cancer. No associations were found with both bladder and kidney cancer. 

"Not all countries conform neatly to the correlation between rising secularism and prosperity — Italy and Ireland, for example, are well-off First World countries where religiosity remains high, while China and Vietnam, whose regimes are officially atheist, are poor nations that are also among the most secular". 

Inadvertent or accidental drinking of small quantities of rainwater is highly unlikely to cause adverse health effects. 

However, the mosques of the Prophet at Medina built in 622 C. E., the Mosque of Kufa in Iraq, the Mosque of Basra in Iraq, the Mosque of Amru, Fustat, Egypt predate the Dome of the Rock. 

Sleeping positions on the right or left might have an influence on digestion if the digestive problems are related to gastroesophageal reflux per research mentioned below. 

However per another study by Julia A Montague et.al. in 2012, 'black tea intake may increase prostate cancer risk'. 

There seems to be no correlation on an individual level between intelligence and happiness and on the average, cognitive abilities does not lead to more or less happiness per two studies mentioned below. 

Biophysicists at Johns Hopkins concluded that the sperm and egg stick together because of adhesive molecules on their surfaces. 

Cardis and Sadetzky state that "There are now more than 4 billion people, including children, using mobile phones. Even a small risk at the individual level could eventually result in a considerable number of tumors and become an important public-health issue. Simple and low-coast measures, such as the use of text messages, hands-free kits and/or the loud-speaker mode of the phone could substantially reduce exposure to the brain from mobile phones. Therefore, until definitive scientific answers are available, the adoption of such precautions, particularly among young people, is advisable". Per W. K. Alfred Yung in 2010, "We have some hope that the questions about a cell phone–brain tumor link will be answered, eventually." 

"Search times indicate that these background variations only affect readability when the text contrast is low, and that spatial frequency content affects readability" per Lauren F. V. Scharff et.al in 2000 who has published several papers on readability of text displays. "Performance was significantly worse for the low text contrast, the additive combination rule, and the "culture" pattern and both patterns were worse than the uniform background" per Lauren F. V. Scharff et.al in 2001.