To answer your question directly... Yes you should support him if that's part of your job. You should do this regardless of what you believe will be a good fit for this person given their current skills. The Why This person appears has the drive to get into development. Employees tend to work rather well if they enjoy what they're doing. Happy employees are productive employees and productive employees means FTE well spent. Now to address your concerns If you believe that this employee doesn't have the skills needed for development; then let them know. There's nothing wrong with this; give the employee tasks to do at home if it's something that's simple enough that they can google. Get them to learn the basics before you teach them how to code. If it turns out that it's something that they just aren't able to learn then you can raise it with your manager and let the manager know that you don't think that they'll be a good fit for the role. In short; start with the basics. If you're there to mentor this person, then tell them what they need to know prior to being shown how to code/develop. If they can't grasp the basics then so be it; but until you provide someone with the rope, they aren't going to trip themselves up and fall flat. (Who knows, they may even be a great fit) 

Give everyone who would be reporting an issue a form to fill out or a template to complete before they email through. The issue here from the sounds of it is that you're not being specific enough. Provide information on exactly what you're after. Telling someone to describe the problem will not give you the information you're after. The reason for this is that I can describe a problem in a single sentence and I've fulfilled your requirements of describing the problem. Then when I get a response back from you saying I haven't described it, I'll think you aren't reading my emails because I've already described my issue to you, what more do you want? For this reason you need to ask the user "What steps did you take before the problem occurred?" or "What were you doing immediately before the problem occurred?". This restricts the user in what they can answer and lets them know what information is meaningful to you. They're likely under the impression that you can gain everything you need from the program log and any information they give you isn't that helpful. Never assume that the person you're receiving your log from knows exactly what you mean. As was mentioned in another answer, you don't offer mind reading as a service. However, I'm sure that the people sending you the logs don't offer mind reading either, it works both ways! Narrow questions will provide you more meaningful information. 

Similar to another answer here. State the facts. That is, your suspicion is just that, a suspicion and it doesn't appear to the reason why you'd choose not to hire this candidate. I think that the way you've summed it up already in this question provides valuable feedback to the candidate. Provide the factual feedback that you're not comfortable with the candidate's level of understanding of topics that they should know. Back this up with your observations during the interview. For example... Facts When I asked questions X, Y and Z whilst you were able to provide an indepth explanation but where unable to explain follow up questions that are designed to show a candidate's fundamental understanding of the question. Consequence Because of this I'm not comfortable that you have a sound understanding of topic A, B and C. Meaning that you have not been selected for the position at this time etc etc Resolution If you're looking to apply to a similar job in future. I would recommend you look into X, Y, Z so that you can answer questions more efficiently when probed for a deeper understanding. Note: Don't confuse your suspicion of this candidate googling answers to things as the reason why you've chosen not to proceed with them. Whilst it might be a byproduct of the candidate not understanding the topic you're asking about. Fundamentally it's the lack of knowledge that is the problem, not what they may or may not have been doing on the other end of the phone. 

The question can be used to illustrate what you value as important - you just need to phrase it in a negative way. It can be answered in such a way as to show that you and the company hold the same values. For example: 

Wear the tie. If the environment is such that it is inappropriate, you can always take it off. Indeed, the act of taking it off can even signal that you feel relaxed, and non-verbally cues others to this fact. If you take the tie, you can remove it. If you don't take the tie, it looks silly to be putting it on if you feel you need it. On sales calls, even if I suspect the environment is casual, I always aim for one notch above. You never know when you will need it, and you can always kick it back. It is harder to kick it up... 

*Clarification, based on a good comment. If, after you have gotten through the interview, and been given a job, you may be asked to complete an application that says "Please list all jobs." If you are feeling particularly supercilious, you should probably list it at that time - on the off chance somebody decides to do a full life audit. At worst, the hiring manager may ask, "What's this?" You say: "It's a job I held for two weeks. It really wasn't worth mentioning, because ..." and you then explain. The resume is about the first impression here - the application comes when it is pretty much a done deal. 

Its a classic question of specialization. I have a great deal of Lotus Notes experience - a technology that is greatly loved by a very small community and pretty well dismissed by everyone else. If I chose to headlight those skills, I could get jobs very, very easily in a very, very small pond. As the number of people with that expertise dwindles, it becomes more and more lucrative for the few people still using it - but it limits you at the same time. The question you have to ask yourself is whether or not you want to play that game or play the game of being the best on a wide range of new technologies. In other words, are you going to go broad or go deep. Going Broad has the advantage of allowing you to advance in terms of leadership (if not necessarily salary) and in my case, helps me to sleep at night, knowing that when the last Lotus Notes shop moves to something else, I don't have a massive retraining. (And no, I haven't used my Lotus Notes background for about 3 years now). On the other hand, if you like to stay put and go deep on one thing, you could do a lot worse than VB6. Sure, its nearing EOL, but as recently as 2009, 87% of companies were still using it. There will be VB6 apps around for a long time, in the same way COBOL is still out there. Will you have the pick of jobs anywhere? No. But will you have security? Sure. 

In short, you want to set up an answer along the lines of "If you were a company that was going to be stupid, then you shouldn't hire me." The result is that the interviewer should feel that the hypothetical would be bad in any event, and would recognize your genius in: a. knowing what stupid is and b. being able to listen to deflect a bad question. 

I am good friends with the Director of IT in my firm. He recently let on that he knew I was looking for alternative employment, because they are logging my AIM instant messaging application. Although I restrict my AIM usage to after hours, the scraper they use (since I do attach to the network with the same box), is logged. Thankfully, I have good relations with him, and he and I both agree that our company is insane. Unwarranted surveillance aside - does outside evidence that a person is looking for alternative employment in the United States - constitute valid grounds for dismissal in an at-will contract? Note also, there are other ways that an employer can find you are looking - signing up for certain job boards, Linked In, etc... that don't use company resources. In these circumstances, can they take action based on personal time activities? In other words, do I have any leg to stand on if they fire me?