Now we can bring in "ordinary language," a metathought is a thought, or metathought in general is a category of thoughts. This has an interesting implication: 

I believe Zen Buddhism would suggest consciousness is independent of the five senses. I love to show my ignorance by quoting Wikipedia for definitions, so here's their definition for consciousness: 

The CLT has no implications for knowledge or reality or existence unless you make the assumption that the universe consists of random variables. If you make that assumption, it says a lot about what can and cannot be. However, that assumption is not an easy one. As far as I know, it is generally assumed that all macroscopic "random" events are not random variables, but the interaction of non-random events that we cannot see. For such cases, the CLT can only be used on models of the universe, not the universe itself. In quantum mechanics, we currently believe that the universe is well modeled as random variables, under the Copenhagen Interpretation. As such, many scientists currently believe that you can draw conclusions about the universe using the CLT. It is used, for example, to explain wavefunction collapse. However, that's all science. We don't actually know. The next major advancement in particle physics may uproot the idea that the world is well modeled as a statistical system. The real power of the CLT in our lives is that in many cases, we are comfortable making assumptions that some of the universe is well modeled as random variables. We can make very good approximations and predictions using it. However, philosophically, those would not be considered knowledge. They're just really convenient shortcuts. 

The word I would use for those sorts of people is "normal." What you describe is the standard way nearly everyone behaves. As a general rule, when a group of people encompasses 99.999% of a population, we tend to not bother giving that group a named identity that is distinct from the name of the population as a whole. The general philosophy you describe is "all other things being equal, choose the person who historically has shows themselves to be aligned with your beliefs." This is an incredibly rational position. The more interesting question would be who would save the bad guys and why. They're the outliers. Religious arguments involving saving souls may provide a backdrop for a rational argument like this. But very few would make it. 

English, like all natural languages, is a fuzzy construct with inexact definitions. One would need a more rigorous language (such as mathematics) to be particularly comfortable with it being a "proper paradox." 

If you could write a perfect law, there would be no room for interpretation. However, there are several major difficulties because language is imprecise. Legislators have an intent behind a law. In a perfect world, they transcribe this into a magical language which has no ambiguity. In reality, language has never been that precise. They do the best they can with their wording. If we demanded perfection, we'd probably need a system better than mere voting (such as only accepting words from a deity of your choice). So given that the wordings only approximate the legislator's intent, an issue will arise when the exact wording of a law conflicts with the intent. When this happens, the law's wording must change to better reflect the intent. However, we don't like wordings to change. Also, some law are old enough that nobody is around to answer what the intent was. For this purpose, we give judges the ability to set precedent by interpreting a law. Whether this is good or bad is open to debate. However, we have found it to be the best system of law we have to date. The legislative branch writes the words, and the judicial branch interprets them. Short of a dictator which can do both, this is the best that can be done with the limitations of linguistics. 

You will find every philosophical question involving the prefix "omni-" to run into strange behaviors. The English language is notoriously good at generating paradoxical behaviors that look legitimate, using the "omni-" prefix. The first key question is defining the difference between knowledge and wisdom. Typically one can assume that your listener understands the difference, but when you start playing with "omni-" the fine lines between words start to matter. An exacting definition of "wisdom" is particularly difficult to construct. The second issue you'll need to deal with is the inherent paradoxes that arise with self-reference if Captain Omnipresent is fully present in spacetime. If so, he can have all knowledge about himself. This creates all sorts of wonky effects which are played out in other questions ("Can God create a rock so heavy even He cannot lift it?), but it may give an answer. If he can know enough about himself to know what he doesn't know, perhaps that is wisdom? It's all in the definition, after all. The other question may be how much this Omnipresent Being interacts with the universe. You may find the answer is that this being can coax the universe into a state where the entity is all-wise, depending on many variables which are not mentioned in the quesiton. 

In Chinese philosophy, it is taught that every entity has yin and yang. The sun is traditionally thought of as being very strongly biased towards yang (from the perspective of the balance we perceive). It is easy to find wordings describing the attributes of the sun which give it its heavy yang character. However, I have had trouble finding and discussion of the attributes of its yin side. It is difficult to find these because there is a great deal of content talking of the balance between the yang of the sun and the yin of the moon. It is hard to find words capturing the yin side of the sun itself. What descriptions of the sun capture the yin portion of its essence? 

Way back when I was a child, I watched Mr. Wizard on TV. He had a neat experiment to demonstrate how touch can deceive. He took a ruler, and made a cardboard slide that goes around it. At one end of the ruler, he put a pin, and he attached one to the slide, so that he could vary the distance between the pins. He got his subject to hold out her arm and he lightly tapped the pins against the inside of her arm, an inch apart at first, and asked her how many pins she felt: two, of course. He then decreased the distance until he got within the distance we have between sensory nerves in the skin. At that distance, suddenly one pin vanished, and the woman helping him only felt one pin. (he then went on to repeat the test on other parts of the body, such as the lips, to show that different parts of the body have sensory nerves closer together than others). Also consider the fun experiment where you stand in a doorway and press your arms out against the sides. Spend a minute like this, during which your body is processing its tactile inputs and making its best guesstimates as to what your body is doing. When you step out, your arms rise. You end up confusing the sensors in the body which detect muscle length, which are a fundamental part of the kinesthetics that tactile input lets us use. Many internal martial arts take advantage of touch's ability to deceive, allowing their opponent to overextend because their opponent thinks they're in one position when they're actually in another. Finally, saving the best for last, why not just take the lesson from the best: Penn and Teller. 

Why is there religion? No joke, that's the question. If you choose to believe that there is no deity, the immediate question should be "why is deity worship so undeniably popular?" If you believe in evolution of ideas (generally accepted, but not everyone agrees), then this suggests that you can plumb the questions religion answers as part of your own search to understand what centuries of humans have had to deal with. For example, there is a tremendous glut of religions which declare killing to be wrong, in one form or another. This may suggest that the presence of a rule along the lines of "thou shalt not kill" is an evolutionary advantage sufficiently powerful to offset any negative effects of believing a "false" religion. 

The idea of this is that every logical proof contains some issue to tug at. Given that, I think there's a great deal of room for a logical mind to explore more than one system of thought. 

Welcome back to the world of the sane. Objects are made of atoms again. Your sanity is intact. But you will never be the same, because you have seen the rabbit hole, and realized you may never truly comprehend how far it goes. At each step of that journey, there was a thing that was worthy of being called an "object." Between each step, that definition was shaken until it crumbled. However, for most of your life, you are free to define an "object" to be something simple. In fact, it turns out that modeling the QM waveforms emitted by an incandescent lightbulb is virtually intractable. There's just too much math! If you use the best definition for an object made of light, you'll never get off the drafting paper. By choosing a less precise definition, you can make a useful product, like lightbulbs that we use every day! These "less precise" defintions of "object" are useful because they help us understand the universe around us!