This planet is host to a particularly nasty parasite, which causes something like Walking Dead zombieism, but with a much longer preliminary phase and slower decline. During the early stages of the infection, the sufferer's sweat smells (faintly at first, but more strongly as the infection progresses) of lavender. The infection is not terribly common - let's say somewhat more common than leprosy. But it is widespread, both geographically and socioeconomically. The association of the smell with a grotesque disease will ensure its widespread loathing. 

Nothing, unless you count mating penguins and blizzards. EDIT - Oh, and I forgot about the enormous crack in one of the ice shelves. It looks as if we're about to get the world's largest iceburg. Now, that's interesting. END EDIT 

It's certainly possible, as long as you allow the width of the river and/or the speed of the river to vary appropriately. Let's say the deep portion is 10 feet deep and 10 yards across. Then the area across the river is 300 square feet. Since water is incompressible, the flow through any area of the river must be constant. So, if the river widens out to 100 yards, the depth must be 1 foot deep for the same flow rate. And anything in between will do. For instance, if the river is running at 1 mph at your shallows, for a narrow section, say, 5 yards across and 5 feet deep (area is 75 square feet) the flow rate must be 4 mph. So you can mix fast, narrow and deep as you like, as long as you keep the overall flow rate the same. 

They already have high voices. Their vocal cords don't make low sounds very well, so a hiss would come more naturally than a growl. The hiss is an imitation of another animal that hisses when angry and dangerous. For example, perhaps your species hisses when threatened because a certain species of poisonous lizard or snake that lives in the area does the same thing, so the hissing sound is immediately associated with danger. 

Depends on two things: one, how intelligent your dragons are, and two, how non-threatening they look to your goats. Are your dragons the human analogue of your planet, or are they a threat to some other species that is a closer human analogue? Can the dragons speak to each other or to the humans with the complexity of human language? If they can, they're probably clever enough to figure out how to keep a herd of their favorite food captive, or at least learn how to do it from others. If they are not, I wouldn't count on them building fences anytime soon, but I could see them being smart enough to keep tabs on one or two wild herds in their territory and take steps to keep them within the territory, such as scaring them away from boundaries or creating obstacles like trenches or felled trees. This latter case would be much more like standard hunting (just with "their own" pet prey) than like proper domestication, but I'd say it's valid. Complicating the matter is the fact that your goats will likely be terrified of your dragon, if the dragon is as large as you say and looks and acts typically dragon-ish. They will know the dragon is a predator out to eat them, and unless your dragon has some way to make itself seem like a friend, it will have a hard time doing any proper domestication of them. To avert this, it may be worth considering possibilities for a symbiotic relationship. Perhaps the goats trust the dragon because the dragon gives the goats something: a home, protection, warmth, a nutrient or treat of some sort, safe breeding grounds? The bottom line is that for the goats to trust the dragon, they need to get something out of it that is worth members of their herd dying when the dragon gets hungry. Maybe the dragon helps them harvest a certain type of fruit that is a much more efficient energy source than grazing but grows too high up in trees for them to reach, for example. There's room for a lot of cool speculative symbiotic evolution if you take this route. 

This is a use that cries out for the Orion Drive. Propulsion by chucking nukes out the back and riding the blast wave (more or less). No chemical system needed, and arguably no ion drive, either. Since it's intended to operate entirely in space, fallout should not be a problem. The fact that you're carrying nukes probably isn't a problem either. A note of caution. With OD ships, you might be tempted to invoke a defensive tactic of keeping the pusher plate between you and the enemy - it is, after all, an effective nuke stopper by definition. However, it needs to be almost perfectly aligned, and a slight attitude alignment error will probably result in damage to the recoil absorption mechanism, which will disable your drive system. 

As currently configured, no. Way back, the Moon was much, much closer to the earth than it is now, and it has been receding ever since. The effect is well-understood, and it's not going to change. 

It's hard to develop a technology when your population is dead. Apples are tasty, and healthy, and all that, but they are badly deficient in various essential nutrients. Using $URL$ as a source for nutrient levels in apples, and $URL$ to estimate dietary requirements, assuming 26 apples/day for 2500 calories per day gives the following shortcomings expressed as supplied/required/result: Iodine: 0/150 ug/ goiter, hypothyroidism,cretinism Niacin: 4.3 mg/16 mg/ pellagra Folate: 130 ug/ 320 ug / anemia Sodium: 52 mg/ 1500 mg/hyponatremia: heart failure, kidney failure, liver failure Protein: 12.2 g/56 g/ cachexia, kwashiorkor, various Fat: 8g / 56 g / vitamin A,D,E,K transport deficiencies, essential fatty acid deficiency And there are probably others. 

Pick some events of importance to early agrarian societies. Basic examples: the new life of spring (plants in bloom, baby animals, etc.), the autumn harvest, the winter solstice. Flesh out some pagan traditions that would have come about in response to these events. Physical offerings, bonfires or mass candle-lighting, music and dance are some options to start, but don't be afraid to make them more specific. Pick certain symbols and details that cultures might latch onto over the years. Establish at least a few major religions of your world, based geographically. Write out some myths and stories for them. Think about which ones would be most central to that religion. According to your world's history and geography, assign these religious meanings to your celebrations. Consider which cultures were dominant in certain regions at certain points in history; this will affect how some religions will adapt to the existing religions of others, for example to avoid persecution. Give the holidays a few hundred years for the pagan traditions and religious traditions to merge and evolve. Not all aspects of Christmas are Christian, for example, but not everyone knows this. 

EDIT: The comments below are in agreement, so I'm updating this answer with the popular recommendation that historical/political events be given commemorative holidays as well. These holidays will probably be given distinct dates because of their historical relevance, rather than organically blending with religious holidays. They may develop some customs of their own that are loosely based on the event (Independence Day in the U.S. is a pretty big deal, for example), or they may remain exclusively legal holidays. You mentioned that you aren't particularly interested in legal holidays, but consider making a few history-based celebrations if they are particularly pertinent to your world or a certain country in your world. 

"The bottom line is that they are not always revolving at the same speed." No, not really. Planets do change their rotation speed, normally as a result of tidal locking. But this is a very, very slow process - millions to billions of years. Keplerian orbits/eccentricity simply has no gross observable effect. 

First, a slight suggestion - you have potentially grossly understated the casualties possible. If the strike is time to occur at noon during a presidential inauguration (for maximum literary effect, just as the president finishes his oath and shakes the Chief Justice's hand), you would kill the entire crowd. While the Trump inauguration was (relatively) sparsely attended, and only totalled on the order of 200,000, the first Obama inauguration pulled somewhere near 1.8 million. Of course, while that is the best/worst case (depending on which side you're on) it also occurs during maximum security, so it's arguably the hardest time to pull it off successfully. On the gripping hand, it's anyone's guess if the security measures in place for an inauguration are geared up to preventing a nuke. There's lots of room for creativity here. With that said, such an attack would have the immediate effect of drawing the country together on an unprecedented scale, and would make the post-Pearl Harbor and post-911 responses look like languid tea parties. As mentioned, the Designated Survivor policy would be in place, so at least one legitimate member in the chain of succession would be available. As a result, there would be little likelihood of a military assumption of power, either official or unofficial. While it's true that the 3 branches would be pretty well decapitated, the actual damage to most of the country is minimal. Communications, for instance would be largely untouched, and the military would respond as it always has, with the Pentagon destruction providing slots to be filled almost instantly. And the loss of the Pentagon would only really affect the very top of the chain of command (the Joint Chiefs, especially) but most of the operational commanders (command, corps, divisional and below) would survive. I suspect most state governments would take a hit, since I expect most governors would be in Washington. And, since we're assuming a very popular president-elect (large crowds, remember?) you should presume most of Congress would be gone. While this would make passing laws to respond to the attack a bit difficult for several months, I suspect that temporary Executive Orders, plus laws on the books allowing emergency/wartime responses would be interpreted in favor of doing what needs to be done. So, on to the question of the survival of the nation. Well, it's pretty clear that the nation would survive (in the short run) just fine. One answer suggested that the inability to respond successfully to a mass casualty incident such as this would delegitimize the government by showing it to be inadequate. While I might be wrong, I suggest that this is just silly. While horrified, the rest of the nation would, I submit, recognize that there is pretty much no way to mount a successful response. There would be any number of individual errors which could be criticized post-mortem, but that sort of scale is simply beyond what any emergency plan can handle without required a monumental, sustained effort which would be grotesquely expensive and wasteful until it was needed. What would happen, I think, is that the primacy of the Federal government would be greatly enhanced. This is a trend which has been in place since the needs of WWII followed by the Cold War, with the expansion of Federally-empowered rights/entitlements which have characterized the last 50 or so years. The country would effectively shift to a war footing, but without an easily-identified external enemy. Internal surveillance, already boosted enormously post-911, would really kick into high gear. Defense/security spending would rise dramatically, with most of the increase aimed at internal security. After all, we already have a WFS (Whole Freaking Shitload) of nuclear warheads, but we don't know who to send them to - unless some group is dumb enough to credibly claim credit for the attack. Shortly before they get hammered. In many respects, these changes can be seen as an acceleration of trends already in place. Given this view the ultimate effect of such an attack would be to hasten the end of the nation, simply by speeding up the "natural" forces which should be assumed to one day drive us into decline. 

I feel like there are a couple of different cases to consider here, and which case is applicable depends on what exactly you mean when you say your scenario involves "comparing DNA." What exactly does it mean for two species to be "genetically similar" in your scenario? Same number of genes? Same possible gene variants for particular genes? Same number of chromosomes? If the DNA comparison is very granular, something like gene-to-gene, your scenario only makes sense if the two creatures are already quite similar, having comparable gene "slots." It's highly likely that two creatures with the same chromosome and gene counts could already interbreed, so the pursuit of making them compatible is pointless. The other answers here have already discussed this case in much better detail than I can. On the other hand, if your scenario could accept the lower-tech alternative of classic breeding based on gene expression rather than on direct DNA comparison, then you have a case of forced convergent evolution going on. You could theoretically breed any two creatures in the world to look more and more similar to each other. You could take a certain shark species and a certain dolphin species, for instance, and (with enough time and patience) make them both separately look like a halfway point between the two. Or, as Theik proposed, you could simultaneously breed a tiger to look more wolflike and a wolf to look more tigerlike. However, since the two species would have come from very different genetic starting points, it's extremely unlikely that you'd be able to get them to interbreed. tl;dr: If two species are similar enough for "comparing DNA" to make sense, they're probably already breedable.