It seems like a clever trick a foreign bank could pull but I'm not sure it would work. So say 'B' acquires 1 billion dollars in base money from the USA ('A'). To import these dollars it had to send real wealth to the US (equipment, clothes, toys, services etc...) to buy these dollars initially. A heavy economic hit as they would be exporting real wealth and importing worthless pieces of paper intrinsically (dollars). So does 'B' get its revenge when it turns one billion dollars in base money into say 20 billion dollars? I'm not sure... If somebody from country 'B' uses their account to purchase say 100k worth of farmland from an American, the transaction will clear reserves between the 'B' bank and the American farmer's bank in the states. So 'B' will be down more than 100k because it was multiplied and it would have to unleverage. If this was the case then the cost of adopting a foreign currency never outweighs the benefits. But...if an American depositor trusts the the 'B' bank, then that changes everything and reserves don't have to leave B's banking system. In that case, yes country B did benefit. So kind of a muddled answer, but it is hard to know if the cost or purchasing a foreign base money will be outweigh by foreigners interest in holding domestic bank accounts. You will always have conflicting pressures and it is tough to predict which will come out on top. The scary situation for 'B' would be a confidence crisis. They don't have a central bank to bail them out. If investors get spooked and money gets pulled out of 'B' banking system there is nothing to stop a chain reaction and spectacular failure...which would happen absolutely...just a matter of when. The moral of the story is the winner is whoever convinces everybody else that their "paper" or "1s and 0s" are worth something for real wealth. It could be base money in dollars, private money from American bank X, deposit money from say a French bank but denominated in American dollars or a central bank pegged currency. It all boils down to trust and faith in the end. 

To understand the situation you have to realize that there are two types of money in the economy. Government base money & bank money (mostly deposits). Bank deposits great outnumber government base money (MB). When deflation happens, is conceptually very similar to a bank run. Depositors demand short term assets or base money instead of long term assets. Because banks operate by mismatching long term assets with short term liabilities, this result in an inevitable liquidity crunch. Put another way during deflation, bank money is being destroyed. The banking system is very interconnected. Most banks constantly rely on short term lending from other banks to sustain their maturity mismatching. Imaging in an economy there is 20,000 in bank deposits and 10,000 in base money. If 5,000 is withdrawn that leaves 15,000 deposits to cover 5000 in base money. The ratio changed from 2 to 1 and is now 3 to 1. Banks are even more desperate for reserves to hold off insolvency so will pay more for base money than before. This is why interest rates rise during a deflationary spiral. Now....the Fed attempts to control the fed funds rate so in theory you don't see this happen (well you do see it in that you see massive acquisitions from the Fed in an effort to keep the banking system solvent). Conventional interest rate equations do not apply to banks because banks are unique. They create their own liquidity and even their own money. 

The primary source of monetary inflation is when banks create deposits. Another way of putting this is that banks artificially create liquidity (money) when they mismatch short term low yield debt with long term high yielding assets (aka demand deposit reserves are lent out). Maturity mismatching is the key source of inflation and is poorly regulated by the Fed. In fact is it encouraged, which is strange as it is inherently unstable and inflationary. So why do higher interest rates lower inflation? Again, monetary inflation roughly equals the extent to which maturity mismatching takes place. Yield is roughly proportional to maturity...so in a siltation with high interest rates if you have long term debt than short term debt (relatively speaking). Put another way, it is tougher for a bank to engage in maturity mismatching when the price of short debt goes up. This hinders a banks ability to create money and is why high interest rates reduce inflation. Many attribute inflation to non-banking factors like private production and what not...but this is mostly not true. Most inflation or deflation comes from the private banking sector. 

The referenced link from money.stackexchange.com with the top accepted answer is incorrect. It states: "Coins are assets because its the actual money. Notes are liabilities because the Federal Reserve is obligated to pay money on these notes." The Federal reserve is not obligated to pay money on the monetary base it creates and there is no objective financial difference between coins being real money and federal reserve notes being real money. They are both real money for all practical purposes. Let me take a stab at the initial question. Yes, Federal Reserve Notes are a liability to the Federal Reserve (as are electronic federal reserve dollars). It doesn't really need to be done like this. It's actually a holdover from when the US was on a partial gold standard. The central bank would hold gold deposits and in turn issue notes (dollar bills) which were redemption slips for those gold deposits. Because the central bank had to redeem dollar bills with gold, this is why it was classified as a liability. The US went off the gold standard twice (once under FDR to the public and later under Nixon for foriegners). When this happened, dollars were no longer true liabilities. But this history is why you see federal reserve notes (and federal reserve deposits which are electronic dollars) still classified as liabilities. And coinage is considered an asset to the Fed which they purchase from the treasury. You will still see some gold as an asset on the Fed balancesheet as a holdover from these times. The Federal Reserve does not have a monopoly on creating the monetary base. The treasury can also create base money by creating coins and US Notes (which are not Federal Reserve notes). The treasury does not consider the coin as a liability because it truly is not one (just as the dollar bill in a modern sense is not one to the Fed). Looking at a balance sheet, you could almost argue that base money is a liability because it appears to be balanced by assets on the balance sheet. But this is not the case. It is an accounting illusion. If the Fed were to withdraw all their "liabilities" there wouldn't be any money in the system (outside of coins and notes of course). The reference to the obligation on Federal Reserve Notes is an antiquated holdover from the gold standard era. It is quite meaningless now. The Fed will exchange if demanded electronic dollars for paper dollars, vice versa or will buy/sell coinage as required by the banks. Coinage is not an obligation to the treasury, neither are US notes. The treasury will certainly repair damaged coins, but that is not to say that the coins themselves are true liabilities or obligations. 

Bitcoin can not have a real inflation rate because its value is purely speculative. Bitcoins themselves have no inherit value (intrinsic nor extrinsic). You only acquire a bitcoin because you think another person will want it for the same or higher value that you did. Thus any deviation in its value reflects pure speculation. At least with dollars, they have extrinsic value in that you can pay your taxes with them (public tender laws). Bitcoins will like all speculative commodities will experience a "liquidity crisis" in the future in which their value will drop precipitously to the point of collapse. 

A very good question, but first some clarifications. The banking sector is unique from all other industries in that it creates its own liquidity. Banks borrow short term low yield debt and invest in high yield long term assets. The maturity mismatch that occurs in the aggregate is tremendous and not sustainable. Banks are always reliant on individuals perpetually rolling over such short term debt as in the aggregate it can never be redeemed. Many argue that such maturity mismatching is reckless and not responsible. That banks should suffer the consequences when they gamble by with such outrageous maturity differences. Instead the Fed makes the problem worse, by constantly guaranteeing a source of short term debt to constantly proper up long term assets banks have no business owning. So you can't equate interest/investment with the economy at large with what banks do. Banks are unique! They're problems should not necessarily be our problems. As for a liquidity trap...it is constantly happening and CB's like the Fed are constantly bailing them out by injecting short term debt into the fed funds market through the "open market". Banks mostly rely on other banks for their sources of reserves. When banks stop trusting each other, the money multipliers collapses and the means by which short term debt can be redeemed starts to vanish. I like to think of this as a liquidity fire instead of a liquidity trap as the banks have promised more reserves than they have in the aggregate...and when they scramble to claim their chairs when the music stops, it will just make the problem worse. When a central bank talks about interest rates approaching zero, they're not talking about real investments (like securities and mortgages). They're just talking about the rate they are trying to manipulate banks to lend each other. Bank to bank debt. Given that such a rate is determined by bank trust, such a rate does not necessarily have to correlate to the greater market rate at all. Raising the fed funds rate will great increase a liquidity trap (not necessarily a bad thing). More bonds won't make a difference...the banking system's ponzi scheme is being exposed and they need more reliable short term assets...not long term like bonds. Kind of a long answer...but I hope you found this somewhat helpful. The question is important. 

It does not matter to the internal operations of the company. The exceptions would be financial channels. For example, if the the company is actively buying, selling stock, or planning on buying/selling stock it is a big deal. It is a very big deal for mergers and acquisitions of course...even if the buyers as stocks are frequently used to buy other companies. It is also a very political statement. If a company is wanting to borrow or refinance debt, a strong stock price can influence their credit rating favorably. But rally the biggest reason is board politics. A stock price tends to correctly with shareholders feelings for a company. If low enough, there is a possibility that the board of directors and/or executives will be fired. 

The orthodox answer is that public debt spirals are never a problem, because a government can always issue new money to buy the debt off the market. But this does not take into consideration how the private banking system works. Say country X is suffocating from 1 trillion dollars in public debt. 1 trillion dollars is issued and used to buy the debt from secondary markets. Is that the end of the story? No, because when the government adds 1 trillion in base money to the economy the banking system will use that new base money to create bank money (say M2) and the M2 will be traded for even more debt. The economy will have just traded public debt for private debt. 

Some keywords you might search for will be profiling, RFM, CRM and customer analysis. clv (or customer lifetime value) might be your best keyword though. An example CLV calculator: $URL$ Here is an interesting clustering model: $URL$ An article on how surveys are used to classify customers: $URL$ Again, a lot of good stuff if you search for banking and clv: $URL$ 

Economics is inherently political, so political questions and thus political answers are very appropriate. To pretend that economics is not political is to make it an end to itself and not a means. The realistic answer to your question is that fractional banking is allowed because of a combination of factors. 

It is actually an interesting question. There would be momentary inflation but not in the long run as open market operations from the Federal Reserve would vacuum up most of the new money. Aside from that, this would be a form of wealth redistribution. Adding 4.3 million to each person's bank account does not effect all equally, because those that already have big bank accounts would be hurt more. It would transfer wealth from the rich to the poor. Lastly, it would have an effect outside of the US. Many foreigners hold dollars and dollar denominated securities and if they didn't get this distribution then they would be hurt as well (but Americans would be helped). 

It's important to put this into historical context. During the crises, we were in essence suffering a bank run. Liquidity crisis is code for bank run. But modern bank runs look different from old time bank runs. Modern banks are divided into (roughly) two camps. Local depositor banks and larger investment banks. There is a complex inter-bank lending market that connects the different types and assures banks have enough reserves to avoid insolvency. In a modern run, banks actually fear losing the support of other banks more so than depositors. This is important as all banks are inherently insolvent and need to be propped up by other banks in turn by a central monetary source (like the Fed). This is because they mismatch short term liabilities with long term assets. If I take out a one year loan to buy a ten year bond, I am very dependent on that one year being perpetually rolled over. Same with bankers. The Fed subsidizes the short term debt market to them, so they can make more money mismatching short term debt with long term assets. During the crises, the money market shut down. To academia...this wasn't supposed to happen because of the open market. But it did. The reason it did was because banks stopped trusting each other and we had a very modern bank crisis on our hands. Banks tried to reverse maturity mismatching by holder more short term assets (like reserves), but this is impossible in the aggregate and actually causes more of a crisis. The idea behind the Fed paying banks for reserves, is that it provides them with a source of short term assets to help deal with pressing short term liabilities. QE on the other hand helped deal with banks change long term assets for shot term from the Fed. Normally, the Fed bails out (and does so constantly each year) bank crises through the open market. If a bank is seeing their short term debt called in, they borrow from the money market which in turn borrows from the Fed. So indirectly banks are guaranteed their source of short term debt to perpetuate their maturity mismatching. Whether the government should be using public resources to prop up such behaviour is a very good question. Some central banks actually have considered measures to CHARGE interest on excess reserves, to encourage lending on the Fed Funds market and to help other banks overcome their liquidity concerns.