When I do anapanasati, I (almost) always start with noticing the sensations in my face, (fore-)head and my neck/shoulders/back and relax them. There is so much tension and emotional stress to find there, especially in the muscles around the eyes, the lips or teeth pressing together and the forehead. From my point of view there is much benefit from staying with those as long as they are a distraction to you (I sometimes meditate on them for 20min or longer and then continue with the breath): First there is this whole 'baggage', which is a mix of tension, pain, dislike, more tension because of dislike, thinking, dislike of the dislike and so on. But if you focus on the body sensations exclusively (without reacting!), you'll see that they are always changing, moving around, getting better or worse, not really a problem and at the same time cut off your reaction to it. It makes no sense to force your attention to the breath, you can actually get much more concentrated by focusing on the distraction than always trying to force your attention on the breathing. After those sensations are not a problem anymore or they're gone, get to the breath. 

If you're feeling confused, then asking a question here might not be the best approach to solve your problem. All you get is more information and different suggestions. They'll probably just make you think more, and as a result you get more confused. I noticed that when I am confused what often helps is to find sources for instructions and clarification that I can trust in. For example the original teachings of the Buddha (online translations can be read at accesstoinsight.org or suttacentral.net), texts/audio/video from a well known Buddhist Theravada Monk (Bhikkhu Bodhi, Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu, Ajahn Sumedho, Ajan Jayasaro ...) or even better personal contact to one or some other experienced Buddhist practitioner. 

I am experiencing the same when I focus on hearing when there is no sound/noise (not an intense sound, but definitely a sense impression). Either both of us have bad ears or it's normal (it may be the sound of the blood floating in your brain or something). Nevertheless, if I don't keep my attention on it, it's not there. I never did meditation on sound, but one option would be to chose another primary meditation object. There are enough of those. If you don't want to do breath meditation, you could use your body sensations as an object. There is a method called part by part sweeping (Link to a guided meditation by Ayya Khema), where you systematically notice sensations/feelings in your whole body. It has the advantage that you become more aware of emotions and reactions, since you are focused on all kinds of (changing) feelings and not i.e. only the breath going in and out. You can get quite concentrated with it, too. If you want to stay with the sound as your object, you should notice the "hearing" and also your reaction to it ("worry", "dislike" ...). 

That would be an unfortunate situation. Many 'Buddhist countries' have and are fighting wars where people who are Buddhists are engaged in warfare. What can a Buddhist do if he is conscripted? Not all Buddhists are at the same level of virtue, tranquility and wisdom. So it would depend. Some may refuse to kill and harm and face the consequences. Others may seeks vocations which does not involve killing. However, if you are to go to the front Be mindful Accept responsibility Never 'delight' in killing or harming, even an enemy Contemplate the drawbacks of hate, the ego, self-views (collective and individually) Once a week keep the Uposatha practice (re: Visakha uposatha sutta) Practice metta (to one's colleagues and even the enemy, remembering that one could have born into the other side, and be fighting his current comrades.) Samsara is a dangerous place, there are many times and places where hearing and practicing the Dhamma is impossible. So it is also worth considering to contemplate 'what do buddhists do in situations which are conducive for the Dhamma?'. Many waste such rare opportunities, squander it chasing after sensual pleasures and feeding the ego. 

This requirement to evaluate the breath (not control it), helps the mind be mindful of the breath. As the mind is mindful of the breath, one will be able to experience one's whole body (sabba kaaya), albeit subtly, as the inhaling and exhaling motions generate sensations throughout the body. As one continues to be mindful of these subtle whole-body sensations, one will begin to be aware that the breath (kaaya sankhara, i.e. the bodily formation) is now calming or calmer than before. This calmness is peaceful, tranquil, free from the disturbance of lust and conflict, non drowsy, free from anxiety. 

Neither a man nor a woman can become a Buddha. Only a Bodhisattva having completed the necessary parami can become a Buddha. In that last life of the Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva takes on a masculine shape. This is what is said in the Theravada texts. 

It is important to understand what is meant by 'right view' (samma ditti) which covers the origination of thoughts, the causal arising of thoughts, and the non-self nature of thoughts and the entire thinking apparatus. This understanding will help one to be mindful of the arising and passing away of thoughts during meditation without identifying with them. The default view that a thought is mine, created by myself naturally causes one to pursue them. While the right view of the true nature of thoughts eventually leads one to be unbounded from thinking. 

Because it offers an escape and the path leading to the escape from the impermanent, the substance less and the sorrowful. Nihilism offers no such escape. 

Actually it's not a scientific fact. Species are known to go extinct and new species are known to evolve.. There is no count of the total beings on earth yet alone the universe. So it's impossible to say whether the sum total of living beings is increasing, decreasing or stagnant. As for reincarnation the Buddha understood that not all people would accept it. However, he said that accepting it is a safer bet than not accepting it. See the Appannaka Sutta for more about the Buddha's safe bet. Link A search on reincarnation will yield a plethora of results from the Buddhist to the non Buddhist (Edgar Cassey, Richard Weiss, etc). There are many youtube videos of young children recollecting past lives. My opinion is that, if not for theist religions forcefully denouncing the theory of rebecoming, that would be the default theory in the modern world. 

Don't philosophize about past lives. You were born a human being, that in itself is a condition for old age, sickness and death (and all other types of suffering). As for the remedy the Buddha stated 

"So this raises a dilemma. Continue being gentle and compassionate with loving kindness, and get eaten. Or react harshly when necessary and risk darkening ourselves. Or, is there a proper middle path?" Buddha was actually very clear on that subject. As in The Simile of the saw: 

In this translation (Bhikkhu Nanamoli & Bodhi) on page 1242 (in the PDF) there are some explaining footnotes: 

Regarding your question with the example, a Buddhist would probably respond that there are two layers of reality: relative and ultimate. In relative reality you would try to prevent your kid from getting bullied. In ultimate reality, where there are no beings, but only experience, you would understand that the only thing that can make you suffer is your own desire and nothing else. 

This is not the main topic of Buddhism. Such ideas are called 'speculative views'. I think a good reference would be MN 63. 

I think this kind of question is very speculative. The Buddha always stressed that thinking/worrying about future and past should be avoided. Instead it would be wise to examine the present. 

So how should you understand this classification of beings. Is it just a provisional and time-dependent concept? Or is it only related to the degree of suffering, which predominate each realm? I know on this topic are already many questions. But none of these related to this particular question. So please don't tag as duplicate. 

The Buddha talks about this in MN 36: Maha-Saccaka Sutta. It's quite a long and detailed passage, in which he describes how he went to different teachers who taught him the Jhanas and starved his body to the extreme. His story sums up the extreme ways of practicing, that one should avoid using The Middle Path: First living in sensual indulgence & luxury while growing up in a powerful family, then leaving this live behind and almost starving himself to death. 

In summary: vipassana means 'clear seeing' and is a meditation technique. The meditator knows the arising and ceasing of any/every object that comes to his/her mind without reacting with greed or aversion. The aim is to see the 3 characteristics of reality with one's own mind: impermanence (anicca), suffering (dukkha) and non-self (anatta). non-self means that there is only mind and an object arising to mind, but nothing else (no permanent self) beside. 

Don't do this. You will eventually get caught up in thinking and emotions. In meditation (samatha) thoughts are a distraction. They pull you away from your object of meditation. So dropping your meditation object will pretty much end your meditation. Dealing with distracting thoughts I guess half of all questions in this SE relate to that topic, so I'm just gonna link some instructions. In general, you have to find out by trying what works and what doesn't. What makes you (your breath) more peaceful and what makes it more stressful. $URL$ $URL$ (you probably heard this) 

I will try to get my situation across without going into too much detail. About a year ago I moved with my mother to the other end of the country. For me it was an adventure and a good opportunity to progress in my career. For her it was the realization of a childhood dream. Growing up in the southern part of Germany she always longed for the north and the sea. She thoroughly enjoys her new life. For me, however, this was the worst year of my entire life. At the beginning I thought I merely had a bad case of homesickness but as the year progressed, I again and again slid into prolonged depressive episodes. I have been treated for depression before and I usually cope quite well with it, but now again, my situation has worsened to such a degree that I am convinced that I only have two possible courses of action: Get back to my hometown at the next opportunity or have my condition deteriorate until I am either hospitalized or until I harm myself. For the second time since my move to Hamburg, I get back to my hometown on a business trip. Last time I was there, it felt as though I had waken up from a bad dream. Nevertheless, I made the trip back. This time, I am sure that I will be unable to return. On the one hand I am filled with joy at the idea of returning home for good, on the other hand I cannot put into words how bad I feel about having to tell my mother that I am not going to come back to her. I have to emphasize that she is dependend on me in a way that is certainly to be considered out of the ordinary. She has lost a lot in her life which is why she clings so badly to our relationship. I know that the announcement is going to leave her devastated. I have about five years of buddhist practice and even though I think I have made a lot of progress and I know that I should aim to achieve upekkha, this is too big for me. This adds to the conflicting state, I am in at the moment. It feels as though, as if to add insult to injury, I am not only betraying my mother, but also failing in my endeavor to quite simply be a good person and to live according to the Noble Eightfold Path. I am not sure what kind of counsel I expect or want to receive in response to this post, but in any case I am heartfelt grateful for everybody who took the time to read through this. (And maybe has a few lines of her or his thoughts to share.) This has gotten longer than I intended it to be but I want to make sure to make my feelings understood as precisely as possible. By the way: I know that, quite apart from my feelings of spiritual shortcoming, depression constitutes a serious psychiatric condition. I do take medication and I have an appointment with my old Stuttgart-based psychiatrist two days from now. So I have taken care of that side of the coin. I would just like to try to evaluate and get feedback on my situation from a spiritual/Buddhist point of view. Thank you again!