Some supporting context to Peckish's answer, with primary sources. CNN has the full transcript of the speech. Here is the context around the relevant section in full, I've added bold highlighting to some particularly relevant parts: 

It's easy to figure out how to classify the balloons in the CVD-simulated images into colourless, yellow, blue, and "other" (red, green or brown). You can even learn strategies for estimating whether a balloon is red or green (this is something that, anecdotally, colour blind people often describe doing and educators blame for cases where children's colour-blindness goes unnoticed - but I can't find any non-anecdote sources for this so I'll just leave it as an aside for now). Telling the balloons apart, and grouping them by similarity, can all be done. The difficulty comes in accurately naming the colours. As the author of colour-blindness.com puts it: 

So, unless you habitually get in situations where you need to accurately name the colour of an unfamiliar item, there's no reason why the CVD of your male companions would necessarily become apparent. The above linked web page gives some examples of situations where it can be a problem: 

The Independent, a UK newspaper who supported the Remain campaign and so might be expected to favour a story emphasising negative economic impacts of the vote, have also analysed the claim and concluded that it's based on unreliable non-standard comparisons: 

Is the Zika virus "relatively new"? No. The way it is behaving is relatively new, but was still seen prior to this outbreak that begin in Brazil. It was first discovered in Uganda in 1947, and was found to be prevalent across much of Africa and Asia, but wasn't considered a major concern and no major outbreaks were recorded until 2007 in Micronesia. Compared to other diseases in the flavivirus family, like Yellow Fever and Dengue, it was relatively benign, and these populations appeared to have relatively strong immunity to it. What is relatively new is: 

That last part is the crucial part. Of course, we should be clear that we're talking about utterly tiny increases in risk here. If it sounds alarming, it shouldn't. I recommend this BBC article about radiation risk and bananas, which should help put into context just how small a risk a very low dose risk is. And there's still a tiny amount of wriggle room for someone determined to argue that there might be some zero-risk threshold: this study was of repeat exposure to very low doses, and even these 300,000 people weren't enough to measure risk impacts of one-off exposures to very low doses. But such a risk would be so tiny, it'd be almost impossible to measure - and this study shows that there's no reason to think there might be something special about very low doses that could enable such an exception. 

Almost certainly yes, if you only count single bets with "underdog" long odds on single sporting outcomes - several sources have looked into this, including betting companies themselves, and found nothing that comes close. If you allow any type of bet and aren't fussy about it being an "underdog" story (something that was added to the question after I wrote this), and you simply look for the longest odds won for a single competitor winning in a single competition, series or fixture, then arguably Frankie Dettori's "Magnificent 7" at Ascot Champion's Day in 1996 edges out Leicester with accumulated odds of 25051-1. According to the BBC, this cost the betting industry an estimated £40m, compared to Leicester's £20m, but there are several reasons why it might not be comparable. 

The strain in Brazil comes from the Asian lineage (there's also a separate African one). It is possible it might have mutated, and there is evidence suggesting that the exact strain in Brazil is related to the 2013 French Polynesia outbreak: 

Here's the official transcript, and the NY Times also published the full transcript of Obama's speech. It doesn't contain an apology, but is reconciliatory. For example, he does: 

Yes, there are two ways in which untreated rabies can develop, one, affecting roughly 70% of untreated people, is called "furious rabies" and leads to dramatic changes in behaviour. From the WHO (my bold): 

You can see the vast majority of cases are of impaired red or green vision in men. These tend to be termed "red-green colour blindness" because in practical terms, the impact is very similar. The raw data from our optic nerve is converted into "opponent processes": red opposed to green, blue opposed to yellow which is derived from the combined data of red and green cones, and light opposed to dark. Diagram from $URL$ : 

Other allegations against Fallon known to have been discussed among senior Conservatives at the time include: 

The photo in this particular version of the image appears to be taken from an interview with Oprah from 1988. He does discuss the idea of running for president in this interview, but the tone couldn't be more different: he's remarkably measured and complementary about the other candidates. 

For a famous illustrative example of swearing as done UK social class AB style, see the political satire The Thick Of It, a warts-and-all representation of the daily lives and chaos of UK political power-brokers, which even has a swearing consultant: 

With colour vision deficiency (CVD) tests so common, there's such an abundance of data on how common it is in various groups that it's actually quite tricky to pin down one authoritative source. This quick guide to the different types is based on a table compiled in the book Colour Image and Video Enhancement by Springer press, 2015, based on Caucasian populations, which was the most completely labelled I could find. There's a huge amount of research on differences between racial groups, nationalities, occupations, etc, but from all the research I've seen there isn't any obvious pattern beyond that a distribution like this one is the norm. 

60-80% of cases have no effect, which might seem like a reason to think it's not too bad (most individuals are unaffected) - but if it is true that a small but significant minority have a very serious effect, this actually makes it much worse from a public health point of view. As Jeremy Farrar, head of the Wellcome Trust, was quoted in the Guardian: 

Some news sources have reported that in the 24 hours after the UK's results on the EU referendum came through, the UK dropped from 5th largest economy in the world, to 6th, being overtaken by France. For example, this headline in the Metro: 

The Encyoclopedia of Swearing (2006, subtitled "The Social History of Oaths, Profanity, Foul Language, and Ethnic Slurs in the English-Speaking World") has a whole chapter titled Class And Swearing, which identifies: 

However, since this article was published, the pound has dipped further and somewhat stabilised below €1.21. Here's a 3-day chart from the Financial Times, which matches data from Bloomberg. This doesn't prove that France is now above the UK, due to the methodolical limitations, it's merely suggestive: 

There's a little confusion in the question (which is fair enough, it's a confusing topic). There's no doubt that ordinary CT scans and x-rays do lead to a small increase in cancer cases, it's measured, quantified, and taken into account by clinicians when making decisions, case-by-case, dose-by-dose. Many specific CT scans and x-rays are most definitely not what could be called low dose. What is being doubted is the assumption that: 

In terms of total numbers, projections are comparable to Dengue Fever, of which there were 1.5 million cases in 2015 in Brazil alone, and don't look likely to overtake, for example, malaria, which had 2.35 million suspected new cases in Brazil alone in 2012 and, worldwide, an estimated 214 million new cases in 2015. But the fact it could shoot from seemingly nothing to numbers not far off malaria in South America in one year is remarkable. Don't forget, of course, that many of these cases have no symptoms or known side effects. This is within the Americas. In theory, populations in Asia and Africa have good immunity and so its worldwide growth would be limited - and another limitation is climates suitable for the species of mosquito. The NY Times published a map showing areas in the Americas believed to be at risk. Is there "no medicine to treat the infection"? This is true, however, your article is being a touch alarmist by talking as if this makes Zika worse than related diseases. It's identical to the closely related Dengue Fever. CDC say: 

It's impossible to definitively prove: GDP is calculated annually, and compared based on purchasing power, rather than currency fluctuations - countries can't officially change position like this overnight. But the UK's status as 5th largest economy is certainly in doubt. At least one estimate, detailed below, based on applying currency fluctuations to previous GDP figures, suggests that the UK may have dipped below France for 15-20 minutes in the 24 hours after the referendum, then recovered, then dropped back down again, stabilising at a point that would suggest the UK is now below France; but this is a very crude methodology (it doesn't take into account changes in economic activity since 2015 or differences between currency value and purchasing power), so it's not possible to use this method to say that the countries' positions have definitely changed. Here's an example of how the BBC are talking about this uncertain status of the UK economy, from a recent article Nick Robinson of the BBC, describing the UK as: 

The Daily Telegraph newspaper also describe the odds as being 25,051-1, and the Independent tell the story of some of the lucky punters that day. This is debatable though, since it's classed as an "accumulator" bet, and isn't a classic "underdog story" like that of Leicester (Dettori was a respected jockey riding horses whose individual odds were not especially remarkable), but it does refer to a single improbable achievement in a single sporting fixture or competition by a single sporting competitor. 

So, it's being taken very seriously - and a big part of that is because there are so many uncertainties, and difficulties in controlling the rapid spread. It's also not just pregnant women who are affected - another, seemingly rarer, linked complication, Guillain-Barré syndrome, can cause paralysis and, in rare cases, death - although there doesn't seem to be any evidence so far that such serious complications for the infected individual are as common as the (also relatively rare) serious or fatal possible complications from dengue fever. On to the specific claims in the original question: 

...and advise rest, plenty of fluids, and painkillers if necessary (but not aspirin or anti-inflamatories like Ibuprofen, which might increase risk of haemorrhage). Their advice on Dengue is near-identical - but for the fact that Dengue is more likely to require urgent hospitalization. What percentage of Zika virus victims are estimated to conceive babies with microcephaly? This is unknown right now - many of the suspected cases of microcephaly are proving to actually be false positives. From a previously-linked article in Nature: 

So, is there a linear relationship that continues no matter how low the dose, or could there be a threshold below which there's no risk? This 2015 Nature article, summarising and discussing the context of a major study published in 2015 in the Lancet, seems the best up to date summary. It shows that the linear relationship between dose and cancer risk does persist, even at absolutely tiny doses, with no safe threshold. It explains why there is controversy among researchers - it's very hard to measure the relationship at tiny doses, and this study only managed it by having access to very accurate data from 300,000 people. Basically, before this study, you could make a case that there's no strong proof of a relationship below a certain level - but this study shows that this was simply because no study had been done at a scale that could detect such tiny increases in risk. 

There are a few individual case studies that seem to suggest it's difficult but possible. They're far from perfect as evidence since they're self reported, but there's one case of a woman in Australia which is sufficiently detailed, seems to be independent of groups with a direct interest in advocating the technique, and contains enough caveats on the difficulties of the technique that it appears credible and has been reported as credible by mainstream media. This write-up gives a fairly straightforward summary: