I know an answer has already been accepted but I figured I'd chime in. Preface: I had an AWFUL pair of boots that aged terribly. They were cheap, general sports store off season specials. I don't know if the fit was wrong (I have very thin legs) or if the construction was just that bad, but the tongue would "float" to the outside on both boots after only a few runs, no matter how tightly I tied them, and always resulted in hot spots on the opposite side. My point is - when paying close attention to fit, don't just focus on how much room your toes have like with normal boots and shoes. You put a lot of lateral stress on the boot in all sorts of situations when riding, and the calve/shin/collar area needs to fit well and still be comfortable. Also a note about laces. The boots I ultimately purchased had a "quick lace" system where you pull on the two handles attached to the thin-but-strong laces, pull them back to lock into the grips and try to stuff the excess into the little pockets. It was obvious this is the trend, as that style along with the weird crank dial was the only option across multiple brands in the store in my price range. 

Even if it is soaking wet, heavily raining, caked in ice, or encased in snow, one need only remove most of the excess moisture by vigorously shaking (or bending to break out the ice). It is then readily used as tinder. Of course the drier it is, the better; a little moisture retards its flammability. If you carry white gas as fuel for a portable stove, that makes an excellent "dryer" for wet materials (even paper) and makes the tinder easier to ignite. Be sure to expect a small fireball as the fuel vapor will travel a few feet. 

If one were to discover a leaking section of fabric during a rainstorm, a highly effective solution is to rub wax (candle, ski wax, paraffin, etc.) on the fabric. No need to heat it: rubbing cold works fine. It is better to apply from the outside, but it works okay from the (more comfortable and convenient) inside too. One rubbing generally lasts for several days. 

I'll be backpacking in areas where a bear canister is required by regulation. All of the tip's I've read say to store it XYZ number of feet "downwind from your camp", presumably so the scent of the food moves away from you rather than in your direction. I've never paid all that much attention to the wind, but in the north east (inland) it seems to blow all willy nilly. This appears to be reinforced by the fact that the smoke from my fire is smarter than I am and doesn't care if I move my seating position, it will find my eyes in due time. Likewise - if it isn't a noticeably blustery day how can you tell which way the air currents are generally moving? 

If you didn't bring rope with you on purpose, you may still have shoelaces. You could use them in a bowdrill to make a fire in an emergency (but you better know how to make and use a bowdrill well beforehand). Two plants that make good cordage here in the Pacific Northwest are Stinging Nettle and Fireweed. You can use it fresh and green, but if you properly dry it out you can get a very strong rope. Traditional rope is made by laying up. Take 2 strands and hold the ends together. Twist one a 1/2-turn one way around its own axis, and then wrap it a 1/2-turn around the other strand. Do it again with the other strand against the first. With practice you can add a 3rd strand to the mix. This is a very strong setup, as any weakness in 1 strand gets covered by the other 2. When one strand nears its end, overlap it with a new strand for a few twists. For a bigger rope, lay 3 smaller ropes up together. Repeat as needed for size & strength. 

The advantages of vanes probably call to many: cheaper and more predictable. I could not find a reason why Olympic competitors use vanes. Maybe it is an Olympic requirement? 

I live in western Oregon and frequently ski areas in the Cascades. One winter, a weather forecaster said the weather at a ski area was going to be warm and wet (mixed snow and rain) that day; another weatherperson said it was going to be very cold and dry. A rare forecast for sure. Both have excellent reputations and good forecast accuracy. Usually when one forecaster is very wrong, they all are—Mother Nature usually outsmarting them in unison. Unlike most places, the Pacific Northwest is supposed to be one of the most difficult places in the world to accurately predict weather (said several meteorology students at university). Turned out both weather forecasts were correct—simultaneously. As I skied down a major ridge, the warm and moist air to the west was blowing over the ridge and mixing with the very cold dry air on the east side. It formed a rotor (horizontal cyclone) in the lee of the ridge which formed dense fog, heavy snow, and strong wind which lasted for several hours. That day, the mountain was creating dramatically unique weather. 

Learning specific plants is helpful, but each person can have different food reactions, and they can change over time. So learning to taste well is a valuable skill: 

Species in the forest will vary by locale. Here in the Pacific Northwest, Thimbleberry aka Salmonberry leaves are thick and soft, so they make a good wiping implement. The subtly-named How to Shit in the Woods is a good primer on this topic. One option described there is to use urine. Basically, you hold back the urine until you're done with the bowel movement, then use the pee to wash up. To clean your hands afterwards, cedar can help. Take a bite of cedar scales (leaves) straight from a tree. Chew it up & mix with saliva. Spit it out on to your hands and rub all over. 

The standard emergency tinder in most places I have been is a lichen called Old Man's Beard. It can appear in several forms. Here are the first two from Wikipedia: 

How do I know which way is down wind? I turn so the wind is coming around me from the back and is equal on both right and left sides. I feel it in my hair, on my face, and on exposed arms and legs. If the direction is variable, use an average direction. Is there a direction it comes from more than 50% of the time? The other directions are probably close to the dominant direction or likely flip flop between two directions. If the goal is to place food so that lions, tigers, and bears (oh my!) don't traipse through my camp following the scent, then there is a wide swath of area which is "good enough". Getting the angle to within 0.001° isn't necessary. In fact, having it within 180° should be fine. Maybe even 270°. More importantly, place the food far enough away that finding the food doesn't make the camp an apparent "next target". In bear country, I find two or three minutes hiking distance (over easy terrain) is a fair compromise between remoteness and convenience of retrieving "just one more thing."