Could the civilization realistically implement some form of secure (probably manual) encryption of simple textual messages (or more), without access to computers? Or is it out of their league computationally to make their method cryptographically secure? 

Typically, gasoline has a short shelf life (some months, maybe a year). This is handwaved in some post-apocalyptic settings where the writer wanted vehicles to play a major role (such as Mad Max — unless there was an explanation that I don't recall). I would like to create a similar setting, but without having to handwave that detail. Are there plausible ways for modern-day passenger vehicles to remain operational in such a setting? 

As you can see, an action that is supposed to take place later will disable a choice (the construct) that was supposed to take place sooner. Of course, all of this is possible because there is an entity (the compiler) that analyzes the program statically, i.e. outside that program's execution. In other words, this analysis is performed outside the program's concept of "before" and "after". If your story has metaphysical underpinnings, you could say that just as there are laws of physics that govern what can happen in a given universe, there are meta laws of physics that govern what a universe may or may not do. Much like the laws of a programming language govern what a program may or may not do. Then, come up with an action (or a sequence of actions) which doesn't violate any specific physical law of our universe but, when performed under certain circumstances, it would put the universe in an inconsistent/invalid state that is illegal as far as the meta laws are concerned. If a universe contains, in its timeline, such actions that would bring it to an illegal state, that entire universe's existence could be rejected and that rejection would happen at a level outside the universe's execution and therefore its concept of time. Now if the descendants perform an action that is possible but would be illegal ("apparently impossible") provided the ancestors had performed another action, then you're set. The ancestors are not allowed to have performed the second action, because if they had, their universe would have been in an inconsistent state and its existence would have been rejected. Such a universe could not have existed to begin with. So how would that look? Anything that would prevent the ancestors from performing the action would suffice. However, it would probably be much more interesting to include a person or an entity that can recognize the inevitability of their actions in that meta context and be able to articulate why the ancestors are bound by the actions of their descendants. Without such an agent in the story, the entire explanation could be lost on the audience. 

I am creating a world where the currency (the only currency) is tablets that dissolve in water to create food. Each tablet provides all of the nutritional needs for an average adult for one day. The gruel doesn't taste particularly good, and the person feels hungry again right away. But, most people rarely eat anything else and the population stays fairly healthy (barring plagues, natural disasters and the occasional war). In most ways, my people have reached a technological level about that of Europe in 1650. The small planet has five island continents (think Australia), with urban centers mostly in the coastal areas. Ocean water is potable, so there is plenty of water for everybody. Unfortunately, there are no aquatic animals. On four of the five continents, most of the land is also very barren. The largely barren continents have pockets of fertile soil, in which various crops can be grown. Every continent also has indigenous large herbivores that eat the few plants that grow wild on that continent, plants that can't be digested by my people. The fifth continent is nearly overgrown with a fast growing plant that is processed to make the tablets. The plants cannot be made to grow anyplace else but on that continent. (There is magic involved here, the nature of which will be revealed towards the end of the story.) The total population on the planet is about 100 million people, with the population pretty evenly split among four of the five continents. Each continent has a monarch and nobility. The monarch and nobles own all of the land and everything it produces including the wild animals (meat). Poaching or stealing of food other than the tablets is punishable by death on all five continents. Three of the continents deal in slaves and on the continent that makes the tablets, almost all of the (grueling) work is done by slaves. The two other continents on which slavery is legal get a lot of tablets in exchange for slaves. Slaves on my planet are slaves for life, as are their progeny (even if the other parent is a free person). Food other than the tablets is scarce. Peasants are lucky to eat real food a few times a week, slaves never do. On the other hand, few nobles have ever tasted tablet gruel. The monarch and most of the nobles on the continent that produces food are extremely rich, extremely powerful, and solidly evil. They like things as they are and want to keep them that way. The fifth continent has its royal family, perhaps 300 rich and powerful nobles, a few thousand pretty darn comfortable peasants, and 50,000 slaves. My story begins at least 150 years later, at the cusp of an industrial revolution. I want the economy of my little planet to have been fairly stable for the past 150 years. It is here that I ask the question: How can I keep this economy stable for at least 150 years (200 to 250 years is better)? I figure that the tablets have to be produced at a rate of at least 100 million per day (every day), but the average day will produce enough so that basic necessities can be purchased with small caches of tablets. As a rule, tablets are not hoarded even by the rich. Wealth is accumulated in the form of 'stuff'. Additionally, my people have the sense (or perhaps I can address the issue later as a matter of biology) to keep the population stable. This currency is mostly consumed as quickly as it is "minted". I am not averse to using magic to make things work, but I'd like to keep it pretty subtle. Magic is not a day to day concern of people not involved in the manufacture of food tablets. The world has a significant maritime structure that has evolved because of the tablets. It's a small planet, the sailing distance between continents is only a few days. So, 'spreading the wealth' is a non-magical industry important to my people. OH! And as far as my people suspect, they are the only 'intelligent' people in the universe. (Yes, this question was inspired by The Force Awakens.) 

In this example, may never be included in the program at all, even if can sometimes be equal to . Why? Because afterwards, an action is executed unconditionally and that action will put the entire program in an invalid state if is . In other words, as far as the compiler is concerned, cannot be in a valid program, so only can exist in a valid program. The above program could be transformed by the compiler into this: 

Nothing impossible may happen. In the C and C++ programming languages, there's such a thing called undefined behavior, where basically if the program performs certain illegal actions, it goes in an invalid state. Notice I said if, not when. The program is invalid after, during and even before the action that invoked undefined behavior. In other words, if your program performs a certain illegal action at some point, it's not invalid after that action, it's invalid for its entire execution. A compiler is free to assume that undefined behavior never happens and it can transform the implementation of the entire program, including parts that come before the illegal action, based on that assumption. If undefined behavior is actually invoked, the program may observe paradoxes. This is a very real effect, happening right now in the world, with current technology. For example, an action on a specific variable (called a "pointer") is invalid if the variable contains a specific value ("null"). Consider this short snippet: 

If it's a cosmic entity, defeat it in a cosmic way! Say the entity has consumed half the planet. You can make the people of the people discover some kind of ancient magic that keeps their world together. Then, have them break that magic and split the world in two. 

How to explain gigantic subs: Well, you obviously need a reason for large subs. As a matter of fact, subs are relatively poor at actually controlling an area (or water volume). To do this, it might be necessary to use a large fleet of small subs. However, small subs cannot use nuclear reactors, as those have a certain minimal size. So, the small sub fleet would have to do with battery power. But how can you reload your batteries when you are on the other side of the planet, and want to avoid surfacing for whatever reasons? Enter the big sub carrying sub! It would work a bit like aircraft carries today: You have one really big vessel, which contains at least a dozen small vessels, which are the big vessel's eyes and arms. These small vessels patrol the area that is to be controlled, and they strike against any enemy they find within their action radius. Once their batteries are down, they return to their carrier for a battery charge, remunitioning, and some fresh supplies. The carrier sub itself would be huge by todays standards. It would likely contain several powerful nuclear reactors, large ammunition storage areas, and have several places for the small subs to dock. The parts that need to be at atmospheric pressure would all be contained within a number of long cylinders, each no more than five meters in diameter for structural efficiency. This pack-of-thin-cylinders design would go quite well with its purpose of being a carrier of many small subs, I think. The big sub itself would not have much defensive capabilities itself, relying on its fleet of small subs to defend it, just like aircraft carriers rely on their air force to defend them. The big carrier sub might contain a few big offensive missile type weapons, though; weapons larger than the small subs can carry. Such a carrier sub would really be able to control a certain volume of the sea, which is hard to do with the modern subs which are mostly built for offensive strikes on the surface. The modern subs are built that way, because we humans are most interested in controlling the earths surface, for obvious reasons. A civilization that mostly lives underwater would have much different priorities: They would desire to control either water volume, or areas on the bottom of the oceans, so I think, big carrier subs would suit them well.