It sounds like you have a coaster brake (operated by pedalling backwards), if this is the case then the dangly thing is the reaction arm. 

I found this article - Tykes and Bikes - Injuries Associated With Bicycle-Towed Child Trailers and Bicycle-Mounted Child Seats The paper estimates the numbers of trailer-related injuries and the number of child seat injuries: 

You don't need insurance, a driving license, Vehicle Excise Duty or a helmet to ride an Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycle. It's possible to get electric bikes with more power and / or a higher speed limit. These would be classified as a moped and would need insurance, driving license, etc. You also couldn't ride them in cycle lanes and cycle paths. Some Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles come with an "off-road" mode which removes the speed limit. The linked article describes the legality of these as "at best, questionable". 

Choosing a low exposure route (i.e., longer and more out of the way, but less traveled by automotive traffic. A faster (more direct) but in more dense traffic (shorter exposure period, but higher exposure levels). Taking the bus (a positive control - buses tend to take direct routes on busy streets) 

Do not pedal until you are sure you have sufficient clearance Keep the inside pedal up (outside down) as suggested by @Carel for very aggressive turns or level as suggested by @sixtyfootersdude. Even if you keep the pedals level there should be more than enough clearance for most turns. 

No lock is theft proof. With the right tools any lock can be defeated. That said, some locks are a much better deterrent than others, plus you can mitigate your risk by carefully selecting where you lock your bike, as well as the general appearance of your bike (less flashy, means less of a target). I remember people at university spray painting their bikes all sorts of horrible colours to deter theft. I personally just found some places that had high visibility with lots of people. Of course, like any advice your mileage may vary. 

I've checked the orientation of the bearings, and they're definitely the right way up. The slight chamfer on the inside edge of the lower bearing fits nice and tight against the crown race. The headset is a Tange Seiki RDC-82. I don't appear to be missing any pieces. Thank you for your help. Update: Ok, so I gave the company I originally purchased the headset from (the same place I bought my frameset at the same time — not the LBS that installed it) a call; they instantly knew what I was talking about, and assured me it was normal for this particular model. In hindsight, ringing them should really have been the first thing I did. Still seems like a poor design in my opinion. Not only does it look somewhat unsightly, but the gap risks exposing the lower bearing to grime and dirt. A simple seal could have solved both these issues. Perhaps when I eventually come to replace the headset, I'll invest in something pricer/better quality. 

The class of bike you're looking at is called an Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycle, a brief summary of the law regulating these is available here. In the UK (and Europe): 

You should refer to the manual for the helmet for cleaning instructions. Usually it will say to use mild soap and water. A helmet will not be damaged by water, but don't use heat to dry it afterwards as this can destroy your helmet. Also, if the padding is removable then you might be able to get replacement pads. 

The Canine Aggression FAQs from the RSPCA has some useful general advice about aggressive dogs. If you encounter an aggressive dog while cycling it recommends the following: 

Personally, I wouldn't do it. It's a lot of pain for what is probably a very small gain. If you're looking to wring every last bit of performance out of your body it's worth trying though. 

Yesterday I had a headset and fork fitted by my LBS. Lacking the specific tools or knowledge, I thought it better to leave this job to a professional; as a consequence of my inexperience, however, I have no idea whether they've actually done a good job. As far as I can tell, the crown race fits snug against the base of the steerer tube. When the fork is inserted, however, there is a gap of about two millimetres between the base of the steerer and the bottom headset cup, leaving the crown race exposed. My expectation was that the bottom cup would instead sit flush with the fork. Scouring bike forums for answers suggests this situation isn't all that uncommon, with some offering makeshift solutions, like a strip of inner tube to keep out grime. Still, if someone wouldn't mind taking a look at my headset specifically, it might ease my mind somewhat. I've included a couple of close-ups below. 

The "early start" allows cyclists to clear the junction ahead of motorists, this is useful for cyclists making off-side turns (right in the UK, left in the US). It also helps cyclists going straight on avoid conflict with motorists making near-side turns (left in the UK, right in the US). The UK and many places in Europe have Advanced Stop Lines (Highway Code rule 178) at traffic lights: 

Try a Garden Centre, they usually sell a range of trays and they should have something suitable. An example would be this "Giant Plus Garden Tray" which at 120cm x 55cm should be big enough to place a bike on. 

I think a more practical solution to your problem of forgetting to lock your bike would be a device (or method) to remind you to lock it. You could try a bluetooth proximity alarm tag. You pair the tag with your phone, then attach the tag to your bike. When the phone gets out of range of the tag an alarm goes off on the phone (range is typically around 10 feet). So when you park your bike and walk off, your phone will sound an alarm. This will remind you to go back to the bike and lock it. 

Try adding a particulate (e.g., glitter) to your sealant, this can help plug larger holes. Some sealants include particulate as part of their "formula." The hole may simply be too large for any sealant to successfully plug. In this case you repair with tubeless tire repair kit. These are either a cord that you use to physically plug the hole or a special patch for the inside of the tire. 

Figure 1. Theoretical maximal power output by length of time the power can be sustained. From Golden Cheetah. This gets us the crux of why an aero bike will likely lead to bigger gains. Any time you can reduce the workload (e.g., decreased drag) you can increase the amount of time you can sustain a given speed. At threshold, an increase your workload (e.g., increased drag) shortens the duration over which you can functionally complete that workload (i.e., shorter period you can maintain a given speed). Because races are at threshold, this has important consequences. Now the question remains, which is a bigger workload, fighting aerodynamic drag or the extra work required to pull more weight up a given grade. I would argue that drag will often be the biggest component. As you can see as soon as you start to go faster (i.e., racing time trials) aerodynamics becomes a larger component of your total workload if we ignore gradients (Figure 2). 

Kryptonite sell this combination U-lock which they rate as 6/10 "Moderate Security". KryptoLok Combo 

Lance Armstrong has announced that he will no longer fight charges brought against him by the US anti-doping agency. The USADA says it will ban him for life and strip him of his 7 Tour de France titles. Armstrong says that the USADA does not have the authority to do that. My understanding is that the International Cycling Union (UCI) is in charge of professional cycling events, including the Tour de France. So what is the relationship between the UCI and the USADA (and other anti-doping agencies)? Who has the final say over banning and disqualifying cyclists? 

Your friend's bike will have the same size wheel on the front and back. If the rear wheel is 700c then the front wheel will be that size. The imperial equivalent of 700c would be 28 inches. Finally, I'd suggest going to Decathlon or use their website and buying a replacement wheel with a dynamo. The price difference is minimal (less than a set of lights would cost). 

Also, you'll notice in the image that the outer nut is still tight against the inner nut and dust cap. These are three separate pieces, that should have to be removed individually. But here it is as though they've been forged out of the same piece of metal. I cannot loosen the outer nut without the inner one coming with it. If anyone could help diagnose what's going on here, I'd really appreciate the help. Is it at all possible that the hub is in some way fault? Could the axle have damaged threads? 

As part of a new build I'm working on, I just had some wheels built up. The hubs are large flanged Miche Primatos with a double-sided fixed wheel. The rear wheel, straight out the box, seemed weirdly stiff — to the extent that I could barely move it at all, let alone for it to spin freely — so I gave the workshop a call for advice. They suggested the lock nuts were probably just overtightened, and that backing them off a bit would sort it out. The Miche hubs have sealed bearings, and each side is held in place by both an outer and an inner lock nut. I tried to loosen the outer nuts a bit, but they wouldn't budge. I had to put in all my effort, wrenching in reverse directions on either side of the hub, to get them to loosen even a little, and it would only be in a quick, jerky motion, not smoothly unscrewing. Rather than gradually getting easier as I backed the nut down the axle's thread, it was still just as stiff as when I started. I'd managed to loosen the outer nut by a few millimetres, as shown below, but it was still really stiff (not the hub, but rather the nut on the axle). The force required was such that I quit until seeking further advice; I don't want to do something silly like strip the threads on my axle. 

Note that the offence only applies to motor vehicles, a bicycle is not a motor vehicle, so you cannot be guilty of speeding on a bicycle. You could be charged with either Dangerous Cycling or Careless And Inconsiderate Cycling. 

So it's legal to use to ride one on the road in the UK. Cycle paths are a bit more complicated as some legislation refers to "bicycles" and some to "pedal cycles", so it would depend on how many wheels you've got and what type of cycle path / cycle lane / cycle track you wanted to use. If you want to use a velomobile or recumbent bike on the road between sunset and sunrise then you may have problems. To be legal you'd need 2 pedal reflectors on each pedal and these have to be clearly visible from the front and rear. The design of most velomobiles and recumbent bikes do not meet this requirement. This law is rarely (if ever) enforced, I think your main worry on this point is if you were involved in an accident then the other party might try to use your lack of reflectors to show negligence. Note - If your velomobile or recumbent bike is electrically powered then there are additional regulations that must be complied with, but I think that's beyond the scope of the question.