Lastly, if you decide to try a rower, do so with instruction from someone who knows and understands the machine. If it's a Concept2 rower (and, it should be), you can get additional help on correct form by checking their web site. 

I would recommend you take a look at what body parts you think you need to improve, and, place priority on them by performing exercises that target those muscles first. Some studies have shown that greater strength and muscular size gains are achievable with exercises placed near the beginning of a program. A 2012 study entitled Exercise Order in Resistance Training found that: 

If you’ve ever seen a bodybuilder (amateur or professional), you’ll notice the ease and grace at which they can pose their bodies. Often holding each pose for several minutes. Couple that with the increase in muscular mass without any loss of range of motion. Given the amount of weight they lift, I would consider that flexible. 

Having seen your updated post, I think your problem may stem from your distribution of calories. First, I don't think your problem is due to estrogen or sitting posture. The location you describe (love handles around the waist) is a common area to deposit fat. If possible, I would look to see if you made any dietary changes around the time you started your internship. Keep in mind that any excess calories that are not burned will be stored as fat. Given that, I would suggest you adjust your nutrition percentages gradually. Since you are training 3 to 5 days per week, I would recommend you switch to 50% carbs, 30% fats, and 20% protein. If that does not help, then, you should try to reduce the fat even more. Remember, a gram of fat is going to provide 9 calories versus a gram of carb or protein (4 calories each). You may not be getting the right kind of calories to support your lifestyle. Of course, the other alternative is to increase the cardio to burn more calories. But, that doesn't sound like what you want. 

I tend to agree with your instinct that you should look to target the major deltoid muscles. I think a good recipe for shoulder development is to continue with compound movements, but, also add movements like Reverse Pec Deck/Machine Flyes that target the rear deltoid. If you have access to a cable crossover machine, there are a whole host of exercises you can perform to build, shape, and define all aspects of the deltoids. If you haven’t already, you should consider prioritizing your training to improve any lagging body part. You also make no mention of lat development and waist size. These also contribute to the appearance of broad shoulders. But, again, most importantly, go with your instincts. They’re usually always right. 

I don’t see a problem with performing your cardio on the same day as your training, especially if time is a constraint. But, you must balance that against the volume of high intensity training you’re performing. You should consider cycling your training, and, possibly reserving one or two days per week to simply recover. By cycling, I mean varying the intensity levels of your training. That should reduce that feeling of constantly being tired. 

Using an inexpensive exercise ball, or, some other stable platform will increase the types of chest exercises that you can do. For example, you would then be able to perform a dumbbell fly and a dumbbell pullover, as well as, dumbbell presses. Otherwise, you can look into: 

That's a tough question to answer. It depends on many individual factors, for example, fatigue as one. There's nothing wrong with using a power rack if you are not 100% confident of making a lift. I wouldn't rely on it all the time though. Additionally, although it tends to get a bad rep (no pun intended), the Smith machine can afford a sense of security as well. 

Most definitely. I cringe when I hear relative beginners use the terms “bulk” and “cut”. Especially if they’re not competitive bodybuilders. In my opinion, “bulking” and “cutting” is somewhat akin to “yo-yo” dieting. Why bother when some recent research indicates that “bulking” and “cutting” is not the key to muscular gains. First, you must be training hard to achieve any gains. Couple that with consuming the correct amount of protein in each meal, and, you’ve got a good recipe for gaining mass. However, this is not a license for eating everything in sight. A study by Jacob Wilson (PhD in Skeletal Muscle Physiology) in the European Journal of Applied Physiology, found that it is possible to gain muscle without taking in excessive amounts of calories. The study looked at the impact of “bulking” on hard training athletes. Two groups of individuals were fed “either a moderate 800 calories or an extreme 2,000 extra calories per day for 45 days”. They found that 

While I don’t have a specific answer for marathon running, I can relate it to a somewhat similar requirement. I feel the methodology utilized would share some of the same characteristics. As a competitive rower, I am faced with racing long distances in a “Head” style race. The typical distance is 3.2 miles (~5000 meters). Granted, this is not a marathon distance, but, the energy requirements and strategy are similar in my opinion. Our races are typically broken down into three separate phases each with its own strategy and energy requirements: Start, Body, and Sprint. The goal is to try to provide a consistent effort over the three separate phases. Obviously, energy requirements would need to be managed to handle the demand of the distance. In rowing, there is a term called “fly and die”. This is a common strategy in which a boat starts a race at a very high stroke rate (defined as “strokes per minute”) and tries to maintain it throughout the race. The typical result is the boat “dies” (thus, the “fly and die”). A more widely accepted methodology is to start the race at a higher than normal race pace, but, then, after a predetermined (short) distance, drop the stroke rate to a more manageable, relatively uncomfortable rate that can be maintained throughout the “Body” of the race. This strategy would correspond to what you see as an “even pace”. In the last phase, the “Sprint”, the rate is again increased for the final predetermined sprint length. Obviously, the distance strategy is going to be determined by the level of fitness of the boat crew, and any in-race adjustments. And, setting an early manageable rate allows for the opportunity to sprint at the end of the race. I would expect the same thing to be true for a marathon runner. In either sport, managing the energy requirements seems to be the key goal. 

As others have indicated, you cannot spot reduce. However, that does not imply that you will simply build muscle tissue instead. Several factors need to be present in order to build muscle tissue. Some of those include proper protein intake, rest, recovery, genetics, training status, and more. Lastly, since muscle is more metabolically active, increasing muscle mass is one way to control your weight and burn calories. 

The short answer to your question is Yes. However, having said that, it's a little more complicated than just substituting an exercise. You'll need to determine your target heart rate for an effective fat burning workout. And since muscle burns more calories than fat, adding a strength training program to build muscle should help. And, now, the hard part. I think you'll find you need to perform the exercises you've indicated in a slightly different way. For example, adding strip sets or drop sets should help keep your heart rate elevated. You may also want to try Supersets. However you decide to structure your training, the goal should be to keep your heart elevated enough to burn fat. A good heart rate monitor should help with that. Of course, all of this means nothing if you do not maintain a clean, healthy diet. 

More than likely, you're not doing them incorrectly. Weight loss plateaus are as common as training plateaus. The body tends to adapt to weight loss and training stresses. That means you'll need to devise a new plan to kick start your progress. That might mean trying different exercises. And, if you aren't keeping a food journal, you should start. Guessing at your caloric intake when trying to lose weight is counter productive. You must have a good handle on the calories you are consuming in order to make any necessary adjustments. 

This is a difficult question to answer since we all respond to training in our own way, Additionally, “being healthiest you can be” is a very subjective thing. Your definition of “being healthy” may not agree with others definition. It's typically dependent upon more than the number of sets and reps. And since there's no current correlation between disease, pain, injuries, etc. and the number of sets/reps, that's something you'll need to learn on your own. 

to name a few. The answer will depend on what it is you're trying to test. For example, the following lists some tests and what they evaluate. YMCA Sub-maximal Bicycle test – evaluates physical work capacity and estimates maximal oxygen uptake. Rockport Fitness Walking test – assess cardiovascular fitness. Bench press test – tests the endurance and strength of the chest and shoulders. Trunk Flexion/Sit and reach test – measures flexibility of the lower back and hamstrings. Bioelectrical impedence – measures body composition and body fat. The above are only a sample of the tests that are available. Testing for 'fitness' means different things to different people. There's no one test that provides a complete picture of an individual's level of fitness. So, as was stated, you'll need to identify what it is you'd like to test, and, select an appropriate testing protocol. 

A ‘traditional’ exercise circuit (in your terminology, ‘process’) comprises doing all of the exercises in the circuit (ie. the list you posted) once, and then repeating the circuit ‘n’ times. Done in that fashion, the exercises target strength building and muscular endurance. The time between exercises within the circuit is typically short. And, at the end of the circuit, you should take a ‘brief’ rest before starting the next circuit. Having said that, there are variations of an exercise circuit. You can vary your approach to the circuit as long as you retain the same original (circuit) goals in mind. That is, moving through each exercise in an aerobic fashion. Thus, performing the circuit as you explained is ok, as long as you perform them with little to no rest in between. As for your assertion that the time will increase, that may be because of your current approach and fitness/cardio capacity. Doing one circuit of 12 reps for the exercises you listed should not, in my opinion, take 40+ minutes. And, I would not pay too much attention to the “add a second or third circuit of strength training exercises" comment. You should add an additional circuit when you feel comfortable doing so.