The other answers here have good info but are either incomplete or disordered. Phone emergency services first either you'll need them or you cancel them a minute or two later. There are two important principles that guide us here: Hierarchy of safety and hierarchy of recuse methods. hierarchy of safety (who's safety you should put first when making decisions): 

For UNTRAINED people, it ends here. You can't go further down this list without putting yourself or others in greater danger. (But I'll finish anyway) 

Conclusion: If it's your only option and you really want to kayak then go for it, but try and try it out first so you have an idea what you're getting yourself into. If your goal is to splash about and have fun without developing much in the sport then something like a SOT, touring kayak etc. will better suit your needs. However, once you've gone through the difficult first steps you'll be much better at kayaking than someone who's only learned to handle a touring kayak. Fun fact: this boat appears to have been used by one of the Macedonian team at the 1996 Olympics. 

There's a specific class of boat designed to do exactly what you want - "crossover" kayaks. Here's some examples: 

Basically, your own safety comes first, then the safety of your group etc. Any attempt to rescue should never put yourself or others in your group in danger. Hierarchy of rescue: 

Throw. Ideally a throw rope that you can use to pull/pendulum someone to safety. This isn't for untrained people because A: ropes in water are dangerous. Victims become tangled in them and untrained rescuers can do silly things like getting themselves dragged in. B: unless you know how to throw a rope, you probably won't succeed anyway. Row(paddle) Again, this is something you do only if you are skilled with the craft and in rescuing with it (if you were, you'd already be familiar with this list). Otherwise you're just putting yourself in danger. Go Rescuer in the water. Either swimming out or as a dope-on-rope. Only if you've trained in this and with the assistance of other trained people. Heilo A situation that can only be solved with a helicopter rescue. 

The last two are why it's being done in the linked video. Re: your concerns, it's something you only do on pool drops where you can just hand-roll up (if needed) and hand-paddle into the eddy - or at least have someone at the bottom fetch you your paddles. You'd never do it if the drop is followed by a (significant) rapid. Are they swimming at the bottom? No. Why would they, that's too much effort and you'd get all wet. Note: you never have to do this. Just holding onto your paddles and tucking in to the side is the standard way to run a bigger drop. 

All the major manufacturers have their own models, often a range. There are different designs, some are a bit more focused on whitewater, some a bit more on sea, touring etc. As another poster said, skills are the most important thing. Going from flat to moving water isn't hard, but there's very important differences in safety, rescue, and skills. It's not about the boat - a paddler with the right ability will paddle a river more safely in an inflatable rubber duck than someone else in the right boat. If you have a club nearby, join up. 

To answer your underlying idea, mounting a canoe on the roof of a regular car can easily be done safely - however you've chosen two poor examples. First photo: not safe There's no proper roof-bars. The type of foam pads used aren't suitable for anything bigger than a surf-board. Used like this they will also damage the car roof. I wouldn't ever consider the type of tail mount used. Second photo: better - right idea but poorly executed. Here we see the boat on proper roof-bars with good straps. However, the boat should be centred on these, even if this means sticking out more at the back. Correct: Solid roof-bars (available for all normal cars), with the bars spaced out as much as possible and the boat centred on these - with good quality straps used to secure the boat to the bars. A rear light should be added where necessary. Note: when the boat is centred, this prevents forward/back movement because the straps are either side of the middle/widest point. Note2: both photos place a heavy emphasis on nose/tail strapping. In reality they add very little and should never be relied upon. They can help reduce bouncing but if the boat isn't secure without them, it won't be secure with them. 

For compasses, it will depend on the model. You can get globally balanced compasses like the Suunto M3 Global, but Silva compasses (probably the most common in Europe) tend to be balanced for the Northern Hemisphere. As LBell says, they'll point the right way, but just won't work smoothly so you run the risk of taking inaccurate bearings. It's worth looking at a declination map to understand the scale of the problem. We're not talking just a degree or two out. Large parts of the world are 20 degrees or more away from polar north. Another point: when you correct for declination, you need to correct from magnetic north to GRID north (which will not be the same as polar, and the difference will vary according to your location on the grid - as well as over time). Some smartphone apps (e.g. Eclipsim's GPS Status) can help by using GPS to determine location, and then lookup using declination map data to give the required correction. You can then set your compass accordingly and switch off the phone. Good background material here and here. 

If you're staying out overnight, consider digging a snowhole instead of using a tent. A snowhole can be much warmer than a tent and give significantly better protection. And, as Andy Kirkpatrick writes, they can't blow away. 

On a backpack, you'd have the quick-release buckle, but no clasp. The clasp is really doing two things - stopping the buckle loosening, and making it look tidy. If the buckle is decent quality and condition it's unlikely to loosen much by itself in normal use. I'd just remove the clasp, and shorten the webbing as much as possible (which helps keep it tidy). Carefully melt the cut end of the webbing to stop it fraying. 

I know that's all bit of a leap, but if you had a problem our running in remote country and had to wait for rescue, having all your layers soaked with sweat is giong to be pretty uncomfortable. 

"list" questions can cause problems on stackexchange sites, but, anyhow... From a UK perspective, Robert Macfarlane's "The Wild Places" is excellent. 

...and the second showing effect of different clothing. In this test with 10degC water, subject (wearing 'street' clothes) had core temperature of 35.6degC after 30 minutes. 

I can't answer the rest, but for here's my 2c worth for gloves. Layering : As with other clothes, layering gloves is worth doing. I'd try fairly thin liner gloves inside either mitts or a larger glove than you'd normally wear. This gives an extra layer of insulation, but also means you can just take the outer layer off when you need more dexterity than mitts allow. Mitts have an advantage that there's less 'surface area' around each finger so they can stay warmer. Also they allow warmer parts of the hand (palms) to conduct heat to colder parts (fingers) if you make a fist inside the them. 

FWIW, I used a short NeoAir mat (with the platformat from my OMM pack under the feet), PHD Minum 500 down Bag, TarpTent Scarp 1. I left my lighter Marmot Atom bag at home, which I think was the right call. 

IANAL, but... The riverbed is owned by the landowner (although the water isn't), so removing rocks (or any other item) from the riverbed is the same as removing them from anywhere else on the land. In other words, it's probably theft, so NOT legal. If you're concerned about it, ask the landowner's permission. Also note that the CROW act is pretty restrictive about what you can do in rivers and lakes even when they're on access land. No boating or bathing... : $URL$ 

I've never had a pack failure 'in the wild' but I think my usual repair kit of duct tape, tie wraps and a bit of paracord should be able to handle most things. Minor strap and buckle failures aren't likely to cause you major problem - but if a shoulder strap fails, that's quite a challenge: Just remember your pack is a vital part of your gear, and look after it well! 

Each scenario is probably different, so you'd likely make a plan on the hoof: How far are you from your previous 'checkpoint', and how far is it to the next? What time of day is it, etc... If the 'lost' couple were at the rear of the group (a likely scenario) and you're following a rerasonably well defined trail, then backtracking for a while (or at least, sitting and waiting) to look for them seems common sense: An accident or injury could have slowed their progress significantly, and the next checkpoint could be a long way off. And, who's carrying any group medical kit..?