I've read all of the related questions and a handful are somewhat similar in nature to my situation but there are certain differences that I believe warrant asking a new question. About Me I work for a digital marketing company in an Operations position that encompasses critical aspects of Product Support and R&D. The overarching purpose of my job is to improve the SEO product, which is fast-growing, rapidly changing and requires extensive knowledge across several disciplines. The means by which I accomplish this is through providing support to our teams, especially in situations that are difficult in nature and require advanced knowledge to solve the problem(s) at hand, conducting research and developing strategies that present the most promise for the future of the product, and training our teams on new and existing strategies. I have several other duties too, but that's the core of it. I've been with my current employer for two years now and I've received two promotions over that time period. My last promotion was in January 2015, which was to my current position. About My Situation I've reached a difficult juncture in my professional career. In my current position, I have a fair amount of job satisfaction because I'm able to work on projects I feel have the most value, I have an amazing manager who frequently provides me with positive feedback and for whom I hold a great amount of respect, and I'm able to see the tangible results from much of the hard work I put in on a regular basis. However, one critical element is missing: I don't feel as though I'm properly compensated given my level of expertise, my loyalty to the company (this year has been a bad one for employee attrition) and my overall flexibility in taking on tasks that aren't necessarily in my job description (or require skills that I possess but aren't considered essential for the position). I've been slowly building up the courage to speak with my manager and ask her for a raise, and I'm finally at a point where I need to either buck up or move on because I sort of feel like I'm stuck in limbo. However, I'm concerned with two aspects that I need clarity on beforehand. My first question is with how I should approach the conversation, in terms of dialogue. I'm confident that the work I've put in over the past year is above and beyond what's expected, and I've been told (by management) on several occasions that I'm doing an exceptional job. Also, my team is generally comprised of four employees (including me) but in September, my partner (we work in pairs) left the company to pursue another job and they did not backfill her position (and still have not), due to budgetary restrictions in the 2015 fiscal year, which left me with nearly double the workload (albeit my manager made several accommodations to help me out) and the same salary. Would it be professional of me to focus on the fact that I was still able to achieve so many objectives, even without a partner, although some work was taken off my plate? Or should I take a different approach? My second concern is whether or not I should come equipped with another job offer. I don't currently have one at the moment but I've received two informal offers via networking, and I'm confident I could get something to bring to the table, if need be. However, I would rather not do this, for two reasons: 1) I'm not that interested in moving to another employer right now and 2) I feel that my merits alone should be the focal point of the conversation, not another job offer. Am I being naive in thinking that my merits are enough leverage to constitute a raise or should I be prepared to move on before I walk into her office? Addendum To those who feel this is a duplicate question, here are the fundamental differences between How should I properly approach my boss if I'm feeling underpaid? and my question: 

Adding to what Danny Newman said, it is not (that) hard to bring yourself up to par in terms of coding. Coding is more like a sport or a musical instrument than like theoretical skills, practice, practice, practice, practice! You are thirty and a post-doc. Unless you have a family and kids, you definitely have enough time to practice coding. You will find that it is not only beneficial for your career, but it is also fun. Finally if an up and coming professor was willing to hire you and extend your contract for 3 years, you must have some level of competence or skill, so don't sell yourself short. 

A friend of mine was recently laid off from a contracting gig. It was made clear from the beginning when he was first offered the role that it was a "high risk" position in the sense that both the role and the project itself were on shaky ground and there was a high chance that the engagement might not last for more than a few months. He weighed his options and decided to give the role a try anyway (The long term rewards if the project did work out were worth it). Last week (after 4 months) it was decided that they would not continue with him (which he was sort of expecting since the project hadn't been doing well), but they didn't give him a few days notice or even a few hours notice. Instead the person he reported to and an HR rep just walked up to his desk and asked him to leave on the spot, the didn't even let him touch his laptop. They did say that his dismissal had nothing to do with his performance or anything, he was doing his job well, but the company had changed strategy. So why couldn't they be nice about it? Even when people are laid off or dismissed for performance reasons, they are at least given to the end of the day to leave. Being asked to get out there and then and being escorted out like that made look like he had done something wrong when in fact the dismissal had nothing to do with his performance. To make things worse, he works in a highly specialized field with only a small number of companies in his city. People would have noticed the abrupt departure and rumors are bound to spread that something bad had occurred, thus negatively effecting his future career prospects. Is there anything he do about this? How can he repair the damage to his reputation? Is there anything he can ask for from his ex-employer to mitigate this? 

I work as part of a tech team team that handles database applications for various business statistics. Our database platform is somewhat dated, but the business application that runs on it uses sophisticated statistical methods and generates very complex models. There's a data science team at my company, who are supposed to be the "mad scientists/skunk ops" group, and are developing algorithms that perform the same business function that our teams' software performs. They are using the latest trendy development tools and languages and running their code on the cloud as opposed to on physical servers. However, the actual models they are generating are rudimentary and they are nowhere near achieving the functionality or scale that our application is capable of, despite how dated our platform is. Moreover, both myself and my team have more experience with the business area that we are working on than they do. I want to collaborate with them for two reasons: 

Since you'll be making substantial edits to numerous parts of the manual, I'd make sure at least one other party reviews your review. It's easy to make your own mistakes in the middle of correcting his. For any technical corrections, I'd ask other, qualified co-workers to review them to make sure you did it correctly. Even if you're the expert, it's best to have multiple eyes on the subject so your end users aren't following the wrong directions. 

For any non-trivial corrections, I'd write a paragraph or two on why you think your correction is better. For large projects, you can include this directly as a comment on something like Microsoft Word's "track changes" feature so future reviewers don't have to find you to ask about all of them. For small projects, you might just print them separately, with each blurb having a page number or something to identify it, then you can just reference it while you explain it over the phone or in person. If it's a long manual, I'd make sure to get a proper digital copy. Then you can make the edits directly and send back a ready-to-print copy. If it's just a short manual, you can make the edits directly to a printed copy and let him manually input the edits himself. That said, if his writing is as bad as you say, it might be better not to trust him; in this case, get a digital copy regardless of length. Besides, he'll appreciate you taking the workload off of him even if he's capable. If you're editing the digital copy directly, I'd make two versions: one version with all the pretty colors so he can easily review the changes (instead of making him play spot-the-difference on the entire manual), then a second version with the normal font colors so if he likes it, he can just publish it directly. The exception is if you're using software to track, reject, and accept changes; generally, such software allows you to just directly print everything without the markup. For digital edits, don't use obnoxious font colors. This isn't specific to fixing errors, but it's a common, annoying mistake people make. You can make a high-visibility color while still being pleasant to look at. Bad colors are anything with full saturation like bright red, yellow, or magenta. Instead, use somewhat desaturated, greyer colors. Additionally, bright colors on white paper or a white monitor have poor contrast. Yellow, cyan, and magenta are the worst pure colors since they're combinations of two primary colors each, but red, green, and blue are still annoying. Instead, use colors that are a bit darker so they contrast better with white, while still being bright enough to contrast with standard black text. 

I wouldn't bother with flattery. It's disrespectful. You don't have to say "like, OMG, your grammar is soooo awful!", but I wouldn't deliberately understate the problem either. Just say "All the grammar and spelling errors are marked with green unless I wasn't sure what you meant. In those cases, I marked them red along with any technical errors that need additional review." As my sample statement mentions, I would mark simple errors notably differently than complex errors. 

I largely agree with the existing answers: fix all the errors and bring it back. I have a few differences of opinion and caveats to add, however.