Can you use this to better your position with your current employer? Possibly. It really depends upon your company, your supervisor, and how you present it. But realistically, unless you already make consideably more than 50k, you probably wouldn't be in this situation if your bosses were likely to respond well. You can bring it up with your employer, being clear that you don't expect them to meet the offer, and that you prefer your current position, but you believe you should be doing better than your current salary. This might make them realize that their payscale is unproductive. It will make them realize that they are going to loose you if they don't give you a significant raise. The question is whether they consider that a bad thing or not. If they are fine with loosing you, then you will probably be out of a job soon... No advice, it depends too much on unknowns specific to your sitution. But in generally, it's chancy at best. 

Some of the other answers touch upon this but not quite directly: during company travel your regular duties are premempted and replaced with (a) travel and (b) getting prepared to do something upon arrival. B should be treated like any other duty -- do it when and as appropriate. In short, under most circumstances, whether on the clock or not, during travel it is acceptable to engage in leisure activity. In your particular case, you are accomplishing your primary duty (travel), and presumably do not have preparation that is being ignored. Since it is outside of your normal business hours, you should consider your time entirely your own within the constraints of travel. 

You are making a fundamental mistake, and by doing so are doing both you and your company a disservice -- estimates are not negotiable. Time estimates represent your best GUESS as to how long something will take, based on your experience. You can break it down, but it's impossible to justify -- it's your opinion and experience. Working overtime doesn't make the project shorter, at best it means that fewer calendar days are used, but the number of hours (which is the unit you should be giving your estimates in), will remain the same and may actually increase. Your sample conversation should go like this: 

The legality of it is irrelevant (and off topic), you want a change. While reporting both employers and having them go out of business/to jail (assuming the behavior is illegal) or being fired as a trouble maker (assuming that the behavior is legal), will result in a change, it'd be easier and more efficient to just quit. It sounds like the heart of the issue is that your responsibilities/work load has increased to such an extent that it is now difficult or impossible to meet the demands. The solution is to talk to both employers about making changes so that you are once again able to do what needs to be done on an ongoing basis. The most obvious change is a promotion/new employee -- add a new employee to help with the workload. If that is not possible, how about shifting some of the workload to the employers? If you can't reduce the workload, you may have no choice but to make a more drastic change. I would look elsewhere and then quit once a new position was found, instead of going to a lawyer/the police. 

Your employer should expect that you are constantly expanding your skills and abilities and that you will leave as soon as you get a better offer. The first is almost a mandatory trait for anyone in IT, and the second is simply reality and reciprocal behavior -- your employer will certainly drop you if they feel the need. Which means that they don't need to find anything out to suspect that your days with them are numbered, it just brings it more into focus. You are under no obligation to tell them the specifics about your expanding skills unless they are paying for it. While it may possibly be beneficial to them for you to do so, it's not a benefit you are obligated to give them and it could just as easily end up having a negative impact (which you are likewise under no obligation to prevent). Basically, until you have a job offer in hand, there's no point in bringing it up since it there's no definite benefit to either you or the company. 

You can't control their behavior, only yours -- you should excuse yourself from the conversation and leave. If they have switched to a language you do not speak, you are no longer part of the conversation. If this is deliberate, excusing yourself is a nice, clear cut, end to your participation. If it is inadvertent, this will let them know they have to restart and switch languages. 

The company has explicitly told you that you have not been hired and are in fact not yet hireable. -- the fact that their process requires a medical checkup (which they pay for) before you are hireable does not change your obligations. Companies spend money on candidates that they then reject every day -- your obligation to a potential employer is to be reasonably honest and forthcoming, not to put your life on hold until they inform you of a a decision. You have no further obligation to the company until they start paying for your time. 

Ask yourself what your boss would say if you said you wanted to do this on the companies dime, and what arguments you would use to convince him to pay you to convey this information to a manager at another company. If you think you have a good argument for that, then go ahead and do so. That's from a business prospective, but really, this is fundamentally a personal decision -- you want to inform you friends. And for that, it's really no different no different from any other piece of news you might share with your friend. From a career prospective, you should consider whether this looks like persecution, or malicious gossip, but if it's just updating people on what is happening in your shared circle, that should not be an issue. 

You should not lie, but you don't have to tell all the details -- just say you need the time off for personal reasons. Lying is just going to create bad feelings when the truth comes out (as it will, certainly if you get the new position). Your manager is going to think either "oh, his personal reason was he was interviewing with X" or he's going to think "when he said his pet goldfish died and he needed to mourn, he was lying to me and what he was really doing was sneaking off to interview somewhere else." Which of those two things do you think he's more likely to remember it two years? 

From the companies perspective, salary should be based on two things, the value of the work and how hard it is to find someone able to do it. The work doesn't have to be income generating to be valuable, maintaining operations and administration functions are valuable. It does have to be necessary. Optional services are simply skipped if they cost too much. Sounds like part of what you do is optional, useful but nonessential. If that's the case, there's an upper limit on what they can and will pay you for doing it, not matter how easy or hard it is to do. Effort does not equal pay. 

I think you are over thinking this -- most likely the letter is nothing more than a way to get it into their system. Once the letter has been created, they can add followup tasks and due dates, approvals and whatever else is involved. It's just part of their workflow. In other words, the letter isn't about you and showing appreciation, it is part of the process to hire you. 

That depends upon what you want to get out of the interview. There are many reason why you might go to an interview and you can get multiple things out of an interview. That said, if you are not offered the position, you may not be able to determine whether your dress was a factor in their decision. So, if that is what you seek to learn, it may not be possible. If what you are interested in is working at a place where showing up in flip flops is acceptable, I would suggest dressing as you would like to work - if that is in flipflops then, yes, if it's in tennis shoes and a T-shirt, then that. The real challenge is what to do if you like wearing three piece power suits, and to that I'd say -- wear the suit, but be start off the interview by saying you hope they don't hold it against, but you really like suits and hope they can accept that. 

The thing to keep in mind is that any negotiation can result in no agreement. With that in mind, no it's not too late to attempt to negotiate a better salary. If you want to negotiate for a better salary, now is the perfect time to do so -- they have invested in you, and you have not invested in them; you haven't quit or moved yet, while they have apparently started the process of getting you a visa. While they probably can redirect that effort towards someone else, that won't be without at least some cost. It sounds like you are being offered anout 75% of the MINIMUM local rate -- I would consider that a red flag, and would want at least the local minimum. 

Formally, everything that you get from your employer compromises your pay package - leave, stock, insurance, base pay, bonuses. Informally, it typically refers to just base pay - paid vacation is simply lumped in with the yearly total. So, someone that earned 3k a month, but with no vacation, would say that he made 36k a year, but so would someone that made the same 3k a month, but with 4 weeks of paid vacation time. A company should be speaking formally, and giving you hard numbers for the various components. A prospective employer should be open about the nature of your compensation, how much salary/hourly, insurance coverage, retirement benefits, etc. 

Whether you should quit (or cut back) your job in order to go to school is a seperate issue from whether you are being fraudulent in accepting the pay for your current job. IT is a funny business at least from the outside, people will suggest that you are basically doing nothing, sitting on your butt all day, so no stress and no being tired from working, or they'll ask why don't you make a new game or website that makes millions, why don't you whip up a new E-Bay over the weekend for the church fundraiser.... Unless they are or have done your job, they almost certainly have no idea of the skills necessary in order to do it, and unless they need those skills, they also have no idea as to the worth of those skills. A job is fundamentally no different than buying a nicknack at a flea market -- the exchange is what determines the value, the seller may have bought it for more or less than he is willing to take, and the buyer probably wants to pay less but may be willing to pay more. So... As long as your employer is happy with paying you, and you are happy with the pay you are being given, ignore the bystanders. They aren't part of the deal and their opinions of Dogs Playing Poker don't matter. Now, all that said -- you're only 18, so there's a good chance that your current job won't last you a life time. What you should be considering is not whether you are getting paid more than your worth, but how you will continue getting paid the amount you are accustomed to.