The argument is that if there are constant returns to scale then the marginal product of each factor of production is constant as total quantity changes. This makes the production function homogeneous in the first degree and it will look something like $$Q=\dfrac{\partial Q}{\partial A}A +\dfrac{\partial Q}{\partial B}B +\dfrac{\partial Q}{\partial C}C$$ Then if each factor of production is paid at a rate equal to its marginal product, the complete value of the production will be distributed to the factors of production, since $$PQ-\left(P\dfrac{\partial Q}{\partial A}A +P\dfrac{\partial Q}{\partial B}B +P\dfrac{\partial Q}{\partial C}C\right)=0$$ so there will be no economic rent or profit The practical problem with this is that constant returns to scale is a very strong assumption. The theoretical problem (at least for marginalist theories) is that there is no natural equilibrium for the level of production 

A profit maximiser will aim to seek to maximise the difference between total revenue and total cost, providing this is non-negative 

If both rise to reflect the impact of inflation, it is much harder to identify who is bearing the cost Incidentally, the extent to which moderate unfunded increases in government expenditure actually affects inflation is an empirical question and the evidence is not conclusive 

The most generic answer is that governments can basically tax whatever they want, according to whatever rules they choose to invent. I have seen situations in which goods or services have been taxed by both the importing and exporting governments. Having said that, there is a clear international norm that taxes such as VAT (the equivalent of sales tax in the vast majority of countries) apply in the importing country, after import duties (so you pay tax on the import duty and transport costs). I don't know about the specifics of the US and Canada; I believe in particular US state sales taxes don't follow international norms. NAFTA may also specify. 

Yes, there are lots of examples of countries piloting new economic measures before they are rolled out nationwide. A couple of recent examples are of Finland piloting universal basic income and the UK piloting universal credit in 12 local authorities, which was then extended nationwide in a number of stages. 

In answer to the narrower question of how significant an economy South America would be, here's a rough comparison of current (2016) GDP: 

The problem with noting that recessions often occur immediately after low periods of unemployment is that you do not now at the time that it was a low rather than a pause. There are several occasions when unemployment appeared to stop falling but which were not immediately followed by recession. Consider for example 1963, 1967, 1976, 1985, 1995, 2003 in your first linked FRED chart. Once unemployment shoots up, you are probably in a recession and so do not need to predict Potential GDP is even harder to quantify meaningfully, as it is based on "the output the economy would produce with a high rate of use of its capital and labor resources." So if unemployment falls below levels previously thought typical before leading to inflation and high interest rates, this can lead to a suggestion that GDP is exceeding its potential; unemployment is certainly now well below what the Federal Reserve recently thought was possible. But this may merely mean that the judgement of what was typical was wrong: interest rates are still historically low, and inflation is not accelerating, while the fiscal position is loosening Looking at your second linked FRED chart, actual GDP exceeding potential GDP can happen several years before a recession, or immediately before, or even not happen at all. So it is not a precise signal So you may be correct that a recession is looming, or you may be wrong and it is several years away. Welcome to macroeconomic forecasting 

In poorer countries, agriculture tends to be lower productivity than other sectors, so those countries tend to show up as greener in the labour share than the GDP chart. 

I assume you mean openness to international trade, and that you're interested in both policy choices (does the country want to be open) and physical constraints (can they be open). The main factors that come to mind are: 

Yes, you are describing the (British) East India Company. A royal charter granted it a 15 year monopoly on English trade with "all countries east of the Cape of Good Hope and west of the Straits of Magellan". Also noteworthy, "at the height of its rule in India, the British East India company had a private army of about 260,000 — twice the size of the British Army". 

Economists are generally more interested in the aggregate output of different sectors of the economy rather than the number of firms or outlets. The difference between lots of small shops and a few large shops is quite different to the difference between the majority of GDP coming from industry or services. If a country has a lot of small retail outlets and a few large manufacturing firms, that suggests that there are much larger economies of scale in manufacturing than retail. The aggregate output of agriculture, industry and services are normally reported in GDP tables (here's an example for Rwanda). A larger services sector is normally associated with richer, more advanced countries. These images compare countries based on the relative size of industry, services and agriculture, and the proportion of the labour force working in each: 

Subsidies are often primarily aimed at increasing the income of the agricultural sector When subsidies lead to increases in production, this can cause the market price to fall with negative effects on agricultural incomes, with much of the benefit flowing through to consumers rather than farmers. This then leads to calls for further subsidies To avoid a spiral of increasing subsidies, governments will often move to a stage which restricts production, and one possibility is to tie the subsidies to given levels of production (often based on previous levels of production or on fixed assumptions about areas and yields), either not paying subsidies on production above some stated level or, in more extreme cases, withdrawing subsidies if production exceeds a quota The aim of such production-limiting subsidies is to maintain subsidies at a level which is sustainable both in terms of market prices and government expenditure. It is in fact a double distortion of the domestic market, both through the subsidies and through the production-limiting elements, but was deemed to be less distorting of international trade than unlimited production-based subsidies 

That is how an analyst is likely to approach it; in reality, if the private sector and/or unions have a strong voice in government, the process might resemble more of a negotiation between two sides. 

Within the WTO framework, this would fall under the government procurement agreement, as it is a restriction on who the government can buy from that limits opportunities for foreign firms. 

The Caribbean is included in Latin America for good measure (and because that's the way the World Bank cut up the data). The US is 3.5 times the size, the EU 3.1 times, and China 2.1 times. The economic area would be almost 3 times the size of the Brazilian economy. In terms of pros and cons, there are probably larger political than economic issues involved. Source 

Pick a range of possible minimum wages to analyse, perhaps based on cost of living estimates, 90th centile wages, union demands, benefit payments, previous minimum wages, etc. For each possible minimum wage, attempt to model the likely impacts on (a) the wellbeing of people affected by wage increases (e.g. decline in poverty), (b) the overall level of knock-on wage increases throughout the economy, and their effect on inflation and tax revenue, and (c) unemployment. Perhaps also expected rates of compliance and any enforcement costs (though enforcement is often minimal). Present this information in an easily accessible way and offer politicians a choice of a few reasonable options. Unless you're talking about a small change (say, increasing the minimum wage 5%), a final decision is likely to be made by cabinet, based on the expected effect on the ruling party's electability. 

$p$ represents total production. $Ap$ represents the intermediate goods and services used in production, i.e. intermediate consumption. So $p-Ap=(I-A)p$ represents net production, i.e. output minus input. 

The Treasury paper you link to is largely trying to describe some of the differences of treatment between (1) and (2), explaining phases in its analyses such as "Receipts treated as negative DEL [departmental expenditure] but revenue in National Accounts". Meanwhile, in the case of the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board, it gets its money from the industry either in the forms of levies or commercial income and is an example of (3); in this case the Treasury interest is largely in ensuring the board does not become a burden on public funds and that it operates efficiently, while the ONS is interested because it how it is funded (it is similar to a tax as the levies are compulsory, but it is different in that the board uses this money solely to provide a explicit service to the levy payers) If you are looking to measure the size of the UK public sector as a whole, you may find the ONS figures in (1) most useful, though they may not give the detail you can find from (2) or (3) 

I believe that the UN Comtrade database is the main data source for this kind of query with substantial country coverage. It's broken down by HS code. It has its issues. Reporting is based on national authorities, so you should usually expect data on imports to be more accurate than exports because of the tax implications (so Uganda's imports from Kenya are likely to be more accurate than Kenya's exports to Uganda). 

My understanding of conventional wisdom is that average long-term growth of advanced economies is expected to be significantly lower than the average long-term growth of the value of the largest firms in the stock market (e.g. the total value of the FTSE 100). I also accept Kenny LJ's argument that GDP (and the stock market) can grow exponentially, indefinitely. But if the largest firms in the stock market, taken as a group, always grow faster, doesn't that suggest either 

I think the flaw in your reasoning is expecting that foreign capital inflow would lead to more ₹ in circulation. When investors bring in capital, they are buying ₹ that were previously in circulation. This additional demand without additional supply is exactly what drives the price of the ₹ up. There is no increase in the quantity of ₹ circulating unless the government/central bank responds in some way. 

It rather depends on what happens to wages and interest rates, a ceteris paribus issue, and who you identify as "rich" or "poor": for example current workers borrowing to buy a house tend to be richer than the unemployed but poorer than those with large savings. 

Your article probably resulted from an Oxfam campaign If you believe table 2 of a January 2015 Oxfam report then about $\$250$ trillion. The campaign spliced together some information from Forbes on the richest $x$ individuals and a series of Credit Suisse reports - see the bottom of page 94 The analysis has faced criticism: it concentrates on individual assets and liabilities, e.g. a US doctor whose student debt exceeds personal financial assets counts as poorer than a subsistence farmer in Africa, and uses a very large amount of estimation, so other reasonable calculations could be very different 

EUR/USD should be the value of one euro divided by the value of one dollar. Right now that seems to me to be about $1.1275$: in other words, $1$ euro is worth about $1.1275$ dollars. I suspect this is the final number in your expression. If it had been USD/EUR then I would expect the reciprocal value $0.8869$ so $1$ dollar is worth about $0.8869$ euros My guess is that $-0.04\%$ is the percentage change in the EUR/USD rate so the euro would have fallen by a tiny amount against the dollar. Whether this is since opening of the market today, or since the close yesterday or since a year ago is less clear.