(Of course many do not see that they just put the lable of Buddha Dhamma around gross wrong view.) This is actuallynothing seldom. We find that much under modern Zen-follower, Bodhisatva strivers and in many other secualar approaches where householder are trained in "householder"-equanimity, meditation, but their basic right view and virtue not firm. Where as the Uposatha of the "cowboys" still has an opening to the path, even if it is mostly just for mundane merits done, the Uposatha of the Jains cuts one easy of the path and closes all access. Not to speak about the effects on many, when teaching but denying mundane right view, saying somehow "thats kindergarden"-Dhamma. 

Because not acting unwholesome out of any believe, seeing the benefit of virtue in all cases, one is good protected to be not destinated upwards as well. So it should not be understood in a way that the Buddha or his disciples force you to take on a believe or that someone not believing on rebirth, maybe even never gave it a thought, althought he/she is a virtuous person, acts in good and harmless way, is destinated, out of missing a conscious believe, to unpleasant states. It all comes down to the actions by mind, speech and bodily deeds one performes of where he/she would find him/herselves later on. If starting to keep the five precepts firm, you will see for your self that youR welbeing increases and states "as if in hell" do no more accure that often or even fade eternally. Then, later, you see cause and effects for youself, knowing that your current existence is not just something that happens accidently or by power of others or ends with that done today and that you future is designed by previous and current deeds. Here you are for now and there you could be, or there. Own choices design the path where to go and they can not be made undone. Once you came till here you can be Comfortable with the truth [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

Normal breathing happens automatically,you are not aware of it! Watch your breath! The secret lies in the simple observance and bringing awareness and presence to the breath.This is one of the main teachings of the Buddha! The process of breathing in and out is not a parallel movement as one might think. Between the in breath (down) and the out breath (up) and again between the out and in breaths there are gaps.Fear of losing identity causes a jump over the gap because "I" or "me" doesn’t exist there. 

The conditions and the reasons why sb chooses to follow the path of enlightenment in one lifetime are not clear. To say that your Karma is wright,what about Milarepa who in one lifetime killed people?And at the same time he gained liberation. Then Retchung asked, 'O lama, you spoke of having done white deeds, and no deeds are worthier than those devoted to the Dharma. How, Master, did you first encounter the teaching?' And the Venerable One continued thus: 

Just wonder if there are explicitly teachings on cause and effect of rejecting gifts. What might be the effect of rejecting a pure gift? Maybe one or another Sutta may come to your mind and maybe you like to share it in an answer. Gift here can be in the frame of material gifts, to time, effort, skill and knowledge. 

See also "The fruits of the homeless life: DN 2" The "knower" and the "known" disappearing is the last in line: ceto-vimutti & panna-vimutti. 

It's good to practice in areas where such can be susbected, and its most importand to do such on places where people have joy in giving and sharing merits, rather to see good deeds and joy with it as a tabu and childish. Something that is of course not easy not find in modern sociaties. It's all, incl. the skill of giving, a matter of right view, and associating inwardly and outwardly with it. A matter that is how ever not spoken of, is also how monks, in this case, are paying gratitude to given special food and it should be a warn sign, if people approach with "all is anicca" 

In the Tibetan tradition, there are space, air, fire, water and earth, and are understood as the underlying energies from which the physical world, our bodies, our emotions, and our minds arise. The elements are addressed in all nine levels of teachings of Bön, including shamanism, tantra and Dzogchen. The five Platonic solids were assigned to elements by Plato in the Timaeus 56b, 55d— fire (tetrahedron), earth (cube), air (octahedron), water (icosahedron), ether (dodecahedron). "To earth, let us assign the cubic form, for earth is the most immovable of the four and the most stable of all bodies... the pyramid is the solid which is the original element and seed of fire, and let us assign the element which was next in the order of generation to air, and the third to water. In yoga all elements can be produced from joining of male and female energies in different chakras of the body.To produce fire we join in the solar plexus male and female energies,this not only produces heat but also bliss. However all elements are impermanent,once you clean each one you gain the notion of emptiness and both your body and your mind become pure,just like Milarepa you won't feel the cold of the winter or the heat of the summer! Thereafter, over time, the sense of identification with the four elements loosens and is seen through.All happens spontaneously! Now the yoga has completed its aims: Impermanence has been realised and I think this is clever butcher's point of view! 

It has, like most ritual with material sacrifies, not really a connection to the Buddha-Dhamma, aside of the possible devotion and sacrify, metta and compassion, to ones ancestors, deities or spirits, which are possible wholesome deeds and generally praised by the Buddha (sacrifies for deities and ancestors) It's a very usual ritual, mostly performed by people with Chinese or Vietnamese ancestors all over SEAsia on Chinese fest days and has it's origin in certain Asian ancestor-cults and religions. Earlier real money was used which of course is mostly not legal, so copies and fake prints are usually used to be burned in front of the houses. As a one of a childs "duty" torward death relatives: 

Sadhu for your care and concern, Mr. C Smith. Sankha Kulathantille tried to give you good help. Its good to associate with people having faith in the fundamental teachings and the basic precepts. Not providing with a practical answer my person gives here that what is called "Anumodana" generally, a teaching that approves skillful deeds (here by concern) and encourages to follow this track further: 

Samsara's Trap! Create 10 levels,difficulty increases each level.The 10'th level should be impossible to pass. The game,which btw is a representation of life,can't give you liberation if you follow your ego!I don't see any point in following karma,good karma doesn't free you,liberation from karma does!Nor the power ups you gain through the game,but when you gain knowledge of oneself,similar to Dante's inferno which I think is a man's journey to all facing all his sins! 

Actually there is a reference to this and it is this video where the Dalai Lama advises a group of people to meditate before going to bed and immediately after waking up. Before after waking up: our mind is filled freshness,you are relaxed and generally this continues to the rest of the day! You can face your obstacles easier! Before going to bed: The stress built up during the day has to be gradually released before you can fall asleep.You too help your body relax better! 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

Food, what ever kind, is used to simple cross to the other shore. Not for enjoyment, to "take on bulk", to "beauty" oneself, for the abounding of past unpleasant feeling (of hunger) and the abounding of future aviding unpleasant feelings (from overeating). Food is taken to get ride of desire for food. 

Konrad and those interested, of course the path is not easy to do and it consists of letting go for long term benefit. The good in regard of this path is, that it actually benefits not only oneself but also all others, which therefore includes your bad "friends" as well. As even the Bodhisatta, having free one wish, wished: 

I understood all phenomena of life’s round and transcendence to be interdependent. I further ascertained that the underlying basis of mind is free from biases. Life’s round is the result of the path conditioned by wrong views. Transcendence is the result of the path conditioned by insight. The essence of both is emptiness and luminosity. Nihilism and the teaching of emptiness can be said to have in common is a skeptical outset. Nihilism concludes that reality is unknowable, that nothing exists, that nothing meaningful can be communicated about the world. The Buddhist notion of emptiness is just the opposite. It states that the ultimate reality is knowable, there is a clear-cut ontological basis for phenomena and we can communicate and derive useful knowledge from it about the world. Mahayana Buddhism takes us back out of this extremist concept of emptiness to the middle way.This middle way still commits to the idea that “life is emptiness”; however emptiness here is not different from existence--emptiness is existence, existence is emptiness. This middle way definitely takes away any inkling of nihilist negativism. It is realistic and positive about life.[1] -17 Karmapa