While near encounters with supermassive black holes are bad for the stability of solar systems [citation needed?], many intergalactic stars become intergalactic without a close encounter. They are part of streams and tidal tails that emerge when galaxies or globular clusters get tidally disrupted by another galaxy. Still, even while encounters with black holes are usually disruptive simulations suggest that some planets may remain around the star. This is most likely for planets real close to the star, like hot jupiters. 

The second is an interloper moving more slowly, with speed 1. Now the binary moves along more, and the interaction causes a quasiperiodic oscillation in seimajor axis. Just dropping the interloper with zero velocity makes it bound to the binary, oscillating back and forth, driving complex quasiperiodic or chaotic motion. It is possible to make the pair scatter by throwing in a sufficiently heavy interloper with enough momentum that first drags the binaries close, transfers enough momentum to unbind the system, and then passes along. Of course, if the direction is not exactly symmetric things can turn messy. Note that there are non-chaotic solutions too. To sum up, interlopers can deposit energy and momentum, split binaries, or create chaotic tangles. But it is not the barycenter that is the important part. 

To estimate galaxy stellar mass with broadband photometry, you want to compare your observations to the spectral energy distribution (SED) of the galaxy. There are synthetic SED libraries which will generate SEDs for different types of galaxies with different masses. 

This radius of the observable universe is measured by the comoving distance which is the same in every direction. Using CosmoCalc (a common tool for astronomers measuring cosmological parameters) you get 46 Gly for the comoving radial distance. 

HUDF suffers from cosmic variance. So while you could choose what you believe is a random and unbiased region of sky, your uncertainty will be larger than just the standard statistical sampling error. There would be additional uncertainty because of large scale structure since galaxies are not randomly distributed on the sky. 

We observe the temperature of the CMB as a ~2.7 K blackbody, but that's the redshifted version we observe. The CMB is also know as the "surface of last scattering" at the point of recombination when nuclei and electrons combined to form neutral atoms the universe went from opaque to transparent. This happens at a temperature of ~3000 K. From this we can estimate the redshift (z~1100) of the CMB which corresponds to an age given our cosmology. 

The intuition in the question seems to be that if stars get lighter and this makes orbits widen, maybe the same effect explains why the universe "widens". Stars are converting some of their mass into light, but this is a small fraction: the efficiency of fusion is about 0.5-1% of mass into energy. And many stars will not burn all the fusible matter in any case. Brighter stars also tend to lose mass through stellar winds, reaching rates up to $10%{-6} M_\odot$ per year or above. Starlight tends to escape galaxies, while the stellar winds mostly feed the interstellar medium. Most mass hence remains in the galaxies and stellar activities cannot explain their accelerating expansion. The small amount of escaping starlight and very hot gas does make galaxies a bit less strongly bound in clusters, but it is small compared to estimated dark matter halo masses and (maybe) infall of intergalactic gas. 

Caveat: I'm not a cosmologist, so this answer may not reflect the forefront of scientific knowledge/accuracy, but I have some knowledge so thought I'd share it and hopefully someone can correct me if I'm wrong. The Big Bang theory states that everything is moving away from everything else, so it must have started closer together. We know from the Cosmic Microwave Background that everything was very dense and hot and small. You may have heard that the universe started in a singularity. This means one point at which all matter was in the same place. In this state, all information in matter is lost. No particle can be labelled as having a position or size or spin, because every particle is in the same state as every other particle. This means we lose all possibility of having any information about what happened before this. There are many theories of what could have been before this, but no matter how simple/beautiful/mathematically rigorous the theory, it is physically impossible to know anything about it so they are impossible to test. In some definitions this makes these theories not actually science, as the scientific method involves making testable predictions. 

Brown dwarfs are heavier than Jupiter (jupiter has mass 0.000949 solar masses), although about the same size. Their compositions are fairly similar, with brown dwarfs depleted in deuterium if they are heavy enough (it is burned over a few million years after formation). Adams & Laughlin modelled the collisions of brown dwarfs, mainly to estimate whether two dwarfs could merge to make a star heavier than 0.075 solar masses that would begin hydrogen fusion properly. They found that this could happen, and not too much mass appears lost as they splatter into each other if it is a somewhat glancing collision. Obviously, a near glancing hit might just scatter some of their atmospheres but not stop them. Jupiter would likely behave the same. The result would be a heavier brown dwarf. It would be heated significantly by the energy of the merger, which in turn would make it expand to a larger size until it cooled down. Jupiter would also contribute deuterium so if the dwarf was heavy enough it would further heat up for a while. Given Jupiter's minimal mass compared to the 0.075 limit it is not likely it would be enough to turn the new object into a red dwarf. 

We didn't only visit the Moon once! Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins were the first manned mission to land on the Moon with the famous Apollo 11 landing, but 5 later Apollo missions also landed safely on the Moon and did various exciting things. This Wikipedia article gives a brief list of all the manned and unmanned missions that have investigated the Moon, and this NASA article gives a nice history of the Apollo program with all the manned missions. (So far the US are the only country to land astronauts on the Moon.) As for why there haven't been more visits since Apollo, there are a couple of points: 1) We have continued investigating the Moon, through remote observation, close encounters and landings, just not with humans on board. The future of human space flight is quite a debated question, since humans are very fragile, have lots of requirements in terms of food, space, health etc. and are not really very efficient at many tasks. Automated investigation of space is by far cheaper and easier. The main advantages humans have are intuition and adaptability. We can change plans, make snap decisions and respond much quicker than a robot controlled by people far away on Earth. 2) Turn the question around: why would we go back to the Moon? Why spend money and time investigating this rather boring lump of cold rock when we could go to places we have absolutely no data on, or very shaky theories, or places that have environments hugely different to our own? If we want to test scientific theories, we often want extreme environments, not just something a little bit different to home. And if, as your comment says, we are looking for other life or future homes, these things are very rare so we will have to look a lot further away than the Moon to find something that interesting! 

The sun is within a few parsec (15-25 pc) of the galactic plane, slightly above. The thin disk of the milky way (containing ~85% of the stars and gas) has a density going roughly like $\rho_0 \exp(-|z|/300 pc)$, while the thick disk (older stars, a few percent) has a scale height of 1000 pc instead. So if we want to move up (galactic north) above 90% of the star density we would have to move ~680 parsec, and going down 720 parsec. At this point at least the view would be splendid, but there would still be a fair number of thick disk and halo stars above and below. The disk has a scale length of 2.5–4.5 kiloparsec (kpc) and the sun is about 8 kpc away from the core, so we are already outside nearly 90% of the stars (not even counting the bulge). The radius is commonly given as 15.5-27.5 kpc, so we are 7.5-19.5 kpc from the nearest edge and 15.5-27.5 kpc from the far edge. If we count the dark matter halo the distances get even fuzzier. The virial radius (a rough measure of where most mass is inside most of the time) is 200 kpc, so we are basically 200 kpc away from that distance in most directions. 

A high density of stars definitely increases the chances of collisions, however, the high velocity of a halo star orbiting wouldn't increase its chances. Since the halo star is traveling very quickly, the halo star would only spend a small amount of time near the galactic core. Additionally, it would have less time to get deflected, gravitationally, by other stars in the core. 

Use the Optical Spectra Query Form. You'll want to set PRIMTARGET to "GALAXY". Here's the list of possible parameters it can return $URL$ Note, there is a query limit of 500,000 rows, so you'll have to break up the query since you'll have more spectra than that. 

Aladin is a good way to do visualization from multiple catalogs. MAST also offers a cross-mission search. 

Schindler et al. 1999: Morphology of the Virgo Cluster: Gas versus Galaxies has details for $\beta$ model fits for Virgo and its subclusters. 

As most people are aware when they play with bar magnets, magnetic poles repel magnets of the same polarity and attract opposites. Magnets have two polarities: north and south. Electric charges are classified as positive and negative, and also attract opposites and repel charges of the same sign. However, magnetic poles and electric charges do not match up in the way your question suggests - it's not like North is positive and South is negative and they attract electric charges. Electric and magnetic fields are connected and interact (in fact, both are produced by moving electric charges) but the signs/polarity do not interact in the way you are imagining.. Aurorae (northern and southern lights) are produced because charged particles are streaming toward the Earth all the time in the solar wind. Charged particles (positive or negative) are blocked by magnetic fields - the easiest way to imagine this is to draw the Earth's magnetic field like a bar magnet and the charged particles cannot cross the field lines. At the poles the field is not parallel to the Earth's surface (blocking charged particles) but perpendicular to it, so the charged particles can move into the atmosphere without crossing magnetic field lines. In the atmosphere they interact with particles in the air and create the beautiful lights that we see. So, in short, the lights are the same at the north and south poles because it is the same kind of particles interacting with out atmosphere. 

For each template you can figure out the expected luminosity in the I-band and find the best match. For this method, it's really best to have more than one point for comparison. Since the near IR will likely be a blackbody from your evolved stellar population, you might want to see if you can supplement your I-band data with 2MASS observations. 

Yes, minerals can be observed using spectroscopy on a telescope, typically from their thermal signature. We can determine what type of mineral based on the elements that make up the mineral as well as the type of crystal structure, which will give a different spectral signature 

The Van Allen radiation belt, which is outside of the Earth's magnetic field is believed to get its radiation from solar wind. 

Stellar mass black holes and supermassive black holes likely form from very different mechanisms. While we have a pretty good idea how stellar mass black holes form, we're still not sure about how supermassive black holes form because they occur very early on in the Universe. 

A fact sheet published by the LIGO collaboration at the time of the announcement of GW150914 (that's the official name of the first detection) gives the peak frequency as "~250 Hz". The Abbott et al. paper also quotes a value of 35 to 250 Hz in the abstract (I haven't checked for more precise measurements later in the paper, I'm sure the OP or other interested parties can do that independently from the link.) So I would say that a value of 250 can be quoted as accurate and referenced to Abbott et al. 2016. 

It depends what you mean by "very strong". The announced first detection (14th September 2015) was considered a very strong signal and that still only stretched the 4 km detector arms by less than the width of a proton (a tiny particle inside the nucleus of an atom). This wave would have no effect on a person. You could hypothesis a stronger wave that would stretch and squish a person, I'm not sure what effect this would have but there are no objects in nature capable of producing waves this strong, even something as close as our sun becoming a supernova wouldn't be that strong, so it will never happen in real life.