And the tidewater gentry did tend to hail from the south and west of England. By contrast, in the highlands backcountry settled by the Scots Irish, 

But how representative is this of American opinion in general? Antrim gives away the game by revealing that she's the odd woman out. She hates the telephone so much because everyone expects her to use it: 

But lest we think that citizens of former Soviet nations are actually pining for Stalin, only 15% of Azerbaijanis, 18% of Russians, 22% of Armenians, and 24% of Georgians would "like to live in a country ruled by a person like Stalin." The study also finds that younger generations have "a growing indifference to Stalin." Unsurprisingly, Georgians consistently have a better view of the most notorious Georgian than do the three other nations. 

Scholars have noted that pre-agricultural societies often have more egalitarian gender norms than agricultural societies. This had led to theories that agriculture led to the development of inegalitarian gender norms, because it privileged men's body strength. A more refined version of thesis was first posited by Ester Boserup in "Woman's Role in Economic Development." She differentiated between "shifting cultivation" and "plough cultivation," arguing that 

Its common to see union histories begun in the late 19th century, but the institutional precursors for labor unions--even unions that organize workers regardless of trade or craft--goes back to the founding of the country. The earliest I know of is the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesman, founded as a mutual aid society for skilled workers in New York City in 1785. The first wave of formal organization of wage earners started in the 1820s. In Philadelphia, different trades were organized by the Mechanics' Union of Trade Associations, founded in 1827. A similar organization called the General Trades Union was founded in New York City. Just as important were the political vehicles of the working class, the Working Men's Parties. First founded in 1828, state-by-state experiences varied quite a bit. However, they generally ended up being absorbed by the Democratic Party. The Panic of 1837 hit these labor organizations hard. Many native workers gave up their political goals and focused on immediate problems like subsistence. During this period, labor activism was kept alive by Irish and German immigrants, who imported their homelands' radical labor culture (Wilentz 1984, pp. 252-253). In response to these immigrants, a whole new wave of labor organizations were founded in the 1840s and 1850s. These organizations often exhibited a pronounced nativism. They include the Mechanics Mutual Protection Association (Buffalo, 1841), the Order of United American Mechanics (Philadelphia, 1845), and the American Laboring Confederacy. There were also umbrella organizations such as New York's Industrial Congress, which during the 1850s and 1860s received delegates from labor organizations all across the city and met in City Hall. 

The god in question is Dionysus (or Bacchus, if you're from Rome), god of the grape harvest and wine, among other things. The geographical origins of Dionysus are Greek. From the Mycenaean Linear B tablets, we know that a "DI-WO-NI-SO-JO" was known (at least) in Pylos before 1200 B.C. (source) Homer's relative neglect of Dionysus, coupled with the location of his cult-places, had once led some to speculate that Dionysus "is in fact a fusion of a local Greek nature god, and another more potent god imported rather late in Greek pre-history from Phrygia (the central area of modern day Turkey) or Thrace." Whatever the truth of these claims, the grape-nature-intoxication aspects of Dionysus wouldn't have come from his possible Phyrigian aspect, so some kind of Dionysus-with-grapes was likely a part of Bronze Age Greek religious belief long before the Homeric epics. 

The Encyclopedia of New Zealand implies that after the Maori arrived in New Zealand in the 1200s, they continued exploring the ocean to the north and east of New Zealand, but after several centuries gave up long-distance seafaring: 

The Soviets did not know they were supplying the CIA, because Americans are adept at corporate shenanigans. From the book Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of my Years at Lockheed: 

In short, Cox was a known quantity, but Constitutional division of powers meant that judges often resembled the communities they represented. In general, this is a good thing. In instances, it can be ugly. 

How Did Parties Choose Which Names Went on their Ballots? There was never anything official or binding about nominations stemming from the Congressional Caucus. State parties were always free to ignore the Caucus and print their own ballots with their own presidential candidate. OP asked, "By exactly what means were [the other candidates] nominated?" The other candidates were usually nominated the same way that Crawford was, but in miniature, by state caucuses. Again, because of the unofficial nature of nominations, any group dissatisfied with the state party's nominees could simply print their own ballots. This is what happened in 1828: The Jacksonians did not need to worry about "getting on the ballot," because they could distribute ballots with Jackson's name to potential supporters. (Update: Shortened significantly from original. See edit log if dying to know more.) 

It's probably because Ganson--one of the handful of Democrats who voted for the 13th Amendment--was on the fence about this Amendment himself. Voting not to reconsider the bill is similar to voting "present" in order to duck a difficult issue. First, Ganson voted against the 13th Amendment the first time the House considered it. He was widely expected to vote against it the second time too: 

The lowest estimate for the Taiping Rebellion is far higher than the upper estimate for any other 19th century conflict. Of course, it is not surprising that the largest anthropogenic disaster of the 19th century occurred in Asia when one considers that Asia was much more populous than the rest of the world combined: 

The authors note that regular iron was attested to before meteoric iron. The Hittites did not seem to value one over the other, treating them as functional equivalents. Unfortunately, it seems like the origins of metallurgy and most of the truly ancient mining and smelting techniques are lost to time. 

Short Answer: Cricket was surprisingly popular in the United States through the entire 19th century. However, baseball was backed and promoted by dynamic marketers like A.G. Spalding. Baseball came to be associated with all-American manly athleticism, while cricket came to be associated with snobbish aristocrats with English pretensions. Sociologists Jason Kaufman and Orlando Patterson have an article that answers this exact question, so I'll let them explain. Baseball and cricket were both very popular in the 19th century Cricket was popular in the US until well after the Civil War. The world's first official international cricket match took place between American and Canadian teams in 1844. 

After lots of Googling and Google book-searching, I haven't found any mention of courtesans, affairs, or mistresses associated with Louis IX. Given the amount of historiographical interest in Louis IX, and given that biographers were apparently familiar with his sex life, Louis IX seems as "probably chaste" as any of the other French kings left off that list. 

(source) Nat Turner's revolt of 1831 -- and the spread of abolitionist literature -- led to a rash of new or strengthened anti-literacy laws in the South, in states including Delaware, Georgia, North Carolina, Alabama, and Mississippi. Related to this fear of abolitionist literature, in 1835 several states also made it illegal for the postal service to deliver this literature. Keep in mind that on the eve of the Civil War, the enslaved percentage of the population was as high as 57%. This makes southern anti-literacy laws a clear example of a ruling class using illiteracy to make it harder for a more numerous, enslaved class to coordinate resistance or even question the status quo. Former slaves and northern Republicans recognized that literacy and public education would be needed if former slaves were to defend their rights in the post-war South. This is why establishing public education in the South was a major goal for Republicans during Reconstruction. Southern legislatures resisted funding those schools that served black Southerners when possible. 

So the northeast and north midwest had no such laws in the entire 20th century. The West mostly had these laws during the mid-20th century, but repealed them before the Loving decision in 1967. The entire South had these laws overturned by the Supreme Court in 1967. Now let's compare this ranking (North, West, South) to data from the 1972 General Social Survey*: 

The only long-running crime statistics belong to New York, Philadelphia, and Boston, and those are not going include statistics on “road agents.” This is the most meaningful generalization the essay was willing to make on 19th century crime: 

Obviously, destroying food didn't sit well with many people, so in October 1933 Congress created the Federal Surplus Relief Corporation. The FSRC 

Why I do not think you'll find better statistics: I consulted my go-to source for questions like this (the Historical Statistics of the United States), and all I found was an essay that began with the following: 

Tramps Another source of mobility (mostly later in this period) were tramps--basically, wandering journeymen artisans. As a young journeyman, the famous Thurlow Weed tramped from Albany to New York City to Auborn, NY in search of work. As Sean Wilentz writes in Chants Democratic: 

Short Answer: Jewish southerners did not differ from other white southerners in their rates of slave ownership. 

Srinivasa Ramanujan is a good candidate, based on your criterion of "their work has to be independently proven valid at a much later date." Ramanujan often chose not to prove his nearly 3,900 results, many of which were unconventional for the time. In the decades after his death in 1920, mathematicians would prove him correct again and again and again. Some results were incorrect, but Ramanujan's record is still remarkable. 

* 1972 is the earliest GSS, so unfortunately we do not have data from the period before Loving vs. Virginia. **New England = Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island Middle Atlantic = New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania East North Central = Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio West North Central = Minnesota, Iowa, Missouri, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas South Atlantic = Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, District of Columbia East South Central = Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi West South Central = Arkansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Texas Mountain = Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico Pacific = Washington, Oregon, California, Alaska, Hawaii 

The Romans would accept and raise the highborn of allied tribes, hoping to Romanize their future leaders and cement their political and military relationships. Maroboduus was a ward of Augustus. Later, as king of the Marcomanni, he organized a confederation of tribes to defend against Rome. This was also the case with the Germanic Cherusci tribe, which was for some time considered an ally of Rome. The Cheruscan chieftain Arminius was raised in Rome, though it seems difficult to tell from the record exactly what his status was (hostage? ward?). In any case, Arminius was introduced to Roman culture and military practices. He received citizenship and command of auxiliary forces that fought for Rome. He seemed Romanized enough that he was trusted by the general Publius Quinctilius Varus on an expedition into Germania. This was a mistake, albeit a very quotable mistake. 

Benjamin Franklin Bache was a vehement Republican. As editor of the Philadelphia Aurora, he was also perhaps Washington's most outspoken and vitriolic detractor. Yet even he couldn't find anything to fault in the substance of the address: 

Of course, none of this is definitive. Maybe at some point Franklin or his friend Bartram did try out the tofu recipe. If so, as the writer at the link says, it was probably more a science experiment than anything: "Without any cultural context for the food, 18th c. Philadelphians would have had little idea how to cook, season, store or eat tofu." Imagine thinking that tofu was going to be some kind of cheese. Having made it poorly from a third-hand recipe, you then spread it unadorned on a cracker or piece of toast. I imagine you wouldn't repeat the experience. Bonus Ben Franklin Fact: He was into electrocuting turkeys because it made them "uncommonly tender." 

Chain stores became an important force in the American economy around the turn of the century. Mass production (and the accompanying potential for mass consumption) made this new business model possible. Innovators saw that they could make more money from high-volume low-margin sales than from the low-volume high-margin sales that characterized traditional retailers, who were accustomed to a slower pace of business. High-volume sales strategies were first perfected by urban department stores (Macy's, Marshall Field) and by the famous Sears catalogue (which catered to rural customers) in the mid-late 19th century. The department stores demonstrated the potential of business models focused on lowering costs/prices through centralized management and purchasing in bulk while focusing on increasing the "velocity of flow" of products through the shops ("stock-turn"). Alfred Chandler called this model an "economy of speed." Starting in the 1880s, chain retailers such as Woolworth and Atlantic & Pacific borrowed the department stores' business models, but also used modern management techniques to build more flexible organizations that could cover wider territory: 

Taxes versus requisitions kind of sounds like six one way, half dozen the other. First, note that appropriating money from the states means that Congress has no control over how those funds are raised (which imports and commodities will have excises). My understanding is also that taxing powers allow funds to be raised for whatever reasons a legislature might choose (i.e., the tax revenue isn't earmarked before collection). In a booming economy, revenue goes up and the legislature can choose to spend more. "Requisition power" makes it clear that the Congress only has the ability to demand funds from the states up to the amount required to fulfill its duties. Also, requisition leaves open the possibility of payments in kind (as you can see in the proposed amendment below, that says states may "pay or furnish" requisitions). Of course, the states often ignored the Congress's requisitions, so it's debatable how much "requisition power" the Congress actually had. Proposed amendments to the Articles focused on how to get states to pay: 

Here we see that 60-70% if people in Northern** states (which did not have such laws) "tolerated" interracial marriage. The West Coast is also very tolerant, while the Mountain states are split 50-50. The South is the least tolerant, with majorities of the non-coastal South being against interracial marriage, while the coastal South is split 50-50, like the Mountain states. Here's a question from the 1977 GSS asking how you would feel if a relative married someone of another race: 

However, the authors don't mention any known instances of ancient seal-spoofing, let alone any consequential instances of spoofing. But the authors are not historians, so I don't take this as indication that it never happened. So, did a forged seal ever seriously compromise a political or military operation? A forged seal could be effective in at least two ways. First, you could send out counterfeit orders, telling a vassal to march west when the king or whoever really wants the vassal to march east. Second, you could conceal an act of espionage by resealing an order: the vassal receives the order to march east, and because the seal is intact the vassal does not take extra precautions, only to be ambushed along his route. You can imagine plenty of other scenarios. Given the several thousand years of history when seals were an important security mechanism, I imagine that a forged seal was pivotal at one point--but I haven't found any examples yet.