I have just started doing Stronglifts 5x5 (which is almost the same as Starting Strength). Hopefully in say 6 months time I have made good progress, but are also starting to plateu. In order to get stronger it is then recommended to decrease sets and reps: Madcow 5x5 or The Texas Method. However at this stage I probably am not interested in getting stronger. Instead I want to maintain my strength while increasing muscular endurance. To be a bit more precise we can say that I want to maximize the weight I can do for each of the lifts in Stronglifts for 25 reps. I would say my ideal is the physique of a crossfitter. However it seems a bit intense and potentally dangerous except for very well trained, versatile and technically proficient athletes. Also their programs are quite complex. Maybe I could train almost like a crossfitter for some time first, with a simpler program, but with some of the aspects of a crossfit program. How would I train to achieve this? Is there any program you could suggest? I am aware that increasing the 1RM will increase the endurance. However 1RM calculators typically only goes to 12 reps. This indicates that strength in the 25 reps range is somewhat disconnected from max strength. I notice that in crossfit they use alternating heavy and volume days. During the volume days they do each exercise for time. Maybe I could do 3 x 1 min each exercise with as many as possible reps. Also in crossfit they seem to do circuit training. That is first 1 set of squat, then 1 set of bench, then 1 set of barbell row. Then redo this complete sequence two times. I guess this is not so easy to achieve in the gym where one typically have to wait in queue. But I could do supersets. Squat could be combined with barbell row for instance. 

I am motivated to do a bit of strength training to increase general fitness and health and fighting the sitting disease I contract at work. Looking muscular or being very strong holds little interest to me. I am looking for a minimum effort solution. Most strength programs prescribe training 2 sets of each exercise 3 times a week. Even with only 3 exercises: deadlift, squat and press this can take about 45 minutes due to long pauses between sets. My problem with this is that I find it boring. Especially the breaks between sets. Also I dislike planning and schedules and monitoring progress. I am therefore considering replacing parts or the whole program with kettlebell and dumbell exercises at home (unfortunately I do not have space for a barbell at home). This way I can do something interesting between sets. More specifically I am considering doing swing, getup and goblet squats since I consider these to be equivalents to the deadlift, press and squat. As for the planning I was considering doing e.g. one set of each everyday after work. That way it would be routine and nothing to think about. This would also eliminate the pause altogether. I think I could manage to do this using only 15 minutes. The amount of training would stay the same but the rest period would be shorter. Earlier I would think that would be a bad idea. But then I read about Greasing the Groove (GTG). Following this method one can train several times a day as long as one only do 50% of max number of reps in each set. I am also considering a hybrid approach: I go to the gym once a week and do heavy lifts. The rest of the time I workout lighter at home with the kettlebell and dumbell. One big drawback of kettlebell is clearly the difficulty in doing progressive overloads. This is easier with the dumbell(s). Any ideas on how I can combine these forms of training to get decent strength training with little effort so that I do not loose my motivation? 

Yes, yoga and bodybuilding can be done on the same day. Yoga is a specific form of low-intensity exercise and its benefits are thought to arise from the exercise component as well as stress reduction. Unless your bodybuilding session is so intense that you can barely move, I don't see why you shouldn't do Yoga. Since Yoga exercises are generally of low intensity, it won't have too much of an effect on your muscles or metabolism. 

Running under 40 degrees can be tough, but many enjoy it, and it can be a great kind of training, especially if you're looking for a challenge. Some facts: 

One meaningful difference between exercising indoors and outdoors is the oxygen content of the air around you. Oxygen content tends to be lower indoors, simply because of the buildup of CO2 and other gases which compete with oxygen. How strong the difference in oxygen content really is depends on the ventilation system of your indoors environment. If you have great ventilation, there is virtually no difference between indoors and outdoors, and the exercise will be the same for your body. If the ventilation is poor, exercising indoors will have a similar effect to exercising at a higher altitude level, which will lower your endurance. The oxygen difference might decrease your performance to some degree, but it shouldn't have negative consequences for the desired training effect, whether it's conditioning or fat loss. Of course there are other differences when you compare the specific type of exercise you're doing, e.g. running on a treadmill is different from running in the woods. Running in the woods requires you to change directions, run at different angles, avoid obstacles, etc. which will involve different muscles than running on a treadmill. On the other hand, running on a treadmill might carry a smaller risk of injury. So in addition to the oxygen issue, you have to consider exercise-specific differences. 

Running on your toes may be a good idea if you want to improve your ability to run on toes, or perhaps other activities (jumping rope) which involve similar movements and muscle groups. Is running on toes better no matter what, and better than regular running to improve your (regular) running speed, endurance, health, and so on? No, obviously not. Running on toes is an unnatural kind of movement and less efficient than regular running, so it only makes sense if you specifically want to train yourself for that kind of movement in particular. Before asking whether something is "better" it's important to explain what your goal is. If your goal is to get strong calf muscles, and not superior fitness, endurance, running speed, cardiovascular health, running economy, and so on, then the answer may be "yes", but this would be a highly specific goal as not many activities would benefit from disproportionately strong calf muscles.. 

First, you need to assess your body abilities with bodyweight training and calisthenics. These types of training are based on natural movement patterns, pure and natural bodyweight strength. As a beginner, you need to focus on the basics which are pull-ups, push-ups, dips, plank, chin ups. I personally recommend to set yourself goals for each of these exercises. Strict pull ups: 15/20 reps Strict chin ups: 15/20 reps Dips: 30/40 reps Push-ups: 60/70 reps Plank: 3/4 min If you can get there already, good! Then move on. Each of these exercises has progression, archer push-ups and pull-ups, diamond push ups, elevated push ups, negatives etc. You need to build solid foundations, before moving to more advanced moves such as planche, L-sit etc. You can follow this workout to build your foundations. If you can already perform the exercises mentioned above and you would like to get more detailed tips I strongly recommend looking at Alex and Sven Website Calisthenics Movement. There are also multiple ways to "hack" and speed up your calisthenics training. For example you could use resistance bands to support your bodyweight during planche, muscle ups, front, back levers etc etc. Watch this video $URL$ To resume, build foundations with simple moves first then move on. Let us know what is current level using the workout above. Cheers. 

If I can give you my opinion based on 8 years of bodyweight training, DO NOT RUSH, take your time! Focus on one thing at a time, you said you would like to be able to do one arm push up, focus on that first. Both movements are different and use different muscle groups. Push ups use pectoralis muscles mainly and as a second muscle group, deltoids. Handstand focuses on deltoids first and upper chest second. Therefore, the transition from push-ups to handstand is not the best strategy. You mentioned that you are doing 30 push ups with speed. You could use first a tempo, let's say for example 1:0:1 which is from top starting position 1 second down, 0 at the bottom and push yourself up with power for 1 second. Use that tempo for each push-up. Then, to train on your one arm push up and get the feel, you can use a medecine ball or a bench. Let me explain. While keeping one hand on the floor, your second hand will be on the medecine ball. Slowly, roll the ball forward while lowering yourself down. Do this for about 10 reps and switch arm. Alternatively, you can use a bench. One hand is staying on the floor and the other one is used as a support on the bench. 10 reps each side. BUT! Working on push ups only is definitely not the answer. You should train full body and focus on core. I wrote a full body foundation workout couple of weeks ago, have a look, you could try each moves and see how you feel. All the best with your training and let us know if you need help. Cheers. 

You should alternate strength training and HIIT, better not do them on the same day. In total you'll spend about 3-4 hours working on your body per week, and that's all it takes to build incredible strength and great endurance, reduce your body fat and stress levels, all at the same time. Could you spend more time, e.g. go on a moderately paced 2-hour run instead of doing the crazy-intense 20 minute HIIT? Well, yes, but it won't be more effective. If this seems strange to you, think about the lions on Discovery Channel. They sit on their ass almost the entire day, but every once in a while they use all their physical capacity (very similar to HIIT) to chase after some antelope. It works for lions to stay fit, and it works for us. Short bursts of very intense activity are all you need to improve yourself. Whatever you do, do not fast. Eat better, not less. HIIT and strength training combined, if done right, will consume so much energy that you won't gain fat (assuming a sensible nutrition). 

My advice: Work empirically. Since you only suspect that your fatigue and nausea are related to hyperammonemia, order blood tests for both ammonia and carnitine levels. If they are abnormal, start taking regular L-Carnitine supplements, standard dosage. Retest every 2 weeks to check for improvement. If you're better, be happy. If not, try increasing the dosage or mixing in Acetyl L-Carnitine, or whatever else makes sense. My point is that this is a highly specific field of interest, and not that much is known about it. There are many aspects that are extremely hard to figure out just by searching the net and reading all kinds of studies. Sometimes it's way more efficient to experiment, especially since there's no substantial risk. 

Note that you're basically asking questions here which each have entire fields of study as an answer. Your first question is what every strength training book is concerned with, and the second is basically what the entire field of nutrition deals with. Asking what you should eat for muscle gain and fat loss is like asking "So how do I make a website?" or "Can somebody tell me how to write code?". These questions are simply not specific enough; what you need is to get into the topic and study.