Because you're beings are spread out over such a large area, external causes are really not going to be feasible on that scale, unless you somehow localize them (all within a galaxy, with no method of long-distance travel etc). The likely means of wreaking havoc on galactic or even cluster scale would probably destroy everything on seeded planets as well. So you're looking for an inexorable internal killer. You have a couple of options: Disease Your population unleashes a disease that is passed from mother to child, infects the population before it is identified, and is incurable. Maybe it's a side effect of a longevity drug that is taken by the entire race in hopes of attaining longer lives. It grows in potency with each generation, so that it is maybe 100 generations before the disease is identified. By that time everyone is infected, and they can determine the exact date of extinction. You're going to need a slow moving disease (unlike bubonic plague) so that they have time to contemplate really complex cures. But the slower it is, the more likely it is that a work around can be developed. Half a trillion years is on a stellar time scale - if something is impossible, throw enough time at it, and it can become a matter of probability. Genetic Factors It's also possible that extinction is implied in the very DNA of the species. This is not really that far fetched - for example, Y-chromosome degradation could feasibly have destroyed humanity if it had continued. Imagine a mitochondrial disorder that can't be checked, or something makes more and more anencephalic (warning:graphic) members. In either genetic or disease causes, you're going to be looking for something that affects a system that can't be easily replaced by machines, like: 

Containers. Simply build the island upon containers that have the ability to act has weights or floats. In other words, containers utilise valves which can either let water in, or out. When water is let in, the island sinks. When dispensed and replaced with some type of (light) gas, such as helium, the island floats. 

Message transmitters. Having heightened senses would be great for a spying role, but you're not wrong in mentioning their flames and long tails could give away positioning. So why not make use of that visibility? I would propose assigning them as message carriers. I assume they're energetic and fast? Why not have them physically travel between base camps, spreading vital war tactics. Their impressive agility would allow them to trek efficiently. Don't want to have them travel vast distances? Let's not forget about their magic. Flickering on and off their flames could represent visual transmission, similar to Morse Code. They could act as look outs and notify allies when dangers are spotted. Their super hearing and vision could also help leak encrypted, enemy, information. Perhaps they could utilise their magic in the form of code breaking? Medieval and Renaissance cryptography did exist and deciphering that kind of data could often be the key to winning a war. 

Static electricity? I'm surprised no-one has mentioned this. How about a glove, that when touches another's skin, generates a positive and negative charge. From there, either a gas or some type of highly flammable chemical would take care of the flame. Your glove could be made out of any of the given materials: 

I would like to add that given 25 years, until their abilities develop - putting them on the frontline or in some type of fighting position just doesn't make sense, they're too valuable. 

hmm, why does it need to be impossible/unfeasible? So you want a planet without GPS but with maps? Possible solutions: 

PS: They could find out gravity exists, but highly unlikely until they see stars and planets. Some experiments: $URL$ 

They could see the other side. Or the shadow on a moon or other stations next to them. They lived on another planet and know the flight path of projectiles should be different. That would be more of a feeling. Cause if you look at that tennis simulator you wouldn't say "Oh we are in a spinning cylinder" here. Maybe the answers from physics SE here help you. They could just walk along it until they came back to the beginning. And then measure there curvature. They find out that if you let drop something a given distance at different heights, it changes how much energy you get. You would just need clay and a heavy ball to prove that. So did we find out, that E=mgh (<-would be different for them) and E=1/2*m*v^2 (<-would be the same). They find a book about it and test/believe it. (When people today believe the earth is flat, you need for nothing proof -.- ) Maybe even only a children book that explains earth and easy experiments to prove the earth is rotating. They test it and it doesn't work. So now they wonder on what they live. The station wobbles and they get something like earthquakes. With MAGIC...Ahem, sorry, I mean SCIENCE. And you just don't explain more :-/ 

Time is relative. It depends where your observer is... If your astronaut travels with the speed of light (impossible btw) than it would be for him near instantly (Well except acceleration and deceleration). But we on earth would think he travelled 6 billion years into the future. (Since we would age but he wouldn't.) An observer* who is outside of earth, the exit point, and the travel path would see the astronaut going from earth to the other point in 6 billion years. But I think you asked for a scenario, where an observer* would see the astronaut on earth and the next second 6 billion light years away. In that case nobody of your audience would think he travelled through time. *Well it must be an omniscient being, since he would need to be far away and the light needs to travel far. As far as I understand time and space cannot be separated. That's why physicists talk about spacetime. Also time is relative. It is really confusing. Watch some videos about it and be confused. For example the twin paradox^^ Answer: For your question: No it isn't timetravel. At least not in any sense your audience would understand. But ask in Physics SE or phone a professor at your local university. 

Scanning for life signs seems to focus on self-aware life forms, no matter how primitive. You don't usually hear "scanning for life signs...only deer and whales." In this answer I'm assuming we're reverse engineering already existing technology, not demonstrating feasibility. So from that we can assume that life signs use some form of brainwave sensing. Brain activity does emit some low level signals. Now, the feasibility of detecting such a weak signal from a distance would probably require some preliminary focusing, like heat and/or pulse to locate living things. The way I would design this system is to first do a low-resolution scan for heat, then narrow it by pulse. Finally run the brain waves from those pinpointed locations against known patterns to determine age, health, species, and gender. You could probably determine mental state with such systems. At short range the technology could replace betazoid empath skills. 

The Earth has suddenly been decelerated, "bumped" into an unstable orbit. Guess you missed the jolt. The velocity has been reduced such that the planet's orbit will hopefully restabilize between Mercury and Venus in approximately 100 years. I'm not too concerned about the mechanism that caused the orbit to slow so much. A small black hole passing behind us sounds initially plausible. Question: what are the environmental effects that we will observe over the next century? 

Prominence - the moon has to be bright enough that the phases are noticeable. (Have you ever noted what phase Venus was in?) You also need an object that reasonably large in the sky. Many objects have phases as viewed from earth, but most are very subtle. Regular change - if your days are too short or too long (on the planet), you won't particularly notice the moon. Phases are meaningful because we have a slowly-changing moon that goes through predictable phases that change subtly from night to night. If you have very low rotational speeds on your planet (long days and nights) and faster orbital periods, you'll see more changes during the course of a night, and the phase won't be as important for telling time. 

Carving. Take the ancient Jordanian city of Petra, for example. They put giant steps into a mountain so that they could test the quality of the rock. The benefit to building steps was so that nobody would have to hang by ropes or dangle off the mountain - during the build process. It was this technique that enabled the constructors to stand on secure ledges while they literally carved around the mountain rock. That being said, I'll assume your builders don't have hundreds of years to commit with a hammer and chisel. So you might want to pack some impressive technology. 

Thus, humans must leave earth. I'm not sure I find this completely believable, which is ironic, because the movie is actually fairly accurate. However, you could tailor a more dramatic scenario. Perhaps one that greatly interferes with any human attempt to genetically modify damaged food. 

People don't seem to have answered the question in the way I understand it... Machine learning. As wrong-doings are committed, patterns arise - in other words, series of events correlate to end-point crimes. Computers, running ML algorithms, monitor all; camera, mobile and internet feeds available to you. The Ministry of Safety gets notified when a potential crime is detected. Records get created this way, on the fly, those who have offended multiple times get monitored more vigorously. How does this save money? Well, let me highlight some key points: 

Microorganisms Take the movie Interstellar, for example. Microorganisms called "the Blight" affected the crops. Eventually corn was the last crop that hadn't been significantly impacted, that too would soon die. Taken from the synopsis: 

If you're sceptical about the data processing costs, don't fear. Our state of the art compression techniques are utilised through cryptography. Unlawful patterns are matched in the computers RAM, in which pulls learned formulas from a secured data centre. I'll quote you on $200,000 a year. I know, a slight increase in comparison with what you expected, but you'll need to configure your long game. Let's not forget about all of your other expenses. 

The circulatory and even muscular systems could potentially be replaced given the technology. But there is some question whether consciousness can be replaced or emulated, and without the ability to reproduce it's just a matter of time. In any case, it will be overwhelming depressing. But what mass extinction isn't? 

As Tim stated, there aren't really going to be any catastrophic problems from spinning a bit faster - although you might want to consider that the Earth slows down slightly each year due to the friction of the Moon dragging the oceans around it. The effect of two moons will be somewhat more pronounced based on the amount of water moving around each day. You tagged this weather, so to address weather specifics, you'll have a stronger Coriolis effect which will cause wind bands to be more pronounced. In particular, there will be less mixing of polar and tropical air, and much more pronounced climate bands at each latitude. Wind-related weather in general will be more severe, though I don't have any guess as to how much. Knock-on effects will make things like evaporation happen faster, but also more intense rains from the more powerful storms. In general, everything will be stockier to deal with the more intense winds, which might be the most noticeable difference to a traveler, as wind speeds and storms will probably trend only toward the top of normal ranges. Of course, you might be able to adjust the wind speeds to a normal range by increasing the atmospheric pressure by increasing the size of the planet...but that could get really complicated. In general, just saying "it's windier" should be sufficient for weather. As far as effects on people, there have been studies that vary the length of the day. I can't find any of the short-day studies, but attempts to live according to Martian sols suggest that humans are pretty well wired for 24 hour days. 

In every scenario you can come up for a zombie outbreak, a cure would make it less disastrous. And if the cure wouldn't help, you can just ignore it. 

Only psychological and ethical problems would be bigger. Since you should save everyone and shouldn't shoot every zombie. For the mutation, not every zombie would have it. But most, since zombies with that mutation would reproduce faster. 

I don't know why it is important for your story. So I also told you some stuff that I wouldn't consider a medically viable reason. But they could make the problem worse, even if you don't like them as sole reason. Radiation? If you go with radiation, because the space ships aren't shielded enough. hte egg cells in a fetus gets killed. Of course I would also expect some babies do have mutations and more people die because of cancer, if the radiation is not shielded enough. Zero Gravity? We think you could give birth in space, because humans can give birth in water. But that is only a guess at the moment. It could be, that the head of the baby doesn't align itself. Or the umbilical cord goes around the head, because somehow inertia. They could have all c-sections, but operations in space are hard, because of the fluids you would need/want a special suit or room. So no fluids can go into equipment. For the same reason you would want special rooms, or suits for the baby making. (But I think it would not stop them from the baby making.) Logistical? Just not enough food. Lets say you only have 1 ton of carbon atoms on board. You could only make so much humans out of it. (10 ton of humans, with the assumption 10% of our mass is carbon atoms.) And you would need also carbon atoms for food. Even if you recycle every carbon atom. At a point you have no carbon atoms outside of humans. Not enough space... okay that is weak, especially if you want a generation ship. Were you replace only dead people. Politicians were stupid and split men and women on different ships... Yeah.. Really stupid. Environment Some material release some toxin into the air/food. And they can't get it out or find it or stop it, because without the material or machine all would die. So yeah, less babies get born. **Social? aka stupid reasons ** It could be a society who doesn't like babies. Maybe because their religion says you can only have souls if you were born on earth. Or nobody wants to sex their children. So depending on population size in one ship, you could have an all male population. (Look below for a possibility) Or the opposite, everyone wants a boy. Or the 2nd generation doesn't like to be only considered breeders. Or only few are allowed to have children, so nobody wants any, because of envy from everybody else. Bad Luck? Through unlucky events, they get a population with less females. Maybe they started with 50 woman and 50 man because an evacuation wants to get everyone off planet. Not like a Generation ship which could send out an all female crew with frozen sperm that is selected for x chromosomes. And some freak accident happened and because of that 30 woman die or are now infertile. Genes? Maybe they kept only few men for reproduction (Like they only let 1 in 100 male fertilized eggs develop into a child). Because men have then more children (~1000) than women (~8), you get more offspring, if you produce more sons (Even if the sons have only 1 in 100 chance of surviving). Since the sperm cells decide which sex the baby will have, the genes to produce more male offspring will get passed down easier. (From father to son, which produces more sons.) Lets say they let a lottery decide which male embryos get implanted into a willing mother. Then the genes that produces 800 males from 1000 fertilization have better chances to get picked up than genes that produces 500 from 1000. Worse when they find out what happened, most males only produce male offspring and only very rarely female. And nearly all females have the same genes for male only sperm. Meaning if one male gets a female offspring, that female will have still the same gene for more male offspring, which she would pass on to potential sons. Of course there could be other reasons making each issue worse. Other reason: Maybe have the same effect (lack of babies/miscarriage) with another explanation/reason, where you don't need to make assumption about medicine. When people really get pregnant in space, your book/world wouldn't need to be adjusted. I wouldn't believe a world exactly like our earth, except where plains can't fly because of different physics. I would believe that it is to expensive, because we don't have much aluminum and kerosene. Some ideas I got from there: $URL$