For my own health and what I'd recommend to others is to consume a balanced diet high in lean proteins, high in good-quality fats (think olive oil, not bacon), lower in carbohydrates, and near zero in refined flours/sugars. Go heavy on veggies in particular. Protein supplementation will probably need to occur, so consider whey minus the artificial sweeteners. The value of a comprehensive diet and effective strength program will be orders of magnitude more than what you can buy in a jug. Eventually you'll be smiling (on the inside, only) at the colorful blender bottles as you absolutely crush your target lift numbers. 

If you want to win body building contests or be muscled up with <8% body fat, you're going to need to bulk and cut, and probably take steroids to be honest especially if you want to stay there. If you want to look good with your shirt off, be strong, and develop healthy patterns that will last you the rest of your life, you need to balance all the fitness techniques with real life and look around at people in their later years who aren't dropping dead of heart attacks and see what they're doing. 

The only studies I've seen not in support of icing injuries typically are inconclusive, but the other side of the coin is that there is documented and anecdotal evidence in favor. A 2001 study states: 

The kind designed for baking may have additional gelling agents, might not be as refined, and probably won't mix as well. One is designed to be baked into other food, the other for direct mixing with water and consumption. 

This might get closed for being offtopic, but personally I disagree. Additionally, I don't think this is opinion-based at all, and that people who think that's the case are ignoring the medical evidence for urine production. That said: You may want to consider adding a small bit of salt to your diet and seeing what that does for you. Salt generally decreases urine production. The author of this block quote is an RN, and this is inline with my understanding of natremia: 

Your diet sounds great. If your body fat is good then you're probably eating fine. Chicken and salad is great. You're probably talking about protein requirements. Top end stength training usually asks for 1gram of protein for every pound of bodyweight, every day. It's not like coming in a little short sometimes will be horrible. Chances are it won't make a difference at all. But yeah, if your body is repairing damage and growing tissue in a big way you need to eat more protein. Whey protein is pretty cheap and effective, check prices. 

Regarding the 800lb deadlift, I think that's the realm of major league baseball pitchers throwing 100+ mph fast balls. In both cases, those folks are pushing the upper limits of their physical capacity. Catching injuries, pushing super hard, and only able to sustain it for a period of their lives. That's a far cry from what most people consider "fitness" to be, if they take the time to define it. Personally, I define fitness as having your body in good long term health and having the physical and emotional ability to handle the challenges you plan on imposing. 

There's really no easy way to have very low body fat. For me anyway, when I start getting near 10%, my willpower goes out the window. But I also don't care that much and 10-15% is fine for me. It's just not worth it (to me) to shave those remaining pounds off knowing what I'd have to give up. If you find someone with a lot of muscle mass that's sub 10%, you'll find someone who's done a lot of lifestyle modifications to make that work. It's a bit age and individual dependent as well. Consider looking into a keto diet ($URL$ Long term it's the most successful dietary habit I know of. 

There's a more complete answer you can read up on, if you're interested. A "protein shake" is exactly what you guessed: protein powder (typically whey) shaken up with liquid (typically water, sometimes milk). It's a quick, cheap, and convenient source of protein. Most people simply don't eat enough protein and to get the levels required for high intensity strength training it tends to be hard to beat. "Real food" that fits your macronutrient and calorie goals is always going to be superior in the long run: your body needs more than a whey shake. But if you're ~50 grams short for the day a shake in the morning and one at night can be a convenient and easy way to solve the problem. 

If you have access to a barbell and rack, do some of the recommended items of back squats and deadlifts. Those alone will make a phenomenal difference in your back strength. They're tremendously valuable compound lifts. They're also somewhat technical so find some good tutorials or books (Rippetoe is someone I personally recommend). Start with lighter weights, initially just the bar, and work up from there. If you don't have access to a gym (and even if you do) you might want to consider some bodyweight "lifts". Two of my favorites for lower back and hamstrings are single leg Romanian deadlifts and supermans. Bret Contreras is another name (along with Rippetoe) that you can reliably count on for good information that thousands of athletes have sworn by. $URL$ (SLRDL) $URL$ (Superman) $URL$ (Squat) $URL$ (Deadlift) 

These create very different training requirements. I know several people who've simply shown up, rather out of shape, and "finished" a marathon. The closer you get to wanting to put in an aggressive time, the harder you will train. And honestly, training to be competitive at marathon running is very time intensive. Your life will revolve around your training for months. 

Chinups (palms towards you) do activate your biceps more, but not at the cost of your lats. There's a bit of bro-science about pullups/chinups, but if you read a 2010 study in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research it tells a different tale. Basically, the recruitment of the latissimus dorsi is the same: 

From what I've gathered in various interviews, it looked a bit like this. He would have huge peaks when he was getting ready for a big fight. This is what he reported doing daily, his average training time coming in at 55 hours per week. 

2) Carbohydrates. There is a lot going on with carbohydrates and although your body needs them, they tend to make up too much of a western diet and need interfere with muscle growth via insulin response, and promote fat storage. If you have a 2,500 calorie full of carbs and you increase your protein, chances are you'll be opting for chicken instead of bread. 3) Availability. Muscle repair can take dozens of hours to complete, during which the easy access to amino acids promotes tissue repair and regeneration. 

Personally I feel like the thirst response is the primary go-to for what hydration your body needs, but it's not exactly fool proof. There was a 1991 study showing that, as men (and probably) women age, they have reduced thirst and are at increased risk of dehydration. The participants in the study you linked were young-ish: 

Use a calorie calculator to get a rough idea of how many calories you actually need. Follow a good strength training program with proven results that won't get your hurt. Use an app like myfitnesspal (there are others, pick one you like) to track the calories of everything you eat for a week, and compare that with the calories you need to ingest. Since you're strength training, also pay attention to your protein intake (3.3g per kilogram of body weight). 

I can imagine that when you say "bigger" you mean more lean muscle mass, not fatter. Getting fatter is pretty easy, adding lean muscle mass is more challenging but fortunately much more rewarding. Just to address the term "tone", "toned" is simply lower body fat and increased muscle definition. You will find a lot of commentary online that says "if you want to build muscle size (hyper trophy) you need to be in caloric surplus". There isn't any hard science on this that I'm aware of, but it's certainly supported by most people's experience, especially when you get to lower body fat levels. At higher body fat levels, even in a caloric deficit, your body has a lot of fat stores to tap into. But if you're at a phase now where you can see veins in your arms, you're likely getting into the zone where sizeable muscle gains will happen only with eating more calories than you need. This will increase your muscle size, but you will also gain fat. Summary Recommenation 

You should do some research on flat feet, and I think you'll see that it's not really anything to concern yourself with. I have rather flat feet myself, and have never noticed a problem except when others tell me I should deal with my flat feet. In fact, if you start looking into the research a bit, you won't find any smoking guns that indicate being flat footed, but you may see some that say very high arches are a problem. 

There was a 2010 study that touched on this a bit, and suggests there's more going on than muscle memory. 

There's certainly no evidence that stretching throughout the day will weaken your muscles. Look at people who take yoga daily: it's a lot of stretching, and there's no indication of long term weakness. 

Depending on your goals, once you can do ~10 regular pullups, consider adding some weight. I'm always scratching my head and people who do all kinds of cable and machine work and leave out weighted pullups (and dips). They are phenomenal compound exercises. 

There really isn't a convenient time to workout no matter who you are. It's a lot of work, you get sweaty, you need to change your clothes, and it usually involves going somewhere other than your home or work. I try to do strength training three days a week, usually around ~3pm. The gym is empty, I can actually get in and out much faster than the busier times, and it's easier to stay focused. I've talked to my employer and explained that on those days I get into work earlier, work through lunch, and am putting in the same hours I would on any other day. Lifting early in the morning is something that you should figure out, if only because it's going to happen sometimes. If you end up on a program (Madcow, Texas, Bill Starr, 5/3/1) you'll end up with days where you really need to lift an exact set of weights with an exact set of reps and sets. You can screw up weeks of training by moving the days around. On those days you need to get your ass out of bed at 4am, have some coffee, maybe splash some preworkout in, crank up the headset, and get yourself into the gym by 5am. It sucks and no one wants to do it but that's life in the big city. I'd see if you can get any flexibility with your job. Take a longer lunch, work through lunch, show up earlier, leave later, whatever. Regarding energy levels, if you get your diet nailed in you should be okay for evening workouts although I'd toss in a couple of caveats: 

Keep going with your nutrition plan, add in strength training, and ensure you have enough lean high quality protein. You'll be in phenomenal shape. 

Everyone has a more dominant side than another, and after a few years of good living most people have picked up random injuries. My left hip adductor, as an example, has some damage in it so I can never really do as much on my left side as my right. Worse, I'm right handed so I end up using my right side more for pretty much everything. Muscle imbalances can be a problem, and although the "go see a doctor" can be applied too widely you should have a firm understanding of what kind of use and mobility you can expect from your left side. A good physical therapist will be able to give you very targeted exercises that will strengthen surrounding musculature without causing any new problems. There are some amputee athletes out there that are in phenomenal shape, and that's been primarily through physical therapy setting the direction and the disabled person themselves doing a boat load of work. In short, muscle imbalances are common and universal. But when they border on or cross over into disability management, you need a plan that really works for you set up by someone who understands your situation.