A planet with a constant environment is nigh on impossible. After several attempts to devise a planet with a constant environment they met with failure. Astronomical factors like axial tilt and the shape of the planet's orbit mitigate against environmental constancy. Ditto with surface features like its geography and whatever diversity it would have in its range of biomes. This consideration alone removes the possibility of a human species shaped by the selective pressures of its environment in a uniform and unchanging manner. It is noted that other answers favour genetic drift caused by isolation. While this will play a role, it is not most likely cause of ethnic diversity. [For the purposes of this ethnicity refers exclusively to the phenotypic characteristics of human beings with culture excluded.] On Earth when humans moved into Europe they lost their darker skin tones in order to synthesize vitamin D. As explained above, there is always likely to be geographical locations where environmental selection pressures will play an active role in shaping ethnicity. However, the main driver of ethnicity will be sexual selection. Where mates choose their partners on the basis of agreeable characteristics. Some of which will involve selecting partners who will be expected to bear the healthiest offspring. A planet with a constant environment, assuming such a hypothetical construct could exist, but we can pretend it does, would not prevent ethnic diversity arises within a human species. However, despite their ethnic differences, they remain, like here on planet Earth, one species. 

The answer comes from simple theology based on their belief structure. "in the beginning, the universe was ruled by Chaos, your usual malevolent force of destruction, and life was rough. The Motek gods came to the rescue, sacrificing their own lives by forcing Chaos off the planet and becoming the rings, which act as a shield against the ever-encroaching Chaos." Irrespective of what made the rings vanish, this will be a sign Chaos has returned and the Motek gods have descended to force Chaos off the planet again. Oh, yes, the gods sacrificed their lives in doing so first time around. The Motek gods have died, but gods have this habit of resurrecting themselves when you least expect it. They were only"sleeping" until they were needed again. The priests and priestesses will tell their congregations to be vigilant for signs of encroaching Chaos and offer more valuable donations to the priesthood. Since in societies like this, the priestly caste are almost invariably the astronomers they will be busy making observations about the vanished planetary rings and devising explanations for what happened. Explanations that will be closer to a form of actual science but pure mythology (but not as well formed as science as we know it, is). Riots, panic, rebellion, and so on, how likely are they? Frankly, not much. The majority of the people will go about their business unperturbed. It will be mainly the priesthood and the ruling classes who have the leisure time to worry about what is essentially a cosmological problem. It's too remote and removed from everyday life to cause much unrest. 

You asked this question: "Are the laws of physics similar enough to game code that someone could exploit their flaws and/or break them without exploding the universe (shall we say "crashing the game")" The answer is absolutely and categorically no. The laws of physics are not at all like game code. By the laws of physics this means the nature of physical reality. There is nothing to glitch. End of story. However, if there was a more fundamental level to nature that was response for making physical reality real and the laws of physics what they are, then, purely hypothetically, that might be glitchable. Except, that really doesn't make sense. Metaphorically this would be the equivalent of marionettes, that is string puppets, being able to control their own puppeteers and make the other parts of the puppet play they are in that is reality dance to their tune. Again, this doesn't make sense. Is physics capable of being glitched? Nix. Nyet. Nein. Non. No way. No. 

CMEs occur frequently and carry a reasonable amount of mass at quite high velocities. Although there is a wide range of velocities for CMEs. 

The space-dwarves are using super-steel to build their Dyson sphere. Since resources are no limit, they decided gather iron and the other elements needed for their super-steel from systems out to, say, one thousand light years. Their super-steel is mainly iron in the form of steel compressed to the density of white-dwarf matter. One ton in the cubic volume of a match box. If the space-dwarves can turn their home-planet into a spaceship, this should be trivial exercise in alloy production and fabrication. They tend the mass of their Dyson sphere to provide gravitation to enable the space-dwarves to live in comfort on the surface of the sphere. "Resources aren't the problem." the mass of their sphere will be approximately ten percent or more of the mass of their primary star. They will also import atmosphere for their sphere. Now the ideal method for transporting super-steel and atmosphere via long-range teleportation. Unfortunately, the space-dwarves lack the facility and subtlety in navigation and guidance to ensure their teleported goods arrive precisely and accurately. This is to be expected if their maxim is: "If Brute Force isn't working, you're not using enough of it!". The result is ten percent the mass of their primary star in form of super-steel Dyson sphere components are accidentally dumped into their star. The space-dwarves' star will be contaminated with excess iron. Iron is the least fusionable of the elements. Thermonuclear fusion will come to a halt in the poisoned star. A large amount of the star's thermal energy will be lost in melting and vaporizing the white-dwarf dense super-steel. There will be disruptions to the star that could lead to a nova. It is expected there will be massive disequilibria in the star. This could result in flare activity and excessive coronal mass ejections. The space-dwarves will have no choice, but to head for deep space in their home-planet converted into a spacecraft. Astrophysicists from nearby technical civilizations will arrive in droves to study the effects of iron pollution in the star. 

The answer about how a wormhole can appear in the solar system is quite simple. It was sent here by an advanced alien civilization as part of their setting up a galaxy-spanning faster-than-light transportation network. The concept has been proposed by the physicist John Cramer building on the ideas of others, but weaving them together in a creative manner. 

The augmentation is primarily sensory. The heightened sense of perception in a combat zone will induce a greater probability of soldiers suffering post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). During deployment, for example, on patrol and especially they are likely to suffer from headaches and earaches. Firstly, due to wearing the augmentation technology, and secondly, due to the sensory overload they will experience. However, since these are future soldiers, it is possible the augmentation will be able to adjust itself to meet the comfort needs of its users. Sufficiently light and non-obtrusive devices that do not induce sensory overload could make the soldiers' lot a happier one. But the risk of PTSD will remain as the soldiers will still experience a heightened perception of combat and all its gruesome consequences in intimate detail. 

Take two spaceships. Send one spaceship through one wormhole each. When they return your K2 civilization will now know where each wormhole goes, and its location. Alternatively, your K2 civilization sets up a communications station near the wormhole binary and sends radio, laser, and if they have them FTL signals through, asking anyone on the other side to respond. There is a good chance, if you get an answer, this will give a good idea where the wormholes lead. If you have FTL communications, build a pair of FTL signal beacons and send them through and wait until the beacon signals are detected. This will tell where the exit mouths of the wormholes are located. Thirdly, if wormholes are more like transparent windows showing what is at the location of its exit mouth. If so, your K2 civilization sets up an observatory and makes observations about what is on the opposite side. Eventually, possibly sooner, they will build up a picture about where and what is at the exit location. Using astronomical data will be possible to know where each of wormholes emerges back into the spacetime manifold. 

Secondly, the size of battleships. This is an example of a modern battleship. The dimensions for an Iowa-class battleship are: -- 

The chances are they'd take an existing species and modify to be intelligent. For example, if their newly created planet had higher gravity they would chose a quadruped species and alter its neurology to make it intelligent. A better choice might be a hexapod species because at least one pair of limbs could be adapted to become arms. The main reason why they would populate a created planet with artificial intelligent life is ethical and moral objections to using members of their own species. If the creatures have a fully functional genome and they can reproduce they will evolve. Just remember this will take a long time. Also, if the creatures were created de novo and without culture, language or technology it could be a long wait before they develop a technical civilisation. Humans evolved about one hundred thousand years ago and it's taken us that long to arrive at the stage of being able to invent internet dating sites. Ah! The price of progress. Craig Venter was made to make an artificial genome for a bacterium. So your advanced aliens should be able to do similar for intelligent organisms. This could involve building their genome from scratch, but using what would to them known structures and organisation of the genetic material to produce an intelligent organism, or, as I suggested, taking the genome of an existing organism and modifying it for intelligence. The technical side of making artificial life is the easy bit. Why they are doing it is the real challenge. Also what they expect to get out of it. And when, this could be a very, very long trial. 

A spacecraft will accelerate towards its local primary star until it reaches a velcoity either equal to or greater than the star's escape velocity. It converts its matter into mirror matter and plunges into the star. None of the star's plasma, radiation, pressure due to density, neutrons or whatever will affect the spacecraft. Gravity inside the star won't be a problem. Effectively it will be like being inside a hollow sphere where the gravity cancels itself out. On reaching the centre the wormhole generator is activated and the ship passes through to the centre of the destination star. The wormhole only needs to open for as long as it takes the vessel to pass through. This will minimise any affects due to the exchange of matter between the two stars. Its velocity will carry out of the other star and into its planetary system. Once the ship is well and truly clear of that star it reconverts itself back into normal matter again. It can then go on its way but the one thing we can guarantee is that won't use primitive propulsion systems such as these crude technologies (Orion drive, lightsail, Em-drive, whatever) it will soar on its super-advanced drive-systems. What else if they already possess technologies from converting ordinary matter into shadow matter and back again as well as wormhole generators. 

FTL space-telescopes (after all, if we call Hubble a space-telescope, why not do the same for the FTL variety?) can be deployed in a number of ways depending on priorities of astronomers or Earth's government(s) especially our military services. Firstly, to establish a series of long baseline observatories at a series of prescribed distances from the solar system to carry out a systematic survey of the galaxy. This has been discussed in another answer. However, observatories like these would also be useful to determine the location and scale of alien civilizations to anticipate any hostile action from alien civilizations. A kind of astronomical Distant Early Warning (DEW) system. Secondly, there will be FTL space-telescopes launched in specific directions to conduct specific research programs. For example, observing the Crab nebula supernova which seen on Earth in 1054 AD. The relative age of the supernova is 952 years (as at 2016 AD). A FTL space-telescope would need to travel for 95.2 years at 10 c, to catch up with the light of the supernova event. The FTL space-telescope can move to positions where it can observe SN 1054 multiple times. Astronomers will undoubtedly devise a whole suites of research programs to take advantage of a faster-than-light mobile observatory. The Crab nebula example was used as a reference for the type of research they might devise. Interestingly there would a lot of scope for FTL space-telescope flying well outside the plane of the galaxy and carry out at overflight survey. This could a circumnavigation of the galaxy, at the distance the solar system is from the galactic centre, to map out the galactic habitable zone as part of a preliminary strategy for interstellar exploration. 

There are lunar caverns. NASA says so here and the National Geographic reports here. There are also NASA reports about entrances to martian caves here. More work is needed, but Mars looks promising for caves too. There is evidence of caves on both the Moon and the planet Mars. 

Flash Gordon has adventures on the planet Mongo. The characters in an adventure Sf story could at sublight velocities, in biosuspension if necessary, and rollick around one earthlike planet in one planetary system. The problems start if you want to have the adventures taking on more than one planet. More especially so if the characters are rattling forth and back between multiple planetary systems. There are indications there could be planetary systems with more than one planet in the Goldilocks Zone. Also, there is a set-up like Jack Vance's Rigel Concourse where there at least 26 earthlike planets in its Goldilocks Zone. Vance never says this abundance of planets was formed. Suspicious minds are inclined to the dubious hypothesis this was the work of godlike alien super-beings. Others suspect this was the work of super-advanced hypertechnology used by not-so-godlike alien puny beings. 

Somebody left the tractor beam on or a control system accidentally malfunctioned activating the tractor beam. While this comes close to magical space technology effectively every other answer to this question invokes one form of magic space technology (Charles Stross TM) or other. This concept is modest by comparison, apart from the ludicrous energy requirements which have been discussed in at least one answer, with hurricane-force handwaving in the other answers. Mine is a gentle breeze in contrast. No-one seems to have considered the possibility of a quantum gravity space-drive inadvertently leaking excess gravitons into nearby space. That could make it look like there was a new moon. if they have interstellar travel, there is every reason to expect science will solved the problem of quantum gravity and developed technology based on it. What better technology than a space-drive. 

Unfortunately, slowing down cellular activity will only slow down the organism as a whole. If you wanted to alter ageing by manipulating gene it would be necessary to do so to the genes (assuming they exist) related to ageing. Slowing down growth hormones would only slow down growth. To maintain a person at an almost constant age would require major manipulations of their cellular and biomolecular processes. However, none of this is by no means certain. Much ageing is simply due to wear and tear on parts of the body or are the result of chance outcomes of metabolic processes. Some degenerative diseases are gene-base, but definitely not all, and they might eventually be fixed. Tumours are the result of complex combinations of a person's genetic makeup and environmental factors. Decelerating various cellular or biochemical activities will not solve any of these problems or producing de facto immortality. The trouble is ageing, cancers and biological pathways to immortality are vastly more complicated and difficult than that. PS: If it's any consolation, you are already semi-immortality. You will live on through your children. PPS: You do need to forget about the survival of your personality post-mortem though to benefit from your semi-immortality. 

This is a tricky proposition. Firstly, if planets like Mars and Mercury are inhabited and settled there needs to be a high level of environmental and life support technology in place. Remove that and everybody dies. However, it is a requirement of the OP that they remain alive. Not entirely impossible, but it will be necessary to come back to it. After one century of warfare, everyone is reduced to almost stone-age technology. So their knowledge has disappeared. Now how to pull these threads together? Assume highly automated technology, so highly automated, self-regulating, self-maintaining, and self-repairing that it's been centuries since humans had to do anything with their technology. No-one needs to be trained to be an engineer, repair person or anything technologically oriented. So a century ago, the war begins. It starts with a phase of cyber warfare that prevents humans from controlling their machines. Just say "Open the pod bay doors, please HAL." To find nothing happens. Humans find their access to the knowledge about how their technology works is also locked up. Totally inaccessible. Now they are completely knowledge deprived. Previously this is knowledge they didn't need as the combination of AI and cybernetic control systems mean the machines could take care of themselves Humans can survive. They live on inside their life support and habitat facilities on planets like Mars and Mercury. They are reduced to what is effectively a hunter-gatherer lifestyle. Hunting what had been previously livestock and zoological specimens. Gathering edible plants from what had been parks and gardens. They have learned how to make primitive stone tools. This does mean by 2500 human habitats were gigantic structures occupying spaces, that collectively, would be size of small nation states. Life support and environmental systems keep humans alive inside their habitats on the settled planets of the solar system, but humans are forced live their lives as palaeolithic savages.