One concept fairly established in economics is the idea of generalized Lorenz dominance. The Lorenz curve ($URL$ plots percentiles of the population on the x axis and the cumulative percentiles of income on the Y axis. If the point (30,10) is on the curve, then this means that the bottom 30% of the population have 10% of the income of the population. This allows us to compare the inequality of two countries by comparing how low or high their Lorenz curve is. If curve A is everywhere above or equal to curve B, then A is weakly less unequal than B. However, even the poorest person in B may still earn more than A. The generalized curve multiplies the Y axis with the average income of society. Now we can not only compare A and B in terms of inequality, but also by how well individuals are off in these societies. Curve A being everywhere above or equal to curve B means that every percentile of society A is weakly better off than every matching percentile in society B. Shorrocks showed that under certain conditions a parameterized family of social welfare functions is higher in society A relative to society B for all parameters if and only if the generalized Lorenz curve of A is higher than B at all points. Shorrocks, Anthony F. "Ranking income distributions." Economica (1983): 3-17. 

Here is a somewhat creative (and very imprecise) answer: Let's assume that Philosophy creates no direct value for society (which seems implicit in your question). However, Mathematics and various other scientific disciplines to some extent originated from Philosophy. Most recently, Linguistics originated as a field of Philosophy. Based on this we can estimate the marginal product of a philosopher. You will need two numbers: A: Take the marginal value of each invention generated by these fields. For example, speech recognition on your cell phone would not have been possible without Linguistics and thus Philosophy. You can estimate the marginal value of speech recognition by your willingness to pay for a phone with or without speech recognition. Do this for all products and services of an economy. (You can also take market prices and make some strong assumptions about the economy, such as competitive markets, etc.). Using time discounting, you can estimate the value of having a product one year earlier. B: You must now assign the marginal contribution of a philosopher to the invention of linguistics to the speech recognition software. The marginal contribution seems to be infinite, since without linguistics there would be no speech recognition. However, you may simply assume that each additional Philosopher speeds up the process of the invention of linguistics by an equal amount. Thus, if you would have hired one more philosopher, the time needed to invent Linguistics would have been N/(N+1) the time N philosophers needed to actually invent linguistics. Combining the information from A and B for all products gives you the marginal product of each philosopher. Note that this is only a rough answer and one would still need to carefully formulate the assumptions. However, it gives you a rough idea of how you could go about finding the marginal product of an otherwise unproductive philosopher. 

First Question: Yes, you can obtain $P \succsim P' \Rightarrow P \succsim a P' + (1-a)P \forall a\in (0,1)$ from setting $P''=P$ in the axiom. Thus, your new condition is a special case of the independence axiom as stated. Second Question: Statistical independence of $P,P',P''$ is not assumed in the independence axiom. The notion of statistical independence of lotteries is not even meaningful since you can only choose one lottery. Only when you would choose multiple lotteries at the same time their dependence would matter since you may be able to reduce/increase risk by combining lotteries which are not independent. 

Central banks do not try to increase growth. Instead, they commonly have two targets: 1) to maintain price stability and 2) to minimize the output gap. Let us ignore the first goal for a moment. The minimization of the output gap implies that if output falls short of what the central bank believes to be the natural level of output, then it will try to use economic policies which promote growth. In your example, 10 units of bread being produced seems to be the natural level of output. If the central bank sees that the economy produces only 9 units of bread, it will try to stimulate the economy with low interest rates. If it observes 11 units being produced, it will raise interest rates to reduce the output. (Note that this is still possible even if firms produce 9 units of bread using 10 (or even 100) units of labor, i.e. if firms are not cutting employees efficiently.). Thus, if the central bank of Japan currently has low interest rates, it believes that current output falls short of the natural level of output, despite low unemployment rates. You may still ask why the central bank tries to minimize the output gap in the first place. Why should it not just focus on price stability or why not even do something random. It turns out that up to second order approximations, an interest rate policy which minimizes a combination of price volatility and output gap volatility maximizes people's welfare in so-called new-Keynesian models. This was first shown by Woodford and Rotemberg in several articles: 

From an equality of opportunity perspective, it is desirable to have some taxes on inheritance. This levels the playing field for each generation to some extent. If real estates are exempt from such a tax, individuals would prefer real estate over other assets, creating a distortion in the asset price market. For a recent contribution to optimal inheritance taxation, see: Piketty, Thomas, and Emmanuel Saez. "A theory of optimal inheritance taxation." Econometrica 81.5 (2013): 1851-1886. For an overview over the equality of opportunity literature, see: Corak, Miles. "Income inequality, equality of opportunity, and intergenerational mobility." The Journal of Economic Perspectives (2013): 79-102. 

You may want to start out with the more general question of what the benefit of education are. Here are some early papers on this. Plant, Mark, and Finis Welch. "Measuring the impact of education on productivity." Education and Economic Productivity (1984): 163-193. Pencavel, John. "Higher education, productivity, and earnings: A review." The Journal of Economic Education 22.4 (1991): 331-359. I do not know of any studies about economics education in particular. 

The standard reading on the methodology and the role of explanation in economics is Daniel Hausman's work. Hausman, Daniel M. The inexact and separate science of economics. Cambridge University Press, 1992. Nancy Cartwright has some work on the interpretation of causation in the social sciences. Cartwright, Nancy. Hunting causes and using them: approaches in philosophy and economics. Cambridge University Press, 2007. Another entry to this literature may be the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: $URL$ However, I am not sure what you mean with a literature on interpretation in economics. 

I am looking for a set of mathematics books to understand proofs in decision theory. Examples would be proofs of utility representations and social choice (im-)possibility results. I found many textbooks on both decision theory and social choice, some of which contain proofs which contain references to mathematical results. However, I could not find a collection of mathematical results commonly used in these fields. Usual "Mathematics for Economists" textbooks fall short. What is the standard reference/textbook researchers use to find the results they employ? 

The question is whether rationality is implied by continuity and monotonicity. To show that this is not the case, a counterexample would suffice. We are therefore looking for an intransitive, incomplete, monotone, continuous preference relation. Suppose $X=\{x\geq 0,y\geq 0:x+y=1\}$. Thus, we form preferences over points of a line from $(0,1)$ to $(1,0)$. Consider the preference relation defined by $(1,0) \succ (.5,.5) \succ (0,1) \succ (1,0)$ which is incomplete otherwise. Rationality Rationality consist of completeness and transitivity of the preference relation, defined as follows: Completeness 

Surprisingly, I think the best way would be to read a Microeconomics textbook. You described difficulties with concepts like market clearing conditions. Macroeconomic models are usually based on general equilibrium models which students of Macroeconomics learn in their Microeconomics education. Consider reading the relevant parts of an intermediate Microeconomics textbook or Mas-Colell, Whinston + Green's classic Micro textbook for PhD students. With this background knowledge, you can start reading Macroeconomics textbooks, e.g., Ljunquist/Sargent which teach you about the Macro-specific variations and applications. You should also think about the quality of your program. A descent Economics PhD program will most certainly offer/require courses in Micro, Macro, and Econometrics. 

You are looking for the political economy literature on government expenditures. That is a massive literature. A starting point may be given here. A summary of all possible reasons for so-called white elephants is difficult without a more specific question. Are you interested in corruption, asymmetric information, institutional explanations, political preferences...? 

There is a large economic literature on intellectual property rights. However, the issue seems far from settled on what even the optimal duration for patents are. Note that open source is even a step further than a 0 day patent duration. A strong case for your view would probably be found in Boldrin/Levine: $URL$ Here are several further starting points in the literature: Scotchmer, Suzanne. "Standing on the shoulders of giants: cumulative research and the patent law." The Journal of Economic Perspectives (1991): 29-41. Besen, Stanley M., and Leo J. Raskind. "An introduction to the law and economics of intellectual property." The Journal of Economic Perspectives (1991): 3-27. Posner, Richard A. "Intellectual property: The law and economics approach." Journal of Economic Perspectives (2005): 57-73. 

$i_t$ should be the interest rate at time $t$. $\pi_t$ the inflation at time $t$. $Y_t$ the income at time $t$. The variables without indices are the targets of the central bank. The interpretation of this Taylor rule is therefore that the current interest rate is a function of the past deviation of the interest rate from the target, the current inflation deviation from target, the current output gap, the exchange rate deviation from target, and deviations from the current money growth target. 

Firstly, let us fix the mode of taxation as lump-sum taxes. This means that after the redistribution we will still have an efficient allocation assuming there are no externalities. Next, think about what happens to each individuals' income. Individuals with a high demand elasticity for the good will in general be taxed less than individuals with a low demand elasticity. If the demand elasticity is unrelated to the original income level, this means that this mode of taxation does not necessarily increase equality in income across individuals. This may not be bad, because the redistribution may still be welfare enhancing if the marginal utility of income of high elasticity individuals is higher than the marginal utility of income of low elasticity individuals. However, we know that marginal utilities are unrelated to demand, since one can always apply any monotone transformation to the utility function and obtain the same demand functions. Thus, both equality of income and welfare effects are unclear. Finally, we may consider what happens to demand in that particular market. Again, the effects are unclear. This time, it is the presence of income effects which obfuscate the picture. An individual with a positive income transfer may consume more or less of the good, depending on whether it is an inferior good or not. In this answer, we have thus seen that without making stronger assumptions on preferences, we cannot say much about the effects of such a redistribution even if we assume lump-sum redistribution. If we go into second-best analysis, things may get even more complicated. 

You may want to look at the literature of the effects of taxation on savings. A survey is given in: Sandmo. A. (1985) The effects of taxation on savings and risk-taking, in: Auerbach & Feldstein, Handbook of Public Economics, Elsevier. In this survey, the (simpler) problem of the overall effect of taxation on saving behavior is analyzed. A change in tax progression is much more subtle and harder to measure. The survey states the problems associated with estimation of this simpler problem and the author comes to the conclusion that the empirical results are inconclusive. Since then there may have been some move in the literature, however.