If she is "terrified" that she will tear up her knees with the squat, she very likely will. She probably has (or had) a significant knee problem. Even if she doesn't have knee problems, trying to do an exercise while in a state of fear can affect one's tension, attention and form. If she has knee problems: My suggestion would be to strengthen the glutes without involving the knees using levers or cables. This bodyweight could also be ok, depending on the knee problem. If she does have a knee problem, strengthening the glutes will help reduce strain on the knees. If/as her knees improve from increased glute strength, she may be more likely to want to try squats, esp. given all the information included in other answers as to why squats can help strengthen the knees. She can also, strengthen the quads isometrically with the knee locked and hip adductors/abductors using cables. The beauty of the squat however is that it targets many of the body's large muscle groups so you would also have to consider the trunk muscles (front, back and sides - planks, side planks etc.) and calves. If she doesn't have knee problems and it is just the idea of a squat with weight that scares her, kettlebell swings may be a helpful alternative. As she gets stronger with other exercises she may feel more confident to try the squat. Also, when she realizes how many exercises you need to do to equal one squat, she may decide that the squat is worth learning. 

If you have a back or disc problem, you should check with your doctor or health care practitioner first. 

Since you are considering surgery, your doctor will be able to answer your questions as to the degree of instability and whether or not you have a tear. If you have not already had physical therapy it is worth having an evaluation and rehab, or at least getting instruction on specific exercises for your condition. Try to go to a therapist who is either an OCS or SCS (orthopedic or sports certified specialist). Your doctor or prospective surgeon would give you the best recommendation. Your rehab will address exercises to retrain the shoulder, rotator cuff and shoulder blade stabilizing muscles, and improve the neuro-muscular control, not just static strength. When you are ready, your therapist can evaluate your throwing technique, make corrections if appropriate and give you a progression to follow. Good luck. 

Losing weight after pregnancy does involve nutrition and exercise just as with any weight loss program (as @Robert has pointed out). However, there are several postpartum specific exercise concerns such as weakness, ligament laxity and postural alignment. PostPartum Exercise Concerns 

Are you also tracking your body fat percentage and waist circumference? If so, was there a change? If your weight goes up but your body fat percentage and waistline are decreasing then you are on the right track. Your weight increase would then be a reflection of increased lean muscle mass. However, if your weight goes up and your body fat percentage and waistline are also increasing, then you need to relook at your program. Long term recommendations for weight loss are 1-2 pounds per week. Congratulations on getting started. 

Once you have good basic strength, you can begin with plyometric exercises like squats with a medicine ball toss, box jumps, bounding, one and two legged hops (forward and lateral) and vertical or long jumps. Add some wobble board training to work on balance and agility, and keep flexible with a stretching routine. 

Before investing in new shoes, I would ask your foot doctor whether or not your foot condition will be able to tolerate barefoot running. Also, ask about ways to strengthen the arch and foot muscles, in a less demanding way than with barefoot running. The following exercises are examples of how to strengthen the foot and arch: 

Assessment - First do an assessment to see if you have any areas or muscles with tightness or limitations of movement. (Check neck, back and trunk range in all directions, shoulder motion, wrist/hand flexibility, hip and thigh range, and heel cords.) If your present program of stretches addresses all your muscle groups, you should be fairly flexible. If you find tight areas, you can add specific exercise to take care of those oversights. I think that the spine is often overlooked. Goal Specific - Next, look at positions that you spend a lot of time in such as prolonged sitting that would tighten hamstrings, hip flexors, neck and abs or pecs if you slump. Consider the needs of any sports or activities you are involved in such as running, weight lifting, tennis etc. to assure that you have the range of motion needed. Regularity - To be effective your stretching routine needs to be done consistently. The more muscles that you can stretch with each exercise, the more manageable your time frame will be, giving you better overall results. For example, child’s pose in yoga gives a good overall stretch to your glutes, spine and lats, so it is a multi-muscle stretch. Then for problem areas you can do some specific, dedicated stretches. For example, if you work at a computer you would add specific forearm/wrist/hand stretches. Resources and References - Joseph Weisberg has developed a quick 3 Minute routine that gives you a good overall stretch of the muscles of your spine, abs, back muscles and lats, shoulders, hips, adductors and hamstrings with six, 30 second stretches. 

Besides the metabolic changes and the fact that the body requires less calories when sedentary than it does with activity, other negative changes can occur in the body. Consider these changes: 

A heart rate monitor will help you determine the level of your exercise intensity and your exercise target heart rate. For Stress Breathing exercises, relaxation and meditation exercises are also helpful to reduce stress. As Lauren pointed out, yoga is an excellent choice as it encorporates all of these. 

If you are weight lifting to build muscle strength, according to a 2012 study, "Protein timing and its effects on muscular hypertrophy and strength in individuals engaged in weight-training," published in the Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition, timing and type of protein makes a difference in MPS: Maximal Protein Synthesis. 

We have a nice reference page on how to calculate your body fat percentage and the pluses and minuses of each method. Here is a summary. BIA - The simplest method is hopping on a BIA, bioimpedance analysis, monitor. The limitations: you need a monitor that measures both the upper and lower body, not just one or the other. The readings vary by hydration and water retention levels. To get the most accurate readings take them at the same time of day before eating and after voiding. Because they send a weak current thru you, people with cardiac pacemakers or who are pregnant should not use them. Skinfold - Another easy method is using the Accumeasure, an inexpensive skin caliper that you use on yourself. With practice you can get reproducible readings at the supra-iliac site and find your body fat percentage by looking up the corresponding mm on Accumeasures chart that takes age and gender into account. Alternatively, you can have a trained tester take skin fold measurements at several body sites to calculate your body fat percentage. The Formula Method involves taking circumference measurements at various body sites depending on your gender and applying a formula. Different formulas involve different measurement requirements. The above methods are the easiest and most affordable ways to monitor your body fat percentage on an ongoing basis. The following are highly accurate, but more expensive and require finding a facility that offers them making them less suitable for ongoing monitoring your progress of your body composition. The Dexa Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry Test is probably the most accurate, but it does use X-rays even if radiation exposure is low. It is costly and not practical for repeat measurement to determine your progress. Underwater Weighing, although highly accurate, depends on ones ability to expel air from the lungs while submerged under water. Results also depend on hydration levels. This method can be expensive and cumbersome to use for ongoing body fat monitoring. The newer Bod Pod method is an air chamber and is similar to the underwater weighing method, however, it uses air displacement rather than water displacement making it more convenient. The same factors apply as far as hydration levels affecting the results. As the popularity of this method increases, it is easier to find a facility in your area.