Arguments for the existence of God generally fall into certain categories (e.g. cosmological arguments, moral arguments, arguments from design, etc). But into which categories arguments for the existence of the soul fall into? 

For Kant, a tree falling in a forest will make a sound in so far as every necessary condition for it making a sound has been given. In the Critique of Pure Reason, he generally extends both causality and the principle of sufficient reason to all possible experience (A195/B240 [1] and A201/B246 [2])[*] such that, for any possible event, it's conditions to occur must have been given in the world. He also took causality for granted on a fragment [3] dating to 1788, immediatelly after the publication of the second edition of the CPR. Now, compare the problem of a falling tree with Hume's problem of whether the sun will rise tomorrow given that it has risen every single day before. For Hume, our expectation that it ought to rise is completely due to our generalization of the past experience. For Kant, if the sun happens to not rise one morning, it should very well have a darn good reason not to, because otherwise such an event would violate those two principles. On the other hand, it isn't impossible that a falling tree doesn't make a sound when no one is around for entirely empirical reasons but, just like it isn't impossible that the sun should explode overnight, we have no evidence to suggest that this is the case and thus we cannot think to ourselves that it might be without violating these principles, as whatsoever happens in the world ought to have a cause in the world. In anyway, the way this question is presented never suggests that humans ought to be considered a relevant empirical condition for it making a sound or not, but as a purely metaphysical question. The bit about whether it makes a sound or not if no one has the relevant categories to perceive this event is a different question. Because, if the event in question isn't merely not perceived, but imperceptible, it wouldn't be an object in any possible experience and thus nothing could ever be said about it with any degree of certainty. [*] With the caution of not extending their domain to the whole of experience, which would lead to the Third Antinomy of Pure Reason (A488/B516)[4]. 

Sentence three "But we judge these degrees only by comparison with a maximum." is utterly false. Tallness, for example, is a comparison which is entirely relative, and is not compared to some sort of maximum. There are many comparisons that are not in reference to some theoreical maximum. Given that this premise is wrong, the argument can only stand if one then justifies that "goodness" is measured relative to a maximum. Such a justification is not included in Aquinas's "proof". The argument presumes that goodness is an objective standard. This assumption is directly contrary to reality. There are man competing definitions of what constitutes good versus evil. As another answer pointed out, a woman crusading for women's rights would be considered "doing good" by some people and "doing evil" by others. Even if you did accept the premises of the argument, it is not a proof of the existence of God. We know that Oscar the Grouch is a fictional character, despite the fact that we have defined him to be the quintessential of smelliness. As a mathematician would say "The existence of an infimum of a set does not imply that the infimum is a member of the set." Even if we did accept that "God" is the maximum of goodness, that does not imply that God exists. 

The argument for the uniformity (or homogeneity, or self-sameness) doesn't follow from the boundedness of what is. Parmenides introduces both uniformity and the argument for uniformity in the passage you're citing. The argument is: 

The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy presents a paraphrasis of this argument when touching the modal interpretation of Parmenides' On Nature, but it's still general enough that it doesn't really lean towards any particular interpretation. Maybe it's a little bit clearer than Burnet's version: 

[3] Kant, Immanuel. On Miracles. "Notes and fragments". Cambridge University Press, 2005. pp 290-291. 

There is no flaw. The Aristotelian concept of "motion" implies in Newtonian terms that whatever is being moved, is moved from rest at point A to rest at point B, and thus that there are non-zero net forces acting on the object: it's pushed forward and accelerated at first, and then being held back and decelerated later on, all that by objects other than itself. That's because, for Aristotle, "motion" always refers to finite motion from somewhere and towards somewhere. He didn't contemplate the possibility of motion either from or towards infinity, which is what nonetheless better corresponds to Newton's concept of an unimpeded object in inertial motion. Also, though it doesn't bear on the question, St. Thomas considers God and thus the prime mover to be infinite (see Question 7, Article I). 

If S is made up of infinite strokes, as you presented your question, its cardinality is ℵ0 So, the set S is countably infinite This also means that the set ℘(S) is not countable since |℘(S)| = 2ℵ0 which, assuming continuum hypothesis, is equivalent to ℵ1 Ergo, all possible subsets of S (otherwise known as ℘(S)) are not countable; keep in mind that 2ℵ0 > ℵ0 which is the same thing as ℵ1 > ℵ0 

Probably the major (non-ancient) innovator of logic pre-Boole/Frege was Peter of Spain. He lived during the 13th century and wrote the Tractatus. This was not only a rehashing of ancient logics, but was also the basis of a tradition that would last almost 600 years. Since the Tractatus was ubiquitously used as a logic textbook for centuries, I would say that Peter of Spain probably made a more lasting impact on the logical landscape than Aristotle himself. To find out more, I strongly suggest reading Peter of Spain: Summaries of Logic. It is written by three heavy-weights of Medieval philosophy: Calvin Normore, Brian Copenhaver, and Terrence Parsons. For what it's worth, I've had the honor of taking classes with all three of them and saying they are brilliant is an understatement. 

Evidence can establish proof that a theory is wrong. If I find a white crow, then I have conclusively proven that "all crows are black" is wrong. Proving a theory emperically is logically equivalent to proving that all opposing theories are wrong. If an opposing theory could be correct, then clearly we cannot have proven that our theory must be correct. For example, we have proven that "The Earth is round" because all other possible shapes for the Earth have been ruled out by evidence. It cannot be flat, it cannot be a cube, it cannot be a torus, because we have experimental evidence showing those shapes do not match reality. Likewise, we have proven "The Earth is about 4.5 billion years old" because all other possible theories about the age of the earth have been ruled out by evidence. (The theory "The Earth is actually 6,000 years old, but God made it appear exactly as if it were 4.5 billion years old" is by definition experimentally indistinguishable from "the Earth is 4.5 billion years old" and as such, does not count as a separate theory). Likewise, there is no theory other than Evolution that explains the evidence we see in biology. There is no theory other than Anthropogenic Global Warming that explains what evidence we see in climate studies. So, to answer your question, "enough evidence" means we have enough evidence to eliminate all other opposing theories. 

In the 16th century Europe, Skepticism became fashionable. Specially some forms of Pyhrronic Skepticism, which sought to undermine all knowledge in general (as in Agrippa's De incertitudine et vanitate scientiarum atque artium declamatio invectiva, and Francisco Sanches' Quod nihil scitur). Pierre Gassendi, a rival of Descartes, was a moderate Skeptic. So were the people in Gassendi's circle, which Mauro ALLEGRANZA refers to. In his Meditations, Descartes sought to reply to such Skeptic concerns. Though assuming at first that he knew nothing, he nonetheless couldn't doubt he himself existed. Armed with this, and with a revived ontological proof, he aimed at turning the Skeptic's game against itself. By starting from absolute uncertainty, he would arrive nonetheless at truth, winning back the whole world which he doubted at first. These are most likely the "irreligious" people he was referring to. 

Pietism was a 17th century Lutheran theological movement emphasizing private religious study and kindness. Now, Kant was raised in a pietist household and enrolled in pietist schools. So is there any parallel between his moral philosophy and pietist teachings? 

Over the course of it's history, western philosophy introduced all these distinctions between an object and it's class. But I'm a bit confused by this, because these all look very much alike. So what is the difference between them, besides their names and who named them? For instance, are "tokens" thought to be inherently concrete, while philosophical species need not be so? I mean, an actual bird ("token") classed within a biological species ("type") is always concrete, whereas the class of primates ("species") within the class of mammals ("genus") is thought of as an abstract thing. Or do universals have a larger extension than the other concepts? For instance, particular properties of different objects might be grouped into a universal, as I believe humorist pharmacology did when they grouped the different degrees of "coldness" of particular substances, which in salads causes people to feel refreshed but which in henbane causes death, into an universal "coldness" (unfortunately, I haven't thought of a less dated example). But the type–token distinction doesn't seem to be applied to properties and the classes of properties, but only to objects and the classes of objects. So what is the difference between all of these? 

The theoretical foundation of the concept of waves came from the first time someone looked at a body of water. Oceans and lakes have waves lapping upon the shore. Static bodies of water get waves of ripples whenever something disturbs the surface. Someone had to postulate a theory of atoms--the notion that there is a limit to how small things can be broken down, especially if that limit is too small for the eye to see. Waves, on the other hand, are a phenomenon as readily observable as dirt, rocks, or food. No one had to postulate the existence of waves. 

Absence of evidence becomes evidence of absence when it is inconsistent with theories of existence. If the data are consistent with the entity existing, but not being found due to random chance, then it wouldn't be appropriate to conclude the entity does not exist. However, if the random chance is very small, then the data do support the conclusion of absence. For example: the theory "Dodos still live on island X, where dodos were historically last sighted." If the island has been scoured and no evidence of living dodos has been found, then that is strong evidence of absence. On the other hand, the theory "Dodos still live somewhere in the world" requires a much more thorough search for absence of evidence to be considered evidence of absence.