Exploratory note: 'Apres coup' (after stroke or thought): After thinking this over, I want to thank the questioner for guiding us in this direction. Something more urgent comes out of this, which is that Da-sein is related (cf. the Davos debate) primordially to Truth (there is a question as to whether it continues to be appropriate to term this basic trait truth, or conceive it so, viz. the remarks in On Time and Being [Zur Sache des Denkens]), but if it is not related to its-own-death, this shows death as a counter to truth and falsehood. One is then drawn to consider how death stands alongside nichts nichtet, the Nothing (as a specific modification of the orginary Greek conception of Chaos, the limitless or unmeasured gulf). 

This is a dramatically-inflected, or modulated, if you like, word about the context of the inquiry: The peevishness of the higher-caliber professors, in the elite American universities, when confronted with the possibility of being imputed with Romanticism, is symptomatic of the failure to resolve the American formula for the division of human possibilities. Now found in the anti-intellectual notion of the ‘spiritual’, as opposed to the so-called finite secular sphere of social construction. “Finite” then points us to the distinctive and peculiar notion of the empirical found in the same circles. One who surveyed this, from a high peak, might be struck by awe. Much in the way the one with a Weltanschauung, in the age of Burckhardt, and Wagner, felt the radiance of High German myths, performed on the stages of Bayreuth. Romanticism seems to signal some kind of flight from the “finite”. The concept of the forest, of the wanderer, of the special way, of the flight from scientific rationality into the fairytale world. However, doesn’t one who survives all this, see only a specific set of biases, of inherited ideological dispositions? Doesn't one suspect that consciousness itself is infinite, unintellectually-religious, foolish, non-rational. The only place from which rationality can be defined, the seat of arbitrariness? Those primitive disputatious rascals who see such forms appearing before them, of the American world as such, might, heart and spirit, stream into the dissenting polemics of academic print. However, in the decisive respect, these would be only those who had failed to grasp the golden nugget of their own perspicacity. Had failed to understand the error of epochs. Of standpoints as such. Had let oneself bathe in the light cast by the transformations of worlds, but not confronted the burden of that vision of the transformations in and of oneself. Once not seen, now evident injunctions from unknown quarters. I wonder if one must comprehend this question form American and European and Russian, and Chinese angles? And not just suddenly in a great unitray thought. 

Addendum explanatory: If the "entering into" means something like what Socrates means when he demands that one has to believe what one is saying, because only in that way, he says, can one be persuaded, and so change or learn or "remember" (as Socrates says it), then one can say science can perfectly grasp this with representation at least in principle. But it doesn't make any sense to speak of "entering into" the qualia of the "gnosis" with a science that represents, or gives one something there to reckon with, since it is identical, as it were, to the world or universe simply, as one knows or thinks it. Gnosis moves in leaps and is not causal, science manipulates regularities which themselves refer to the measure of the gnosis as what is comparable or Same in the things it deals with. Gnosis, in this sense, if it is thought as an entity, only shows that science is not what it claims to be, not objective or, what is the same, relative to space and time, but relative to the Gnosis. Self knowledge, oneself, may be an entity, and not what it was always claimed to be, a telos or "norm", a guiding meaning, but, yet, it is still the unassailable measure of any science. It is that science. 

What about an argument that says: "He completed the first grade, and now he comes to us and tells us how to run our atomic supercollider. Absurd." In the case that we are speaking to an excellent Princeton physicist, i.e., the argument simply leaves out the rest of the educational attainment, but does not lie. Any such distortion through selection of the facts seems to 'slander the speaker, rather than speak to his merits or those of his argument,' if that is what is meant by "ad hominem argument" in this question. Maybe more accurate is simply to say: He has always been wrong about everything. Simply a fact about him. Although, it is as though we make an analogy by suggesting that the way he has been up till now, is like, alike, the way he is now. Perhaps, strict sense, the form of ad hominem is itself analogy, between past and present. -- I would add in passing that "ad hominem" has, also, quite distinctly different senses. 

No. But it requires thinking, i.e., that stuff shows up at all. One must make a distinction between empirical intuition, that we see an ant or a tree, and judgment that is a matter of a kind of inference. I see a tree, thus, I see a living thing. For a tree is alive. The ant does neither, because it doesn't exist. Descartes regards it as a fiction. This also explains why Descartes denies the syllogistic character, the “therefore”, in his formula. His claim is that one’s “I am” is not an inference. But an immediate empirical intuition. 

According to your definition, it is. That is a matter of making the world fit the rule. Everything fits that rule, at least the way you read it, without exception. (Some of the readers seem to have construed the definition in such a way as to make it not fit.) -- Perhaps this becomes more interesting through a contrast with an older meaning of perfection. Perfect, in philosophy, perfectio, can mean, e.g., the ripe apple (nothing far-fetched, simple ripeness). For the reason that according to nature, the apple tree is doing what is most-natural to it, when the profit of its existence is to bring forth the ripe apple. The nature of a thing, if it finds the right circumstances, will use existence in order to bring forth the telos of that nature, its plan for that thing. In the same way, the medieval philosophers often would says something like, reason, when freed from apatite is perfect.Reason is the essence of man, so that in freeing it to its ripeness, man is said thereby to be perfected. Perhaps with the additional sense that free reason, the perfectio of man, is to go on to work out the problems left latent in nature as a whole, to bring about the Utopia. Talk of perfection, in the older sense, presuppose special purpose. That life is meaningful. 

by saying, I agree that the facts you bring forward are accurate, or valid, I agree that you make solid arguments. However, I don't subscribe to your 'ism' or group. One can, e.g., agree with all the arguments, but still not agree with the gist of the conclusion, or the value (form of consciousness) that is supposed to follow from the arguments and selected facts. 

This is an extremely sensible question. I think the largest problem one could raise against Chomsky is that his views are radically unrealistic insofar as they suggest a happy life for all persons on the earth is the expected outcome if only people would pay attention and be enlightened about everything. It is a catastrophic view of the world, everywhere a sudden and perpetual demand to alleviate the suffering of the world. Now! Not next week, not by a slow process. Kant said, what has happened up until now is no evidence of what could be. You ought stop the catastrophe of Capitalism, of evil, so you can. It would be good, so it is possible. Chomsky himself often admits that he is not the model of his own demands, he is not such a angel. So the other view is that there are real limits to what can be done, and one is irresponsible to push them as that amounts to gambling with the lives of one's fellows. I.e., things are terrible, but they could be worse. That's the main other view taken in large brush. 

I would say this is the question of Modern (not contemporary) philosophy as such. It is also called Life and Geist (Where Geist means Spirit or Rationality). Or, in Nietzsche, the Dionysian and the Apollonian. Herman Hesse's Narcissus and Goldmund is an unusually good dramatization of this radical antipathy and an attempt to answer your question. Nietzsche's work, on the whole, too, is constantly concerned with this inexhaustible question of yours. 

I'm not sure if it is right to put the categories somewhere in a discrete cubby, as though Aristotle's thought were not whole. Some say that is justified by the fact that Aristotle's writings are received in a disconnected and scattered fashion and can not be considered as a "system". Aristotle studied all the thinkers who came before him in the Greek world. And considered Plato as a "epigone" of all of them, and one must think as a kind of great synthesizer. His chief influence was, however, common opinion, which he though a very reliable measure. But he went beyond this in a peculiar manner, unlike those who tried to ascend from ordinary opinion through diological discussion (e.g., Socrates), he attempted to do so by vision, the eyes of the soul, which he distinguished from observation of Nature. Later, nearer to our own time, a sort of so-called phenomenology was read back into Aristotle, or was it already there? Predication in Aristotle simply means "I say something about something", so one must not think so-called grammar, as it were, played any great role. He looked at words, such as "phusis", nature, and asked, what is the essential meaning of this word, the most important meaning. He tried to locate place things, through definition, in the world, in such a way as to know the world order, how they stood in the cosmos. For instance by understanding the genus of man as animal, and within the animal, the particular difference or essence of man as reason. Likewise the categories are orienting devices, as it were. The connection with Aristotle to linguistic analysis is more due to the 17th century discovery of Evolution (or drift) in languages. Which escalated up until the time of Heidegger who made an uncommonly influential and profound (which is not to say necessarily true) study of Aristotle, with respect to a claim concerning the "primordial" or "orgniary" meaning of Greek, if you like, "grammar". Heidegger would never have called it that. Instead speaking of Greek Language. There's an overlay, of Aristotle's etymological analysis, and modern claims to "understand Aristotle better than he understood himself", in the current scholarship on Aristotle. In the last analysis, so to say, the two blend imperceptibly and inseparably. It's hard to tell "our" Aristotle from the Aristotle. 

Addendum explanatory: If I am not mistaken Aristotle defines Happiness as excellent activity of the soul. Eudaimonia belongs to the realm of psuke, and its specific difference, i.e., of all things attributable to the soul or to life, which is the same for Aristotle, is arete or the most-sound power. Socrates speaks of things that "don't show up in a mirror". Of course, one can define anything, and thereby bring it into view in a way that judgment can ask if it is there or not, but reason (from which the definition is derived) is, these days, rejected as a faculty that can not properly demonstrate. It is, in this sense, dismissed from the realm of the proper sciences. What is abstract is non-sensible. One can be referred to the Parmenides where three determinations are made concerning what are often called "properties", concerning the question about what concepts require ideas or forms of there own, and which do not. With the famous line about mud, hair and stones, sensible things, being of the lowest grouping. And then general material things in the second group, like fire and water. 

Hegel: Has reasons for saying Germans were exemplary, i.e., not mere prejudices. Nietzsche: Denies reason and truth. Denies the measure of good and bad. 

The word Plato uses is arete. It was a common word that was often used to describe athletic excellence, as well as other forms of excellence. The most obvious difference between arete and the right way to do things or to live, agathon (one should take caution with using a conception wholly unknown to Plato, "moral"), is that arete is more likely to be understood as what is fitting or proper to a certain class of things. What is becoming to women, for example, let us suppose one such characteristic is beauty, may not be properly fitting for a man. Socrates tries to push arete towards the higher, as he conceives of it, agathon, by making it a property of the human soul as such. Plato never presents anything in terms of a doctrine or dogma, so the questions are open and more comes from further reading of the dialogues, plunging into contemplation, and further speaking with Plato. 

"Seeing through" is said in quotation marks. Like, this is bad, I know it, but... So that in every serious way one doesn't think it's bad. One is meant to make a kind of secession from the current Enlightenment, to another more satisfactory one. It's obvious, under this thinking, that there is materially an excess. But that the excess false-appetite creates poverty. If one reads Adorno alongside others who are more mundanely, so to say, Marxist, then the strategies of learning where one stands in the class system, and one's true interests, and so on, have to, in Adorno, somehow answer for the fact that Marxism itself is a Marxist false-consciousness. Adorno's short answer: study and think. All are intellectuals, some are more intellectual. 

All concepts are general, the concept of a tree, for example, rather than a particular tree, but the common notion you must know, which has slipped your mind, may be abstract concepts. What is abstract is not concrete or sensible. There quite possibly may be another, better, term. Closer to the sense you indicate. Speculative, formal, and other terms might be wanted. Ideal perhaps. 

This is wrong. There's no "obvious solution", as though it were a logical exercise. Kant's point is you don't know, with certainty, if the guy is going to catch him. He says, maybe the guy will have already slipped away. And then your lie didn't help at all, might even harm the guy. One should read, here, the example Dostoevsky gives in the Idiot, about the injustice of State execution. Saying, the state is far more cruel, since in the case of a knife murderer (likely he thought of Kant), one, till the last, thinks of escape. Whereas, in the execution, the State's iron laws work evil like clockwork. If you lie, then a judge is supposed to ask, did he really aim at not lying? It's a causuistry. You must faithfully interpret your duty into the situation. In other words, not lying is a predelineation of the ought, it's what would happen in a perfect world, in the sense of if one ought to one can. If one ought to one can means that the way the world is, practically, in reality, need not always be. One might, through habit, bring about the world where one need never lie. He aims at a Utopia. But, he knows this is not Utopia. Kant's practicality is vastly effaced by the false reception of his thought currently on the market. Thusly, rethink your question. Also, be sure to remember "we are prohibited from using people as purely means" does not preclude "doing violence onto you just because you don't want to be wounded" which "seems to very much be using them as a means and not an end." Since using someone simply as a means, is not the same as partially doing so. Otherwise one couldn't use a hatcheck girl to get one's hat.