is indeed so. It is surely possible to happen now while it won't. I exist - ever immortal [Ftn.] - right in the form of that future which makes the (meaning of the) "now" and which is out of access. What is possible is necessary because possibility of something is my future that has been freely chosen by the consciousness, and also because it has not yet come true nor is guaranteed to come. In temporalization, "is possible" and "will be possible" are indistinguishable. But in reflection, we deal with psychologic or wordly time that is tiled with events like necklace is. Psychologic future is actually always past future ("future in the past", one is tempted to put). When we plan to reach an aim, we reflect on doings, obstacles, resources and order, all of which are objects we process in knowledge; but knowledge (as opposed to intuitive apprehension) is always past. That is why in our dreaming/planning of the future possibility it has the taste of not actual or desirable/scary anymore. We need reflection to plan, yet reflected dream of the future possibility is nothing more than reminiscence of the now "dead" possibility, possibility which is no more necessary despite we may claim we are interested in it. In that profane time "is possible" inertly precedes "will be possible" and both are seen (treated) as occured already: it is future-modal facts (facts cannot be necessary or needed, they simply are there). 

i.e. if you had two stones, you cannot arrange them into rows and columns to form a rectangle; therefore two is a prime number. Unless you can find a way to make 2 stones form a rectangle, it is a prime number. We can use this to address the 'philosophy' aspect of your question, you are effectively attacking the 'divisible by other numbers' aspect of your definition of prime, however my definition dispenses entirely with the concept of dividing by anything, and still gives us a complete list of 'prime numbers' which includes '2'. Even in a theoretical universe where the number of numbers less than x is indeterminable (i.e. there may or may not be numbers less than x) it is still possible to independently verify whether or not x is prime using this method, therefore the 'primeness' of 2 can be verified regardless of the fact there are no whole numbers between 1 and 2 In fact, we can prove this is in our own mundane universe with an experiment: 

According to Sartre (see "The Transcendence of Ego") cartesian cogito ergo sum is a performative fallacy: who thinks this thought (active, pre-reflective consiousness, me) is not whom the thought is ascribed to (I, an inert reflective object). From this particular point of view, having "first-person perspective" designates not the consciousness but one of objects of the world, and it could be removed from the phrase as redundant. Then you are left with "I am a conscious being" which sounds similar to "cogito ergo sum". And that will suffice. When you are writing down that phrase you actually don't have the first person perspective because your consciousness is busy with writing a sentence. But you remain conscious (and free). You're keeping a dim purpose what you are writing for, and your movements and auxiliary thoughts serve that goal. Consciousness understands itself and what it is doing, even though there isn't any Ego currenlty here or Ego is seen in the past as if remembered other man. Because positional consciousness of an object or one's activity is at the same time non-positional consciousness of the self. That primordial self-consciousness (which is difficult to catch) - without being an object to oneself - is a primary evidence and needs not be proven, especially by subconscious "spooks" or neurons as "spooks". 

You're missing information on whether or not A AND C is representative of A and representative of B. I.e. it could be that A AND C represents 49% of A, and 49% of C, and that NONE of them are B. Let's try an example: 

How they were made You could classify AI into those that were developed 'by man' and those that were developed using evolutionary algorithms and/or machine learning. Deep blue, was programmed with a defined set of rules, whereas the Google AI 'DeepMind' that can win at 'Go' is much more of an evolutionary algorithm, and effectively taught itself to win. 

Our actions (choices) are completely free. (I must first make a disclaimer that I'm not interested in the topic of "unobservable determinism", that is when I feel my action is free while "in fact" - from God's or physic's p.o.v. - it was predetermined by atoms or such disposition. Only the case of determinism-in-my-consciousness, i.e. the cause appears to me, presents itself in the setting of my choice - so I blame things for my choice, - can bother me. I must keep agnostic about things bypassing consciousness but claiming that they cause my consciousness. Reasons or causes can exist only for consciousness.) They are free - which is alias to say that I'm the only author of my choice - because consciousness automatically rejects (negates) the circumstances at the moment of choice. If an armed man points a gun onto you and commands "step back", he and his gun are precisely what your consciousness excludes from determinants when it selects to obey. You will say afterwards in excuse that the gun forced you to step back (i.e. here's a cause), but at the moment of your decision to move back the gun was just the thing you took not to meddle. It was here, pending and frozen, as you did your free decision. The gun was as if waiting for your free decision on the theme of the gun incident. While the gun was kept in nonbeing, the consciousness chose among 2+ possibilities of itself (yourself). One choice was made, it was spontaneous (it itself wasn't rational, despite that thinking could be included "around" the decision). A possibility exists by mode of nonbeing and thus cannot draw you to it; the gun is also deactivated. Here is complete nothing which decides - and you feel yourself for a moment drifting free in empty space where any side is nobody else's side. Suddenly you're aware of the choice having been just made, from now on the gun is threatening, the man is not joking, and you find yourself doing step back. Nothing forced you, except yourself who was nothing at the decision of choice among some possibilities apparent to the consciousness. Conditions and thinking can bring forward or conceal possibilities, but there will always be 2+ ones, equally "weight" because they are not, just opportunities of "towards". If you say not the gun, but rather your instinct of life pushed you back, I'd say, hmm, if the instinct is an unconscious structure (so the action was pure reflex) - see the disclaimer. Else the instinct is for consciousness (and there exists no instinct except consciousness of the instinct) and by this it could be an object like gun, to be disarmed by it in rejection, like gun, or it could be in a form of taste for living, making plans etc. - one of possibilities, to be dim. So choice of any action is an adventure on your own. Covering oneself with causes or reasons or fleeing from the feeling of disappointment about own past decision are self-deceptions. We are free, which isn't the same as to say we have free "will". The view expressed here is different from what @FirstLastname has written in their answer: "My choice might have been influenced by preexisting events and motivations: I don't like tuna, maybe I've got a coupon for my favorite restaurant I'd like to use instead, maybe I'm a vegetarian.... But, even though that choice was deterministic, it was still a choice". To my mind, a choice cannot be deterministic. The thing is that the actual choice I've made - to take tuna, for example - was made free of my own predispositions or customs, and that my preference for tuna is used only as explanation, moreover, it appears as real motive (seen as cause or reason) only thanks to the choice just already done: it is reconstructed here and now from scratch. Motivations cannot preexist. 

E.g. A = American Females, B = 'White', C = American Politicians An American Female is probably White, An American Politician is probably White, Therefore A Female American Politician is probably White Is obviously not necessarily true. Unless you add something like "American female politicians are probably white" 

You will, between you, confirm that 2 is a prime number. *: : By my definition 2x1 and 1x2 are 1-dimensional lines, not rectangles, and maps to our other definition of 'only divisible by 1 and itself'. If you think these are rectangles, you could add "... rectangle with both sides > 1 to the definition" 

A good question. The defining property of free will, i.e. freedom in choices, is the "feeling" or consciousness of the own authorship of the choice being made. Even if/when I'm forced to comply I cannot escape the glimpse, at the moment, that nothing actually is selecting the way for me, except that "foolish" me (who is, actually, nobody/anonymous this minute) who agrees with the offered. Thus, every human choice is a free choice, and responsibility is implied automatically. That would be Sartre's account. Moreover, even when I stumble and fall down, I immediately and promptly react and interpret the occasion (e.g. by the fear to break an arm and not be able to paint anymore through that). By application of a free interpretation/meaning I emerge responsible for my incident though I didn't choose to stumble. I selected to be thus fallen, instead. Freedom is spontaneous choice (of meaning and action) accompanied by the awareness of own authorship / resposibility. Or to put it differently, the apprehension that there is nobody/nothing specific is to blame except myself. The key point here, @HWalters, is that ownership belongs to (is felt by) faceless me, the Nothing, and not to I, the Something. If nothing is the decision maker, the decision is, logically, not motivated by any preexisting structure, i.e. it is not determined (subjectively) by any cause. It is motivated by no cause, a pure gap in causational chain. (It is but later that we can attribute a cause to our decision, to "excuse" it.) Thus, freedom is human (i.e. conscious) randomness (conditioned upon given circumstances). Within the scope of possible alternatives the circumstance can support, it is non-determined. A man is an entity whereby randomness becomes own while determinism gets broken. Whenever consciousness comes to play, whenever something comes to being through consciousness, determinism is canceled. Even conceived/planned decision without instant action is not your "will", it is spontaneous. It was spontaneous when it first occured to you, and it is again spontaneous when you start to act according to it: you re-invent it one more time, using your knowledge of the plan as the circumstance, and act. So, free will is freedom. Specifically "will" is a redundant word, and people do not do things by "will" as some tension or effort. It is when I reflect back on the thing done or on the difficulty to overcome to do it, I might see that "labour" of my Ego involved and start to think of (free) "will" as my instrument. "Will" is always an artefact of reflection ("I decided and did it myself", "I must decide to do it"). No "will" is actually used in real, here-and-now decision makings. Also to say: curiously, non-human (out there, universal) randomness is close, in eyes of a human, to determinism (or doom) and not to indeterminism. Both random and predetermined appear to us as contingency which is a characteristic of facticity to where we are "abandoned". Marooned for making free choices in the flight from facticity towards meaningful world. 

Whilst I agree with most of what he says, I believe that there is potentially a 'Straw-Man' hiding in here. 

Have a friend sit on the other side of a curtain with a box of tokens. have them pick a number of tokens (x) but not tell you how many they have picked. Ask them if they can form a rectangle with those tokens. Repeat the experiment, ensuring that at some point they choose 2 tokens 

Mr. Black is committing the fallacy of over-generalisation. Because it is clear that there are some claims that must be 'accepted' without evidence. Otherwise Mr. Black must deny all the axioms of mathematics and science. There is no evidence that always equals . There is no evidence that if . These are Axioms that we take to be true without evidence. 

is because Pierre currently is in the project of eating that specific meal (and ultimately, because the meal and eating of it is the outline [of qualia] of Being for Pierre), and so any sensation he gets from bites will be interpreted as good, - until he suddenly "stumbles" in this his world stream and falls out from the project to some other one freely chosen by his consciousness among several emerged possibilities. 

For Sartre, essence of a man is everything he can currently know or judge about himself, it is "who/what/how I am", it is simply (current) self-concept or self-awareness - a reflective understanding. Existence for Sartre is the current choice (of a possibility, which brings in meanings and attaches it to the essence) made by a man pre-reflectively, plus the immediately following reflective opening that (by virtue of the choice) he has broken away from his essence and is no longer what he "is"; it is the intuition that what I am is actually what was, and that this my essence is a pursueing demander, not a sanctuary. Here Anxiety stems from. It also stems from the fact that the freely selected choice does not be, it is only about a possibility, therefore it isn't a sanctuary either. That's Sartre's structure of existence as what always runs a step ahead of essence. That advancing is what produces true time, i.e. temporalizes one's experience. (True or "primeval" time shouldn't be confused with psychological time, of which objective physical time is only a logically "rectified" subtype.) So, in short, and how I understand Sartre, existence is the process of how I appear not what I am, or turn out to be unequal to myself. As we know, the lack of identity with any state/status (being) in man was Sartre's principal idea. See also Sartre on essence question. 

Facts includes the existence of all things, but also all provable properties and behaviors of all things. Imagine a universe made up of only a teacup and a hammer. Things: 

The problem you're having with that statement is that it's ambiguous. I suggest the follow two possible interpretations of your statement, one of which is impossible, one is completely valid. I believe to understand it, you need to specify which meaning you mean. 

We also have 'Axioms' in science, like we do in mathematics. Some of these 'Basic Assumptions' are things like "There are natural causes for things that happen in the world around us", "Evidence from the natural world can be used to learn about those causes.", and "There is consistency in the causes that operate in the natural world." 

Ftn. In Sartre's novel Reprieve, there are several outstanding pages towards the end of the book describing Mathieu's opening to himself that he is free and is an everlasting immortal moment, which is, like light skimming the beach, could never be buried by this sand and stones and is always to be an exile from them all. 

Stoicism is a form of attaining self authenticity through the rejection of own dreams and impossible plans, for the sake of acceptance of and reconciliation with painful conditions, whereby one exercises controls over only what he has power to control. Stoic is free when he is busy with controlling own passions while the world out there is beyond his control. Sartre was distressed when he was mobilized on war in September 39. He was anxious with the perspective to be killed without having done anything great in his life. Under the impression produced by reading Heidegger he was all in the search of an "authentic position" in front of the face of danger. He first inclined towards becoming a stoicist (read "Notebooks from a Phoney War"). For Sartre that meant to quit his self-identification as a man meant to become great with his writings one day, and to put on sincerely the role of a soldier without love and future, meant to die. While being in the army in 1939, and later in a camp for prisoners of war in 1940, he felt increasingly dissatisfied with the ostrich head-in-sand, "passive" (albeit of endurance) self-positioning. He began to strenghthen in his concept according to which everything we experience (including negative feelings) has been pre-processed and taken on by our (pre-reflective) consciousness, that everything can affect us not otherwise than only through us and via our "stamp". Therefore, if I feel e.g. helpless it is due to myself, my choice to be so. Thus, a man is responsible for everything which happens with him. Sartre specially stipulates that the responsibility is not obvious to the first person perspective - not only because the choice is unreflective but also because it is not based on anything: consciousness is the basis of its possibilities and choices while consciousness itself exists by no ground; he labels this paradoxic yet fundamental human condition "unbearable" - since a man looks sentenced to be responsible for what happens with him in a way like he's just a receiver. But as long as own reaction has been self-selected and the one is responsible for it the one ought to consciously charge himself with it as if it was voluntary chosen on purpose and as if for some progress to make about oneself. ("Notebooks from...", Mon., Dec. 4.) There cannot be a world apriori/knowingly beyond control, because we can find ourselves only in such a world where our finger is in the pie already. This existentialistic stance made Sartre a soldier/captive more active than he was initially under his stoicism. A stoicist will restrict himself with doing things he feels to be in control of; a Sartrian will expand himself doing things as if his circumstances are the condition of the whole world and are what he had brought in willingly, whatever is his control radius (the control and power will then get corrected via practical acts).