We see that what The Buddha predicted seems to be true, the pure dhamma does not exist today, it only existed for around five hundred years. The earliest Buddhist scriptures (both Theravada and Mahayana) date to around 500 years after the death of The Buddha matching into the prediction. They were written down based on oral traditions and memory. You can clearly see that exact details are missing in the scriptures, as if something very important was lost. What survived now in modern times are vague teachings that only certain beings would be able to comprehend and understand in a useful way, not exact precise instructions. The Buddha's original teachings are lost! [EDIT] Many look at this as misogynistic but I don't think so. It is not that women cannot achieve arahantship (equal to the Buddha) it is that ordaining women and allowing women in causes the pure dhamma to disappear more quickly. The Buddha said: 

I think it's a great analogy. It reminds me of a time when I was riding my bike one day and after I became very tired and exhausted I decided to stop by a river. The river looked clean and transparent so I jumped in and swam in the river, it was very relaxing and pleasing. 

In Buddhism Dhamma should be experienced here and now. In order to do that you have to practice Vipassanā. Hence a fruitful resolution would be that you pratice 1 hour in the morning and evening and to do at least one retreat for the year. 

First and foremost account is the Jataka stories. These are generally the account of Buddha himself. Also there are some records of his disciples. In modern times a famous person who did research in this area is Edgar Cayce. Also there has been Parapsychology research in this area. Keep in mind if it is a monk who has developed Abhijñā, they do not openly say they have such powers. (I know and seen some monks with these abilities who I have been very close to, but they will not come out to the open and show this so if I way so and so has it there is not way to ascertain my claim.) As a final note, what I can say is Ehipassiko. Come and see for yourself. Develop the 4 Jhanas and see for yourself. 

When one make positive vibration (Kamma) this effect people around you. This is like the hanky effect. Say you wrap a perfumed flower (good person) then the hanky (another person) then the hanky will also smell good. If you warp dried fish (bad person) then the hanky will smell bad. Likewise if the mother is creating good vibrations then the child maybe influenced. Also if the mother has been good even before conception then this would attract a good child with also more merit. 

I also believe that in the past I practiced mind-exercises in early pre-ancient Egypt a long long time ago, which unconsciously unknowingly I revived now in modern times. It seems that the earlier Egyptians were highly interested in mind-exercises and meditation, many from that time are now here during this time-period. Also sometimes I see spirits of deceased relatives, heavenly and hellish beings. Certainly this extreme form of enjoyment is the greatest gain, greatest pleasure, the only noteworthy goal in life. 

Being attached to the end result makes it much harder to achieve your goal. If you really want to achieve your goal you should focus on achieving it without attachment, and in ways in accordance to the goal. Just imagine how extraordinarily easy achieving a goal like this would be for someone who really was an arahant. Thus you should train yourself towards achieving the final goal. 

I've read stuff from other spiritual teachers and those who claim to be enlightened but still they don't compare to Gautama Buddha's teachings. Some may be paccekabuddhas but their teachings are limited and aren't as well-reasoned and thought-out as Gautama Buddha's. My personal experiences match in closely to what I read from The Buddha. When I concentrate I can accomplish certain things, like healing myself. I believe I've achieved at least something like the first jhana but am not sure if it's exactly what The Buddha described as the first jhana since he describes many different states (see Pancakanga Sutta). I just know that when I concentrate on destroying painful feelings or fermentations that I feel this strange energy go from my forehead to the top of my head, and if I keep trying to eliminate more fermentations I go higher and higher. What I experience then is a happiness unlike any other. I feel doubtless, fearless, sorrowless, angerless, full of confidence, calm, unstoppable, full of enjoyment, such an extreme type of enjoyment. Once I had experienced this type of enjoyment I thought this was the correct path and no other form of happiness, bliss, or enjoyment was worth pursuing. It is entirely different from the other blissful states I had experienced (like deep relaxation, or the dream-like bliss) which are like blissful states but lacking energy and enjoyment. Maybe some day I'll find out everything and the whole truth... 

One should not get attached to the self image one creates as a Buddhist at more advance stages of the practice. When you start though you need views and identifying yourself with the right views, value and moral system to keep you on track, tough you have to abandon it later. What exactly you should call your self is more linguistic in nature and should change according to the context it is used also considering the audience. You can be considered a Buddhist from the point you develop some level of faith to try out the 3 fold practice. You can consider your self a practicing Buddhist when you start your 3 fold training. 

Maha Cattarīsaka Sutta This does not imply that you cannot practice Vipassana if you hold this view but to progress you have to straighten you view. Also you cannot be completely skeptical about the teaching as then you will not practice in earnest. The Noble 8 Fold Path being the path to walk to get to stream entry, if you hold on to this view then you cannot reach this goal, though at the start this is not necessary. Even this in stages where faith will be inspired through leaned understanding or wisdom, logical understanding and experientially understanding. 

The point is not to focus on whether or not you should have desires but to focus on what leads towards the final goal. Also in many Suttas The Buddha refers to monks doing things "if he wants". There is also the case where The Buddha was questioned on who has more pleasure the King or The Buddha: 

The Buddha predicted the pure dhamma lasting only for 500 years so in modern times achieving arahantship is nearly the same as becoming a paccekabuddha. I would encourage you to develop the seven factors that lead towards enlightenment, most likely you're lacking in one or more areas. 

Mindfulness (sati) Keen investigation of the dhamma (dhammavicaya) Energy (viriya) Rapture or happiness (piti) Calm (passaddhi) Concentration (samadhi) Equanimity (upekkha) 

It is likely that he was Indo-Aryan, descended from the Scythians, the Sakya clan. Genetic research shows that blue-eyes originated around the northwest coasts of the Black Sea ($URL$ which is the same region that the Scythians were allegedly from. It is also likely that the first people with blue eyes were all black-haired rather than light-haired as ancient Europeans are found to have dark-hair and blue-eyes, indicating that light hair came separately from blue-eyes and maybe more recently as well ($URL$ Where light hair comes from is still a mystery, it may have come from the Neanderthals. Modern day Europeans are likely not Aryans but Aryans admixed with Neanderthals or mutated into something else, which explains their features. It is not that uncommon to see people in modern day India and Nepal with black hair and blue eyes just as Siddhartha Gautama was described. But it is also important to note that The Buddha was against the caste system and someone's ethnicity does not make one an arahant. An arahant is someone who is free from mental effluents, pains, taints, hankers, fermentations (Âsavas). He used many arguments against the caste system in the Assalayana Sutta (MN 93) mainly arguing that good deeds are good for anyone of any caste and that bad deeds are bad for anyone of any caste, also using a clever analogy that anyone of any caste can make a fire and the fire would still be a fire with a flame regardless of the person who made the fire. 

Cūla Vedalla Sutta I would like to know when i noting the feeling part inside/outside the body, is this the right way? i did not do it purposely but i can just feel it when i concentrate' This is also a good sign. Totality of insight include: 

If you as about a long path, then the land marks different people describe about the path would be different. Thus there are many description of the same road but different land marks. E.g. The middle path is described within these two Suttas abide the different landmarks. Samma,ditthi Sutta, (Ekā,dasaka) Cetanā’karaṇīya Sutta. Also by nature of the practitioner certain landmarks on the road would be of more significance than others. This will result in different descriptions. Also Buddha having the ability to discern what would register in the mind of the practitioner, gave most appropriate "directions and land marks". Another this there are multiple variations and techniques which give certain spiritual or "out of the world" experiences which the practitioner may mistake to have achived the final goal or mistakenly believe is the path when in fact it does not take you to the final goal. (Somewhat related is Brahma,jala Sutta also as introduction on it which highlights how wrong view arise.) Since you have some uncommon experience you hold that the method and techniques you practised has got you or will get you to the final goal. This give arise to different descriptions and variation and debates about the technique. Some times these variation can be from people who have gone to the final goal. Some people have had only some imperfections or uncommon imperfections and would have done a practice to remedy that. Having achived the final goal he would teach from his experience which would result in an uncommon description of the method, which might not always work for everyone. 

No. Hatred, even if well-reasoned and rationalized generates negative kamma and negative energy nearly the same as someone injuring their own body. 

But with making an end to mental fermentations, why would you be concerned about managing another's anger? Happy, angerless, fearless, doubtless, sorrowless, becomes the one who's put an end to mental fermentations, such an extreme form of pleasure. 

This is not true, The Buddha did not say that one only achieves nirvana (the highest happiness) after renouncing the world. Arahantship or enlightenment is caused by the ending of mental fermentations, defilements, pains, hankers, cankers (asavas), not from merely giving up worldly possessions (this is something repeated throughout the Pali canons). There were lots of people during The Buddha's time who gave up worldly possessions but did not achieve arahantship. When Siddartha Gautama did severe austerities (like starving) he found that it had no benefits and just made him weak. When he started eating again after regaining his strength he found it easier to concentrate, but his enlightenment came only after the ending of mental fermentations (asavas). The Buddha discovered the "Middle way" in between the extremes of austerities and the extremes of a worldly life. The rules for monks are there to help one achieve arahantship in this lifetime, but arahantship won't come until the ending of mental fermentations, defilements, pains, cankers, taints, hankers (asavas). When you go too much into the extremes of austerities it becomes difficult to end mental fermentations and when you go too much into the extremes of a worldly life it becomes difficult to end mental fermentations. So it's the "Middle way". In the Cula-dhammasamadana Sutta (MN 45) The Buddha describes: