So there were definitely Inuit people in the area, and it was certainly conceivable to their contemporaries that the explorers would have joined Inuit society out of self-preservation. The Inuit oral tradition is also quite strong (Inuit stories were quite helpful in locating the two ships), so presumably if a white man had joined an Inuit tribe, such a story would have been preserved; but I haven't been able to find any mention of such a story in my (limited) web research. This may be an impossible question to answer definitively, but are there any plausible reasons why the Franklin crew chose to remain apart from the natives, even though it led to their eventual demise? 

Peter Adamson's podcast The History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps recently did a summary of medieval thought on economics. I present a brief summary of this podcast episode; I'm not an expert on the subject, so any errors or oversimplifications below are almost assuredly mine and not Prof. Adamson's. He covers two main topics of interest to your question: merchants, and usury. Profit-making via trade As a background, Aristotle (in Politics) was disdainful of the notion of profit for profit's sake; he implicitly believed that all goods had an intrinsic value, and that exchanges that did not result in an exchange of equal intrinsic values were ethically suspect. Money was just a convenient method by which this intrinsic value could be measured, and the building of wealth was unnatural. However, by the medieval era, there was a growing recognition that "market price" was different from an object's intrinsic value. Thomas Aquinas (1225–74) and Henry of Ghent (1217–93) both accepted that a lack of supply of a good could lead a merchant to demand a higher price for that good, and that there was nothing ethically suspect about this. (Though Aquinas says it would be particularly noble if the merchant kept charging the customary price.) Many medieval European thinkers converged on the idea that money measured how "useful" an object was, either to the buyer & seller or to the community at large, rather than measuring its intrinsic worth. A recognition of the concept of "added value" was also present in some medieval thinkers. Duns Scotus (1266?–1308) defended the right of a merchant to buy an object at one place and sell it for more money at a distant place, since the merchant has taken a risk and invested labor in transporting these objects. All in all, medieval thinkers were generally of the opinion that there was nothing inherently unjust about money-making via trade, contrary to what Aristotle might have thought. Usury Usury was a trickier business. Renting objects, the providing of services, and usury also challenged the idea that value could attach only to material goods. In all of these exchanges, one party ends up with some extra money without losing anything of value themselves. For this reason, Aristotle & church doctrine viewed usury as wicked. Medieval thinkers came up with some reasons why this was so. Aquinas echoed Aristotle in the view that it is inherently unjust to demand more back from someone than one has given them. Another view was that the usurer was selling time to the borrower (in some sense), but time does not belong to anyone. Still, having a few money-lenders in your town did seem to be awfully useful, and a few medieval thinkers came up with ideas about money-lending that are closer to the view we have today. Durandus of Saint-Pourçin (1275?–1332) recognized the utility of money-lending but viewed it as an unseemly business, and suggested that the state should do it instead. Gerardus Odonis (1285–1349) recognized that the usurer is giving up more than just money; they are also taking a risk that it won't be repaid, and losing the use of the money for the period of the loan. However, he justified the ban on usury on the grounds that the borrower was in some sense being compelled to pay costs beyond the money that was being lent, and this compulsion was unfair. So in general, while medieval thinkers were beginning to recognize that that usury could make an economy function more smoothly, it was still viewed with distaste at best. 

Today, I heard about seven deaths attributed to an explosion of a bomb from World War 2: Seven dead as war bomb explodes in Bangkok scrap yard Hopefully, the last death or deaths that can be reasonably regarded as caused by World War 1 has already happened. What was it, and when did it happen? 

Did French ever have any special status in Austria or the Austrian empire, akin to it being the language of royalty in England (and possibly Russia, I'm not sure) (as opposed to it being just another foreign language)? 

The cartoon, recently publicised by this tweet, has seven children dancing around a US flag. The child in the yellow shirt is intended to represent an African-American child. What races are represented by the six other children, especially the three children with black hair clockwise of the African-American child? Also, what races within the USA were the US government trying to prevent racism against during WWII? 

When seeing some documentary about the history of medical science in the middle ages, I got the impression that many doctors were happy to merely study the works of Galen, rather than do their own research, and that that was detrimental in the long run to medical science. Was this the case? Were there any other cases where books from classical times were detrimental to either the knowledge held in the middle ages, or to the rate of acquiring new knowledge? For the purposes of this question, don't regard religious texts (for example, the Bible) as delaying scientific progress. 

I used to think older Japanese people wouldn't have studied English at school, and recently came across someone who thought likewise (link available on request). A middle-aged Japanese person told me that English became a compulsory subject by 1920, but I can't find any information online confirming that. (One site says that English isn't technically a compulsory subject nowadays, merely the teaching of a foreign language, which in most cases happens to be English - though perhaps English wasn't the dominant language in the late 19th century) When did English become a major subject at Japanese schools? If a definition is needed, then it being studied by a majority of students who completed high school, either of the entire nation, or of a particular prefecture. Also, did negative relations with some western powers before and during World War 2 lead to the reduction of English being taught, above and beyond the disruption to education caused by war in general? Yoshi Mori joked about English being an enemy's language for part of the time he was at school. The Wikipedia article English-language education in Japan mainly focuses on the private sector, plus modern-day education in schools. 

Acts which nowadays are called cultural appropriation have been going on for a long time in the US, at least since the 19th century. But when did certain behaviours start getting labelled in the US as cultural appropriation and as a bad thing to do? 

Francisco de Miranda comes close. Born in 1750 in Caracas, Venezuela, he became an officer in the Spanish Army in 1773. In 1779, Spain signed the Treaty of Aranjuez and entered the American Revolutionary War as an ally of France; their ultimate goals were to regain Gibraltar, Florida, and Minorca from the British. As part of the campaign in Florida, Miranda participated in the Siege of Pensacola; his diary is one of the primary sources we now have concerning the siege. The one caveat here is that the Siege of Pensacola did not involve any American units, nor was it fought on land that became part of the United States immediately after the Revolutionary War; so a less charitable interpretation might view this as an opportunistic land-grab by the Spanish & French, designed to stick a thumb in the eye of the British, and not part of the "true" war effort. But then, one could say much the same about the French involvement in the Revolutionary War, and nobody denies that they greatly assisted the cause. Miranda's role in the Latin-American wars of liberation is less in debate. After the end of the Revolutionary War, Miranda was charged with being a spy for the British and went into exile, first in the United States (where he hobnobbed with the American Founding Fathers), then in the UK. In 1806 he returned to the USA and organized a filibustering expedition to try to liberate Venezuela from the Spanish; unfortunately, this first expedition failed and Miranda returned to the UK. When Napoleon invaded Spain, the Spanish colonies gained de facto independence, and some established juntas to govern themselves. The Supreme Junta of Caracas sent a delegation to the UK, met with Miranda, and convinced him to return to Venezuela. Upon his return, he began agitating for independence, and the junta finally declared the First Republic of Venezuela in 1811. However, several provinces of Venezuela remained loyal to the rump Spanish royalist government in Cádiz, and civil war broke out. As the First Republic collapsed, Miranda was given sole command of its armies; but it was too late, and the armies of the First Republic were defeated. Some of the republican officers (including one Simon Bolívar) arrested Miranda and handed him over to the Spanish Royal Army. He died in prison in Cádiz five years later. While Miranda was not involved in the later successful wars of Latin-American Independence, he gained the nickname El Precursor ("The Precursor") for being one of the first to agitate for independence. If nothing else, Bolívar learned a lot from Miranda's failures (see the Cartagena Manifesto.) 

However, to be admitted to the Union, Congress and the president had to pass a bill allowing Maine's statehood as well. This is where the Missouri compromise came into play; Missouri's statehood had been hotly debated throughout 1819, with abolitionists strongly opposing admission of a new slave state. When Maine's statehood bill came before Congress in 1820, the Senate decided to link the two measures. Since the balance of power between free and slave states would be largely unaffected by one free state and one slave state joining the Union, the opposition to Missouri's statehood lessened and the bill eventually passed. 

The section "Former Yugoslavia" of the Wikipedia article on War rape says that Serbs raped Muslims and Croatians with the intention to produce new Serbs 

Some nationalities (for example New Zealand and Wales) are the butt of jokes about bestiality, especially with sheep. What lead to this? 

In this picture, someone has put up a sign saying "JAPS KEEP MOVING - THIS IS A WHITE MAN'S NEIGHBORHOOD". In case this was not enough, the window has a sign saying "JAPS KEEP OUT" and some other illegible sign. The photo is from around 1920, though lots of people assume it's from World War 2. What's the context of this sign? What did white Americans have against Japanese people around that time? 

News that Saudi Arabia will allow women to drive has been in the news recently. It's been described as the only country that currently forbids women from driving, which makes me wonder about whether other countries recently forbade women from driving. I thought I once heard that during the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq, Kuwaiti women took advantage of the regime change by going driving, which the Kuwaiti government forbade. However, I couldn't find any evidence of this online, including looking at Women in Kuwait or Women's suffrage in Kuwait, though mentions of women driving is mentioned here ("can women drive in Kuwait") and here ("Kuwaiti men should know that human rights goes far beyond 'being allowed to drive', 'dressing as they like' and being 'allowed to acquire education'.") Was this the case? Were women banned from driving in Kuwait prior to its invasion in 1990? 

As far as I'm aware, in Australia, currently only countries which are predominantly made up of people not of European descent, such as China, are seen as a "threat" to Australia's manufacturing. Have majority European descent countries ever viewed other majority European descent countries as a threat to their manufacturing? I'm interested in both examples where the other country is seen as "inferior" (whether racially, religiously, or culturally), and where the other country is not seen as "inferior". 

In this anti-Asian 1907 NZ cartoon, is the person being entangled by the octopus in this cartoon meant to be Maori? The clothing and long hair suggest it's not a white New Zealander (pakeha), but I assume that more likely than not, people with an anti-Asian prejudice from that time would regard Maoris as inferior to whites. Should I interpret the figure as a metaphorical representation of NZ, one that'd be used even by people who'd be prejudiced against Maoris? 

However, when this was happening, large-scale, systematic killing on racial or religious lines also was happening. I'm not sure if this answers the question, because I assume the question asker is mainly interested in attempts at eliminating a race without large-scale killing being done. 

In December 1967, then-serving prime minister of Australia, Harold Holt, disappeared while swimming at Cheviot Beach, Victoria. His body was never found, though an inquest held much later stated that the cause of death was drowning. Has such an occurrence happened in recent history, defined by being recent enough to have rapid communication such as the telegram and widespread recognition of what the individual looked like such as photography, to either a serving head of government, or a serving head of state, for any other country? I had a quick skim over List of people who disappeared mysteriously and "Real Life" in Never Found the Body in TV Tropes (warning: not productivity safe) and didn't find any other examples.