I want to say just ditch the camelbak and and one of the bottles and limit yourself to 700mL, but maybe your body actually needs more water. More likely though, you're just drinking more than you need (most people drink a lot more than they really need, thanks to Gatorade/Powerade marketing), so try exerting self control, and see if you can have yourself drinking less. To enforce that, maybe start your next race with the 3L camelbak and only one bottle. Then the next time only the camelbak, and after that, ditch it and go back to 2 bottles. Just slowly wean yourself of the habit of drinking that much. 

$URL$ has a couple things that are likely what you're looking for. I have the DVD on order but haven't received it yet, based on some of the previews that are up and other instructional tidbits they have on YouTube I expect it to be pretty good. You can also check out their (and other calisthenics groups) YouTube clips to see what you think of them and if you think it's worth ordering the DVD or eBook. 

Cheapest foods are hard to answer, as food prices vary widely from location to location. The most important thing for you to figure out what the best foods are is to keep a food journal when you try various foods and see how you feel after. Avoid the foods that make you feel fatigued/have diarrhea/unusually achy/anything unpleasant, even if someone else says it's really good for you. If you have a particular health problem or tendency towards one (perhaps problems closely related family members have), starting with a selection of foods designed to help that issue is the best idea. And this is where it gets really hard to recommend - someone with IBS would be best served eating ripe bananas, but someone with blood sugar issues should avoid eating bananas, and if they do they should be under-ripe. Something you can consider is pesticides, which are harmful to everyone, and should inform whether you buy certain foods organic or non-organic. A lot of pesticides aren't water soluble, so washing your food doesn't help either. Some foods you should only eat organic versions of are; peaches, apples, bell peppers, celery, nectarines, strawberries, cherries, lettuce, grapes, pears, spinach and potatoes. Of course buying organic increases the price, but there are non-organic foods that don't have a high risk of pesticides (bananas for instance, assuming they don't cause you problems otherwise). For meats, red meat gets a bad rap, and in some ways it's deserved, and in other ways not. Grain fed beef is one of the worst foods you could possibly eat, but grass fed beef is quite healthy and one of the best sources of protein you can get. Grass fed beef is a lot more expensive though, so unless you're lucky you might be better off following conventional advice and sticking to chicken and turkey. Both chickens and turkeys can eat pretty much anything, so the problems of feeding cows grain doesn't come up with the birds. I prefer turkey simply because it's less common, and therefore less likely to be overproduced, so the quality will be better. With fish, thanks to Fukushima, recommendations end up depending on whether you live near the Pacific or Atlantic, or if you're land locked. If you're land locked, I'd say just skip eating fish entirely and get some fish oil (it's expensive, but pretty nutrient dense, so worth getting even if you're on a tight budget), unless there's local freshwater fish you can buy. If you're near the Atlantic, stick to small fish with short life spans that are local. If you're near the Pacific, you might be best following the land locked advice as well, or research local fish farms to see what quality they produce. For carbs, wheat is often a problem for people, so it's a pretty safe bet to avoid it and go for barley or rye instead. It also is a good idea to avoid corn (maize), GMO foods have been shown to cause some pretty serious illness in animals, so it's possible that's happening with humans as well, and it's pretty much impossible to buy corn that you're certain is GMO free. The easiest way to get foods will also depend, I've seen some people who have no trouble making themselves a lunch box to eat every day, and those people would eat the same type of meal throughout the day. I find that tedious, so I prefer to go for smoothies. 

This one has been bothering me for a while. Because of the strict diets, almost nobody who's training is allowed to drink any alcohol. A couple of my friends have turned to marijuana to get that Friday night high. Now I am wondering, what impact does marijuana have on the progress of the user? 

If it is bodybuilding/weight-lifting that you are doing, it is probably best to do a quick (1 exercise) stretch after the warm-up cardio, and then do some stretches in between exercises. What this does is stretch the fascia of muscle, therefore giving it more space to grow. This is heavily used in the FST-7 training method. 

Ok, You asked for it :) Looking at this from the theory standpoint. Fat loss Loosing fat in a matter of weeks is possible. That much is certain and, as Natasha mentioned, a kethogenic or hgc diet could do it (with a BIG emphasis on could) Muscle gain Now here we get to the part where it gets complicated. A drastic fat cut means leaving out some nutrients nutrients and/or doing excessive amounts of cardio activities. Doing anyone of those means, that there is either less material for the muscles to work with, or the musscles are more fatigued to begin with, and the muscle gain, while not out of the question, will not be drastic. So, in resume: BOTH cutting fat drastically and building muscle at the same time is not viable. The way movie stars and such do it, is by gaining muscle first, and then drastically cutting, usually by means of extensive cardio, carb depletion and the sort, which is all fine and dandy in the short run, but not healthy at all in the long run. 

A woman with long muscle bellies might find they bulk up more than they'd like doing heavy lifting as they have a greater potential for muscle size. One of my exes had a tendency to bulk up quite easily (even without weights), while her brother remained skinny as a rail. I didn't know about the effect of muscle bellies at the time, but I suspect that's probably what allowed her to bulk up like that. So in the very few instances that a woman has long muscle bellies, lifting heavy would cause her to bulk up. As a result, there's a smidgeon of truth to the belief. That said, most women do not have long muscle bellies. This is also useful info for men with bodybuilding aspirations - if you have long muscle bellies, your bodybuilding potential is great. If you have short muscle bellies, you can forget about any dreams of being a champion bodybuilder - even with steroids you won't be able to come close to a natural bodybuilder with long muscle bellies. 

I used to have exactly that problem, with shoulder inflexibility. I got myself a Thera Cane and followed the instructions in Clair Davies' Trigger Point Therapy Workbook, within a couple weeks I could usually get my hands to the right position on a bar, although it took a couple months to be able to consistently do it. 

Inertia, it takes a while for information to propogate. Also, soy is attached to ideology. It's the answer, particularly for vegans, on how they can get protein without animal products (while conveniently ignoring/never knowing in the first place that to grow plants you need nitrogen in the fertilizer, and guess where the nitrogen comes from?). Try to tell them soy is harmful and they'll ignore you the same way they ignore you if you tell them that some people lack the enzymes to get protein from plant sources. Try to tell a vegetarian that they shouldn't eat soy and they'll get very upset at you, because that means no tofu dogs, tofurkey, tofu burgers, tofu chicken, and every other fake meat that's made from heavily processed soy. It's more religion than science for a lot of them. As long as vegans see soy as the magical bean, soy will keep getting recommended in the face of any research that shows it to be bad for you. 

I've unwittingly done a long term experiment on myself. The answer, in my case at least, is yes. I used to weigh about 63 kg and eat about 3000 kcal/day a decade ago. Today I eat about 3800 Kcal/day and weigh 54 kg. The main change is that I increased my exercise effort, it used to be about 20 minutes of running 3 times per week, while now it is one hour of running, 5 times per week. I never aimed to lose weight, my aim was to improve my fitness. I did not reduce the calorie intake, I did the opposite as my thinking was that to build up fitness requires getting in more calories and nutrients. Also, 63 kg isn't all that heavy anyway, so losing weight was not something that crossed my mind. And that probably helped me to drastically improve my fitness and as a side effect lose weight. Had I reduced my calorie intake, I would probably have struggled with the effort to increase the exercise time and failed to reach my fitness goal. Now consider the initial state where I was at 63 kg and the final state where I am at 54 kg. In the initial state my weight was stable I was not gaining or lowing weight on the long term. So, there was an equilibrium between energy intake and energy used. And this was also a stable equilibrium, particularly the expended energy would fluctuate, but my weight was still stable. This is presumably due to feedback mechanisms that adjust the metabolic rate in response to fat cells getting emptier or more filled. That equilibrium was reached at energy intake = energy use = 3000 Kcal/day. In the final state I am now at, a different equilibrium is reached at a higher level: energy intake = energy use = 3800 Kcal. The weight of 54 kg is irrelevant, other than the fact that this is constant indicating that I'm indeed at equilibrium. The only reason why this change happened was because I build up my fitness to the point I can exercise a lot harder. I burn about 700 Kcal a day now, which is more than 20% of the calorie intake. In the old equilibrium state I burned a factor of 5 less, this was only about 5% of the energy intake. Why did I lose weight? We can in principle invoke all the relevant biochemistry here and ultimately the long term changes in the fat reserves due to the change in energy use and the change in energy intake. But i.m.o. this is not the right way to analyze the problem. If you slow down and stop your car at a red traffic light, you do so because you are programmed to stick to the traffic rules. But in principle you could explain what happened by analyzing all the processes at the molecular level and then invoke signals send through your nerves to your feet that then hit the brakes and how that then causes the car to slow down. That's all correct, but it's also mostly irrelevant because the system was designed to work that way. This means that had the car design been different and had we evolved in a different way, we would still have had to resort to traffic rules, and we would have ended up implementing the same process where you need to slow down or stop, but it would be implemented in a different way. Similarly, I believe that I lost weight because by exercising a lot more, my body executed a different algorithm for energy management with the specific goal of making running easier. This involves both becoming fitter and losing weight. Hundreds of millions of years of evolution has led to a body that uses such algorithms for survival. Animals don't start to exercise a lot more for fun, if they end up expending a lot more energy then that means they have to do this to get the food they need. The body has evolved to maximize the survival probability, so when this happens it will factor in this new situation and adjust the optimal strategy. The amount of fat reserves will then be adjusted. The metabolic rate will be adjusted until the desired optimal state given the amount of exercise, energy and nutrient intake, is reached. 

A treadmill won't prepare you for the impact of running for real. If the (half) marathon is in the desert and you're running through the sand then the problem you'd run into is fatigue. If (much more likely) the (half) marathon is on the road, you'll be in for a really nasty surprise. Also, unless you're planning on running somewhere quite different from where you live, you'll want to acclimatize yourself to the environment, which means getting used to running in the desert heat. If you insist on training only on a treadmill, don't do a full marathon. Half is the most, and even then you'll be in for a nasty experience, as the treadmill really won't prepare you. 

Chinups/pullups, dips (although that might seem quite boring to someone on crutches, pushups (resting your injured foot over the achilles tendon of your good foot), situps, jackknifes, seated overhead press (that might require the help of someone else to get the weights over to you), bench press, seated shrugs, a lot of grip strength exercises should work fine too. 

You'd want to eat something that's fairly fast digesting, as undigested food when you're sleeping is a problem (hence the recommendation that you shouldn't eat late). Smoothies would be great for that, as a lot of the digesting work (chewing and mashing the food around by the stomach) would already be done, so it's just straight to breaking down the food for absorption. Monosaccharaides would be good for that, so very ripe bananas would be great for the smoothie, as would a small amount of whey protein (protein doesn't digest that quickly, so you don't want too much). Smoothies are also quick and easy to make, so you can get to eating them faster than a regular meal. Also taking a multivitamin/mineral after the workout wouldn't be a bad idea under the circumstances. 

We can read here that the Yanomamo Indians do fine on a diet that hardly contains any salt. They live in hot humid conditions so they'll certainly lose liquids in the form of sweat of the order of 1 liter or more, yet their sodium intake measured via urinary excretion is around 0.05 grams per day. It has been argued that this level of intake is optimal for us as our bodies have evolved under conditions where there was hardly any salt available. A typical "low salt" Western diet where you take care to avoid excessive salt intake, will typically yield salt intakes that are 50 times higher than a prehistoric diet. The Yanomamo have blood pressures that are lower than seen in healthy Western people, and blood pressures don't rise with age, as pointed out here. So, it could be that a "normal" blood pressure of 120 mm Hg is actually a hypertensive blood pressure. If this is true then it seems to me that getting rid of salt in the diet, reducing it to something of the order of 0.1 grams or less per day, could not only prevent essential hypertension as we age, but it could be used by athletes as a way to enhance performance. So, I was wondering if tests have been performed to see if long term severe salt restriction enhances athletic performance? 

This can be caused by gas, you can should be able to breath better using chest breathing instead of belly breathing. While belly breathing is touted as being superior to chest breathing, there has been no rigorous science done in this area. Some results suggest that there may be some health benefits for patients suffering from asthma to practice belly breathing. Arguments like chest breathing being a lot shallower and therefore bringing in a lot less oxygen is pseudo-scientific nonsense, you can run just as fast with either breathing method, unless, of course belly breathing is obstructed by e.g. excessive pressure due to gas. 

As far as I know, this should should never be happening under normal circumstances. Therefore I suggest you go, see a doctor about this. In my 18 years of hard-as-hell dancing I have never experienced something like this. 

IF the sessions you mention are done every day, then the answer probably is, that you have too little rest. Muscle needs rest to be able to recuperate and grow. Usually muscle won't grow properly if you do the same muscle group exercises 2 days in a row, but twice a day could actually diminish your muscle mass more than they grow. Therefore, You should try giving your muscles some time to recuperate, probably at least a day before another hard workout for that particular muscle group. As for the legs, I don't see any lower body exercises on the list. Sure, the amount of cardio you are doing is great for the overall body fat level to drop, but is not enough for your legs. It may be the case, that there is actually quite little fat on your buttocks and legs, but it just looks a lot because of lack of muscle. Either case, you should introduce some lower body exercises in your training programm. At least some squats and deadlifts. They should be the bare minimum to start growing your lower body. 

Since I started my new job about 1,5months ago, I've been conveniently located near the water cooler. This means, that I get plenty of water. Waaay more than 8 glasses per day. And now here's my question: Should I be drinking hot or cold water? Kris Gethin suggested drinking cold water, since that makes your body spend more energy on heating the water up, thus creating a bit more of a calorie deficiency while dieting. On the other hand, I've read a couple of articles online, that suggest, that drinking hot water somehow helps purify the body, and helps one to stay awake. Which of these should I drink and why? 

You need to do something about your daily jobs. If you find the time to get 8 hours of sleep, then your work schedule is not healthy and you are bound to get into trouble sooner or later regardless of whether or not you actually get enough sleep. I would suggest that you stick to at least 8 hours of sleep. In fact, at your age 9 hours should be better. Also you need to do about one hour exercise per day. 

A problem with hypothyroidism is that you cannot fully correct for it. While you can bring your thyroid hormone levels back to the normal range, a person with a normal functioning thyroid will have small fluctuations in the level of thyroid hormones due to changes in energy demands causing a feedback on the metabolism. E.g. exercising hard for a few days increases the energy demand, the metabolism goes up a bit as a result. This fine tuning of the thyroid hormone levels will be missing in your case, as you'll take in the same prescribed dose every day. As pointed out here: 

If you have to limit yourself to running 3 times per week or less to avoid injuries, then you need to make sure you do some cycling or swimming a few times per week to make the total amount of cardio work to be at least 5 times per week sessions of at least half an hour of quite hard exercise. Otherwise, your cardio fitness won't improve a lot. Now, you can start out at 3 times per week of running, but as soon as you can run the whole length and are able to increase the speed, then it's time to double the cardio exercise frequency, which you can do just as well by adding swimming and cycling to the routine.