Is this something that people have struggled with in the past? I find that when you look at a card and everyone is writing the same thing, or someone who knows the person well writes something very fitting and personal, it always makes the next person's job that much more difficult. Is there something that you have used in the past that is both simple and not too over the top, especially when you don't know the person very well? 

I think it depends on if the letter of recommendation was offered to you or if you requested it. Generally people are not going to write a bad one (and if they did you wouldn't use it). So I would consider it just another tick in the box, so if you had it and also a good resume then it just gives you another edge. The most important thing is to be able to demonstrate your skills, and if the letter of recommendation doesn't say much then there's not that much use other than the fact that you were not afraid to ask for one and the other party was at least willing to provide one. 

I understand that it is polite to say 'excuse me' after you sneeze, and to say 'bless you' to someone after they sneeze. In situations where someone (possibly) yourself seem to sneeze incessantly, do you need to keep saying 'excuse me' or to say 'bless you' to the other person? I assume that once is usually enough to indicate that you are aware of the etiquette. Is it less polite to say it just once or not to say it at all? 

Being in the right or wrong job is conditional on what your expectations and objectives are. If you don't have one, then it would be hard to know whether this was true or not. I think it is about finding the right balance between what you WANT and what the company NEEDS from you. If you feel like you are getting what you want to providing what the company needs, then all is well. I think you realize that perhaps luck has more to do with skills in getting into these types of roles, so the important thing is to continue developing your skills (not just technical, but interpersonal as well) and set goals for what you want to achieve with your career and let that guide you rather than your feelings and assumptions. At the end of the day, no one is irreplaceable, and in the end people will leave either because they have had enough or they were proactive enough to want to find something better. I don't know of people who are perfectly happy with their job, but they usually have other motivations to keep them there. 

Become a mobile app developer Start contracting/consulting work on the side Create a profile on some freelance sites 

There are many others. Some will be good, some will be bad. Some are no longer used for a reason. Our work paid for an Agile workshop, in which we covered Agile in general, and picked a subset of those principles to implement. It has helped us in many ways, and also hindered us in a couple. It is much better than what we were doing before, but in our case the issue was all process related. We have found that the biggest help was learning to focus on the minimum viable product. This means that we give the customer the smallest bit of functionality to meet their needs at first, and expand on it as needed. This keeps the software from getting bloated with stuff the customer never asked for. 

Some of these options actually overlap a bit. For instance, if you go to a freelancing site (do a quick Google, there are several reputable ones) some of the jobs will be to create a mobile app. Or a freelance gig may turn into a longer term contracting/consulting opportunity. If you have some ideas, mobile app development is a good way to go. You may not make any money on it, but having a background in C you are already a leg up if you start with iOS or Android development. I am a full time software developer myself, and do some contracting on the side. I worked out a deal with a business acquaintance in which I provide development and support services for a flat hourly rate, and I only work evenings and weekends. It is a nice little gig for some extra cash, nothing major. I have also checked out some freelancing sites, but decided against it. Most jobs seem to take more time than I am willing to commit to. However, in your case, freelancing is probably the easiest path. Create a profile on one or two sites, bid on some jobs you can complete and start getting paid for your services. As for work/life balance, you need to judge for yourself. Always evaluate prior to an extra project whether you can handle it or not. If you start to get burnt out, you will need to ease of the extra work so you do not affect your day job. The link @gnat in comments provided is a good one, but every situation is different, and you know yourself better than anyone else (presumably). 

I have seen the use of an ash tray that resembles human lungs that makes a coughing noise when you put a cigarette butt in it work reasonably well (it certainly annoys people nearby). It might work as a novel shock tactic for a week or two. 

Depends on if you want to place the emphasis on the title and/or the actual involvement that you have had in the project. If you are the key/lead engineer, then the title will suggest that you have a main role in the development of that project. If it is a team and different people had different roles, then you should specify your contribution under the responsibilities/achievements/outcomes of the project. Writing that you participated to a high degree as you proposed, will only like to draw the same questions that you can already answer by providing better details in the cv. 

I think good things to include would be that you have either had cultural experience (e.g. traveled or worked or worked with people from those countries) or cultural interest (e.g. you are learning the language, enjoy the music or food). 

Why is it that we sometimes feel the need to have conversations with people in the elevators/lift? I understand acknowledging people and saying hi, but it seems like in most cases (unless you are continuing one from the hallway) it doesn't work well for the people engaged in the conversation or those that have to listen to it. There are a lot of variables in an elevator/lift, such as when people get in and out of the space, when you and the person you are talking to get out, and the number of people in the space at any given time which makes it difficult to have conversation. Is there an acceptable way, or something in the etiquette rules to suggest what we should do in these types of situations? 

You should play games that allow people to tell others about themselves without necessarily having to actively do it, because some people are not that social and need other people to get them talking. Games like having someone ask a question like whether people like Windows or Apple and getting them to move to sides of the room, and then keeping coming up with categories until everyone is in a group or by themselves is always interesting. Once you run through a few different topics you'll find that people will remember someone by their combination of choices or having being singled out rather than trying to remember a name but still not knowing very much about someone. 

First of all, as mentioned in the comments, do not lead with the technology you want to use. If you want to move away from an existing system, regardless of what type of system it is, you have to justify its cost. The best way to do this, is to start with a cost/benefit analysis. Gather information about how much time is spent using the current system, as well as a strong estimate of how much less time will be spent if the system is changed. You may not know the salaries of the people using it, but your boss will, and he/she can use the hours to come up with a cost associated to the time spent. It is possible that time is not an issue, in which case try to attach a cost to the overbooking, and legibility issues that are side effects of the current system. Once you have a dollar amount tied to the current system, figure out what a replacement system would cost for the same activities. If the savings is enough to justify investing in a new system, then you can start suggesting technologies to use. 

First of all, you are both wrong. He is wrong to insist that code looks good, and you are wrong to insist on using an anti-pattern. The appropriate way to develop software lies somewhere in the middle of your two ideologies. It is possible to follow best practices and still have code that can be developed quickly, has good performance, and is maintainable, and this is where you both need to get to. There are many ways to do this. Your developer seems to be of the type to see "best practice" and never stray, even when the best practices change. The best way to fix that is to find a better best practice to meet your needs, and then you both must follow it. It is important to not get stuck on the terminology, or precise methodology, and this sounds like it may be a problem for your developer. No best practice is any good if you cannot implement it, or if it results in poorly performing code. Rather than arguing with your developer, you should try to understand why he refuses to write code that does not look good, and then nudge him towards a practice that allows him to write good looking code as well as good performing code. In case you do not believe that formatting is an issue, just Google the phrase "space or indent programming" and be amazed at all of it. How code is formatted has a lot to do with how maintainable it is in the long run. Also, check out some of these books, recommended by Jeff Atwood. They are all good, and will help you understand better why you are just as wrong as your developer is. Ultimately, you need to stop competing with the developer. You are on opposite sides of the spectrum, and if you both just say "I am right," you will never get better. You must try to understand where he is coming from, and hopefully he will see the effort and then try to understand where you are coming from. Perhaps if you try to optimize the 4 hour query using a different "best practice" that still looks good, he will understand better. Some links to a few development methodologies: 

That way, you are showing that you actually want the job and get to reiterate your strengths. Good luck! 

While looking for a new job, find an employment lawyer (your union can help with this) and look at whether this constitutes Constructive Dismissal. All that said, if you don't want to look for a new job - ask your boss to put down in writing exactly what performance goals the company expects of you. E.g. answering all customer queries within 30 minutes, receiving no negative feedback from suppliers etc. Only when you know what they want, can you understand if you truly are underperforming. 

If you work in a heavily regulated environment, this may be against the law. For example, in some countries finance workers have to record all their calls and all their texts are monitored to ensure they aren't committing fraud. If they use their personal phones, they could be breaking the law. I don't know where you live, but I don't think restaurant managers are that heavily regulated! If you often need to text / call your employees, I would suggest speaking to your manager, and finding out what the policy is. They may give you a company phone - for use only in relation with company business. Or they may reimburse you for calls and texts you send from your personal account. 

It's a tricky problem. Some people within a company want to do as little work as possible. Some are burned out from doing meaningless crap for ungrateful jerks. What's in it for them? There are, in my opinion, three main things you can do. 

They are right in the sense that HMRC will check how much you've been paid over the total year and then refund you if you've over-paid. Yes, the Tax Man does give money back! On to the final point, should you raise this? It is unlikely that you will lose out financially - but you have been inconvenienced and put through some stress. Your boss doesn't want you running off to the competition because you feel badly treated. In one of your regular catch ups, you should explain the situation in the simplest possible terms. Don't focus on who has screwed up - talk about how it has affected you. Don't get angry - just calmly say something like: 

And now, a note of caution. You may have already left it too late. I would expect one of my interns to have told me of their concerns after a few weeks. You've left it a few months. It is not an insurmountable barrier - but you have to construct an excellent business case for a change. So, in summary, yes - if you are not happy it is totally acceptable for you to ask for a change of project. Learning how to manage your boss is a vital skill in the modern workplace.