"Normal" determinism — or at least, the way that people normally approach the notion of determinism — in the face of apparently random events is the position that the randomness is due to uncontrolled variables in the influences on the apparently random system, which you are not taking into account. A good example would be the brownian motion of grains of pollen: it's random motion is due not so much to an inherent randomness of the motion of the pollen, as unaccounted-for-impacts on the pollen by molecules. (Notwithstanding the fact that the motion of those molecules is ultimately quantum-mechanical, of course.) "Super-determinism" is the position that the apparently random behaviour of quantum mechanical systems, following the Born rule, is due to the fact that our own choices of experiments to perform are finely tuned in correlation with the systems we measure, to give rise to these statistics. Not only is our behaviour determined, but it is determined in such a way as to limit what we can see, and specifically to fool us into seeing random behaviour according to a stable statistical rule when the behaviour is in fact perfectly predictable in principle. So super-determinism is indeed a variety of determinism: but it turns our usual assumptions about apparent randomness on its head — not only is our behaviour determined, but it is determined precisely in such a way as to prevent us from seeing that the world is deterministic. 

On thinking implying being "I think therefore I am" only refers to bare existence, because you cannot think without existing. By contrast, if you thought you were a ham sandwich, this would not suffice to prove that you were a ham sandwich. On coolness After years of observation, I would say that 'coolness' consists of consistently acting in a way which people find calm, unconventional, and in a self-possessed and unconcerned manner. In particular, anyone who is substantially interested in how other people perceive them and spends much of their time thinking about it — for instance, anyone who spends time contemplating whether or not they are 'cool' — are unlikely actually to be cool. In this respect, coolness is much like the Buddhist concept of Englightenment: it involves a lack of emotional fixation, including the pursuit of Enlightenment/coolness itself. (There is a notion of 'coolness' which is actually conformist, e.g. the things which "all the cool kids" do. I would class this as a sort of error of the same type as cargo cult science, except in the domain of personal self-determination and corollaries to personality extending from it.) 

#1. Concerning your five properties There has historically been some controversy around the sort of properties that you describe for the statements you're describing. On the supernatural and the everyday world Property #2 is the one which immediately strikes me as problematic on its face. On what basis can any statement make claims that lie outside of the domain of logic? If it makes claims to which logic does not apply, how can I possibly reason about it? Perhaps you mean that it makes claims which lie outside of any possibility of logical justification. But then what you are asking is whether you are rationally justified in believing in a statement which is defined to be logically unjustifiable. To answer this question, you must determine what grounds you have for rationally believing in something, despite the idea lacking any logical justification. Pascal's Wager is an argument that you should believe such a statement, simply to optimize your experiences after death; or in short that you should heed the possibility of an unproven authority, to avoid the threat that this authority could make things uncomfortable for you if you do not. As to the idea that anything can lay outside of the domain of mathematics: this depends on what you think mathematics consists of. If you think that mathematics is a platonically defined subject, perhaps the phrase could mean something; but how would you determine that something was "beyond math"? Presumably it would be difficult to measure deviation from mathematical sensibility, because that would again suggest that it is at least somewhat tractible by mathematical technique. On the other hand, if you believe that mathematics is the result of human activity, this means that it is extensible — but perhaps only to certain limits. With topics such a computational complexity theory, we can come to grips with the notion that there are types of mathematical activity which, while in principle possible and in a sense 'platonically' well-defined, is extremely time-consuming in practise (e.g. there are problems whose resolution would require an amount of time similar to the age of the observable universe). However, the notion of "supernatural" is the most problematic one. What does it mean for something to be "beyond nature"? What, indeed, is 'nature' if not the physical universe — and what does it mean for something not to be 'physical', or to not be subject to "the laws of physics"? Again, the subject of physics may be construed to be the activity of people to find out how the universe works: and there is no real way to divide it into 'miraculous' and 'non-miraculous' domains: there is simply the way that things are, and we may be forced to re-evaluate our notions of how things work when we encounter exotic phenomena. David Hume is an important European philosopher to raise the question of expectation and accumulation of evidence, who would criticise the notion of miracles. While taken from his treatise on the notion of causation, it applies equally well to any notion of what "the physical" could consist of: "[I]t is only experience which teaches us the nature and bounds of cause and effect, and enables us to infer the existence of one object from that of another." As to your specific claim that the subject is 'supernatural' because it concerns "the end of the whole universe": just because the topic concerns the whole universe, does not put it outside of rational enquiry. (Indeed, we have a branch of observation science which does just this: it's cosmology.) Finally, something which strikes me is the constrast between your notion of a supernatural topic, but which somehow meets your criterion #3. How can something both be supernatural and beyond logic, and also have a basis in the daily sensible real world? There's also a problem with judging that the statement "he who can create the universe can also bring me back to life" has to do with your everyday experience: if you had very much experience with the creator of the universe or with people being brought back to life from death, you might not be so concerned with suddenly discovering this piece of paper you're worried about. Indeed, at issue is exactly the question of believing it despite the fact that you have no experience with this supposed creator of the universe: do you believe that the piece of paper could only have been written by the a superhuman being? Concerning aesthetic appeal I think it must be very difficult to evaluate whether or not something has a super-human source (if not a supernatural source) on aesthetics alone. It is not entirely apparent how to measure aesthetics at all, for example, except by popularity contest. Consider how aesthetics are formed. There is likely to be some more-or-less universal component to human aesthetics: people seem to enjoy sweet food, music with a strong rhythm, vivid colours, a somewhat structured environment, and signs of healthy animal and plant life. There are reasons to suppose that some of these are part of our genetic heritage, as a result of where humanity arose, behaviours or abilities which contributed positively towards survival, and so forth. But a lot of aesthetics are inculcated culturally — so much so that many people do not at first enjoy the cuisine, the music, the clothing, etc. of other cultures. So determining how exactly to measure the superlative expressive qualities of a statement is a bit tricky. Does the fact that it isn't even intelligible to anyone who does not speak the language pose a problem, for example? If it is expressed poetically, is there anything deeply rooted in human nature which dictates the poetic form it has? Perhaps one might concede that, at least for a specific culture speaking a specific language, the aesthetic form of the statement might represent a quality of craft which would be hard to reproduce — perhaps because of some deeply patterned metrical device, multilayered rhyming structure, an improbably successful and natural alliterative scheme, or simply a quite reasonable but well-sustained quality over a very long piece of writing. If we suppose that the style of poetry can be defined well enough that you can describe a mathematical structure describing the "space of excellent poetry", then perhaps you might be able to argue on computational grounds that it was not produced by a human, if the problem of generating long pieces of similarly excellent poetry is a problem which is computationally intractible. It is not clear to me how else one might rigorously argue that anything which is comprehensible to humans could not possibly have been produced by a human. This, of course, does not address whether the superhuman being was actually the creator of the universe, or has the power to carry out the ultimatum which it has issued, but it would certainly be interesting to learn that there were convincingly superhuman entities out there who are interested in meddling with human affairs. #2. Concerning whether or not you should believe in a document with the properties you describe So: suppose that you actually do encounter a document, whose structure gives strong evidence that it was written by a superhuman intelligence, which makes claims of great power, it does not contradict anything that you know about the world, and it seems internally consistent. Should you believe that it was written by the particular superhuman intelligence that it claims? Should you believe that the superhuman author actually will reward or punish you according to what it says? This is a difficult question, because we know very little of the motivations of the superhuman intelligences. In fact, on a less grandiose scale, we can consider a similar question of motivation for a parent might write to them in a note left to a child: