My advice is to distinguish between the perception of 'evil' and your mind's emotional response to that perception of 'evil'. 1st acknowledge the real & ever-present 'evil'. Then work to free the mind of the emotional response of hatred & anger towards evil & instead cultivate 'sadness' towards that evil then 'equanimity' ('upeka') towards that evil. I doubt wishing happiness, health & free of suffering will save evil doers from 'hell' 

The main objective of meditation is to maintain a mind of equanimity (calmness). When the mind is calm, it can also develop insight. Meditating upon one thing helps establish equanimity (calmness). The main practise in the teachings of the Buddha is to establish the mind on knowing when the body breathes in & when the body breathes out. In does not matter where this knowing of breathing in & breathing out is established. The knowing can be in a small area, such as the nostrils, nose-tip & upper lip. Or the knowing can be in a larger area, such as the abdomen; or even a larger area, from the nostrils, throat, chest to abdomen (stomach). 

For the boy, this was not possible, because his mind was too young, too immature & incapable of training. But for us, we can only be mindful that our mind, due to our body, is subject to irritation & short-temperedness (paṭighānusayo) due to painful feelings (vedana). 

The word 'beings' ('satta') is defined in the suttas as mental states of attachment & identity (rather than physical life forms). 'Satta' is merely a 'self-view' held by Mara. The very fact that 'beings' are 'spontaneously' or 'immediately born' ('opapatika') due to acts of karma into the other worlds (heaven, hell, animal & ghost) show it is not related to after-death-reincarnation or a new physical birth, as explained below: 

What you have described is not really "observing". It is "thinking". Thinking & observing are basically two different & antagonist activities. While there is a place for thinking, pondering or 'reflection' (yoniso manasikara) in Buddhist meditation, it is not observing (anupassi). Therefore, if you just let thinking continue instead of addressing it, you certainly might subconsciously believe it. 

MN 38 & SN 22.53 say consciousness is dependently originated dependent on sense organs & the other four aggregates. Therefore, it appears the suttas say there is no consciousness independent of the four elements. 

Energy arises from purification, similar to how a rain gutter cleaned of leaves flows more efficiently. In contrast, fatigue (sloth) is often systematic of the mind weighed down by defilements. Therefore, the energy or refreshment related to genuine samatha (tranquility) is due to mental purity; which requires bodily purity as a foundation or cause. The suttas (AN 10.61) say the three types of unwholesome actions (by body, speech & mind) are the nutriment (food) for the five hindrances (of which sloth or fatigue is one of the hindrances). 

Yes. What you wrote is correct. That chemicals have powerful effects upon the mind shows the mind does not create the entire reality. 

There are subtle differences between aversion/hatred (dosa), disenchantment (revulsion; nibbida) and dispassion (viraga). Therefore, impressions can arise, which can be actually true, that monks can have aversion & hatred towards worldly things. Aversion is an ordinary, natural yet unenlightened reaction towards evil worldly phenomena. For example, most people believe Hitler was evil, therefore they have a hatred towards Hitler. Thus, generally aversion occurs within some kind of moral outlook related to ideas of 'good' & 'evil'. Where as dispassion, which arises from disenchantment, is related to impermanence (anicca) and the inability of impermanent things to bring lasting & true happiness (dukkha), as described in the Buddha's 2nd Sermon (SN 22.59). Dispassion is essentially a loss of craving that occurs with the view that worldly things cannot bring true happiness. Thus worldly things become unattractive & not worth craving. 

Three options: (i) advise your neighbour in a very kind & gentle manner; if this fails; (ii) contact legal authorities; if this fails; (iii) move. 

If a doctrine is believed or adhered to that cannot be experienced in the here & now by an ordinary mind, this is not the original doctrine. Therefore, any translations of the Pali Canon that do not make sense to the ordinary reader are not the original doctrine (since the Dhamma is 'well taught', plain & straightforward, as stated in the scriptures). The greatest problem is that of language & translations. There are many crucial translated words, such as 'birth', 'death', 'cessation', 'body', etc, which are interpreted in ways that result in not being able to experience the interpretation in the here & now. Fortunately, all of these crucial words are well-defined in the scriptures therefore those searching for a meaning that can be 'experienced in the here-&-now' can find it. If you want to read something for beginners that accords with my explanation above, these links: Two Kinds of Language Buddha-Dhamma For Students 

'Ultimate realities' (paramattha dhamma) in original Pali Buddhism means things that are always true. For example, that for suffering to occur, there must be craving & attachment as causes, is an ultimate reality. Suffering cannot occur without craving & attachment. Conversely, the general truth that good karma leads to good results & bad karma leads to bad results is not an ultimate reality because this is not always the case. For example, good karma (eg. loving one's family) had lead to suffering (eg. if your family die) & bad karma (eg. hurting another person) can lead to enlightenment (since one learns to never perform that action again). Convention realities can also refer to ideas such as 'man', 'woman', 'hot', 'cold', 'American', 'Chinese', etc, which are not always 100% or inherently true or fixed. Therefore, full enlightenment (rather than partial enlightenment) is always permanent, blissful & pure for the entire lifetime of an enlightened being. This is an ultimate truth, which, naturally, can be directly seen by the fully enlightened being. As for 'personality' or 'self', this is not an ultimate reality in Buddhism. However, if 'personality' is taken to mean 'character' or 'mental qualities', yes, the virtuous & enlightened character of a fully enlightened being will have a permanent quality. When the Buddha was old, it is reported he said: 

It happens at the 4th condition. It will also arise with craving. Why don't you read the Pali suttas? 

Sickness is not mentioned in the 2nd noble truth. The 2nd noble truth mentions three types of craving, namely, craving for sensual pleasure, craving to be & craving not-to-be as causes of suffering. The 2nd noble truth explains suffering arises in relation to sickness due to craving not-to-be sick. 

The 1st noble truth does not say life is suffering. The 1st noble truth summarised all suffering as attachment to the five aggregates. Sickness is include here because it is common for people to suffer about sickness. But it is due attachment to sickness that people suffer, namely, craving not to be sick. Sickness itself is not suffering. The Buddha got sick but did not suffer when the physical body was sick. In Buddhism, there is physical sickness & mental sickness. The 2nd noble truth is about the arising of mental sickness (dukkha). Please read SN 22.1, which states when the body get sick, to not allow the mind to become sick. 

"Beginners" should be taught what is honest & true (rather than speculations & superstitions). For example, the Maha-Mangala Sutta lists the many blessings of the Buddha-Dhamma, without mentioning 're-birth' or 're-incarnation'. Following the guidance given in the Pali scriptures, beginners can be taught the following dependent upon their needs & aspirations: (1) The many benefits of morality (non-harming), which include the preservation of psychological 'normalcy', integrity, self-respect, trustworthiness, social relationships & freedom from remorse & regret. (2) The benefits of giving/generosity, which include happiness, beauty, strength & self-respect. (3) The dangers of sensuality & extreme behaviours (such as gambling, intoxicants, etc), which include addiction, loss of freedom, breakdown of relationships, loss of wealth, bad health, etc. (4) The benefits of the Brahmavihara, here. (5) The benefits of concentration meditation, particularly how it brings a free here-&-now pleasure/happiness that is superior to worldly/sensual happiness. (6) The benefits of wisdom, in ending sorrow & suffering & guiding life safely. 

I have personally never studied 'cetasikas' but have studied Paticcasamuppada in detail. Paticcasamuppada explains the 12 conditions (paccaya) rather than causes (hetu) that condition the origination or generation of psychological suffering (sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief & despair). Therefore, it is important to distinguish between 'generic vedana' arising at contact (such as vedana experienced by a fully enlightened arahant that has attained Nibbana) and 'ignorant vedana' arising in paticcasamuppada, which occurs due to ignorance. Since 'contact' is a 'cetasika' (per Wikipedia), all vedana is a response to the citasika of contact. However, in paticcasamuppada, every one of the 12 conditions (and their sub-constituents, which total at least 54) arise due to the cetasika of ignorance/wrong-view/delusion, as described in the quote below: 

Your friend is caught in the cronyism of unjust, unethical & non-impartial people. This is very common. Your friend should look for a new job in an ethical workplace. The Buddha taught the world has many defiled unethical people. It is not a matter of your friend not being good at making friends because true friends don't collectively conspire against individuals. Generally, befriending such people requires the diminution of one's ethical values. In the Sigalovada Sutta, it is taught in life there are true friends & false friends. We should try to associate with good people & good friends (even though they can be difficult to find). 

Bad parents cannot be repaid for whatever good they did if they cannot appreciate & accept goodness. Some parents are stubborn like this. The Pali suttas (Iti 77) say there are bad parents with good children. Not everyone can repay their parents as described in the Pali suttas. This teaching about repaying parents is only an 'ideal' rather than an 'absolute'. The 'absolute' is realising non-attachment or the four noble truths. If moral teachings of Buddhism are causing anxiety & worry, this is a mishandling of Dhamma.