The initial Fermi trigger can be found here, and the following sequence of alerts that were sent out by the LIGO Scientific Collaboration/Virgo Collaboration (LVC) and various electromagnetic observers following-up the event can be found in the GCN circular archive here. This doesn't quite give the whole story of the time line of events, but is a good start and the linked "Multimessenger" paper is fairly comprehensive in giving the complete story. As shown in the figure, the signal arrived first in the gravitational wave detectors, with gamma-rays arriving at Fermi and INTEGRAL approximately 1.7 seconds after the observed merger time. However, the online analysis software on-board Fermi was quickest off the mark in detecting the burst and generating an automated trigger just 14 seconds after the signal arrived (I don't know any more of the internal details of Fermi triggering, how the alerts get sent out to people, or what subsequent manual interventions are required). Within a little over 7 minutes the online automated software searching for gravitational wave signals using compact binary coalescence templates (see, this paper and this paper) had produced a candidate using data from the LIGO Hanford detector alone (LIGO Livingston data had been automatically vetoed by the software due to the presence of a glitch [Figure 2 of this paper], and Virgo data hadn't yet propagated to the location where the analysis was run) - this automatically notified (via email or text) a number people in the LVC that something interesting had happened. Less than 10 seconds after the gravitational wave candidate had been recorded, an automated code called RAVEN (see, e.g., Section 4.1 of this paper) noted the temporal coincidence between the Fermi trigger and the gravitational wave candidate. After being notified of the gravitational wave trigger, various people within the LVC initiated a conference call and started manually looking at the data and saw the obvious chirp-like signal in time-frequency representations of the data. Roughly 33 minutes after the gravitational wave trigger, and 40 minutes after signal arrival, it was decided (people were involved) to issue an announcement (the first entry in the GCN list here) that there was a joint Fermi gamma-ray burst trigger and gravitational wave trigger. Regarding signal arrival times at the various gravitational wave detectors: it arrived first at Virgo, followed by the LIGO Livingston detector, and finally at the LIGO Hanford detector. 

I just had a conceptual question, hopefully it makes for some really interesting answers. I was wondering, as most galaxies have an SMBH at their centre (see Kormandy & Richstone 1995; Richstone et al. 1998), could dark matter accrete onto the SMBH over time (perhaps perturbed by a galaxy collision, interaction or merger) and then recycle this matter as energy? Can dark matter help an SMBH grow? 

Sirius is in Canis Major, and if you take the belt of Orion to be the reference point then we can proceed as follows. If we define Alnitak, Alnilam and Mintaka as going left to right as we perceive it to be in the Northern Hemisphere, then we need to draw a line going from Mintaka in a SW-ish (left and down) orientation through Alnitak to Canis Major. You should see it. It's coming up to the best time of year to see Sirius and the Orion constellation. N.B. I'm pretty certain what you are referring to as the object you're seeing at this present moment is Venus. 

Just a quick question relating to the thermal Blackbody temperature of a celestial object. In the c.g.s regime of astrophysics, is it more 'sophisticated' to quote the thermal Blackbody temperature in units of Kelvin ($\mathrm{K}$) or in units of $\mathrm{keV}$? That is to say to use $k_{B}T_{\mathrm{bb}}$ and convert to an energy? 

This explains why objects with more mass have more gravity (e.g. each bit of mass is absorbing a small amount of space, so has gravity). The more mass you have, the more gravity you have. This explains why gravity is strong when near an object (e.g. when close to earth), and decreases inversely proportional to square distance from the object. If you imagine an expanding "spherical wave" of space moving inward, surface area of the sphere increases in relation to the square of the distance. However, the effect is dispersed over this increased surface area, hence it decreases with the square of the distance from the object. A fairly simple (but 2D vs. 3D) analogy is how when you throw a stone into water, the ripple will be strong at first, near the entry point, and then the ripple disperses as it expands into the surrounding pond. A good 3D analogy is how sound (or light) expands spherically, and is more faint the further you are away from the source. The orbit of "binary" systems, including the dynamics between the earth and moon. The earth is more massive than the moon, and is absorbing more space than the moon. Therefore, it is moving the moon toward it fairly quickly (but the moon has enough momentum that it remains in orbit vs. falling toward earth). However, the moon is also pulling on the earth, so the earth is also "falling toward the moon" a little. Again, the earth has enough momentum not to "fall into the moon". This results in mostly the moon orbiting around the earth, but the earth is also "slightly" orbiting around the moon, which would be observed as a slight wobble. This explains why large mass objects and small mass objects are affected the same by gravity. Since it is space itself that is moving, whatever is in that space will be moved accordingly. If it is an anvil, it will be moved just the same as a feather. Therefore (if it weren't for other effects such as air resistance), a feather would fall to earth the same speed as an anvil. In practice, air resistance makes the feather small much slower (but repeat the experiment on the moon, and they should hit at the same time since it has no air). This even explains why things without mass (e.g. light) are also affected by gravity. Since space itself is moving, light moves along with it. This would explain gravitational lensing, and why light cannot escape a black hole. 

Just a question I am having trouble understanding. I have the Schechter luminosity function for galaxies, given as: $$\Phi(L)dL=\Phi_{0}\left({\frac{L}{L_{\star}}}\right)^{\alpha}e^{-\frac{L}{L_{\star}}}\frac{dL}{L_{\star}}$$ I need to consider the case when $\alpha=-1$. And then show that the average luminosity of a galaxy is exactly $L_{\star}$. Could somebody explain how I could go about doing this and perhaps a hint or some part of a setup would be excellent. I really need to understand this. Another part, which is related to the above question, is asking me to explain why the total luminosity is a finite number, whereas the total number of galaxies diverges. By this does it mean that the total number is infinite? Any extra comments on this would also be really appreciated. 

I have a homework assignment question on accretions discs (essentially an estimation of the number of electron scatterings, but this is just for background). There are a few parameters, one of them being $L$, which is the linear size of the medium (the medium in this case being an accretion disc around a blackhole) Now, I have been given the mass of the black hole. Other than that, nothing else which could give me the linear size of the accretion disc. Could I assume that the linear extent of the accretion disc is perhaps of the order of a few Schwarzschild radii? Which could be calculated from the mass, which is given. If anyone could shed some light on this I would be very appreciative. I need a nudge in the right direction on this. 

Figure 1 of this paper shows the horizon distance (distance to which a circularly polarised overhead signal would be detected at SNR 8) for larger mass systems up to total mass of 1000 solar masses, assuming a search with compact binary coalescence templates. For higher masses the signal amplitude is generally larger, but they merge at lower frequencies so the signals are generally shorter-lived in the sensitive band of the detectors. As they're shorter they also, unfortunately, look a lot more like classes of instrumental glitches, so if they're not that strong (just above a threshold of roughly SNR 8) the background level can be large and lead to lower significance of any candidates. 

As others have said, in General Relativity gravitational waves travel at the speed of light. However, with the observation of GW170817, a gravitational wave signal from the merger of two neutron stars, coincident with a gamma-ray burst (GRB170817A), we can now set stringent limits on the difference between the speed of photons and gravitational waves. The gravitational wave signal recorded the merger time at approximately 1.7 seconds before the arrival of the gamma-rays, and the source was in a galaxy approximately 40 Mpc away, so (using 1.7 seconds as an upper limit on the time difference, and a lower limit on the distance of 26 Mpc from the uncertainty on the distance measurement) an upper limit on the difference in speeds is $\lesssim 10^{-15}$ (see Abbott et al, Ap. J. Lett. 848, 2, (2017) for details). 

How long would it take to reach the current edge of the reachable portion of the universe, with the following bounds in mind: 

I remember one time a while back looking at the night sky through night vision goggles. One interesting thing I noticed is that there appeared to be many very faint meteors in the sky practically all the time. I assume this is dust burning up in the atmosphere, or possibly an unusual effect produced by the night vision goggles themselves. I more suspect that it is dust burning faintly in the atmosphere because it was seen only in the sky. My main question is: Is space dust constantly entering the atmosphere as small meteors at a fairly high rate? If I remember right, it was a few every second, which is much more frequent than normal "brighter" meteors, even during a meteor shower. 

Something to consider might be a large very dark (low albedo) asteroid. I would say it is quite possible a large dark asteroid (e.g. P-type) "could" be headed for us, and we would not know it until it hit us (e.g. distance 0). I think you are asking for the closest distance. It appears the main method of detecting asteriods is with telescopes, but we are starting to scan the skies in infrared too. Hopefully infrared will reveal these darker asteriods better. Sources for further research include: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ For the furthest distance, that question is trickier. It would largely depend on what is considered an asteroid, for example, if we consider Pluto to be an asteroid, we can at least detect very large asteroids out to the distance of Pluto, and we could track its path and see if it were on a collision course with earth. On average, it is said that we have already detected most of the globally threatening asteroids and it does not appear we are in immediate danger. Still, I'd say we need to stay on the lookout, and especially look out in infrared to detect any dark asteroids we may have missed :-). Summary: 

I would hazard a guess at this point, but effects of gravitational red-shift would perhaps average out, so approximately 50% of light would orginate from objects with stronger gravitational fields and 50% from weaker gravitational fields. Hence, we would see blue-shifted and red-shifted objects if gravitational redshift is an prominent as assumed. However, with the exception of the local group (where due to being gravitationally bound M33, Andromeda and ourselves are all moving towards each other), most of the extragalactic objects we observe have a redshift. Hence, the Doppler effect must be dominating. 

It is very hard to tell whether we are in a unique Universe. The difficulty is the closer we attempt to probe in the fractions of a nano second after the Big Bang our current forumlations of Gravity and the three our fundamental forces do not work. So it is very hard to tell whether our Universe is unique. However, with all that said, my own personal belief is that our Universe is not unique. The estimated time for random quantum fluctuations to generate a new Big Bang as quoted in the page that you have referred to is an UNIMAGINELY large time scale. My question I will pose back to you is, how could we ever tell we are a unique Universe, or part of a collection of Universes? 

I'm quite certain that there isn't any actual images of a transitory event of Jupiter or Saturn across the solar disk from say e.g.,s the Voyager probe, Pioneer 10/11 or even recent New Horizons mission? Another related question I have, what would the approximate transit of Jupiter look like as seen from Saturn. The distance between Saturn and Jupiter is approximately 4-5AU, and the diameter of Jupiter is one tenth that of the Sun's. Are we looking at perhaps a transit which covers 10-15% of the solar disk? N.B. Please note I understand that to observe a transit of Jupiter we have to be superior to it in the Solar System, hence I am asking for images taken by deep Solar System probes only. 

Is there any known pair of objects tidally locked with each other? I know the moon is tidally locked with the earth (e.g. one side always facing earth), but I don't know of any pair of objects that are both tidally locked with each other. For example, the planet would be tidally locked with the moon, and the moon would be tidally locked with the planet. 

I would expect that the further away a supernova is, the "longer" we observe it will be active because of an increased red shift. Objects in the universe that are further away are generally going away from us faster than objects that are close, hence the increased red shift. This increase in time due to redshift is very similar to the Doppler effect, where a siren is high pitched (and faster) when approaching you (e.g. blue shift with light), and low pitched (and slower) when going away from you (e.g. red shift with light). The faster the siren is moving away, the more the effect (both lower pitch and longer time) will be increased, likewise with light. Here are some sources that may help with what you are looking for (although I haven't been able to find a list exactly like you are looking for): $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

I would like to know, how strong would the gravity be from the distant universe if we were somehow able to remove half of it. For example, if everything behind us did not exist, how strongly would the stuff in front of us be pulling? By distant, let us consider everything beyond 10 billion light years (e.g. remove all the closer stuff). How many G's acceleration would I experience (discounting the fact that I would be in free fall and wouldn't feel it)?