Depending on just how far back you go, there was a time the CMB was in the visible spectrum. However, in the era you're talking about, this is not the case, and compared to starlight and the primary's light, it's going to be far too isotropic (and probably dim) to notice. According to this very apropos article quoting Harvard astrophysicist Abraham Loeb: "When the universe was 15 million years old, the cosmic microwave background had a temperature of a warm summer day on Earth." This means that 15 million years after the Big Bang, the CMB radiation had already been shifted all the way to the infrared. Let's bring in some numbers. Fortunately, despite a long layer of calculations to get there, the CMB temperature calculations follow a simple formula: $$T=T_0(1+z)$$ where $T$ and $T_0=2.725K$ are temperatures and $z$ is the redshift, itself a linear function of the scale size parameter $a$. To get your age range, use $z$ values between 4 (~12 Gyr) and 0.66 (~7Gyr). Or you could simply use a z redshift calculator. Or if you're lazy, use the figures I've stolen from Carmeli, Hartnett, and Oliveira, 2005 

Sir, we have reports that the, um, rider, flew into our military complex at Torf Edaem, Maryland, where he secured a nuclear weapon. Everybody stopped shooting at that point. He is currently on the front lawn of the NSA, where his Pegasus is eating the grass, yes, with the bomb strapped to the saddle, while the rider is sipping tea with Admiral Rogers. 

An advanced technological civilization can survive and even thrive everywhere there's any matter to use. Fusion, anti-matter, etc. You can have whatever aliens you want there. Biological water- and carbon-based life however would have about as much chance of existing/surviving there on their own as a molten-iron-based life-form would have on the surface of the Earth. But let's be nice. Perhaps Planet Nine was once a nice, inner-system Neptunian World with an Earth-sized companion satellite. The planet itself is too big for Earth-like life. The oversized companion moon would have had lots of water, carbon, all the good stuff. Later on, just a few million years ago, through an unfortunate interaction with a nearby star and Jupiter, Planet IX (locals call it Cthulhu) got expelled into the cold outer reaches. Talk about bad luck. The highly advanced civilization on IX decided not to invade Earth, which was lacking the requisite technological infrastructure. A small genetic modification was induced into one of the ape species on Planet III (the Waterplanet), as part of the IX-iforming process. The apes would build the industrial infrastructure, and the IXians would later come and use it once in place. While they wait, 99% of the population was put on Cryo/Virtuality, and a small crew on a billion of the Elder race maintains the industrial plant and occasionally keeps an eye on those Earth-apes. When the time is ripe, C̱͔̲̙̳͐̓̔̉ͭ̀t̨̾͋̀ͫͧ͒̚҉̮̟ͅḣ̛͍͎̰̬͇͉̫̆ͮ͛̌͌ͯu̴̬͚̼͇̰ͮ̍̋l̤ͮͦ̋̚h̰͚̜ͭͣͬ̊̒ͨͨ͆͡ů̯̜͓̪̉ͪ̄͋̔̈́ ̨͈̰͍̙̤̟͍͑ͤ̌͛̄w̪̳̣̣̌͊̂ͩͦį͎̣̤̥͕͎͙̦̍̀͊ͥ͂ͩl̥͓̖̪̥͖̦̼̦̓̾͑ͤ͗̅̏̃́l̏̓̈ͧ͏̱̹̫̙͕͔͜ ̯͖̗̦̠̯ͤ̑̏̃̈́ͨ̏̎͝rͧ̔҉͉̻̜͇̙̪i̶̬͖̠͔̼̖͒͗̉̂͊͝s̍̀̈́̐̿͋͏͎̜̻̦̼͙͖ę͈̂ͩ̔ͥ̓̓̾̕ ̈́̈́̆҉̶̡͕͓̞͇̬͙ậ͙͇̠͔͈̗̲ͯģ̯͍͕̳̿̊̋̓̈́͠à̷̡̱̹̞͐ͬ̾̈́̌ͧ͛i̵̷̴̙̳̲̦ͦͤ̂̈n̜̯͇̹̲͐̈́̋̈́̑͠ 

PS: Just noticed you want local influence. Ugh. Try fluorescent stratospheric fungi, feeding on water vapors, desert dust and sun. Kinda like bioluminescent algae below, but in the sky! 

I was working on a relatively near future time-line (20-30 years), and there is a scene in which the POV character has to sabotage the local power supply. Now my initial guess was that it'd be a field of tree-like solar-to-electricity converters, so I could just figure out a way to make a lotta smoke, or wait until night and sabotage the battery storage. But then I looked up some numbers and alternative sources like solar/wind/humans-in-pods-as-batteries account for a tiny and surprisingly unreliable percentage of total energy, with lots of coal- and gas-based standbys needed, and that looks set to continue far into the future. 

These are folks for whom a day is but a neon-like flicker, and seasons come and go as clouds on the sky. Regular methods won't work for these slow folks. Just like our society does not attempt to build things out of vapor, neither will theirs use paper or other such nondurables as stainless steel (life of mere centuries, would melt like an ice-cream cone on a summer day in their eyes). So it would have to be things that are durable, and their entire society would be built of such things. Perhaps a collection of monumental granite slabs, perhaps hyper-durable alloys with deep etchings. More likely, they'll solve the problem in ways we cannot even envision, since our entire mayfly species evolution would seem like a transient summer to them. Think long processes: geological changes, complex sculptures in orbit, alterations to slow patterns of molten rock underground feromagnetic flow, flare patterns of nearby stars. We know they are patient. What's a million years to them? 

Build a Matrioshka Sphere The standard setup for stellar energy capture is currently accepted to be a Matrioshka Sphere, a set of concentric Dyson spheres where each recycles the energy output of the immediately preceding layer. Now the problem would be if you want to do something useful with the energy elsewhere. Now, my caveat is that transferring energy or mass around is a poor use of reaction mass/energy. Our galaxy has plenty of energy and mass lying around all over the place, so schlepping atoms across interstellar gaps is a remarkably cost-ineffective maneuver. More likely, once you properly 'Matrioshkate' a star, you simply send the computing substrate running locally on that energy a particularly difficult sub-problem you need to solve as part of your larger optimizing goal, and only transfer back the sets of solutions and additional problems. Regardless, let's assume that for some reason you really, really, really need more energy than a single M, K or even G-type star is able to provide. The logical thing to do would be to go capture a bigger star, or build yourself a few Hawking-radiation-blasting micro black holes. Let's assume that's out of the cards for some reason. What are you to do? Beam Energy Laser light can carry surprisingly large amounts of energy, but will tend to lose coherence and diffract over interstellar distances, so you'd need massive refocusing arrays sprinkled along the way, somehow coordinating their positions to maintain a direct link between source star and the ultimate destination. $$RT = 0.61 \times D \times L / RL$$ where: RT = beam radius at target (m) D = distance from laser emitter to target (m) L = wavelength of laser beam (m, see table below) RL = radius of laser lens or reflector (m) A properly focused X-Ray laser can maintain decent focus over distances in the range of a solar system, so you'd still need plenty of refocusing stations. High density energy storage, with cargo ships to schlep it around The highest density energy storage in the works (aside from micro-black holes, which would render going all the way to red dwarf star pointless) is currently reckoned to be antimatter. Of course there are (currently unsolved) issues of efficient generation and confinement, but a civ capable of interstellar travel can probably confine a few megatons of antimatter on a freighter. If your ships are properly built (i.e. without a human crew) you can achieve 1000g accelerations and get to your destination in short ship-subjective time. Unfortunately, unless your propulsion methods are entirely unconventional by our current physics, you'll likely be using orders of magnitude more energy to get your cargo of antimatter from point A to point B than you're actually transporting in your cargo-hold. Still, if you're trucking in the goods from a sufficiently large number of nearby stars, you might be able to achieve another sun or two worth of energy output ($10^{26}J$ each second). 

We have a good mathematical understanding of 4D, and we routinely use computers to handle calculations in N-dimensional spaces. The problem is that our brain is adapted to create a 3D pseudoemulation. If you think about it, it's created by neurons spiking: nothing intrinsically 3D about it, rather us Earth-mammals adapted to use 3D because it's useful in a 3D environment. Now I want to be in a place where a human girl, aged about 12, is able to "see" in 4D. More specifically, I want her to achieve 4D perspective on a 3D object. Assume that a device exists to grant that information to her if she can understand it. It may require effort, like the stereogram, work for a limited 'volume', and she may only be able to sustain it for a brief time (or it may come as natural as breathing). I know of no human who claims to be able to do this, so this poses a bit of a problem. While it may come down to the wiring of our brain, I'm trying to think of a training program (for the child or even for the infant she once was if we want to take advantage of extra neuroplasticity of newborns) that would engender and boost this ability. I'm thinking computer simulations, minor brain surgery, etc. How could we train/modify people to see in 4D? 

Well, there's a reason animals run around and eat plants, and not the other way around. Let's find out why: Step 1: Inbound solar radiation in the vacuum at Earth orbit is 1,413 $W/m^2$, or about 1500 $W/m^2$ Step 2: Photosynthetic efficiency is 2% to 5% at best, under optimal conditions. (I've seen estimates as low as 0.1%) Let's use a wildly optimistic 5%. Step 3: Estimate humanoid body area to 1.5-2 $m^2$. Let's round up to 2, and say half of it, or $1 m^2$, can face the sun at a given time. Step 4: Estimate average daily food intake of a moderately active man to be around 2600 Calories, or $1.1\times10^7 J$, so round down to around 10 million Joules. Keep in mind that a Joule is a Watt/second. Step 5: (My favorite) Calculate the energy capture formula as a function of energy inflow, area, efficiency and time: $1500 W/m^2 \times 1m^2 \times 0.05 \times 1s = 75 W/s$ So at that wildly optimistic conversion rate under perfect sunlight you'd need, um, 133,333 seconds to power up for the day. That would be not half an hour, not 3 hours, but 37 hours. Keep in mind that in reality, even at noon, only about 1000-1100 Watts/sq. meter actually reach the ground (some get dissipated in the atmosphere), far less than half the body area will have direct solar incidence, and typical photosynthetic efficiency might actually be closer to 1%. So unless you come up with a way to increase the surface area about 10-fold at least, it's looking a little difficult. You might consider placing your green men in the focal center of a set of reflecting mirrors. Might get a tad hot, though, and photosynthesis has an optimal temperature range. 

Now, in theory, you could build a nice, loving and inclusive community that welcomes all those who share its values. But it's SO much easier to build a community on a sense of US-vs-THEM, since people are genetically predisposed to think in those black-white terms from the days (well, few million years) they spent as feuding ape-bands in the savanna. Once you get the printing press and mass literacy, the idea/meme can get mass traction. Hence, Nationalism was all the rage in Europe for most of the 19th and 20th centuries, and if you visit East Asia, it's still burning bright and likely to get people's undies tied up in a bunch, the kind of bunch that gets missiles flying and tanks rolling. So, to get back to your setting, just replace Nationalism with Religion-Secularism, and it should be a straight shoot from there. Good nice hatreds to keep people focused and united against the eeevil other. That gets your walls built, your border manned and people shouting and waving flags in the Capital's large, statue-decorated squares. 

Ok. Given a compelling enough economic rationale, it's doable. Even without doing a single calculation, you can already know you'd have to replace all cultivated fields with massive hydroponic food factories, so you'd still have vast amounts of the city (say a few levels) dedicated to agriculture. You'd have to modularize the city to make it resistant to earthquakes, and you'd have to capture and channel much of the waterflow that currently flows in rivers. None of this would be cheap. The question is whether there's a compelling reason to have that many people close together. A dense city like Mumbai or New York will usually top out at something like 30,000 people per sq. km. With proper technology, you can easily double that, perhaps even expand tenfold. But for comparison's sake, let's stick to Mumbai levels of today. With a land surface area of 149,000,000 sq. km, and given a 60% utilization rate (avoiding tall mountains and frozen tundras) you get a population of 2,682,000,000,000. That is about 2.7 trillion which is about 400 times more people than you have on the planet today. The energy production levels needed to support such a population, even with advanced hydroponics, are currently beyond our technology. Perhaps with massive space-based agro-habitats and solar plants linked to the Earth by space elevators, or with a multi-level arcology of which a non-trivial portion is reserved for agricultural purposes. 

Assume that golem insides are a black box, we don't care about that. Would capturing lightning be plausible with early renaissance technology? If so, how could it work and how much energy could we get? For the sake of argument and specificity, let's assume that a fully charged golem can operate for 5-7 days on normal stress level, and for 1/2 day in intense combat. Before you ask, I didn't get the chance to run a voltampermeter by the golems, so I don't know their full capacity. If lightning is deemed unfeasible, I'm willing to hear suggestions for alternative ways of charging up in field operations conditions. 

From XKCD Now a reflection nebula needs to have a nearby star behind it to glow from the perspective of the observer. Your 2 stars are about 20 AU apart (Sun-Uranus distance give or take). Not only does that leave a narrow margin for the habitable world's orbital stability, but the flaring during the early stages of star formation (at the end of its descent on the Hayashi track) would have blown away any and all of the Mother-Nebula material from within the vicinity of the binary pair.