I'm probably misunderstanding the question, but $URL$ notes that Neptune's magnitude from Earth is 7.8 at opposition, when it's 4347.31 million km away. If you get 3 times closer, 1449.1 million km away, Neptune will appear 9 times brighter, bringing its magnitude to 5.4, well within our visible range. As Stellarium notes below, Neptune is almost visible (magnitude 5.66) from Uranus, an entire planet away. 

you can get a rough idea of where the moon's ecliptic latitude is maximal for each month. Of course, you can refine these settings to get more accuracy. In theory, you can use $URL$ to get more exact values of when the moon is furthest north of the ecliptic, but I couldn't get this to quite work out (I didn't spend very long on it). I don't see that the ecliptic latitude's maximal position is that much closer to Mu Virgo in September 2017, but didn't look carefully. 

And if we go back to 1473 BCE (which is -1472), the rising is clearly left to right: Interestingly, if we go far enough south, the rising is right to left even in -1472: Note that position in which Orion rises doesn't change much from day to day. In other words, the position of Orion's stars at helical rising are the same as the position of Orion's stars at rising any other day of the year. Because of precession, the position does change over long periods of time, but not day to day. The only problem with the "most obvious" answer above is that we know the Egyptians were very interested in helical risings, so it would be odd to see a depiction of a "helical setting". 

This should really be a comment, but... you can usually check your calculations using a program like Stellarium (screenshot above). From the latitude/longitude and right ascension/declination you give, it appears you are viewing Aldebaran from Chicago, IL at 7:20am UTC on 2017-12-27 (since Chicago is on Central Time and not observing Daylight Saving Time, which is 6h behind UTC). As you can see from the above, the hour angle is about 3h16m19s (or 49.16 degrees), the azimuth (which is what I think you actually wanted instead of hour angle) is about 254 degrees, and the altitude is about 41 degrees. The process for converting right ascension and declination to azimuth and elevation isn't difficult, and I considered posting a general answer, but I wasn't sure what format to use. Most programming languages have an astronomy library (which will be more accurate), and there are plenty of sites that already walk through how we get the formula, not to mention my $URL$ which gives sourced formulas. 

Where can I find a large list of online star cameras with wide fields of view? $URL$ is one example, but the images are fairly low resolution and there aren't many of them. Is there a better site or sites to see wide-field star images? I realize there are several online telescopes, but they all have a small limited field of view (which makes sense), so you can only see small portions of the sky at once, not the entire sky as above. 

Notice that from Nov 22 through Dec 06 (non-inclusive) the rise and set are both "----", indicating "object continuously below horizon". Caveats/notes: 

It's a little hard to notice because of the scientific notation (and the embarrassing fact that x and y aren't exactly zero at J2000), but the x and y values at J2000 (the middle entry) are nearly zero. The y value is nearly zero for all three entries, but the x value changes. In 1984, the x value is about +10m, and, in 2016, the x value is almost -10m, showing the effects of precession. One benefit of a non-precessing frame like ICRF is that star positions are relatively constant (excluding proper motion and the solar system's own motion). For example, the z axis will always point (very roughly) to Polaris, even after precession has changed the north star to, for example, Deneb. By default, NASA now uses ICRF coordinates to indicate where planets are, so, if you're looking to map planets on a J2000 starchart, you should use the ICRF coordinates. The only problem you'll have using ICRF/J2000 coordinates (instead of J2016 coordinates) is that any calculations you make for stellar/planetary azimuth and altitude will be off slightly, not enough to really notice unless you are doing precision work. 

Where can I find a list of observed (not computed) sun/moon rise/set times to the nearest second, along with the location (latitude, longitude, altitude [or enough information to find these three values]) and, ideally, weather conditions (temperature/pressure)? Since it's hard to tell where the "middle" of the sun/moon is when it's setting, these would be the setting times for the lower or upper limb of the sun/moon. Reason: I'm trying to compute sun/moon rise/set to the nearest second using high-precision data, and I'm curious to see if I can get anywhere near the actual observed time. My technique: 

The "Aql" stands for the for the constellation Aquila, the Eagle ($URL$ verifies this) The "10" means there are 10 lines that make up the markings for Aquila. Note that these lines are specific to the H.A. Rey skyculture. Different cultures will have different lines. The next 20 number represent the lines themselves. For example "98036 97649" is a line from star 98036 to star 97649, and "97649 97278" is a line from star 97649 to star 97278. Since these two lines share star 97649, they are connected, but that's not always the case with adjacent lines. For example "95501 97804 99473 97804" represents a line from star 95501 to star 97804 and another unconnected line from star 99473 to star 97804. The next question: what exactly IS star 98036? If you look at $URL$ you'll see it's Beta Aquilae, but not all stars have names in this file, and the name isn't particularly helpful in finding the star itself. Stellarium itself stores this data in the "catalog files" at $URL$ with the format described at $URL$ However, this can be ugly. Since Stellarium uses the standard Hipparcos catalog, you can visit ftp://cdsarc.u-strasbg.fr/pub/cats/I/239/ and download "hip_main.dat.gz". The format is described at $URL$ The line relating to star 98036 starts: 

Both Mercury and Venus undergo retrograde motion, but are visually close to the Sun when this happens, so we don't notice it. Below is Mercury's right ascension from May 15 to July 15 of this year. Note that it starts off increasing, then decreases (retrograde motion) and then increases again. 

The sun's angular diameter is about 32 arcminutes, so the sun's lower limb is 16 arcminutes below the sun's center. When the center of the sun has geometric elevation -18 arcminutes (-0.3 degrees), the lower limb has geometric elevation -34 arcminutes. Since refraction near the horizon is also 34 arcminutes, the sun's lower limb rises when the sun's geometric elevation is -0.3 degrees. In the table above, this occurs between 1914 and 1915, but my program uses slightly more accurate data for the sun's angular diameter, and the sun actually finishes rising between 1913 and 1914 (and closer to 1913). You can then fly almost halfway across the world to latitude 89 degrees 51 minutes and longitude -19 degrees to see the one-minute-shorter longest sunset, which starts at 23 Sep 2015 at 2128 and ends at 25 Sep 2015 at 1648, a length of 43 hours and 20 minutes. In this case, you would use $URL$ to verify the ending time of the sunset, and HORIZONS to verify the start time of the sunset. Polar sunrises and sunsets are considerably shorter: 

which works out to roughly 1.7 billion miles or 2.7 billion kilometers. The image from the other answer: 

While there's no hope for Canis Minor (unless you're willing to look at fainter stars, at which point you might be able to pull it off), here's H. A. Rey's vision of some of the nearby constellations: 

I originally did this as a self-answer, but my answer was of such poor quality I've now deleted it. I hope to do a better answer backed by some calculations, but, as always, anyone else is free to answer. 

so interpolation doesn't work well. The problem: Mercury does NOT orbit the solar system barycenter; it orbits the Sun (What point does Earth actually orbit?) The barycenter is the center of mass of our solar system. If you're far enough away from our solar system, you can treat the solar system as a point mass at that point. Inside our solar system, that doesn't work as well for most planets (massive Jupiter is an exception). Example: when Sun-Mercury-Jupiter form a straight line (and Jupiter's on the same side of the Sun as Mercury), Jupiter's gravitational on influence on Mercury is stronger than it is on the Sun. If you run Horizons using the Sun as the center body: 

(and thus not a single point), and $URL$ notes that M16 has an angular diameter of about 7 arcminutes. 

@DavidHammen is correct in noticing that $URL$ rounds to the nearest minute (and it turns out they do this inconsistently), so I wrote $URL$ to solve this. However, it was pretty much a waste of time, since it just verifies @JeffY's comment that the 21st and 22nd are equally long at longitude 72 degrees and 15 minutes west. The equal day lines actually runs northwest/southeast, starting at about and ending at , looking something like this on an equiangular map (longitude scale greatly exaggerated): 

The image above (click for full size) shows the moon's path for much of July. The celestial equator is in purple and the ecliptic is in green. Note that: 

This is almost too short to be answer. Using the "rise" formula at Need Simple equation for Rise, Transit, and Set time and plugging in 32.54 degrees for Babylon's latitude, we get: 

$ \cos ^{-1}\left(-\frac{\tan (\lambda ) (\cos (\lambda ) \cos (\phi ) \cos (Z)+\sin (\lambda ) \sin (Z))}{\sqrt{(\cos (\lambda ) \sin (Z)-\sin (\lambda) \cos (\phi ) \cos (Z))^2+\sin ^2(\phi ) \cos ^2(Z)}}\right)-\tan^{-1} (\cos (\lambda ) \sin (Z)-\sin (\lambda ) \cos (\phi ) \cos (Z),\sin (\phi ) (-\cos (Z))) $ is the amount of time from now (see important notes below) a celestial object will set, where: 

If I advance the date to 17 Oct 2015, however, the orbit of Mars correctly goes right through Chi Leonis (Mars will occult Chi Leonis on 18 Oct 2015): 

Solution notes: I learned quite a bit answering this question, and thought it was only solvable numerically until I figured out the shortcut: 

The 2 BCE conjunction had Regulus, Jupiter, and Venus within 5.346 degres, and the Sun was 19.371 degrees distant. The 2015 conjunction had the three within 5.488 degrees, with the Sun 30.930 degrees away. There are 81 conjunctions between those two dates where Regulus, Jupiter, and Venus are less than 5.488 degrees apart, although, in some cases, the Sun would be too close to see these conjunctions. I list all of these conjunctions below, and also include conjunctions as far back as 999 BCE and as far forward as 2999 CE. The first two columns are the date and time. The third column is the maximum pairwise separation (in degrees) of Regulus, Jupiter, and Venus. The fourth column is the smallest angular distance from the Sun (in degrees) of the three. Additional notes follow the list: