There's an idiom in English, "good servant but bad master" ("fire is a good servant but a bad master", "technology is...", "science is..."). I expect that "reason" and "logic" may be like that, i.e. sometimes useful tools but you shouldn't do something just because it sounds "rational". Also I'm taught to be rational, and if someone tells me to do something I often want to know why; and (theoretically) knowing why I do something helps me to understand what I'm trying to do and therefore maybe even how to do it. So it may be difficult for me to work with (practice, benefit from) a doctrine that's irrational -- it can be helpful if a doctrine is rational, if its reasoning is explained. 

Note that here I'm trying to apply atman-versus-anatman reasoning to the description of a 'table'. However I think that atman is, instead of being used to describe essence of 'table', more usually used to describe a hypothetical essence of 'self', i.e. what's also known as 'soul': and perhaps that is why people get confused about whether anatman means 'no soul' or 'no self'. Self So far as I know there are three important things to know about the Self: 

I think that, "I am form", "I am formless", "I exist", "I don't exist", are all self-theories ... theories about self ... and from accepting or assuming any of these theories arises "sorrow and lamentation, pain, grief, and despair". There is also (quoting from MN 2): 

Consider compassion, for example. Would you burn your hand? No, because it would hurt. Would you burn someone else's hand? No, because it would hurt. It's the same hurt and so the same compassion, the same reason. 

... could be a helpful remedy (perhaps a prescription to take whenever you find views like the ones listed above). More generally I think that Buddhism teaches than any "view of self" at all is a cause of dukkha -- How is it wrong to believe that a self exists, or that it doesn't? Conversely though there's a lot of Buddhist doctrine which encourages "taking responsibility": 

According to MN 75, it is the "having conducted himself well" that results in "a happy destination". 

... I think he's introspecting: he's thinking about the "I" and has reached "a thicket of views". He might be explicitly trying to discard "fitness" from his view: he thinks that viewing things as "fit or not fit" (e.g. for evolutionary survival) prevents us from seeing what "true" (which he hasn't defined, and which he argues we can't perceive without bias). 

As ruben2020 wrote, "Visions are nothing else but dreams". I suspect that such might be happening all the time, like the air pump in an aquarium that's permanently blowing bubbles; but that usually there's so much other noise (sensory input including sight, sound, and haptic; and discursive thought) that we're not aware of it. When other turbulence (senses and thoughts) in the aquarium (brain) calms down, then you may become aware of the stream of bubbles (hallucinogenic images). If you (I use the word "you" here but what I mean is, "in my experience, if I") delight in such an image, "what a delightful image!", then it's possible to keep the image in sight, to pursue the vision: the image becomes replaced with another image, your awareness is filled/taken over by images, and, that's like an ordinary dream-sequence. Maybe I guess doing that (delighting and pursuing) encourages your brain to dream, opens some kind of door or path between the image-bubble-producing part of the brain and the rest of the brain, and allows the images to take over. I imagine that if viewed with an EEG a doctor would see sleep-type or dream-type brain waves taking over. I think the way I try to 'work with' (i.e. overcome) these hallucinations is: 

So that view or intention seems to me to be contrary to the noble truths, contrary to the eightfold way ... if it's not Dharma ... if, therefore, it's not Buddhism ... then I don't see how it isn't obvious that it's likely that the "hoped for effect won't happen": 

There's a word in the first line (verani) meaning 'hatred', and one in the third (averena) which is the opposite or more specifically the negation, 'non-hatred' (the prefix seems to mean 'not-' or 'non-' in Pali, as it does also in English). Some of more literal and less poetic translations of the Dhammapada for example this one say "non-hatred" rather than "loving-kindness". You might find it easier (or better) to feel non-hatred or rather to not feel hatred: to not 'feel'; or to aim for emptiness and transience (not constructing a self who feels hateful, not holding on to hate if it arises), than to aim for artificial loving-kindness. I think that goes with some of the other Buddhist teaching (especially the early and non-explicitly-altruistic teaching) which seem IMO to describe other concepts too such as 'nirvana' for example (or the third noble truth) as a bit of negation or a zero, for example as an "unbinding" 

Though a dog might fear pain, is it possible they'd fear death (or a person's violence resulting in their death) even more? Buddhism doesn't recommend "mercy killing". It's considered very wrong (unforgivable) for a monk to even recommend the alleged "advantages" of suicide, to someone who's in pain. 

In a comment you wrote, "I wander to find one in my nearest city but I return back with nothing. It's little bit hard." I'm thinking that you still have Dhamma when you don't have Sangha. I think you don't "cure" pain, but Dhamma might teach you to recognize it when it arises: e.g. something triggers a feeling of sorrow, and you can note, "this is sorrow". Eventually (if the experience is repeated) you learn to recognize what triggers sorrow, and perhaps you choose to not grasp (not hold to, attach to) the situation and/or sequence of thoughts which lead to sorrow. 

The Buddha made remarks (for lay people) about conserving wealth; for example, the Sigalovada Sutta warns against squandering wealth. That sutta doesn't mention the environment, but modern environmentalists or economists say that degrading the environment (and other activities including the exploitation of fossil fuels, deforestation, mining, any "unsustainable" levels of fishing, etc.) is equivalent to spending capital rather than spending income ... and that we ought to be living sustainably, consuming renewable income rather than unrenewable capital. 

The Wikipedia article lists several translations, of which (at least) the last exists as a PDF online, i.e. 

Per Wikipedia (here and here), the Buddhist word "faith" also (i.e. perhaps similarly to the Christian word) includes the meanings of "trust" and "loyalty". The descriptions given in this article seem to me to imply that the words have the following in common: 

I think it's difficult to talk about rebirth as if it were a sure thing: for example because kamma comes from a being's previous life, but it also comes from the life before that, etc. "The [precise working out of the] results of kamma" is said to be unconjecturable. Actually being able to directly see others' karmic destinations is one of the miraculous powers attributed to the Buddha: 

Downplaying the external world (is "external world" quite the same as 'form (rūpa)'?), saying that our ideas of it are reified fabrications of the mind created from (or dependent on) sense-contact, seems to me a feature even of the Pali suttas ... with the proviso that nihilism (e.g. "There is nothing given, nothing offered, etc."), and presumably solipsism, are identified as a "wrong view". Distinguishing or reconciling these views is I think known as the 'two truths' doctrine[s]. The following answer is not expert; it's slightly referenced but just recently researched because of your question. 

"He was ignorant of my other faults, else he would not have mentioned these alone." The first quote this statement reminded me of was The Four Great References, which include, 

I suppose that thinking isn't necessarily always supreme, always good. Instead thinking might be judged, according to (for example) whether it's skilful or wholesome. I think that according to the suttas you might judge "thinking" on the basis of whether it is or isn't conducive to suffering. On that basis it's possible that the kinds of thoughts which you outlined in the OP might be unskillful -- because if you stay with those thoughts, they might cause you to suffer. Or it's possible that they're skilful: because clearly seeing that something is not dhamma may be necessary. In any case, I think it may be reasonable to try to control (e.g. to discard, not attach to) what you think about (including what kind of news you read), and what "views" you form, just as it's fair to "guard the senses" (guard what you see and hear). I'm not sure but another way to judge or to assess, to weigh, something might be on the basis of whether it's conducive to the suffering of others. On that basis too the thoughts you outlined may or may not be skilful: I suspect that by themselves they don't help anyone, but maybe they could be an example of seeing the suffering of others in a way that helps you or leads you to alleviate their suffering. 

Although it's true that sickness and old age are included in the list of types of suffering; and (together with poverty and death) might be inevitable, however, people might not have to "suffer" (might control, limit, put away, put an end to their suffering) when they have these experiences. For example, when the Buddha reached his old age, he isn't reported to have said, "Oh God! Why, why me? Oh please, no!" Similarly, some people are able to be sick: to have cancer for example; and to behave well, speak well, think well, etc., for as long as they're alive -- which benefits themselves and people who know them. 

explain it to a non-Buddhist person who asks how the holocaust suffering can be justified I think you might find it easier to explain that actions or intentions to cause that kind of suffering isn't or can't be justified, and on the contrary appears to be against Buddhist dharma (ethics) -- against the "first precept", for example, against doctrines of "benevolence" and "harmlessness" and so on. I don't think I would try to explain it in terms of karma. There are many "sciences" (for example physics, biology, politics) each with many theories or models, and it's sensible to choose the right kind of science (and the right scientific model within that science) to explain phenomena. I'd explain geological phenomena using physics, for example, not using biology; physiological phenomena using biology not politics; etc. I think (perhaps I'm wrong) that karma is used to draw attention to the consequences of an individual's intentions or actions: for example if I do or don't decide to do something, what is the karmic result of that? I don't think it's safe to try to apply it to the Holocaust (which involves millions of people and, more or less, not within our lifetimes). It might be worth mentioning too that karmic consequences are complicated and that although the Buddha (with supernatural ability) was able to say what various consequences of karma were in people's lives, other people aren't so able. Also I think there are several doctrines of "Karma" in the world: which (beware I'm not sure that the following statement is true) have sometimes been used to justify a social caste system, to explain reincarnation, to justify inequality and persecution, and to justify war. People (your "non-Buddhist" for example) may not know that there are different doctrines of Karma. It might be worth mentioning that even some contemporary Buddhists seem to hold views of karma like this, or who justify ethnic violence somehow -- I don't think that's inline with how I understand/interpret the doctrine, however. 

Unfortunately (because it doesn't answer your question), I'd guess it's better to find "practical solutions to everyday suffering" that don't contradict Buddhism. When my father died, there's a couple of things people did for my mum which she appreciated (i.e. these are stories which she retold, of examples of how to help people who are grieving because she found them helpful).