Image cropped for clarity, original available here. Note that Amundsen's ascent to the Antarctic Plateau is also about a quarter of the distance to the Pole than route from the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf. This also made logistical support (laying supply depots) much easier, as well as limiting the distance that had to be travelled at the higher, colder, and windier elevation. 1Henry, Thomas R. (1950), The White Continent: The Story of Antarctica 

So in a word, yes - he was suspected of being a communist and was unpopular with the establishment. I'd check the linked material as a start for answers on the rest of the question. 

The American Civil War doesn't even pass the test of the bloodiest civil war in the Americas. This dubious honor is held by the Mexican Revolution of 1910, with between 1 and 2 million casualties. It also isn't even the bloodiest war in American history if only combat casualties are considered - 214,938 Civil War combat casualties vs. 291,557 during WWII per Wikipedia. Other than the Russian Civil War and Chinese Civil War mentioned by Oldcat, some others to add to the list would be the Taiping Rebellion, most likely the Korean War (although casualty figures are hard to come by for the north), the Vietnam War, the Cambodian Civil War, and the Second Sudanese Civil War. I'm sure this list is by no means exhaustive. 

Condition of the Rapa Nui when contacted by Europeans It's fairly clear from the early European accounts that the islanders were not starving - in fact all of them speak toward the willingness of the inhabitants to trade food for manufactured goods. The ship's logs from Jacob Roggeveen's landing in 1722 state; 

For the adventurous, the full text is available in Latin here. Aside from that and the sources you've already located, I'm doubtful that you'll get any closer to anything conclusive unless somebody locates and exhumes the body. 

See Bronze Age Military Equipment by Dan Howard, Daily Life in the Middle Ages by Paul Newman, Hastings 1066: The Fall of Saxon England by Christopher Gravett. 

Although it calls out a more modern usage, I'd guess that it may have had its origins in the earlier usage that you ran across. My personal suspicion (and speculation at best) is that is may have came from the similarity between the two words in German and English, particularly in the spelling and pronunciation. The German word "boot" translates to "boat" in English and is pronounced the same way. It's easy to imagine a German cobbler describing himself as a "boat crimper" and the term sticking and finding wider usage. 

This ultimately formed the basis for the Apollo-Soyuz program, so it is entirely possible that Armstrong's visit was engineered specifically toward the end of fostering goodwill during the tenuous early phases of establishing a scientific relationship. 1 National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Astronautics and Aeronautics, 1969 - Chronology on Science, Technology, and Policy, p 195 2 National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Astronautics and Aeronautics, 1970 - Chronology on Science, Technology, and Policy, p 176 3 Armstrong, Neil. University of Cincinnati Résumé, September 1975, p 2 4 Hansen, James R. First Man: The Life of Neil A. Armstrong, p 582 5 Ezell, Edward and Linda. The Partnership: A History of the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project, p online 6 Ibid. 

This book would be a good starting point for other first hand accounts of both successful and unsuccessful escape attempts. Other resources to check would be the extensive (and also freely available) compendium The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, particularly the second series specific to prisoner of war documents. Another place to check would be the National Archives, which has two archives that appear promising - Records of Confederates in Union Prisons, compiled ca. 1865 - ca. 1899, documenting the period 1861 - 1865 and Registers of Confederate Prisoners, compiled 1889 - 1904, documenting the period 1863 - 1865. Finally, you can always comb through period newspapers from the area. 1Gray, Michael P. The Business of Captivity: Elmira and Its Civil War Prison, p 124 2Horigan, Michael. Elmira: Death Camp of the North, p 105-6 3Holmes, Clay W. The Elmira Prison Camp: A History of the Military Prison at Elmira, N.Y, p 161-2 

Beyond that, the consensus is currently diverging if not on the speed of the Thule migration, but on the time. This illustrates the difficulty in establishing anything beyond a rough estimate. One of the main driving factors behind this re-examination has been deeper and more rigorous examination of the achaeological sites, as explained by Ramsden and Rankin. 

It was William Paterson of New Jersey, who was only the third person to vacate a seat for any reason in the United States Senate when he resigned on November 13, 1790 to become the second govenor of New Jersey. He was preceded by William Grayson of Virginia who died while holding office on March 12, 1790 and John Walker (also of Virginia) who was appointed to the post when Grayson died and held it until a successor was elected on November 9, 1790. Moses Robinson of Vermont was the 14th senator to resign. Since there doesn't seem to be a list of U.S. Senators that have resigned anywhere (and I was bored), I compiled one here using Wikipedia - 312 total Senators with 332 resignations at the time of this post by my count. Note that this includes 3 people who were elected to the Senate but resigned prior to being seated (denoted by an asterisk). Senate resignations by date: 

So, in short - a single lifetime? Possibly. Many generations? Possibly. The consensus is that it was noteworthy for its speed, but the details are elusive. 

This is also evident in the analysis by Kelly Olson in the essay entitled Matrona and Whore: Clothing and Definition in Roman Antiquity, in the anthology Prostitutes and Courtesans in the Ancient World: 

Note regarding population Not directly related to the question, but interesting none the less (given the doubt raised about population estimates in the other answer) - J. C. Sprott wrote a great paper from a more mathematical standpoint and used statistical modelling to estimate a peak population of around 10,000. The more fascinating piece of the paper is his model of a three bio-type system of humans, rats, and palms that creates a strange attractor in multiple formulations of species interaction. It makes a strong case that the overall system was very susceptible to sudden ecological collapse.11 Conclusions (tl;dr) Given compelling evidence of agriculturally related deforestation and a poorly substantiated case for rats as the primary factor, I personally think that Hunt and Lipo's theory is dubious at best. The shift between low intensity farming and high intensity farming (which seems to disappear by the time the Europeans show up in the 18 century) points strongly to a population collapse. Whether the collapse itself was due specifically to food pressures or other causes is up in the air. 

In fact, Ernest Shackleton's Endurance Expedition in 1914 failed largely due to the conditions in the Weddell Sea, and they never even made landfall on the continent. Finally, there are 2 passes through the Transantarctic Mountains that make the approach much easier from the Ross Ice Shelf, as illustrated by Gordon Home's map of the routes followed by Roald Amundsen and Robert Scott. Amundsen's route is on the left, Scott's on the right. 

Engels wrote quite a bit about Pan-Slavism following the First Pan-Slav Congress (much of it in this same vein), but this is the only explicit reference that I can find in some casual searching that mentions extermination. As far as Wells goes, I'm guessing the someone from your scribble may have been referring to this line from A Modern Utopia: 

The way that such arrangements have been policed have mainly been through means similar to article 12 of the Hague Convention. That is, if a combatant is recaptured on the battlefield and found to be in violation of a prior parole they would not be treated as a POW - in many cases this would mean that they would be executed. Friedrich Petersen is actually the only reference that I can find for a traditional POW parole in World War II. Other instances seem to be confined to neutral countries such as Switzerland, Spain, and Turkey, but these were usually conditional on the parolee not leaving the country and obviously were not between belligerents. See: Brown, Marcus, Prisoner of War Parole: Ancient Concept, Modern Utility, Military Law Review Vol. 156 

See Timothy Cogley and Christopher Wood. As far as the price of gold, remember that with a gold standard, the price of gold largely is inflation. Prior to the Glass Steagall Act in 1932, the Federal reserve was required to back 40% of all Federal Reserve notes with gold, and this is consistent with the ratio of Fed holdings during the period. You can see the effect of Glass Steagall in the graph below where it remains relatively flat through 1932 when there is a sudden spike in bond holdings compared to gold: 

Parole is indeed the word that all parties would have used and understood in 1945. In fact, this is a military tradition that has roots going back as far as Roman Empire - for example, Marcus Atilius Regulus was released on parole by the Carthaginians in 250 B.C.. It was relatively common through the end of the American Civil War, where it was done through POW exchanges on the condition that the prisoners exchanged would not return to military service. I've run across some references to paroles occurring during World War I, but by that time they seem to have been limited to allowing POWs outside of camps during the day and not repatriations. This practice was ended by the French after the Germans failed to allow paroling of French officers. International law at the beginning of World War II recognized POW paroles, and was specifically mentioned in the Hague Convention of 1907, Chapter 2, Articles 10 through 12: 

Most evidence points toward a wide range of attire worn by prostitutes, driven more by market demand and social status than anything else. Roman prostitutes were almost always slaves, and as such, that would have driven what they wore as much as anything else. Thomas McGinn writes in Prostitution, Sexuality, and the Law in Ancient Rome that, 

In fact, the number of escape attempts (or possibly the perception) motivated the camp administration to place an under cover informer amongst the ranks of the Confederate prisoners held in the camp. This, along with a system of trusties, would seem to have been pretty effective at limiting the number of successful escape attempts. 

The only questions as to which document held precedence ended when the last state of the Confederation (Rhode Island) ratified the Constitution in 1790. Prior to that, there would have been some legal limbo stemming from the fact that Article VII of the Constitution only required 9 states to ratify. Furthermore, the U.S. Supreme Court would not hold any authority over the enforcement of the Articles of Confederation, as Article III, Section 2 defines that authority to "extend to all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising under this Constitution." The wording quoted from Justice Chase's opinion in Texas v. White is basically just legal hyperbole, and serves as an introduction to the actual basis for the Court's decision a couple paragraphs later: 

The closest visual match I can find is the Northrop XFT, an unsuccessful prototype. That particular wheel spat design is fairly distinctive and indicative of late 20s to early 30s, but as a hand-carved model it might be more representational than based off a specific model. 

While I seriously doubt this is a "case of mistaken identity", it does show how relatively common this event was during warfare of the period. In that Gordon's diary is one of the minuscule number of surviving participant accounts it is entirely possible that Gustav had a horse shot from under him, and nobody except the residents of Kraków thought it terribly out of the ordinary during a military action. If a reference does exist, it's likely a needle archived in a haystack somewhere and likely in an officer's memoir. I doubt an event like this would have made the dispatches of the Swedish life guard cavalry. 

I grabbed a couple sentences of the linked speech, tossed quotes around it and dropped it into a Google search. It spit back a link to Full text of "Adolf Hitler Collection Of Speeches 1922 1945" on archive.org. Unfortunately it doesn't have the original German text, but it seems to be a quite comprehensive collection. I'm guessing that if you have some of the untranslated German texts, you can use a similar method to find to locate them on a more academically palatable site. 

Beyond that, there doesn't appear to me anything other than a general consensus that Congressional authority over the District, as it was incorporated without much modification as the beginning of Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution: 

1 Madison, James. The Federalist No. 43, p. online 2 Ibid. 3 United States Continental Congress. Journals of the American congress: from 1774 to 1788 - Volume 4, p. 283-6 4 Madison, James. The Papers of James Madison, Volume 1, p. 573 5 Bryan, Wilhelmus Bogart. A History of the National Capital, Volume 1, p. 15 

The aircraft is a Howard DGA-18, and the pilot might be Earl Shaw of Dade County, FL based on the FAA registration number history. The FAA stopped issuing "NC" (the C stands for "civil") numbers in 1948, although the earliest registration record in the FAA database is from 1955. The airframe (serial number 602) was manufactured in 1941, so best guess on when the photo was taken would be sometime in the 40's or 50's. 

Although it is hard to pick out specific passages, the threat posed by the Germans was that they were much more aggressive. The danger to Rome from the Germans was not only in the lack of the civilizing influence of the Rome, but in the perception that they could not be contained to Germania if they succeeded in overrunning Gaul. From chapter 33, again with my emphasis: 

The etymology of the term is a little bit harder to track down, but it is referenced in Cassell's Dictionary of Slang as: ... 6. [1950s+] (US) a large shoe or boot. 

As for the Dolphin, she had been laid up in Nantes for quite a while awaiting repair or sale. In fact, the captain writes the following in a letter to the American Commissioners in France on Nov 19th, relaying the news of the loss of the Reprisal:3 

Rats, deforestation, and food pressure First, "the idea that the island was covered in giant palms" is not disputed by any of the research about the Island. In addition the pollen studies that Diamond cited in Collapse, Mieth and Bork undertook an extensive study of palm root casts and came up with the estimate that roughly 16 million palm trees once covered the island6. The theory of population pressure leading to deforestation is not presented in terms of how many people there were to support - it is put forward in the context of evidence of slash and burn agriculture. Mieth and Bork's article explains that the earliest instances of farming are integrated into the forest environment. 

Second (and somewhat related to the first), he was obsessed with writing the definitive "history of liberty" but insisted on sourcing and researching it himself. The following makes use of a similar phrase, but puts it into a little more context: 

It's probably not going to be very easy to identify the top two pictures, but the bottom picture appears to be the light cargo ship USS Mark (AKL 12). Note that Wikipedia uses its WWII registration number - see the hull's entry on the Naval Vessel Register. 

Note that there are some discrepancies as to his age, for example this newspaper article reports him as being 18: