There's a saying that a clean bike is a happy bike. You really can't clean a bike too much. Make sure to clean the bike more often in the winter when riding on road salt, which is bad for the drivetrain. For all bikes, I'd definitely clean the drivetrain if it gets muddy. Mud can interfere with shifting and braking. Do not put oil or grease on the rims. If you have rim brakes, they may squeak after cleaning the rims. As long as it doesn't interfere with braking power, I don't worry about that. The clean-rim-squeal-sound goes away on its own after a bit. In terms of the frame: With a steel frame, you'll need to worry about rust, particularly where you have any scratches in the paint. Patting the bike dry after a ride in the rain should deal with that. (This applies to steel and aluminum, I know very little about carbon or Titanium frames, or about disc brakes.) 

The Shimano Techdocs site has installation manuals and exploded diagrams of Shimano components. While it's possible your shifters may not be on the site, you can probably find a set that's similar enough. 

You can now participate in updating Google Maps to the point of adding streets and updating information, using Google Map Maker. While there is community bureaucracy to learn, you can now indeed participate directly. 

Most ordinary baby wipes will get grease out of clothing if you get to the stain quickly enough - or, at least, get enough of it out that the rest will later wash out. You can also carry spray-n-wash pads or keep them in your desk at work. However, baby wipes are also good for cleaning your hands - handy after changing a flat, or fiddling with a bike chain. However, it's even better to avoid getting grease on your clothes to begin with, so I suggest using a pants clip or rolling your right pants leg up. A full chainguard is great for this, but it's not always practical on a commuter bike. This won't prevent the problem completely, bit it does help minimize it. For these reasons, I found that when I was commuting, I tended to favor my black or dark-colored pants. 

I can tell you what I do. Your local laws may vary, of course, so check them! There are a few cases where I feel it'd be simpler to just get off my bike and walk -- complicated crossings, or perhaps transferring to a bike path. One of the advantages of a bike is that you can get off it and push it along. If doing that is safer and more efficient, I won't hesitate to do that. If a cyclist is going to use pedestrian facilities, it'd be safer for everyone concerned for the cyclist to dismount and push the bike along. If you feel silly walking those few yards to a bike rack, well, that's just fine, feeling a little silly isn't going to kill you. And are the few seconds one would save by riding on the sidewalk really that important? Those bike path/street/sidewalk intersections you mention can indeed be badly designed. You'll have to use your judgement there. If you can be more specific and show us an example, I'd be happy to tell you how I'd handle it, but there's no substitute for experience and being on the spot. 

Basically, they're harsh and hard on your wheels. A quick look at Sheldon Brown's site will tell you more: 

If the problem is that the levers are too far out from the bars, that may be fixable. Some brake levers come with small rubber inserts that you can use to reduce the distance to the levers. 

Common touring bikes include the Surly Long-Haul Trucker and the Trek 520. (The Novara Randonee is essentially a clone of these bikes.) Rivendell and Bike Friday also make well-regarded touring bikes; there are no doubt many other manufacturers of sturdy frames. Steel hardtail (non-suspension) mountain bike frames can be converted into touring bikes relatively easily. There's an old touring adage: You can tour on any bike. Carbon-fiber racing bikes can pull a trailer full of gear. The above outline of what's helpful on a touring bike is what I would consider a best-case scenario, but is by no means mandatory. I'll close this with a picture of one of my touring bikes. 

It is possible to get a helmet that covers your entire head and face, and in theory would protect you against more kinds of falls. In particular, Why don't bicyclists wear them, and why do motorcyclists wear them? I'm not asking whether helmets are a good idea in general. (Please try to answer this with complete answers, rather than the single-point style of the currently running helmet thread.) 

Downtube is well-thought-of, and they ship internationally. They also accept returns, although you'd be out the money for shipping. Dahon has several bikes under $400US/$412CAD - the Boardwalk and Eco (and the 7-speed Speed is you can stretch your budget a little). Dahon is likely the best choice for a budget folder, and they have dealers in Canada. 

The number-one situation cyclists will face on a ride (aside from experiencing the awesomeness that is riding) is a flat tire. To fix that, you'll want either a spare tube or a patch kit -- or both. Of course, these are useless without something to pump them up! A frame pump or a C02 inflator will take care of that. Make sure to bring a cartridge for the C02 inflator. (They make devices that are both, but my experience is that they tend to do both jobs terribly.) Also, make certain you know how to change a flat. If pressure is important to you, get one with a pressure gauge. Tools: Unless you're on a loaded touring bike, you'll want to keep your saddle bag light and bring along a multitool, as opposed to full-sized tools. I won't recommend any one tool, but something that includes the three sizes of allen keys and a chain tool will handle nearly any situation you're going to repair by the side of the road: Broken spokes, a split chain, a loose rack, adjusting a slipped seat-post, a rattling fender. Duct tape or electrical tape: Wrap a small amount of it around a short pencil and toss it in your bag. You can use this to fix grip tape, repair a rip in a bag, or hold a headlight together. You can also toss a zip tie in there while you're at it. Spare batteries are helpful if you have lights or a cycling computer. I always bring along a cell phone. A first aid kit is always a good idea. You can pare it down to the essentials, especially if you're on a supported ride, but it's a good idea to be able to take care of yourself until the sag wagon arrives. If you have a medic alert tag or a card, bring that as well. (I keep a tag on my body as well as one on the outside of my trunk rack bag.) Water: I can't stress this one enough. Bring as much of it as you can carry comfortably, and always fill up when you have the opportunity. Dehydration is no fun! 

The reviewer in this article points out that expecting serious puncture resistance from performnce tires is unrealistic to say the least. However, the reviewer, a self-described heavier rider, had only one flat in 1000+ miles. Several of the comments in this review say they've experienced punctures. However, I'm unable to find any durability comparisons with the Pro2. Just for fun: Have you checked the tires before changing the tubes? Sometimes a thorn or a sharp piece of glass can be hard to find but still flat the same tube in the same place. A rough edge on your rim can also cause pinch flats if your tires are underinflated. Durability and speed are not mutually exclusive properties, but there is a degree of tradeoff. If durability is important to you, I'd suggest looking into a set of touring tires. They'll slow you down a little bit, but you'll get more riding time in. (Unless you bike on some pretty bad roads indeed!) 

Gel saddles are quite comfortable when new. Unfortunately, the gel tends to get displaced over time, so the comfy-ness tends to not last. However, as geoffc pointed out, these saddles are good introductory saddles for new riders. 

I don't know about strip lighting, but can help with side lighting: REI ships to Canada, and they sell spoke lights. While they don't satisfy your requirement for rechargeable batteries, they are easy to install, come in Amber, and are waterproof. These aren't as bright as, say, a Planet Bike Superflash -- which REI also sells -- but the motion of the turning wheels is a dead giveaway for bicycle. While it wouldn't be an ideal solution, you could also use other LED lighting from REI until you get a more elegant system. 

Some folding bikes are quite good for long distances. Unfortunately, most of them seem to be optimized for short hops, by design (or by the fact of their design limitations). You're correct in thinking that more expensive folding bikes can be much easier to ride, where the money is going for stuff like custom configuration or (even a custom-built frame). Folding bikes aren't unique in this regard, but economies of scale place additional limitations on them. Fit Limitations How to properly fit a bike has been covered in detail elsewhere, so I won't get into issues of seatpost height, reach, bar height, bar width, and so on. But most mass-market folding bikes seem to be built in a one-size-fits-none design. It is quite possible to get a folding bike that's sized properly. However, since folding bikes are a small slice of the bicycle market, they're somewhat pricier. And keeping several frame sizes in circulation is even more expensive. Until more people buy folders, I think we're gonna keep having this problem. And very tall or very short people (or very heavy people--most folders have a weight limit of 200-225 pounds) have a lot of trouble finding folding bikes that will fit. Frame Flex Bikes that have frame hinges--like Citizens, and Dahons (and their clones) and the Raleigh 20's--are subject to frame flex. This can be combated by keeping the hinge joint tight, but many of these bikes will never be as stiff as a bike without a frame hinge. Essentially, when sitting in the saddle, if you can move the handlebar forward and back, you've got frame flex. Some bikes can also have a flexy stem post, creating similar problems.) (The Raleigh 20 has an angled hinge joint that, I'm told, mitigates the problem. From test-riding one, I'm inclined to agree with that; the bike didn't feel flexy at all.) Smaller Wheels Also, smaller wheels do tend to be a little "squirrely", in that they're harder to control. This does tend to be more if an issue with 16" wheels than 20" wheels, however. This is fairly self-correcting, though, and it's something that the rider learns to compensate for fairly quickly. Until that point, though, it can impact the rider's ability to use the bike for longer rides. Handlebars Most folding bikes come with flat bars. As with all bikes, the more potential hand positions you have, the happier you'll be on longer rides. Bar ends will do this, and you may be able to fit them on the bike without compromising its ability to fold. Gearing "Do you have to pedal faster with those small wheels?" It's a common misconception that small wheels make the cyclist work harder. When properly geared, small wheels can perform well. However, many folding bikes come with three-speed hubs, for a variety of reasons. (Less maintenance, cheaper and lighter than 7 or 8 speed hubs, and derailers can get your pants leg messy when you have a folding bike on the train.) This is only an issue if you have hills, and it's not one of your specific concerns, but it is a factor for general use of folding bikes. However, faster gears can make a longer ride more pleasurable--and shorter. My 3-speed folder tops out around 26 MPH, which means it's not so great for a long day of touring. (For some, speed isn't an issue, so this won't matter to parient riders in very flat areas.)