Their assertion is that these are not cases of seed "blowing onto fields", and, in the sampling of court cases they provide on their website, it's pretty clear that they attempt to find (and generally succeed in doing so) eyewitness testimony and physical evidence that the farmers are intentionally saving seed and replanting it in violation of the agreement they signed to. So, in all likelihood, No, Farmers are not being sued for seeds blown into their fields. 

That sign can mean "very tall" in ASL if made above head height. Otherwise, names in ASL are either spelled out via fingersigning (if unknown) or represented with an identifying shorthand sign (if known). So, in short, this is almost certainly a joke, possibly about his shooting technique, especially since Sports Nation made the same joke in March. 

Of course, correlation does not equal causation, so it may be that diet soda makes older people fat. It might be that fat old people drink more diet soda. It's also possible that there is some other factor or factors that both measures are influenced by. The article merely notes an association. 

It's not true in Queensland, at least. The Electrical Safety Act 2002 specifies that "electrical work" may only be done by licensed electricians, but Section 18-2-c specifically excepts changing light bulbs from electrical work. 

Ultimately, it's a matter of risk-benefit. Some people don't produce as much build-up. Some people are less susceptible to infections. But when it comes to your eye health, consider that the risks could be serious including permanent blindness. Is that worth saving a few bucks even if that's the rare worst case? 

This 2014 study from the University of Colorado, Boulder, shows that 10 years of data accrual shows a definite effect as well. Spring Forward At Your Own Risk: Daylight Savings Time and Fatal Vehicle Crashes Abstract 

Here's one 2001 study that shows a small, but notable, increase: Fatal accidents following changes in daylight savings time: the American experience 

Tea contains tannic acid, which is a mild astringent, which means it tends to contract skin and blood vessels. Just to confuse matters, "astringent" also refers to a certain tartness of taste, which is also a known quality of tea. Tea is only a mild astringent, but it's also a relatively harmless one, which makes it safe to put in the mouth without worrying about swallow some of the astringent material and having to worry about the blood vessels of the throat contracting, as might happen with a stronger astringent such as alum. 

The water usage they were gauging is whether the property used less than 50 liters of water in a day, less than a single shower and a toilet flush. Link to the 2015 report 

I haven't found a study that specifically mentions chefs, but here is a study about Chinese women and lung cancer: Fumes from meat cooking and lung cancer risk in Chinese women 

As noted by user21997, there is a simple magic trick involving a rubber ball under the arm. I've found a few references to being able to do the same thing with muscle control, such as here, but that's still suspending the pulse, not the heart itself. Probably of more interest to you would be this 1961 paper exploring the ability to temporarily stop pulse and/or heart activity by four yogis. The closest the yogis managed was a cessation of pulse in the wrist, a quieting of cardiac sounds below detectable levels, and a measurable slowing of the heart in one case. In every case, further testing has proven that the heart was still beating. Furthermore, every method essentially used other muscles to change the heart rhythm. 

This is the journal article they're citing. The article you quoted is slightly incorrect in that the increase in waist circumference is what triples. 

Recently, on Facebook, the following images have been trending in my feed, people forwarding them on, claiming that most if not all of them are actually attempts to get women into sex trafficking (click to embiggen): I'm a bit skeptical, both because some of the posts unironically invoke Pizzagate and because this sounds like the sort of thing that would be in an urban legend, people being sent to a location to find work and getting suspicious, and it turning out that it was a way to lure them into being commoditized. Lastly, the evidence for this being sex trafficking seems to largely be reports of calling the number for details and getting someone with a foreign accent who hangs up when they ask for more details, which sounds more like a general scam than sex trafficking. 

Victoria's Electrical Safety Act does not have a list of exceptions, so one might include the changing of a lightbulb as "installation of an electrical device" which does require licensing. 

Admittedly, he doesn't provide sources or statistics for how he got the "typical encounter", but in other parts of the book, such as "poisoned Halloween candy" or "running with scissors", he breaks down his examples by showing that he did diligent research and looked at the individual cases, so I'm apt to believe that the details here were covered as well. It's probably worth noting that a substantial amount of his book is dedicated to the idea that many of these behaviors are indeed potentially hazardous, but that the risk has been so exaggerated that people are spending needless time worrying about something that isn't likely to happen when they could be spending that time protecting against plausible dangers. 

Truth be told, all contacts are prone to buildup of biological materials. I could find no data on whether temporary lenses are more prone to buildup, or are more difficult to clean. To get FDA approval, the companies must have their product tested for the duration of usage, frequency of replacement, and conditions treated. A full list of approved contact lens products and what the FDA has certified them for can be found here. The FDA definition of "disposable" contact lenses is for them to be used once and discarded, but sellers are also allowed to market extended use contacts as "disposable". Any use past that period is not FDA-approved usage of the product and thus is outside of the usual scope of safety. Reuse of temporary lenses is shown to cause problems for users. 

Evidence for it seems to be lacking. This is the closest I've found to an exploration of the sources and the most likely source for the claim is the 1907 account of explorer Theodore Davis regarding the Tomb of Yuya and Tjuyu (emphasis mine):