If the speaker claims that government budget deficits are unsustainable, that government must eventually pay back all that debt, ask him or her why we have managed to avoid retiring debt since 1837. 

"What's the basis for this classification?" As per the Controlled Substances Act (21.USC.811) : [T]he Attorney General shall consider the following factors with respect to each drug or other substance proposed to be controlled or removed from the schedules: 

Is this an over-simplification? Yes. However, it's not so much an over-simplification as just plain wrong. 

Of course this does not negate the known problems as mentioned above, but it does at least have a hint of reason. In sum... Claims of "a little under 50% of that is technically waste" and "About one-third of that spending is waste." are supported (and without invoking "Death-panels" no-less:). 

The OED defines waste, n. as a... Useless expenditure or consumption, squandering (of money, goods, time, effort, etc.). The following categories of waste in US Health Care fit this definition : 

Yes. Influenza vaccines do work but might not be as effective as they could be (or as advertised). These two reviews should cover the whats, whys and WTFs... 

Some claim that if the government continues to run deficits, some day the dollar’s value will fall due to inflation; or its value will depreciate relative to foreign currencies. 

*The term “electric consumer” means any person, State agency, or Federal agency, to which electric energy is sold other than for purposes of resale. Implementation is left to the individual states (as usual). In Missouri you get the money that would have gone to the evil fossil fuel producers. No spendy. No taxy. 

That would suck. Fortunately, the human eye is more than a camera* with fat pipe connection to the brain. 

I would like at least a sketch of the elements within the Japanese government who were in a position to control the surrender and an understanding of those elements' position on surrender. 

Alcohol (ethyl alcohol) US Drug Schedule: None Acute Effects/Health Risks listed by the NIDA* "In low doses, euphoria, mild stimulation, relaxation, lowered inhibitions; in higher doses, drowsiness, slurred speech, nausea, emotional volatility, loss of coordination, visual distortions, impaired memory, sexual dysfunction, loss of consciousness/increased risk of injuries, violence, fetal damage (in pregnant women); depression; neurologic deficits; hypertension; liver and heart disease; addiction; fatal overdose." 

Vaccine effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccine in studies meeting inclusion criteria Vaccine efficacy (95% CI), n = Patients randomly allocated Vaccine effectiveness against medically attended influenza. 

The Numbers Sources: Top 200 Pharmaceutical Sales 2009 - U.S. Sales and Prescription Information 2009 

The federal budget is NOT like a household budget. Facebook is most likely NOT a good source for information on economics. Politicians can lie through their teeth. Parliamentary privilege grants protection against civil or criminal liability for actions done or statements made related to one's duties as a legislator. 

Randomised controlled trials of trivalent inactivated vaccine (TIV) meeting inclusion criteria§ Vaccine efficacy (95% CI), n = Patients randomly allocated to receive TIV and placebo. Adults (18–64 years) 

Background: Why is language important ? Before Homo sapiens came on the scene 150 kya innovation and change amongst the genus of the family Hominidae was pretty dull. Homo habilis showed up 2.4 mya and stayed around for a million years. They had one, and only one, great idea: Stone tools. Next up was Homo erectus (1.5 – 0.2 mya). Erectus was a slow starter but about 400,000 years ago they hit pay-dirt: Controlled use of Fire. Great. For 2.2 million years of effort we have some sharp rocks and a barbeque. Then things get really interesting..... 

Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2010 Vaccines for preventing influenza in healthy adults. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2010, Issue 7. Art. No.: CD001269. 

Ps. Another bad idea. Remove banking regulations by passing the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act of 1999 and allow the creation of giant financial supermarkets that could own investment banks, commercial banks and insurance firms, something banned since the Great Depression (see Glass-Steagall Act of 1933). Basically, allow investment banking firms to gamble with their depositors' money and drive the economy into crapper by 2007. Not smart. 

Short Answer: Prelingual infants think. In 2004 researchers Hespos and Spelke explored Korean language concepts with a group of five-month-old (human) infants from English-speaking homes... 

The play is cursed by tradition not by labor statistics. Not that I could find any labor statistics or peer reviewed studies on the subject. The curse in a nutshell... 

No. Human thought precedes language. The anecdotal evidence for this should suffice, but you cannot be trusted (as you already have language skills). 

If we consider the fact that there are at least 2000 banks in the U.S. alone and that the sources below give numbers between 100 thousand LOC and 343 million LOC for financial systems; Well it adds up fast. Once you throw in civil and military systems...it's at least one billion. 

Cutting up copper pennies will most assuredly dull scissors. (The progression from 3 to 4 on the Mohs scale reflects an increase in hardness of approximately 25 percent. -source) 

Federal, state and local codes apply. In general the standards are not much different than those concerning propane, CNG, et al. Fire safety under NFPA 55 and Compressed Hydrogen should be memorized if you go this way. 

Its actual or relative potential for abuse. Scientific evidence of its pharmacological effect, if known. The state of current scientific knowledge regarding the drug or other substance. Its history and current pattern of abuse. The scope, duration, and significance of abuse. What, if any, risk there is to the public health. Its psychic or physiological dependence liability. Whether the substance is an immediate precursor of a substance already controlled under this subchapter. 

"Super sharp" is key. Fabric and hair are thin "floppy" fibers that bend out of the way easily. The steel of the scissors is of course very hard. However, it is important to note: A sharp edge is a thin edge. And it is the edge that is easily blunted by the minerals found in most paper. 

Multiple hits only seemed to give these two guys a direction to shoot in. I could find no other evidence that the force of bullet impact(s) would "have disabled the man long enough for him to be rushed and overpowered". All things considered: 

The code requires that the buttons exist and defines their functions when the elevator is in the "FIREMAN SERVICE" operation mode. What the buttons do otherwise is of no interest to the code. 

The US federal government is 221 years old, if we date its birth to the adoption of the Constitution. 

The Bottom Line. "Is there evidence that antipsychotics are widely prescribed unnecessarily like the article implies?" Yes. In fact, there is evidence that the article is right about many things. However, it would be better served if it did not take liberties with statistics. 

*The National Institute on Drug Abuse(NIDA) and the Drug Abuse Warning Network are part of the US Federal government. 

No. Elevator manufacturers do not purposefully provide a door close button that doesn't actually work. Elevator manufacturers provide door open and close buttons because they are required by code. (in the US) 

"Shock Trauma" from impact forces There is evidence that even without any armor humans can be pretty hard to stop: 

Yes. Unless you're only using them to cut paper. Then you probably won't notice for decades. From the provided link... 

Twenty of the 101 officers killed by gunshot wounds to the upper torso died as a result of rounds penetrating the body armor. Of these 20 incidents, all were the reported result of rifle rounds, which the armor was not designed to protect against. It is important to note that no documented fatal injury has ever resulted from a round of ammunition penetrating body armor that NIJ had approved as protection against that level of threat. Source: Selection and Application Guide to Personal Body Armor, U.S. Department of Justice (2001). 

Randomised controlled trials of live attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) meeting inclusion criteria Vaccine efficacy (95% CI), n = Patients randomly allocated to receive LAIV and placebo. Adults (>=60 years)