I think the answer to "Why don't scientists use fire entry suits to study volcanoes?" is that this is a question of professional ethics rather than of technology. For some institution to support, condone, or fund such a proposal, it would first have to conduct some sort of a safety review. At a significant cost, this approach would encourage risky behavior, put personnel into greater danger, and for small gains that could be obtained by safer alternatives. I expect most university, research or governmental agencies would decide this would be unethical to support because it may encourage greater risk-taking and injury to their technicians. Although firefighters may use such protective suits, their objective is to save the lives of others. Although manned space flight is also a highly risky project, the payoff is potentially much higher and there may be no practical alternatives. There are safer ways to obtain a sample of fresh lava - a long pole or a robot. It's very sad that there have been some fatal accidents of persons observing volcanos. To my knowledge however, the sort of 'protective' wear you suggest would not have saved lives in these cases, the circumstances were devastatingly powerful, explosive, and catastrophic and not the sort of risk technicians experience in industry. Examples of 'acceptable-risk' in this would be something comparable to what a worker in a steel foundry or glass-blowing shop might experience. Do these workers use such suits? Volcanologists should at least take the same level of precaution as comparable industrial workers. So my answer is that the question is not entirely technical, once lives are involved there are ethical questions as well. 

Inverse problems are some of the most important mathematical problems in science and mathematics. Inverse problems arise in many branches of geophysics, medical imaging, remote sensing, ocean acoustic tomography, nondestructive testing, astronomy, physics and many other fields. Geophysicists remotely measure the seismic (acoustic), gravity, and electromagnetic fields of the earth and then treat the inverse problem to constrain the properties of the earth's interior. 

It has been suggested that proper management of large herds of goats, cattle, deer, or elephants on the land are effective in preventing desertification. So perhaps this could be used to mitigate conditions leading to excessive grass and forest fires. Maybe your idea would scale-up more effectively if the robots were set to manage large herds of animals that themselves do what herbivores do to control fuel, fertilize, and cultivate forest and grassland. So perhaps 'robot goatherds' rather than 'robot goats' is what you need. I really don't know if this would be a good idea or not but you may find this TED talk about using stock animals to combat desertification very interesting. 

Paleontologists do test hypotheses, and often the test is field work to collect fossils of ancient life as evidence of past environments. For example, if a geologist finds a sandstone it may not be clear whether that rock formed in a marine or desert environment. The geologist might search for fossil clams to disprove that the rock formed in a desert. (Because we know clams are animals that live in aquatic environments.) A paleontologist, with knowledge of clam biology, might need to be consulted to determine whether the fossil clam is a freshwater or marine specie of clam. The same specie might exist today, living in marine environments. This can provide information about other species, fossilized and found in the same rock formation, for which we do have not present day example - for example a specie of fish that is extinct today. I have seen some good classroom lessons about paleontology that focus on how fossilized life provides information about ancient environments. Activities suitable for elementary students focus upon contrasting the environments which are likely to preserve fossils of familiar plants and animals: ferns, palm leaves, willow leaves, clams, fish etc. The great result of paleontology is that there is abundant evidence for plants and animals, no longer living on the planet, that were very different but clearly related to present day life. Dinosaurs and trilobites are different than animals that live today, but also self-evidently animals. To introduce Paleontology to third-grade students without pointing out that it provides some of the best evidence in support of the evolution of species is, at best a disservice, and at worse a crime against their education. 

What is the mass of our planet's atmosphere, hydrosphere, and cryosphere combined? How accurate can our estimates be? 

The chemical reactions responsible for the decomposition of biological organisms after they die releases soluble nitrogen compounds and consumes oxygen. Decomposing organic matter tends to sink. Although it may be recycled several times, eventually is sinks out of the photic zone. Decomposition consumes oxygen and releases nitrogen into the relatively closed deep water mass making it relatively oxygen-poor and nitrogen-rich. 

Your calculation of maximum height has a precision of one significant figure, 10000 meters. That is consistent with the height of Mauna Kea to the same precision of one significant figure. The difference, 210 meters, doesn't matter. Your question doesn't really make sense the way you have stated it. You need to propose a model, and do a calculation, having more precision. Your estimate of the maximum height needs more significant figures in it before you can say whether it is or is not consistent with observation. The stress below Oceanic Islands, such as the Hawaiian Islands, does exceed the strength of the crust and upper mantle. When volcanism ceases, oceanic islands sink below sea level. 

When and how did the crust form? When and how did the oceans and atmosphere form? When and how did plate tectonics begin? 

The energy of an earthquake can be calculated from the moment magnitude scale value alone. Two earthquakes of different duration, but the same moment magnitude, have the same energy. The destructive effect of an earthquake is described by the intensity, and a scale such as the Mercalli Intensity scale. I believe there were reports that the ground motion during the Nepal earthquake (Susan Hough of USGS on BBC) had a longer period and shorter duration than initially estimated. This would mean a lower ground acceleration and duration of shaking for the magnitude. Greater destruction might have resulted if the earthquake (with the same magnitude) had had a longer duration or higher ground acceleration. The local ground motion (period, acceleration and duration) during an earthquake vary with location due to factors such as underlying geology, fault mechanism, and orientation to fault. This is one reason that following an earthquake seismologists construct a map of earthquake intensity. As the USGS scientist said in her interview, working out the details is a research project.