Well, they already are. If you compare leg press with bench press, you'll probably leg press about 3 times as much weight as you bench. So the proportionality to muscle size is already there. Adding more reps or sets to your legs would be out of proportion. 

There are studies showing that so called "ego depletion" (the common mental resource used when doing though things, like math or pushing yourself physically) is affected by intake of sugary drinks, even tasting sugary drinks tend to have this effect in fact! Not sure about artificial sweeteners. Diet coke works for me, as does taking breaks. From the ego depletion wikipedia site: 

s3v3ns answer pretty much covers it, but I'd like to be more specific about the diet. Doing cardio, even every day, will not guarantee that you lose weight (= have negative calorie balance), eating 500 kcal is much, much easier than running 500 kcal. So I'd recommend that you write down what you eat during a week, and don't try to eat healther than normal, just write it down. In the end of the week, calculate the calorie intake you've had, and you'll see what adjustments you should make. 

There is no healthy or unhealthy food, only healthy and unhealthy diets, meaning it's what you eat in total during the days and the whole period that counts. If you eat little enough to lose weight, it will typically be beneficial for your health if you are overweight. However, some foods will make you more full, meaning it's easier to eat less for the rest of the day. Vegetables and salad contain few calories but have high fibre content and large volume, meaning you'll feel full. Chicken is high in protein which is good if you want to maintain muscle while losing fat. So in that regard, it's a good meal, yes. If you have a pizza and coke in the evening, your diet is still bad. 

If it's the second, you need to eat less or exercise more to reduce your weight. If it's the second, you might need to consider some more cardio, there is some evidence that you need exercise and not just negative calories to reduce internal fat[1]. [1] $URL$ 

One way of checking wether your belly is big because of subcutaneous fat or something internal is to check how thick a pinch of skin is, the fat you grab when grabbing a fold of skin is subcutaneous, and you can not affect where on the skin that will be stored. If the fold is thin, but you still have a large belly, you either have visceral fat, or the stuff inside your intestines makes it look big. It is true that you can't spot reduce subcutaneous fat, but you can make life choices that have an impact on wether fat is stored as subcutaneous fat or visceral (belly) fat. High intensity exercise such as running, can make you burn more visceral fat in particular (1) On the other hand, gaining weight will make it much harder to remove fat of any type. I would recommend a cut/bulk cycle, either start with a bulk or with a cut, and then to the other one. [1] $URL$ 

where BF is your bodyfat ratio. Although both the BMR and the BF values you get from your scale are very imprecise. BMR is probably calculated using something like harris and benedict formula. 

Yes, losing fat is about taking in fewer calories than you burn while giving your body signals about keeping muscle (lifting weights) and maintaining protein intake. 

I'd start by reducing the weight until your body fat is 15%, while working out of course, to reduce muscle loss. Then add calories until you're at a slight positive balance, like 250-500 kcal/day. Adding more than that is too much, you can't pack on that much muscle so it'll be fat instead. Being a vegetarian is not a problem if you know basic food and nutrition, there are even body builders who are vegan! You have milk products (but your name suggests you might be lactose intolerant?), eggs and possibly even seafood if you're that type of vegetarian. It's not important to eat 6 meals, total intake during the day is much more important. Is protein shakes an alternative? Many people who start working out base their workout around compound exercises that work many muscles at the same time, like bench press, regular press, squats, pullups, deadlifts and so on. Whatever exercises you end up doing, make sure they cover the whole body, and do 3 sets of 10 reps for every muscle group, 3 times a a week. When you can do 3*10 reps with good form, add weight. What equipment do you have access to? It's no good recommending "starting strength" if you have no barbells and so on... 

So it seems that as long as you're active, fat is more likely to end up as normal fat, and that that fat is healthy. What I would do if I were you is to keep an eye on my stomach, if your waist is growing eventhough you still look as lean, that would be a warning signal. 1: $URL$ 2: $URL$ 

Back of the envelope calculation: I assume your weight is 75kg, you workout intensely for 16 min and 30 secs, this would amount to about 190 kcal (compared to running which is about 10*BW kcal/hour) 

There are more explanations than this one, but one is what type of muscle fibre you strengthen. Muscle fibre type 1 are slow, weak but have high stamina, type 2 have low stamina but are stronger and faster. This is why some people are born to be sprinters while some are born to run long distances. If you do many reps, your type 2 fibres will tire and the type 1 fibres will do most of the work, meaning they will be strengthened. This is also why doing 10-12 reps is ideal for volume, it will strengthen both fibre types. $URL$ 

It would be a good approximation, it will probably add a slight error but such a formula in itself is by necessity quite inaccurate. 

Your results will depend on the calorie surplus. A large surplus will lead to increases in large increases in both muscle and fat, it will also lead to large strength increases. Most of the progressions look realistic to me if you have little experience of strength training. Deltoid raises and seated cable rows look a bit optimistic. Is there a particular reasons why you expect certain lifts to increase more than others? Other than that, I'd give two advice: 

edit: I just noticed your dates. Are you intending to workout once per week only? Then you can not expect such strength increases. 

Feeling sore is not a sure sign you are growing. If I understand you right, you haven't been working your legs for a while before this workout (you seem to contradict yourself in the next sentence), in that case, it's normal to feel sore. Higher rep count also seem to make you more sore, at least that's true for me. 

The best way to lose visceral fat is to do high intensity exercise, running intervals is a good way. In fact, the amount of exercise you get might have an effect on wether fat is stored viscerally or subcutaneously. Sumo wrestlers are known for being very fat, but they are also highly active and very strong, and they don't have much visceral fat or metabolic problems. So if you plan to do high intensity exercise, bulking up is fine, otherwise you might want to cut down first. 

Depends on your lifestyle, if you eat sugar very rarely, then maybe the snickers bar is better, but I'd dare to say that sugar is worse than salt for most people. Sugar is not just calories with high glychemic index, it's 50% fructose, which can only be metabolized in the liver. This can cause fat accumulation in and around the liver which is most likely the cause of diabetes and metabolic syndrome (behind fat in itself is not dangerous in that regard, but it tends to go correlate because high calorie intake go along with high sugar intake.)