Combined with additional innovations in the harness system that add stability and freedom of movement, this is a strikingly effective alternative to conventional packs. It does get a little getting used to, and putting the pack on is slightly more hassle. But you have a surprising unobstructed view of your feet, and the payoff in terms of comfort and energy saved is well worth it. Here's what it looks like in practice. Notice the more natural posture of the Aarn wearer compared to the guy with the external frame: 

The best research I can find is from The Institute of Altitude Medicine in the US. Quoting studies on skiers visiting high resorts in Colorado: 

You pretty much answer your own question. Snow skirts are primarily used on 4 season tents designed for high altitude or arctic conditions. The idea is that you pile snow on the skirt to seal the perimeter and prevent the entry of wind-driven snow. The skirt can also help anchor the tent and reduce flapping in extreme winds. 

August is high season so the huts will be very full, particularly at weekends. It's best to book well in advance. If you stick to the more popular marked hiking trails you are unlikely to experience much snow at that time of year. Just read the guidebook - if there are any technical passages that require equipment it will be highlighted. Of course these are high mountains so there is always the possibility of an unseasonal blizzard. Serious storms will normally be forecast, so it's unlikely you'll be caught out. At that time of year avalanche is not a risk on marked trails, though falling ice can be an issue on more technical routes if you decide to do some peak-bagging. In August the temperatures can feel pretty hot, especially when ascending. A good sun hat is essential! At night at a high hut the outside temperature might drop as low as -5c. If you are crossing high passes bear this in mind when choosing your safety equipment in case you have to overnight on the mountain. If you're used to the US West Coast, just be aware that weather in Europe is much more changeable. You can experience all kinds of conditions in a single day. So be prepared for heat, cold and rain. If you're new to the high alps you're in for a treat. But be realistic about the limits of your experience and choose suitable trails - they are graded for difficulty and seriousness. 

Lightweight shelter selection is all about tradeoffs In general terms, for wind-worthiness you're looking for strong poles, small panels, a low profile, plentiful peg-out points and flies that pitch close to the ground. But this is only a starting point. Choosing lightweight shelters is tough, even for the experienced, and it's all about making the right tradeoffs for your particular requirements. 

I've had this issue too - my feet are small but wide and I often have too much length in order to get the width. The main downside I've found is that I initially tend to trip or stub my toes on difficult ground, because I'm used to something shorter I guess. After an hour or two the mind seems to adjust, but just be alert at the start in case you end up falling. 

You could literally write a book on the subject, so we can only cover the basics here. Once you are closer to making your choice, search for reviews and get onto the forums - you will find that users are often generous in sharing their experience with particular makes and models. Hope this gives you a helpful starting point. Now it's over to you... 

TRACTION The soles were heavy gauge double or triple leather, with iron plates to protect the heel and toe and a pattern of single and triple nails for additional traction: 

Some excellent research-based answers here, so I'll focus on the practical implications. First, and most importantly: 

In threads like this where experienced walkers gather, the general view is negative, though some users do find it works for them. The downsides seem to apply with particular force to lightweight boots and shoes - I've met many people on the trail who were less than delighted with their lightweight GT footwear. But if you are using conventional leather boots, it's harder to see what Gore-Tex offers compared to traditional waterproof dressings. My only personal experience was picking up a pair or GT trail shoes in a sale and they seemed to give the worst of all worlds - after the first few hours they let water in but didn't let it drain out. But then I walk off-trail on Dartmoor, which is as bad as it gets underfoot, so your experience may vary. I would say that in general it's casual users who seem to like GT boots, while walkers who push their equipment are less enthused. In tough environments like Dartmoor and Scotland I've certainly met far more critics than fans. For any particular boot you may be able to glean something from the reviews. If you can afford to take a punt, try it and see if it works for you. If funds are tight you might be safer buying something more traditional - that way you know what you're getting. 

Good grief - talk about over the top! This was in a lake where sailing and canoeing were allowed, and the Society was asking why swimming had been singled out. This prejudice against outdoor swimming seems to be an English thing - you don't see it so much in Scotland or the Continent. So what are they going to ban next - sea bathing, perhaps? 

Typical volume requirements Pack requirements vary hugely depending on your hiking style, the weather, and on the length and purpose of your trip. But to get you oriented, here are some typical volumes: 

There are two approaches to Dartmoor letterboxing. Letterboxing as a hobby A small number of people take it rather seriously. They have a club and produce catalogues of grid-references and guides to the hobby. Some of the boxes are "secret" and can only be found by deciphering cryptic clues. Club members log the stamps of the boxes they've visited, work towards achievement badges and attend meets. If this attracts you, you'll find resources here. 

For any non-trivial situation, I believe the PLB is unambiguously your best option if rescue is your top priority. THE UNIQUE BENEFITS OF A PLB PLBs are dedicated rescue devices that hook directly into the military COSPAS/SARSAT satellite rescue system - the same system that would be used by a commercial airliner or ship. This system was designed specifically for rescue, with global coverage, high reliability, rapid transmission of your message to the base station, and robust response procedures. The most recent PLB devices transmit your GPS coordinates, which in most conditions will guide rescuers to within 60 yards of your location. The device also emits a local homing signal to guide rescuers directly to you over those last few yards. With a GPS PLB, rescue should be triggered within 5 minutes of activation in North America or Europe. The satellite signal is extremely powerful and should punch through a tree canopy with ease. There are even stories of PLBs working for people buried in earthquake rubble. On activation a PLB should continue to transmit for at least 24 hours, even in severe cold. PLBs are quality devices that have to meet strict international standards. They use reliable batteries that retain their power for around 7 years as they are not used unless the device is activated. They are pretty compact and weigh around 5oz. 

Most people will simply list their equipment and total up the estimated volume of each item. Then add around 1.5 litres for each day of food, and, obviously, 1 liter for each liter of water. How to select your pack Unless you intend to build up a quiver of packs for different uses, the key is to err on the large side. Most of the pack's weight is in the frame and straps - the weight of additional fabric for an extra 10 or or 20 liters of capacity is minimal. If the pack has a good compression system you can use it for a very wide range of capacities and still have it carry well. It's also quicker and easier to pack a sack when it's not too tight for capacity. There's very little penalty for a pack that's a bit larger than you need, while a pack that's too small can be a major issue. Packs will generally fall into 3 categories: 

I've done a lot of night-walking in a wide range of conditions. I don't think there's any inherent difference between daytime and nighttime navigation - if your daytime skills are solid you shouldn't have any major issues navigating at night. How good is the visibility? The real issue isn't daytime or nighttime navigation - it's the quality of the visibility. And there's a lot of overlap between daytime and nighttime. Not all nights are dark. Under ideal conditions, above the treeline with a clear sky and a good moon, visibility can be almost as good as during the day. You can see paths and distant features, so navigation is relatively unaffected. These conditions can give magical walking. On dark nights visibility isn't much worse than in daytime with a thick fog or a whiteout. The navigation skills required are pretty much identical. In fact, with a good torch you can often see farther on a dark but clear night than you can on a foggy day. How good are your skills? Given that navigation in poor visibility is pretty much the same challenge day or night, the core skills such as attack points, handrails, collecting features, pacing and use of contours are equally applicable. Excluding celestial navigation, which isn't much used in the hills, here's no major skill I'm aware of that's specific to night navigation. So you simply need solid skills for navigating in poor visibility. Far too many walkers underestimate the skill levels required - I walk in a fog-prone area with notoriously difficult navigation and often have to help parties off the hill. Don't be that person who has to be rescued because you are lost! If you need to brush up your skills, I strongly recommend Lyle Brotherton's Ultimate Navigation Manual - this is a course used by Special Forces and rescue services around the world, so if you master the book you'll be a navigation ninja. How good are your tools? There's a worrying tendency for new walkers to over-rely on GPS. But electronics can fail, so it's absolutely necessary to carry a map and compass and have the old-school skills to use them properly. That said, in poor conditions you can make your life much easier by carrying a GPS. With good digital mapping and the requisite skills, nighttime navigation becomes relatively trivial. The final issue is lighting. If navigation might be tricky I carry two torches. The first is a standard flood headlamp to light my footfall and nearby features. But I also carry a state-of-the-art flashlight with a narrow spot beam. This only weighs a few grams and can pick out features at over 200 meters/220 yards. I use it for short periods on max power to look ahead for the path, for trail markers and attack points etc. Few people carry a torch like this, but away from easy trails it comes in very useful. Take-home message So in summary, with the right skills and the right tools, nighttime navigation should hold no fears. I love nighttime walking, particularly in the snow. The light, the smells, the sounds - all your senses are heightened and it adds a new dimension to your experience of the hills. So brush up on your skills and get out there! 

First - do everything to prevent getting a wet bag! A wet sleeping bag must be a nightmare - the best solution is to make sure this never happens to you again! Before I use a new shelter somewhere remote I would wait for bad weather and test it out in an exposed location where I can retreat easily if things go pear-shaped. I always inspect my shelter carefully before heading for the wilds to ensure that the seams and fabric are in good condition. And I'd always take a shelter that had a bit in hand to cope with the worst conditions I'm likely to encounter. Whether by luck or by judgement, I've never had a wet bag in decades of wild camping. Carry sufficient dry clothing Of course there is always the risk of shelter failure. So I would always carry enough clothing to ensure I could survive if my bag got soaked. This means at least a base-layer, puffy, sleeping socks and hat that I keep dry during the day. With a wet bag I'd wear these under my walking clothing and rainwear. I wouldn't be comfortable, but at least I'd make it out. With a wet bag, consider getting back on the trail I always carry a decent walking torch and lightweight spare, and in almost all circumstances I'd probably prefer to get on the move if my bag was unusable - I'm going to be warmer and psychologically I'd find it less miserable to be doing something rather than shivering in the dark. Otherwise, you're in survival mode! If hitting the trail was impossible for some reason, you're in survival mode. 

If you are trying on shoes with a toe-box that is too narrow, you will be tempted to size up to get more space. But the better solution is to find a shoe with a more generous toe-box: 

KEEPING YOUR TOES HAPPY ON STEEP DESCENTS For shorter walks it shouldn't be necessary to size up to protect your toes, provided the shoes are properly designed and fitted. @flith gives excellent advice about how to try shoes in the store, so I won't repeat it here. The next issue is the design of the toe-box. For some reason, many manufacturers produce shoes that are not really foot-shaped, with narrow toe-boxes. Unless you have very narrow feet, these will cause issues when you are descending. You can see the contrast between the well designed shoe on the left, with the toe-cruncher on the right: