Quine later in the paper argues that even the laws of logic are themselves subject to potential change based on empirical data. The way I understand it, this, along with the reasoning in (b), would seem to indicate that math is arbitrary. Based on different empirical data and suitably chosen axioms of logic, just about any mathematical system can be constructed, where statements like "prime that has an integer square root" or "1+1=3" are completely valid. Towards the end of the paper, he famously states: 

Here is one farfetched - but I think sound - argument that allows us to give a privileged status to human beings compared to other forms of life without resorting to any supernatural or theistic ideas. It is a variation of sorts on Ned Block's Chinese brain concept, except with a positive spin. It also borrows from Hofstadter's strange loop concept, in that it is hinged on the idea that self-awareness develops in systems which are capable of observing themselves. Another way of looking at it is as a literalist interpretation of Hegel's world spirit. 

In philosophy of mind, a starting point for discussing the difference between the mental and the physical is the fact that one's own mental states are infallible, self-intimating, and immediate. This provides mental states with a privileged epistemic status compared to other objects in the world. Presumably in the situation you are discussing, this privileged epistemic status will no longer apply to just one's own mental states, but to whatever mental states are being directly transferred via neural download or Vulcan mind meld. Another way of looking at it, would be, following Frank Jackson's Mary the color blind scientist thought experiment, that whatever direct transfer method you are thinking of would have to transfer not just knowledge of the color red, but the qualia of red as well. It would be interesting to see what such a transfer method implies for the self: can two selves remain separate once they access to each other's qualia? If Hofstadter is correct, probably not, since the two strange loops emerging from self-observation would have no way of distinguishing each other. 

Not everyone can be a cutting edge researcher or a successful singer/song writer. Some people are bound to be stuck in jobs they don't like, and which don't allow for any form of self-fulfillment. Even in an ideal society where "From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs", there will still have to be some grunt work that nobody wants to do, and which the least accomplished members of society would have to take up in order to free up the doctors, engineers and artist to do work that benefits society as a whole. This is true in our day, despite all of our advanced technology, and was even more the case back in Marx's time. It will be true for quite a long time, until some future point at which super efficient AIs and robots do all there work for us (assuming this happens at all). How would a Marxist deal with the fact that some alienating grunt work is inevitable, even in the most egalitarian worker friendly socialist system possible? How would the people to who it falls to perform this work be able to actualize themselves? 

Now consider a similar thought experiment: We have 2 subjects who are outwardly and functionally identical in every way, and both are have conscious subjective first person experience. 

One of the most important results in philosophy of science is that every observation is "theory-laden", i.e. that the outcome of any scientific experiment is affected by the theoretical presuppositions held by the investigator. Because of this, it is very difficult - maybe impossible - to draw the boundary between science and metaphysics. W.V Quine best described it at the conclusion of his 1951 paper "Two Dogmas of Empiricism": 

If you say to me: "The apple on the table is green", for me this is a false statement, since the first part of it "[there exists an] apple on the table" is false. If however, you say to me: "Foobar is green", this statement to me is meaningless, since I do not know what Foobar means. Since it is general knowledge that Hamlet is a fictional character, the statement "Hamlet is human" is false. The statement "the present king of France is fat" is false, since we know what is meant by it. On the other hand, the statement "Louis the XIX is fat" is meaningless until I define "Louis the XIX" as a place holder for the term "The present king of France". 

Most contemporary philosophers of mind, if not all, are part of the analytic school: Daniel Dennett, David Chalmers, John Searle, Jerry Fodor, David Rosenthal, etc...None of these guys could be considered irrelevant by any measure. In fact most critics of philosophy - of the general "philosophy is now useless" trend - like Lawrence Krauss, Neil DeGrasse Tyson, etc.. tend to single out questions of consciousness and the mind-body problem as the only remaining bastion of relevance in an otherwise obsolete field of inquiry. 

There is another way of looking at the 4 rats experiment however, which could lead to a different conclusion: If one subscribes to the computational theory of mind, that the brain is a computer and the mind is just the software to this computer, then when we connect the 4 rat brains together, are we dealing with 4 interconnected computers like the internet ? or with one distributed computing cluster running on 4 processors? Going back to the split brain case: Splitting one brain into to 2 leads to 2 personalities, but splitting the brain into 1000 doesn't lead to a 1000 personalities. It only leads to a broken brain. There a point beyond which you cannot break down the brain into separate computationally autonomous components, a minimum architecture is necessary for the brain to support a single personality. The point I am trying to make here is that there are limits to how far you can take the bundle theory: obviously one thought or one sensation doesn't constitute a single mind, nor can any arbitrary combination of minds lead linearly to one single mind. If the computational theory of mind holds, then there are certain architectural limitations to what constitutes and mind and what is just a bunch of random memories and sensations. The authors of the article on the rat brain seem to be hinting that they are looking at it from that point of view, as opposed to the first case where the bundle theory of mind implies that minds can be arbitrarily divided and added up like heaps of sand. From the Newsweek article: 

As mentioned in the comments, philosophers don't use the word proof as rigorously as mathematicians do. More often they speak of arguments, not proofs. Some examples: 

Depends on who you ask. The way you put it, "Are our thoughts merely a product of chemical reactions?" - i.e. by adopting a physicalist stance, there are two possible possible replies: 

From a compatibilist point of view, what is the difference between the person's motivations which they inherited from their parents' belief system and the robot's behavior rules inherited from its programmers? Would a compatibilist consider the robot to have free will - i.e. is my analogy correct ? Does the fact that humans can and do act against their original indoctrination, as opposed to robots who would always act according to their programs constitute an argument for metaphysical freewill? 

On one hand, Marx is a staunch materialist: he bases his theory of history on dialectical materialism, and denies any metaphysical realities above and beyond the material conditions that make human society the way it is. In the preface to A Contribution to the Critique of Political Economy he states: 

(Can you hear Berkeley and Kant laughing from the beyond?) It is unfortunate that the study of the relationship between consciousness and QM has gotten a bad rep because of the likes of Deepak Chopra and his pseudo-scientific non-sense, so that even established physicists like Penrose are dismissed when they bring the connection up. This is an interesting article of why there still might to be some value in studying QM and mind. 

I first found Adorno and Horkheimer's critique of pop culture in the Culture Industry very compelling. Their idea that pop culture was factory produced and induced mindless consumerism as opposed to legitimate and challenging art seemed very intuitive. Then I realized that Adorno considered Jazz to be such a form of pop culture, which is very ironic, given that nowadays it is considered a very challenging form of music compared to the likes of Justin Bieber and Taylor Swift. This had me thinking that maybe the value or validity of a genre or an art form can only be relative. Jazz, or Ingmar Bergman movies seemed cheap and commercial back in the day, but are no longer considered so. Moreover, the standard "commercial" vs "authentic" classification of movies, music, etc,...seems fallacious, since the moment someone produces or performs art in a professional capacity and expects to be payed for their services, that art becomes commercial by definition. If legitimate art is that which is not for profit, then how is one to separate art for the sake of art from high school plays and amateur cover bands? And yet at the same time it seems to me perfectly objective to say that Rachmaninov is a higher art form than Beyonce, or that Steve McQueen (the director not the actor) films are more authentic than Michael Bay films. Or a more extreme example, no one would ever consider the majority of pornography available on the internet as legitimate or high art in any way. My question is: 

To put it more simply: Science has all the answers, because science IS anything that can provide objective and useful answers to a question. Am I not talking about the demarcation problem per-se (at I least I think I am not), because even disciplines which are agreed upon as failing various demarcation criteria (such as astrology or intelligent design) are still trying (and failing) to be scientific in the sense I mentioned above. If they did start to provide answers, science would have to take them into account. Moreover, various philosophical schools of ethics are trying to be scientific in their explanatory framework, they are just not able to provide verifiable and falsifiable statements to prove their precepts (and probably would do so if possible). My questions then are: 

Many have argued that logic is empirical, or as you describe it, logic's "axioms are dependent on observation". Quine, in his paper "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" questioned the analytic-synthetic distinction, and suggested that even analytic propositions were dependent on empirical evidence. Since the rules of logic were analytic propositions par excellence, they too, were ultimately dependent on empirical data, and were not absolute laws. Birkhoff and Von Neuman proposed in the 1930s that the paradoxes of Quantum Mechanics can be explained if we abandoned classical logic and used some form of Quantum logic instead. Such a Quantum logic would change or abandon all together some of the rules of classical logic, and would be a perfect case of logical axioms arrived at by observation. Hilary Putnam discussed this in depth in his paper "Is Logic Empirical?", later republished as "The Logic of Quantum Mechanics.". In it he argued that, just as empirical physical results - relativity - forced us to abandon Euclidean geometry, so it is possible that the results of quantum mechanics will force us to abandon classical logic. Although Quantum logic is still an active field of study up to the present day, it is does not get much attention from most philosophers and had been abandoned completely by physicists. Those who do study the topic view it mainly as a mathematical tool for studying Quantum phenomena, not as some sort of fundamental logic to replace our current classical rules of logic. The main problem that is faced by Quantum logic (or any such radical revision of logic, empirically justified or otherwise), is that we tend to think and communicate in classical logic. It would be very difficult, or in Kantian fashion, outright impossible for us, to perceive and discuss the world in anything other than classical logic - it seems to be hardwired into our brains. Although the logical atomist program failed as a metaphysical theory, it did show us just how ingrained classical logic is into our linguistic and mental structure. As Wittgenstein stated, the limits of language are the limits of the world: No one can place themselves outside of logic, and then pick among different logics to reason and argue with, even if those alternative logics are justified. Those non-classical logics which have been successful (fuzzy logic, modal logic, intuitionistic logic) are those that extend classical logic, as opposed to replacing it, or at least respect classical truth tables in the limiting case.