Eating late suppers are discouraged for sleep disturbances and also for weigh gain. Digestion take about 4 hours for the food to leave the stomach. There sleeping 3-4 hours after supper enable the stomach to rest and thus ensure your good quality sleep. It has been noted that people who do not sleep well tend to gain weight ($URL$ Therefore sleeping well is pivotal for even ensuring we lose weight. Since people tend to sleep only after exercise therefore the calories consumed might lead to weight gain. In you case since your exercise late you might use up some of the calories , however depending on what you have eaten you might still not get good quality sleep due to a busy stomach. Therefore keep exercising and just sleep 3-4 hour after supper to maximise on maintaining a healthy weight. 

When it come to digestion, quantity and type of nutrients are pivotal. Fatty foods stay the longest in the stomach that's why the food with cheese is taking longer for you to digest and also it's of a greater quantity compared the workout shake. So proteins follow fats and then lastly carbs take the least time to digest. So if you want to avoid burping consider the small meals of proteins and carbs with less fat. 

Watch at YT - for instance this, or simply buy his book. It is really inexpensive. There are some videos of Kelly Starrett - I've putted overhead press - since at the top mechanism, and a specially potential problems - looks the same. There are some points here - you need to stretch your body bottom up. Be sure not to use your spine instead of shoulders to keep hands up. If you have pain in your back, at the end of ribs, perhaps that is the problem. Having proper general body position, move blade-bones back, and down. That way you open shoulders, with proper stability. There is something named rotation cuff, all that is attached to top of arm bone, plus biceps - having it open means less chance of conflict, so less chance of injury. If you are unsure - do tests - they are easy. Please watch this video. Well, all that names, acronyms are not so easy, but they do great job describing what is the problem. 

In general, all injuries should be consulted with physical therapists, trainers. Someone who can examine what's the problem how it goes, and that way find out what is good for you. Shoulders are quite open joints, so dislocation can mean many things. I would advise to recover fully, other way you can hurt yourself more, as a consequence it can be that you would not be able to perform some exercises. If you still wants to try... Keep in mind that if it pains then you should stop. A specially if you can't recognize kinds of pain. Still want to do something? - try kind of warmups, like here but start with no weight. I would include some wide circles. Look for "shoulders warmup", "rotation cuff warmup" - choose maybe 5 exercises you can perform with no pain. Keep slow move, maybe ten reps of a kind, find out where the pain is, and observe if it changes. Later, you can use bottles. If you fill any problem, discomfort - drop weight, or stop exercising. What ever you do - do not increase intensity, weight too fast. You should not change it more often then once per week, and change if you feel recovering progress. After injury your body can have problems like muscles are shorter, as well as same other structures. Slow, controlled motion allows them to get back. Moving slowly you limit risk of potential problem. If you are sure that your injury is gone, and still there is a pain - talk with trainer at the gym. Face to face talking should be much more effective. Someone can touch you, observe how you move. Usually problems with shoulders comes from luck of stability. Maybe good idea is to learn how to stabilize your shoulders with back blades? Yes, trainer should be helpful here. If you started, and it happened - you want to get back. Recover and get back on track. Please note that sometimes much better is to do other exercises, just to keep up, and let shoulders get back on their own. If I have to guess - I would expect something around 4-6 weeks to see your shoulders recovered. In other case it can take half a year. I see your priority, but at gym first priority is not to get injured. Second recover well. Joints are quite problematic, once broken requires full recovery - that way you limit chance to get injury back. If you want to get rid of belly... Diet gives much better results. If you include any walking, cycling, or cardio machines - that is better then weight exercises. Fingers crossed. :) 

Running once a week won't help you in losing weight. If I were you, I would run 30 minutes at least 4 times a week. Make your diet plan, too. Running this way will improve your shape, but if you really want to see some changes, you should also do other kinds of workouts the rest of the week. You can do sit ups, push ups, crunches, etc. 

Cycling is a great workout but it's necessary to add other kinds of workout to it and I see that's exactly what you want. I suggest you go cycling 3 times a week. Other 2 days do cardio workouts and the 2 other you can go to the gym and do weight training. Of course, you should make a good diet plan. If you want to exercise every day, you should eat 2000 calories a day. Eat proteins, also add veggies and fruit, as well as whole grains to your meals. I wish you best of luck. 

The primer for weight loss is to eat less than what you need in terms of Energy to maintain your current weight.The calculators are advising you on your current energy needs for the current weight you have. Therefore continue to exercise more and also add low energy foods to your diet such as oats, fruits, vegetables and whole grains so that you energy intake may decrease while your feel full during the day.And you will continue to loose weight as your desire. 

Well, we can exchange experiences, but you need to understand that all can be done is based on descriptions. Someone qualified needs to see your arm(s) to do it right. I had same injury, so I can present my experience. First - rest is good for elbow. Problem can comes from forearms - relax them, mobilize, or shoulders - they are moved front. If that is the case - mobilize chest, and shoulders. Long head of triceps is attached to blade-bone, so it is used when you pulling back. Rotating palms can be helpful. On the other hand, you should try to have your forearms relaxed - like using hooks. 

Stretching / yoga, and massage / foam rolling are two different things. Both are needed, when you weight lifting. Both are good for motion range, but deals with different problems. With static stretching you are addressing muscles, dynamic stretching deals with other structures. Yoga is static stretching, with some exercises done with body weight. Adhesions usually means that muscles are glued to a fascia, or fascias themself. Dynamic stretching can help here, but dedicated massage is much more efficient. Next problem is, when whole muscle pains. I had problems with wrist extensors, with pain from index finger till elbow. I was unable to do a handshake... After 2-3 months - smaller / bigger problems - I solved it with lacrosse ball, and it took me 2-3 days to remove pain. So massage is for something like that. Since that I'm big fan of this method. Runners love rolling after training, since that helps with releasing tensions, and allow them to relax, recover faster. Doing static stretching after weight lifting is bad idea, since that stresses muscles twice. Foam rolling? For some that can be great, maybe not lacrosse ball, but foam should be great. Hope it help. 

I'm afraid that you won't be entirely happy with the answers we give you. You will definitely have to work on your ability to eat veggies and fruit. Supplements are ok and you should take them if you really, really, really can't eat any foods like veggies or fruit. However, since you don't have time for a gym, the only possible solution would be if you just lower your daily calorie intake. Try to eat less pasta and eat more whole grains instead. 

There has been conflict results that have been reported before whether short term fasting has an effect on protein loss. However a number of studies now show that protein breakdown increases during short term fasting so it's very possible that as you are feeling that you actually lost some protein and not fat only. You can follow this article for more evidence. $URL$ There is also another review which has 3 other studies which also support the aspect of increased protein breakdown during short term fasting. $URL$ 

Although you asking about the effects of alcohol on health which has been alluded in other comments. It seems you are keen to understand the effect of alcohol on weight gain and if it's worse than carbohydrates.The estimates of energy intake you get from carbohydrates and alcohol are as follows: I gram of Carbohydrate =4 Kcal I gram of alcohol = 7Kcal In view that, even though people drink alcohol, they also consume other meals with it during the day.Therefore in addition to energy intake from food alcohol adds an extra energy intake at 7kcal per gram. Therefore alcohol might lead to weight gain and may counteract the effects of exercise on weight loss. Therefore it will be good to avoid alcohol, consume less energy dense foods and exercise for effective weight loss.