It seems to me parayana has a connotation of "the ultimate". I guess you could also call it "completion". 

This very point is a subject of doctrinal disagreement between Mahayana and Theravada. According to Theravada, Nibbana has svabhava (self-nature) that is unconditioned, deathless and totally transcendent to the conditioned world. But according to Mahayana (specifically Madhyamika), the fact that Nirvana is called shunyata means it does not have svabhava, just like everything else. In other words, according to Mahayana, Nirvana is permanent because it does not exist, or to quote Chogyam Trungpa it is "completely indestructible because it is not existent". As my current teacher says, "Nothing is permanent, everything changes -- except one thing. Which one thing? The fact that everything changes." This is a hint ;) What we call Nirvana is not something "transcendent to the conditioned world", it is the self-existing nature of everything. According to Mahayana, Nirvana is the very nature of Samsara. The three marks of existence are non-escapable. Any attempts to run away from them are part of the wanderings in Samsara. Only when this escape is brought to an end, when we clearly see that our hope to reach Enlightenment was a hope to escape the three marks of existence, then we can finally loose the ground under our feet, fall through space, open our eyes and look around, and see unarisen Nirvana and self-existing Enlightenment. I hope it's clear now. 

This one is obviously hurting oneself by putting oneself in the position of reduced mental capacity, confused understanding of one's environment, and decreased control over one's actions. Driving while drunk is an obvious example, but the point here is not even literal intoxication, it is subjecting oneself to any situation when one is confused and out of control to the point when one is hurting oneself. This could be indulging in video games, or watching too many TV series, or hanging with bad company - immersing oneself into any strong influence that leads to loss of critical capacity and awareness is a way to make oneself helpless and eventually hurt oneself. So as you can see the five precepts are not about being harsh on ourselves - it's the opposite. Five precepts are about taking care of ourselves by being balanced, rational, and aware of one's state, one's actions, and their results. 

One you get access to your state of mind by seeing how your breath is "conditioned by the mind", you use the feedback of the breath to work on calming and gladdening the entire body-mind: 

laziness (kausidya) -- with 3 subtypes; forgetting the instructions (avavadasammosa) -- aka losing the object of observation; non-identification of laxity (laya, with three subtypes) or excitement (auddhataya, with three subtypes); non-application of antidotes (anabhisamskara); overapplication of antidotes (abhisamskara). 

Or as my teacher said, "in order to have clarity you need to sit". Here "as they really are" does not mean the raw appearance which Theravada tradition emphasizes so much, it means how things work at a deeper level, that can only be seen with the wisdom eye, not with the regular sight. 

Experiences are just experiences. As my Zen master said, they are dreams, hallucinations. They come and go, leaving behind only vague memories. The best experiences... the worst experiences... - what value do they have? Some experiences may give us perspective on where we are by showing us where we could be. Some experiences are byproducts of our incremental development, which is slow and gradual, and in the grand scheme of things is way more important than the flashes of experiences. Sounds like you had great experiences in meditation, now where does it leave us? What matters more in Buddhism is, how do you deal with what comes next. Do you have a way of dealing with life at large, a framework that would work well in all circumstances? Such framework is called Dharma and until you've had a direct experience of that, your meditation is just spacing out. Meditation is not done for the sake of cool experiences. Meditation itself is "pleasant dwelling in the here and now", sure - but the main goal is direct realization of Sat-Dharma, the Universal Framework. Are these experiences normal? Sure. You happen to have a mind that is capable of both introspection and analysis, congrats! I've looked at your other questions and answers, you have figured some stuff right. Now, what is your place in the world? Where are you going? Where should you be going? -- If your meditation does not help you answer these questions, how is it better than smoking pot? ;) 

As ChrisW said, there are numerous examples of humor and irreverence in Zen lore. However, unlike most of the jokes about e.g. Christianity which are often said without a wholesome purpose, or sometimes with the objective of pointing out an inconsistency in Christian declared values vs. practice, in Buddhism all activities, including jokes, are 100% subordinated to the primary goal. Before you can understand the role of jokes in Zen Buddhism, you should understand the crucial role of attachments as obstacles to enlightenment. (I think you are very close to this already, since you have a natural antipathy to superstitions, unexamined beliefs, and rigid/stubborn adherence to subjective points of view & philosophical abstractions.) While I can't give justice to this topic in one short answer, the idea is that attachments both bias the mind off an ideal objective basis AND lead onto dangerous and often harmful pursuits AND constitute the necessary condition of suffering due to a mismatch between "how is" and "how should be" (the target of attachment). The traditional Buddhist device against an attachment is known as an antidote. Often antidote takes form of an object opposite to the target of attachment. For example, when attachment is to sexual pleasures, the antidote is contemplation of decomposing corpses. When attachment is to negative attitude towards society, the antidote is generation of loving-kindness, etc. Which leads us to the role of humor as an antidote to attachment to ... the very Buddha Dharma itself. So for example, if a Zen master notices that his student lost his fundamental sanity and has "gotten drunk on the shravaka wine" to use Dogen's parable, he might offer a following piece of wisdom: