If you're worried about some "blacklist" in which other companies are all going to look at and keep from hiring you, there should be no concern. However, in the event you turn down an offer after a conditional verbal acceptance it's most likely you would not be working for them in the immediate future. I would also advise to discuss this issue with someone in HR to resolve the matter. Every company you work for will have its own case of hiccups and no job will be perfect. 

Besides the obvious where the company is failing to make payroll or layoffs have started, I would say the increase in meetings is a sign. There are two types of meetings you'll see as the doomsday approaches. The first is the "Drink The Kool-Aid meeting." This is the one where Management knows things are bad, but doesn't want to see any of their top end talent leave. There will be a meeting, probably around lunch, and they'll say how great things are. How people just need to rally and circle the wagons and come out stronger. The second is the "Coming to Jesus" meeting. This is the one where management all sits down and realizes they are in a bad way. You'll see higher ranking people constantly in meetings, shuffling deck chairs on the Titanic. 

This isn't totally uncommon. Google for instance was known to give study guides out for a while depending on the req they were looking to fill. It was so you could be well read on the items of discussion and be well prepared. 

I would advise not turning down an offer from a company or notifying an employer of change in employment until an offer letter has been sent, signed and the return confirmed. Between an "unoffical" offer and time of receipt things can happen. Whether this be hiring freeze, pay freeze, etc you never know. 

As a long-term webdev, I've been on a few search committees and we always valued LOW turnover. Nobody wants to invest 6 months in training someone to last 18 months. We had some good applicants we never even considered because they had never held down a job for more than a few years. If it's a crappy job or you're severely underpaid, then move along, but we thought keeping a job for a while is more an asset: demonstrating stability (especially when young) and employee loyalty (always desirable). 

I'll be honest with you: college has never been more expensive or less impressive. As so many folks have degrees, degrees don't advance you as far as they did a generation ago. But, at the same time, having a college degree has never been more important to getting a good job, especially in the field of software development. I left college with 12 credit hours to go, all electives. At that point, even though I was a javascript ninja, I would not even be considered for either of the two sweet professional web developer gigs I've had since. It wasn't that those last 12 hours really made me a good webdev, it was a silly piece of paper all the good jobs wanted that I couldn't produce, but that's how it was/is. A less skilled buddy of mine with a CS degree landed a real job about that time. I went back to school after standing over pizza ovens for a year, scribbling code on the back of takeout menus while the boss wasn't looking/barking. You don't want to mess with all that, and besides, college is a ton of fun anyway... If dead-set on not getting a bachelors: I would get an associates at least, so that workplaces know I can program. Try to make sure most of the credits will transfer to a 4-year in case you change your mind later like I did. Code bootcamps and certifications are meaningless for devs. Internships and volunteer work can get you in the door someplace. It's possible to make it in dev without college, it's just a lot more difficult and less likely. You will have to have a killer portfolio and work history (chicken and egg) and you will need to be lucky enough to meet someone who "takes a chance" on you, which is no guarantee. You don't need to go to college right after school, and for a lot of smart kids, I don't recommend it because it feels like a waste of time, so you won't try hard. You're young, and will be young for 5 years, enjoy your youth. Try it your way, and see if you're one of the lucky ones, and if not, being a 21 year old freshman has its benefits... 

You just have to spin up a bunch of nonsense that you probably don't mean. Something like, "While I am grateful for the opportunities that were presented to me during my time here - I feel that at this juncture its best for all parties if I move on" Then say something about how you will do all you can to transfer knowledge and help in the transition prior to your departure Then in your exit interview you say a bunch of nice things and leave. 

Sounds like you might be part of the problem here. You shouldn't be whistling in an open office environment, it's annoying and rude 

You should be OK if you gave a solid reason when you declined at the end. In theory a hiring manager would rather hire someone that's there for the long haul instead of taking the job and then leaving 3 months later due to external factors like relocation. You acknowledged there was an issue and did your best to resolve it. If your skills are in line with what they are looking for, there shouldn't be an issue. IF there is an issue, then perhaps it's not the best place for you to wind up. 

If you're employed in the United States and are salary, you are most likely at-will employment. Meaning that an employer can terminate the employment for almost any reason. While no one is holding a gun to your head and making you drive into the office on the weekend, be prepared for fallout if you do not. 

Performance Reviews are OK and should be welcome. Now if you go through this and they have issues with your work and throw you on a period of performance or some sort of "performance plan" then you can worry. But for now - don't sweat it 

Don't worry about asking. Since many internships in the US are unpaid, it's not at all offensive to inquire, even up-front. If you were going for a career-extending position like "Senior VP of Sales" or "Research Lead II" position, you would want to exercise caution about who/when/what you ask about salary, but not for internships. I've interviewed interns, paid and unpaid, and they always ask. I didn't remember that until you mentioned it, but they did. So it's not notable, like asking about weekend. Besides, we were more concerned with matching skills, personality was not a consideration. Lastly, even if my search committee members all thought it was rude to ask (we certainly didn't) a single slight of any sort is very unlikely to disqualify a candidate. In short, don't worry about it, polish up your skill presentation to match keywords from the listing. 

The literal answer to your question is "yes" because it's unprofessional to do anything your employers don't accept. They get to decide what's "professional" under their roof, and professionals abide by the rules. That said, in the uncritical context described, I think they are full of it. In casual conversation I find it awkward (if not rude) to force a less familiar language on someone. I think you were pragmatic, polite, and welcoming, but it's my luxury of detachment that permits my view; as an employee, you don't get that luxury. 

Looking at the risk/reward ratio, I wouldn't say anything. He's going to be gone soon anyway, likely before any disciplinary action would be taken. I've seen a lot of overhead resentment towards peers who raise complaints, no matter how legitimate. That's wrong but common, and while it would be nice to get justice for this guy, I don't think that's even possible at this point without going out of bounds. Some problems take care of themselves. If he were harming someone then heck yes, do something stat, but he sounds more like an aggravation than a danger. 

As an employee you have no reason to provide "loyalty" to an employer as employment is at-will. They could terminate you for just about any reason at any moment, so the thought that leaving them high & dry shouldn't be your concern. Evaluate the pros & cons of leaving and go from there. Sometimes the grass is greener, sometimes it isn't. 

Your mileage may vary but after one job of multiple years post college, the GPA is just a bit superfluous. 

This smells of rack & stack to me. As was previously mentioned in a few comments, your options are a bit limited in my opinion. However, I would mention that these are the types of things you should have also raised or mentioned during your performance review (if you have one). At that time of performance review, you could have asked what you needed to improve upon to reach these goals. If you wish to stay with this company/organization it may be best to have a one-on-one with your direct manager and inquire what they expect of you from your current level in the company, what you need to do to get to the next level and what you can do to better your chances of a raise next review. 

Your mileage may vary but I've found the only way to get a decent pay raise in this industry is to switch jobs every several years. At company A despite amazing performance reviews and hitting every mark given and doing great work - the raise was always ~ 1% with different excuses every time. Jump to company B and snag a 15% pay jump. Lather rinse repeat 

Never give honest feedback in an exit interview, no good comes of it. If they care about you, the quality of the work environment and employees in general you wouldn't be in the spot you're in now. Just go through the formalities and get on out of dodge