It depends on whether you believe statements have a power to transform your consciousness. For instance, assume two statements -- X and Y. Now assume that you utter X and later utter Y, with identical intentions. If X impacts you differently than Y, then you are making a claim that the statements themselves have causal power over you -- apart from your own reactions to them. Now whether this is a problem or not depends on a few things: 

Meditating on the Skandhas. Meditating on Emptiness. Look for the self. Bare mindfulness. Choiceless awareness. Meditating on determinism (if you don't believe in free will) 

The line between cults and regular groups is not always clear cut. Groups are more or less cultish, so judgment must be exercised as to what level of cultish behavior you are willing to tolerate. But what denotes cultish behavior? Here's a good checklist for starters. What about Buddhist-specific cults? Here are some questions to ask... 

And so on. Remove any of them from the equation and the suffering ceases. Thinking in terms of a single cause of suffering (or in terms of who suffers) reinforces the kind of "ownership" of action or "mental object" that serves as a focus for clinging, especially to self. Now if you wish to relieve an abused child's suffering, then I recommend local law enforcement or a child protective agency. 

I think this is the same phenomena. We want the fruits of Nirvana, but don't want to give up our attachments. Also, there is something compelling about Samsara, otherwise it wouldn't be such a challenge to let it go. Besides, I think many people who superficially believe in Samsara do not believe it deep down. How to overcome it? Well, mindfulness of Samsara. If you can really see this life as unsatisfactory, then the problem should solve itself. However, the key is seeing, not intellectual assent. We intellectually assent to many things that we don't really see. Can you honestly encounter your experiences in every moment, reflect on them, really SEE Samsara? That you can get some glimpses of Nirvana along the way can serve as a useful stick and carrot corrective. Metaphysical Many Buddhists believe in rebirth. The quality of one's rebirth is commensurate to one's practice here. Therefore, even if a lay life is not ideal, one may practice to ensure a more favorable rebirth wherein one can practice more rigorously and at some point down the line achieve Nirvana. How to correct this? Abandon believe in rebirth! Of course that's easier said than done for those who have that worldview. 

Let me answer this (and illustrate some of the complexities of the question) with a personal story. I'm not a Buddhist, but feel the core philosophy is a sound way of life. As a result, I looked into my local Buddhist Temple. This temple had 2 groups; the traditional worship group which attended religious services, and the English Dharma Group, which meditated and discussed the Dharma. I joined the English Dharma Group. We rarely mixed with the traditional group, and the few times we did, I thoroughly regretted it. I found nothing in what they did that was remotely applicable, useful or of any interest, and never considered them part of my group. They were a traditional religion, while I was practicing a philosophy. In short, they were not my Sangha even though they were part of the same Buddhist Temple and were Buddhist. I wouldn't be surprised if they didn't consider the English Dharma Group to be their Sangha either. So really, it depends on what you mean by "Sangha", "Buddhist", and "Join" :) First, is a Sangha simply a collection of practicing Buddhists? Is anyone who joins a Buddhist temple part of a Sangha? Are people outside of a Buddhist temple but who practice on their own a Sangha? Does a Sangha have to meet face to face? Can this forum be considered a Sangha? Second, what is a Buddhist? Is it someone who has taken the vows? Is it someone who practices Buddhism? Is it someone who shares core values with Buddhism? Finally, what does it mean to join? Does it mean simply going to the meetings? Does it mean a deeper involvement? 

I hope not! You can respond with "I did", because that is the correct response. After all, the other people didn't say that; if they didn't say that, then who did? Further, if you talk about other people normally, but talk oddly about yourself, then aren't you still clinging to yourself, by holding yourself out as something different than what's around you? Clinging is clinging; it doesn't magically stop being clinging because you clung to something different. The issue isn't using "I", but your beliefs about it. Although language can affect thought, changing your words won't necessarily address the problem. It's the thoughts and feelings behind those words that matter. Words are meant to be used publicly, and as such, conventional rules regarding them should be observed if they are to be used effectively. However, be mindful of those words; gauge the impact of certain words on your mind. When you say "I" are you really just being conventionally real, or is there a trace of clinging to self when those words leave your lips? What feelings arise from using "I" when you are criticized or praised or threatened? If you talk funny, you won't gain enlightenment; you'll just lose the ability to coherently communicate. 

Took off our shoes Bowed to the altar, with our hands together in front of our chest. After meditation, bowed each time the meditation leader rang a bell (some leaders had us do full prostrations instead). When leaving, we turned to face the altar and repeated #2. 

It depends on how you interpret Samsara/Nirvana. If you give it a psychological interpretation then yes, one can live in Nirvana and be in this world at the same time because suffering is mental and thus Samsara/Nirvana are in our heads, not "out there". Now if you're talking about what happens after one who enters Nirvana then dies, then that's another matter entirely. For that, perhaps read up on Nirvana with and without Remainder. 

While I agree that it's important to incorporate meditation into your "active" life, I think sitting meditation is useful and its effects will find its way into your daily life. Actively practicing meditation while living yields best results however. With that said, here are some suggestions. 

Short Answer: Because that's the way it is, and it doesn't matter. Please read The Parable of the Poisoned Arrow. Long Answer: There is no satisfying answer to this question because we're only asking because things happen to be this way. If they were another way, we'd ask why things were THAT way. It may be better to ask instead why you are asking that question. Why not just accept that this is reality and that's that? The very question you ask implies an attempt to give human existence cosmological importance. If so, what does this say about the attachment to your belief in your importance? In short, is the question itself a symptom of an anthrocentric bias or agenda? Now let's bring this back to Buddhism. If you want to know why things are the way they are, then there is a Buddhist parable which is THE BEST Buddhist teaching I've seen on this and other metaphysical questions. It's called The Parable of the Poisoned Arrow. If you haven't read it, I recommend you do. It teaches that only thing that matters is relieving your suffering, so stop the pointless speculation. If you spend your time worrying about these things, then not only will you be distracted from the only thing that matters (relieving your suffering), but you may increase your suffering by agonizing about something you can't change. Yes, nothing is more conducive to suffering than worrying about what's out of your control. Which brings us to suffering. Buddhism has its 3 Marks of Existence. I'd interpret that as the 3 Marks of Experience. After all, suffering does not exist in the universe -- rocks, planets, and hydrogen atoms don't suffer, or at least I don't think they do. Suffering is our REACTION to things, a reaction we can change, and this is where Buddhism is (and should always be) situated. Trying to elevate suffering into some kind of cosmological principle misses the point, and makes relieving suffering harder, by dramatizing it. Realizing the true role of suffering can put it into perspective and this itself is a big step towards relieving it. 

Short Answer: It doesn't matter. Long Answer Some postures are said to be more conducive to concentration, and perhaps this is true to a certain extent. Perhaps there is something with certain hand placements which may help keep people a bit more focused (maybe the bare attention required to keep fingers barely touching, for instance). However, don't make too much of this. Ultimately, how you sit is a means to help facilitate your concentration and mindfulness, unless you believe that your suffering in life can be solved by how you hold your hands. 

So the question here isn't whether any concept -- including Anatman -- is sufficient in itself. I believe the answer to that question is yes. Rather the questions are... 

Now you may not agree on how completely we can achieve this, but the central idea here is that compassion relaxes the boundaries of the self, expands our sense of one-ness, and to the extent we can express compassion, we are liberated. 

First, dukkha is a word with no precise English translation, and it denotes things that we normally think of as suffering, but also things being "out of kilter". In fact, it's etymology comes from a wheel being out of kilter. I've seen dukkha translated as everything from stress to existential angst. However, suffering is the most common translation I've read, but has always been followed by a disclaimer that it's not a completely adequate translation. Second, the Buddha didn't say all life was dukkha. Instead, he listed things that were dukkha (which covered much of life) and summed it up by saying the categories (aggregates/skhandas) subject to clinging were dukkha. Now these skhandas account for all our experience, but it's only if they're subject to clinging that they are dukkha. I imagine most Buddhists would say they are subject to clinging in most people and hence justify the expansion of dukkha to cover all life. I hope this helps. 

I have to part company here and say that expressing gratitude for being brought into the world (or for breeding) contradicts the 1st Noble Truth. Sutras should be taken with a grain of salt. Test them, apply what works, and dispense with the rest. Don't hold anything as being worthy of veneration just because it's a Sutra. While many Sutras are profound, many are contradictory, incoherent or just plain nonsense. So work it out for yourself. If life is Dukkha, then why be happy (and express gratitude) that you were brought into it? If (as some Buddhists claim) it's because it's an opportunity to practice, then ask if you'd feel similarly grateful to someone who broke your legs and thus gave you an opportunity to heal. This isn't to say that we should harbor ill will because of this; it is what it is, and our energy is best spent making the most of where we are. But acting like we were done a favor by being thrown face first into Dukkha strikes me as disingenuous. I believe this is the result of politics. At some point Buddhism needed to appeal to laypeople who had families, or to the politico/social order, and the result are teachings like this. None of this is to say that laypeople can't benefit greatly from Buddhism. Conclusion: Don't take anything seriously just because it's a Sutra. 

Depending on who you ask, Buddhism does or doesn't have Goddesses. The issue is complex because people define these terms differently, and Buddhism often co-opted the practices of the cultures in which it entered. So some schools of Buddhism may have dieties, others may have Bodhisattvas they venerate, others may claim those Bodhisattvas are de facto dieties and accuse those who claim otherwise of equivocation... A great example of this is Quan Yin (Guanyin). She is the symbol of compassion and thus she figures very prominently in Buddhist iconography. For instance, at my local Mahayana Temple, there are far more statues of Quan Yin than of The Buddha himself. Quan Yin is not related to The Buddha, she seems to have been a pre-existing Goddess who got co-opted into Mahayana Buddhist belief.