I like what Erik said in one of his comments starting with the "I'm confused...". One of the tricks I believe in dealing with bosses is making them feel like they make all the decisions, know everything and are the greatest bosses in the world (stroking their ego is what I like to think it is). One of the tricks I use to do this is sometimes make myself seem like I don't know what is happening when I notice something "I believe" is wrong (it may NOT be). This is leading on from Eriks comments. Sometimes I'll say things like: I'm struggling to grasp this code. Can you talk me through it. We have started implementing some processes that will help make our team more productive in the future. I'm not sure how this new code fits into that. Can you talk me through it. Is there any reasoning why you did this like this? We have some similiar setups that we are working on that might make this easier to implement in the future. Sometimes we just have to put up with the "interesting things" that bosses do. Some bosses find it hard to step away completely and really enjoy getting in there. However they don't like to believe they are no longer required and sometimes don't want to show their inadequacies in case they feel the team might lose respect in their abilities. Basically, try and make your boss feel like the changes he did was really helpful but you don't quite understand how they fit into the direction that the boss and your team is trying to follow. If your boss has insecurities etc you may have to just be prepared to have to review all his code and try and fix/change them without his knowledge after he has made it. In the end, you can make suggestions and talk to your boss, but you can't change his way of working. That is up to him and his bosses. 

Of course it's acceptable to decline, but be prepared to accept the consequences of your actions that this may occur. Such as 

I have a contractor programmer doing some work for me and I'm wondering if I'm micro-managing or even being too strict with what I'm asking. A few times in the past I have asked him to do stuff in a particular way, or follow a particular process and I have had to repeat myself because of his failure to do it. Lately I asked him to ensure his latest code project was checked in to our svn repository. I have had to ask this again after this not occuring (after about 4 days). This will probably happen at some point but I'm a bit irked that a simple matter like was not followed through when initially asked and I had to follow it up. Is it acceptable to send another email outlying this. This is just a minor thing but it sort of has underlying themes in other work he does and we do together. I can't do anything about him (firing wise etc) as he was hired by my colleague and so we need him at the moment. So my questions I guess are: 

Asking them to check in their code as I am waiting on a piece of functionality that I know they have completed. I just ask to be notified when this has happened so I don't have to constantly check. They tell me they are checking in their code right now but nothing happens for a while. When I quiz them after a period of time they say they are doing it just now and suddenly it's done. I ask if they could send me some information on their task as it's related to what I am doing and would help me in my work at the time. 

Generally I think referring or recommending someone for a position is a risky business. Essentially you are putting your reputation on the line in that how they perform may reflect on you. I would suggest never recommending or backing someone unless you were confident in their abilities and had a complete grasp of their work ethic. If you believe you have this then by all means put in a word in the right ear. I think in this day and age I would consider recommendations from existing employees (especially if I value their contributions) go a long way to selecting a condidate for a position. I think you have done well to say send in your CV, but perhaps make it clear that you are not reponsible for the actual hiring process etc Perhaps say the HR have some fairly strict processes everyone needs to follow but you could have a talk with the brother and give him some pointers. It might also give you a chance to sound him out! If he is a slacker and you have referred him then yes, I would imagine it will reflect badly on you in some context. FYI. I once recommended and got a good friend a position. I knew he was a hard worker and he ended up being an excellent worker. He in turn got another friend a job but that guy ended up being a bit of a slacker. He said to me that he regretted recommending him as he felt it reflected badly on him and other co-workers talked about him all the time how bad he was. It put him in an awkward situation both in the workplace and in the social scene with this friend. Although your situation is a brother of a friend it too might put your friendship in a potentially strained situation if things don't turn out. Just be prepared for that and try and maintain a work / friendship seperation if you can with your friend. 

The foul smelling part is flammable. Light a candle or one of those room-scenters with a candle inside. Or one of those tea warmers with a candle inside. Works really well in the bathroom too, if you have a big party and lots of people using it. 

You are the admin and this is a company PC. You can sidestep the problem: Establish guidelines of what may be installed. Do not allow games to be installed. Do not allow users to access internet sites like dating, social networks, etc. You can give security as the reason. Lots of places do this. Send a mail round telling everybody this will be policy starting on Monday. Have a remote way of cleaning up PCs regularly. This way you stop the guy doing this without breaking any law or union agreement and without offending anybody. 

Yes, actually, but not in writing, do it in person and off-site if you can. I have done this; I transferred department to get away from the swine, and after a reorganisation he got assigned to us. So I left, officially to get some more varied experience. The boss said, what is the real reason? And I said, because I never want to be in the same room as X ever again. And he said, there's something wrong here, four of you are leaving to get away from this guy. I told him some of the nasty stuff X had done to me and many others, trying to keep it light-hearted and zippy. Last time I went past, I saw X had been downgraded and had to share an office (this is as low as it gets here). So it helped. It made me feel better too. 

I don't know what country you are in, but where I live engineers are responsible for what they deliver. So if someone dies because I deliver faulty products or knowingly allow faulty products to be delivered, then I go to prison. Ditto if actively lying or conniving in lying about what your products can do, or whatever, you, yes you yourself, are guilty of fraud. As it says further down, if it's a lie, preface it by "my boss says". Never sign off code or test reports if you don't like it. Never. Better still, find an excuse not to present this stuff to the customer. But firstly, get a new job and get out of there, don't wait another day. And find an alternative exit route in case of fire. And, oh yes, if there is a fire and people die because you didn't report the chained-up fire exit, then you too are at fault. I see below you reported it in a roundabout way, but do it in writing. Mail your boss and his boss that this is illegal and dangerous. Do it right now. This is not a joke, these are people's lives. 

Depends where you are. Here in Germany an e-mail is an official document, so the footer contains: My name, position and department, the post address, various telephone numbers and website. Then a baby logo Then it contains the official stuff; the registered office, district court, managing directors, etc. This part is mandated by law and is not negotiable. Then a note about confidentiality. On the other hand we don't have any header at all. You could persuade them to do without the opulent bit at the top. You can see all that in Outlook or whatever anyway. 

Does it have to be water? In canteens and hospitals they have hygiene bottles mounted on the wall so you can clean your hands as you go in. They have some cleaning solution in there. You could even put water in these - one of those big bottles they have in drinking fountains - and have buckets underneath. 

Go to the boss and say, boss, I think we need another person in the team. I'm off on a long holiday next year and what happens if one of the others gets sick or something? We have plenty of work to keep three or four people busy. We really need backup. So let's look at getting some help in. There. You've covered all bases and hurt nobody. 

The common theme always seems to be don't worry about the other guys pay or to just get over it but for me personally I can't get over something like that if I know the guy is no where near up-to my level. It tends to eat at me until I just don't enjoy the work environment any more. So my tactic was to negotiate other things that would make the job more enjoyable without it effecting the company and my production. This has meant that my issues with the pay has lessened (although I still get irate and feel exactly as you do over pay in-equalities) and I know don't think about it all the time. As for how I handled that negotiation. Of course it varies, but for me I used these tactics: 

It's not a flaw. It's just the environment you need to function at optimum. However, others need other ways so unfortunately you will need to learn to bloke out noise as and when required in many situations. Headphones is the typical method of choice I believe. 

I had this same situation and what I did was rather than look for payment perks, I attempted to get other benefits as part of my package. Some of these for me included: 

The ultimate person responsible in my opinion for morale building is the top honcho. YOU! However you can delegate this down the chain to ensure it is being addressed to those you think might fit the bill and have a more on the ground feel for how things are going in the team. However you set the standard (expectations) and those assigned specific tasks then try to implement and see them through. For other tasks it can depend on your relationship with your employees and their job allocations. Sometimes I've seen the person responsible for dealing with the bills, office tasks etc take on the role of employee welfare. For bonus setting it might be a senior manager/person who leads the gathering of this information and all the donkey work but gets any final sign-off by yourself Although these roles can be done by one person I would think your company size is big enough (but not so big for a full time HR) that it may be split between individuals concerned with you still having the ultimate say if and as required. 

I find I have quite a bad memory so when I ask a team member if they could do something and let me know when it's done I tend to forget about it and rely on that person to remember and hence let me know when it's done. However I find myself constantly having to chase people up when I realized they haven't done it. It's not just on the odd occasion but I find it happens the majority of the time to the point where I don't feel like I can trust the members in our team to remember to do something that we talked about. Not only that, I find it effects my time as I feel like I have to remember not only my tasks but others as well. I understand everyone is busy with their work and so don't expect people to jump when said jump p.s. I'm not a manager as we work in a agile environment and so try to facilitate a flat level hierarchy where we can! What I would like to do is become better at helping facilitate better communication between team members and expressing the desire that when we discuss an issue and agree to doing something the person takes ownership of that request. 

Be explicit in your CV, and honest in your answers about any queries they might have during the interview or over email/phone. If you are what they are looking for then you will know when you get the job there will be no issues with anything in your past. Otherwise you may potentially have this lurking over your head and you may always wonder "what if they find out I took two years off". If they reject you because of this then accept that and move on. You can't change your past but you can project the new type of person you are (or wanting to be) going into your future. Concentrate on portraying that while accepting your decisions and actions of your past. Good luck.