Gore-tex and equivalents don't make water disappear -- it has to run off someplace. I think pants like that would just result in the water running off and soaking the sides and back of the pants. EDIT 12/18/2012: although someone on Quora just recommended these, which are like rain chaps, somewhat similar to what you're talking about: $URL$ 

I was bolting on my Tubus Nova front rack and noticed that there were bolt holes on the bottom of it, and got to wondering what they are for. The instructions are mostly in pictures and just show that it is to attach this little flange "for panniers". I'm mostly familiar with Ortlieb-style panniers that clip on the top and a sideways hook below. What kind of pannier attachment would use this sort of thing? 

Virginia's law, mentioned by Jacob, allows for bicyclists or motorcyclists to proceed with caution through a red light after 120 seconds or two cycles of the light (presumably the latter part is intended for turn arrow signals, where the light cycles but the rider doesn't get the signal they need). So it's less liberal than Idaho's law. The idea is to keep cyclists from being trapped at signals that only change based on a sensor in the pavement, which often can't sense bikes or motorcycles. I don't think there is any modification to the effect of stop signs. $URL$ 

What limitations cause Shimano to stop at 11 gears and 409% overall ratio, whereas Rohloff can cram in 14 gears and 526%? 

Peanut M&Ms. Mixture of carbs and fat, a bit of protein and caffeine, cheap and readily available, easy to eat out of the bag, and delicious. 

However, this Deore XT derailleur seems to have a longer or slightly further-out b-screw that hits properly. I haven't put a chain on it to check, but this looks like it would work. So I want something that works like this, but is from the 60s-80s, 10-speed road era. 

Helmets.org is a nonprofit organization that compiles lists of helmets that fit specific needs, including a list of helmets that fit particularly large heads. Their website ToS bars verbatim copying (even though data like that is probably not protectable), so all I can do here is link. 

I'd ask Trek.[1] Most likely you have a 20-tooth splined bottom bracket that the Park Tool BBT-22 would remove[2], but check first. You'll also need to know what width the bottom bracket is (varies) and its threading (probably ISO). You may be able to just replace the bearings and not the whole bracket. If you want to go that route, you're best off pulling the bottom bracket out and taking the bearings to a bike shop. Might be easier to just a whole new one, though; the races could be messed up if it is making "knackered-bearings" sounds. You will also need a crank puller, like this one.[3] And a metric ratchet set. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

I have a Schwinn Super Sport circa 1966, that came to me as a single speed, so I have never seen a derailleur on it. When I put this SunTour derailleur on it - mid 70s I think, came off a Peugeot - the b-screw hits the Schwinn's derailleur hanger body, not the b-screw stop, as you can see in the picture. The stop seems way further forward on the Schwinn than the Peugeot. However, a modern Shimano XT derailleur seems to fit the Schwinn fine . . . I just was hoping for something approximately period appropriate. What's going on here? Are the different style derailleur hangers? How can I know what derailleurs will fit the Schwinn? Here's the mismatch: 

I had some Shimano XT hydraulics on a mountain bike, and now have Avid BB7 mechanical disks on my touring bike. I don't know whether to attribute it to the lack of cable compression or some other mechanical advantage, but there's no question that the hydraulics feel much easier and controllable. It is also a more linear feel (or "better modulation" is a phrase I sometimes hear used) -- you get more braking right at the beginning of the lever pull because you don't have to first squish out all the flex in the cable and cable housing. By contrast, my mechanical disc brakes, while very strong, have a bit of squish at the beginning, and don't subjectively feel as nice. I still choose not to run hydraulics because of the increased vulnerability (hydraulic line punctures) and difficulty of doing field repairs (particularly inappropriate for a touring bike). But the hydraulics, subjectively, definitely feel much stiffer and stronger. Since you're a bigger guy at 100 kilos, and braking quality sounds important to you, I don't think you'd be crazy to want to try switching over to hydraulics to see if they make a significant difference. 

Having extra 3/4" webbing straps is also really nice. For holding stuff onto your racks, or for fixing your rack, or as a belt. 

I can't say for sure, but you have a decent chance of being able to just adjust the body screw on the derailleur to increase its clearance for the larger cassette (see "B-screw Adjustment" on this page). As you've also noted, the chain will be tighter when in that lower rear gear, which might work but more likely than not you're going to have some difficulty shifting into low rear gear and/or front big chainring without making the chain longer. You can potentially just splice in another link or three (most LBSs will give them out for free, although make sure you know what type of chain you have -- probably standard seven speed) rather than purchasing a whole new chain. 

I am talking about things like the cradles that Salsa and Revelate make. The most obvious reason seems to be to keep the drybag away from cable and cable housings. However, on my particular bicycle, I have wide handlebars (Nitto Albatross) with full cable housing, and it doesn't seem like that's an issue for me. I've done test rides with a drybag strapped directly to my bars, and it seems fine. However, before I head off on a tour, I'm wondering if there any other reasons I would want a cradle that I'm not thinking of. 

I realized this is five years old for OP, but since this comes up in Google searches, additional info: I've cold set two old steel frames and made them 1x10s, including a Peugeot PX-10 that is now my daily rider (other is a Schwinn Super Sport). I followed the Sheldon instructions on these two pages to cold set the frames.[1][2] I've got Mavic Askium on one, Kysrium elite on the other. I kept the existing brakes, Mafac Racers, which have enough reach to go from 27" to 700c. You may be limited in how low your gearing can be by your front ring.[3] The PX-10, for example, has pretty Stronglight cranks that only can handle rings down to 38 teeth. Rather than replace them (and the bottom bracket), to get lower gearing I put a 42t Wolf Tooth big cog (there's also one by OneUp) on the rear casette that makes the gearing pretty reasonable. 10-speed chain on old Peugeot/Stronglight front chainring has been fine. I thought chainline might be an issue, but it hasn't for either of mine. The front ring with the Peugeot cranks is more or less around the middle of the 10 speed cassette, and I think you get a fair amount of tolerance because of the derailers. The derailleur hanger is often a difficult point. Someone else had cut a notch into the Peugeot's to create a b-screw stop, which works fine. For the Schwinn I cut and bent a washer that gets bolted under the derailer and gives a place for it. I'm pretty sure I did try the original vintage shifters, but I did not keep them. It's been a while but I think I either found that the didn't have enough range, or that they were just too hard to shift smoothly. The Dia-Compe silver shifters work well with SRAM 10 speed mountain derailers (I have one X7, one GX, they seem about the same). You'll need to keep the front derailer on to prevent chain drops, even with a clutched rear derailer; no cable or shifter for 1x10, just adjust the high screw to get the right position. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ (using "improvised tools" method) [3] Measure BCD and see "smallest ring" column on $URL$ 

Check out the Grizzly Peak Cyclists cue sheets and master maps, for well-documented rides all over the Bay Area and beyond (the Berkeley to Davis century is neat -- Amtrak ride home). 

After about 15 years of accident-free riding, I recently broke my scaphoid (a wrist bone, on the thumb side) while trying to take off my jacket while riding, which obviously would have been best prevented by stopping and then taking off the jacket. I was curious what else can be done to prevent similar fractures, though, and two items of interest I've found are: (1) if you have to put your hand out, slap the ground, which is often taught in martial arts. That distributes the impact across your hand, so that all the force doesn't go up into your wrist and arm. Like Duncan, though, I don't recall having any time to react at all so I'm not sure how much that would have helped. (2) There are these gloves by Knox that are designed with a "scaphoid protection system". They have a hard plastic pad near the base, so that the part of your hand that you reach out with instinctively -- the base of the palm -- slides on the ground, reducing the impact. Kinda pricey though. But agreed that situational alertness and caution are better than any other technique. I'll be stopping from now on for any clothing changes I need to make while riding. 

Mark or otherwise make note the problem link Take the wheel off or push it in the dropout to put slack in the chain See if that link is difficult to bend If it is difficult to bend, then set your thumbs on it, push it side-to-side, quite firmly but not with all your might, until it becomes less sticky 

$URL$ As far as I can figure it is for people with Rohloff-equipped touring bikes so that they have the same rotor bolt pattern on their front and rear wheels, to make spare parts management easier for long-distance tourers. Is that it? 

From the fact that you say "Something seems slightly loose if I twist on the bar", there is also some chance that you have mismatched handlebar and stem. There are 25.4mm and 26.0mm clamp area diameters for both handlebars and stems, so you might have a 25.4mm bar in a 26.0 stem, which might make it creaky and loose. You could try removing the handlebar and sticking a Nitto or beer can shim around the clamping area of the bar and remounting it. If you can't fit the bar into the stem's clamp with the shim, then this isn't the problem. 

Is it the same link every time? There could be a tight/sticky link in the chain from when it was installed. I'm not sure why that would have come up after removing/replacing the wheel, but it's worth checking. 

I have a professionally-built Rohloff wheel, 32-spoke, symmetrical, laced to Velocity Dyads with Sapim Race spokes, disc brakes. It is about six years old, built in 2011; but I mostly just use it when I go touring, so only about 5,000-6,000 miles on it. Always seemed very true, never wrecked, no unusual events. On a recent tour, a spoke broke while I was stopped, eating lunch. I replaced it and tried to match its tension to the other spokes by tone-when-plucked. Next day, another spoke broke while riding on smooth pavement. I'd only had one spare spoke, so I rode for another kilometer or so minus one spoke, but that really put the wheel out of true. I walked until I found a kindly stranger gave me another 2mm straight-gauge spoke of about the same length. When I put that replacement in, I de-tensioned all the spokes by about half a turn (thinking "maybe these spokes are too tight"), very carefully tried to equilibrate tension on all of them by tone, and trued out the deflection caused by riding minus one spoke. I finished the tour, maybe another 550 miles, like that, no more spoke breaks. I'm going to re-spoke the wheel -- I don't trust any of the spokes in it anymore. But I'm also trying to determine a cause here. I don't want to have this happen again. Other points: 

I'm curious: why are some hub shells much larger diameter than others? Is it an aesthetic consideration? Or are there cost/functionality tradeoffs? Take for example this Dura-Ace hub -- pretty skinny. Same for a classic Campy record hub. Compare to this much fatter Tiagra hub, or a Phil Wood front hub. I'm just talking standard hubs, not internal gears, powertaps, dynamos, etc. [Addition after DR Hicks answer: nor I am I talking about hub flanges, but rather the barrel of the hub shell.] 

Nathan's answer is correct, with the comments. Here is a picture to show what non drive side looks like with that endcap off. I had to pull pretty hard, but it comes straight off. 

In addition to the other reasons given here, most framebuilders are also wary of using curved steel fork blades with disc brakes. Since many folks want a raked fork on a road bike for handling or aesthetic purposes, that tends to rule out disc brakes as an option. I had a touring bike with disc brakes made by John McBride of Roseland Cycles, and ended up using straight fork blades (actually a picture of my fork is on the top of their page at the moment). After talking to several other framebuilders, John said it wasn't a good idea to do a curved/raked steel fork with disc brakes. Any curving of the fork blade allows for flexibility in the direction that the brake pushes on the fork blade. That can affect the ride (since only one fork blade is bending while braking, and also can un-spring when you let up on the brakes) and might also contribute to a chance of the fork blade breaking. All that said, however, I know of at least one mainstream commercial example of raked steel fork with disc brakes, the Jamis Aurora Elite. Maybe they just made the forks blades heavier to compensate for the flexing. 

General Principles. If you have too much weight in back, the front wheel's contact on steep uphills can be a little bit light, and your odds of pinch-flatting the rear tire can increase (especially if you are running skinnier tires relative to the load), or breaking spokes, because it already carries more of your body weight than the front. If you put too much up front, low-speed maneuvering can get a little more tricky because the handlebars have so much mass/inertia, and also it will alter the handing even at other speeds in a way that may take some getting used to. For typical riding, I doubt it is going to make much difference unless the load is really uneven. Maybe 70/30 or 60/40 weight bias towards the rear is what I've done. Ease of Access Also A Consideration. I've found it to be more important to arrange things primarily by ease of access, with weight balance the secondary consideration. Gear that you use only at camp goes in my front duffel or at the bottom of the panniers or seat bag. I end up using my tangle bag as a buffer space for food, an extra layer, paper maps, or whatever other stuff I need to access frequently while riding. Top of panniers for occasionally-during-the-day-access items.