Ordinary people with ignorance will not know the nature Dhamma and will make a dispute over matter wasting valuable time in vain. Buddha teaching is simple and timeless. By practicing(not by just reading, thinking or discussing) insight meditation, one will surely come to know what is rupa/nama, how it come and go incessantly and how it will end suffering. Science will need more time to prove this but not yet. With spear piercing in the chest, one cannot get chance to trace back the source. All the being passing through the beginningless/endless samsara not only as human but also as other being in different abodes(including animal life) in countless number will have an answer. Some being nearer to human will have more closer to human in general. If one like the habit of an animal(eg. a cow/monkey/dog) surely with ignorance will lead to that life in after-birth and vice versa. Kamma is simple if one know the absolute truth, if not it is probably thought as miraculous. 

If reminding on just this, in each situation, there will never be any trouble in addition, to that what might just rippe for possible end (if not wrong grasped and continued with it) accure. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

My person guesses that Ilya Grushevskiy might mix up two Suttas, how ever, here the one in regard of discussion: 

— AN 10.176 Followed by "Skillful Verbal Action" and "Skillful Bodily Action", eventually keeping then the Uposatha of the Ariyas. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

An illustration might be helpful: The compassioned monkey. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It's often used, this argument, for a good or a bad: "there are no people" equal to "there is no self": My person doubt either out nor for wisdom. Did the Buddha ever use such abstract arugents? What are possible bad impacts if arguing in such a way? How would people react if you tell them that they are just an illusion? Whould they be free of fear from you who thinks of others in such a way? Didn't the Buddha teaches cause and effect? It seems that an "is" argument is far away from Dhamma: How would people aruge valid to maintain such ideas? Can those who tell such things bear it to get beaten while the harming person says "Nobody get's beaten"? Would my person fails if saying that's the "Dhamma" of the foolish Jhains? 

Please focus your attention nothing but on breathing in and out at the very first attempt. As you concentrate more and more, you will know everything detail what occurring at these sense doors. Only the most distinct sensation you better note, after that just return back to breathing in and out. If you notice equal intensity sensation at different places, just focus one. Mind used to be working once at a time. Sometimes if you cannot note detail as itching, trembling because maybe it is so fast, just note "know it". Never think further what cause them or associated with which. Only then your concentration become sharpen in short time and you will know detail on whole body and then their changes. 

Because others have already mentioned, let me tell you in different way."Because if I am no longer reborn then where am I?" This "I" in the sense of worldly being we accept it as it is. In the case of noble truth, actually there is no "I" just because of ignorance we never recognize it as it is. Naturally it is just five aggregates(nama and rupa). Out of ignorance we have been passing through the rounds of birth and rebirth. In terms of suffering we have been facing through the samsara, it is just like climate change we have. If we have a favorable climate, we love it. If it is not, then we don't. "Why bother even trying to accomplish or achieve anything" you said. If you achieve anything in worldly life, you will have a favorable climate through which you will get in a more comfortable condition. Because of this, Buddha taught about kusala and akusala, and kamma results. All this natural truth, one will come to know by insight meditation. Just by achieving the namarupa pariccheda nana through insight meditation, one will accept, there is no "I". One will have a glimpse of nibbana, if one achieve the Bhanga nana. Buddha teaching is timeless and ready to take on all comers to test it not in afterlife but in this very life at the very moment of insight meditation. Sometimes if one is brought up in a state of most affluent worldly life, suffering is difficult to understand. Only when we know dukkha and dreadful vicious cycle of samsara, we will look for the liberation i.e. nibbana the bliss of which one will surely get to perceive just by achieving sotapanna phala nana through insight meditation in this very life. Then you will know by insight not by reasoning, that Buddhism is NOT kind of depressing. 

How do the "rationalists" (those who try to just depend on what they have already understood) argue how and why they come into being with all their diversity, desires, character... and where is might disapear intom From nothing to nothing? God? Mystic? A mysterious plan? Is there any valid argument beside of the fact of being reborn and that birth has a cause? And what is the cause of birth? 

The fact that "selves" get reborn is at least no encouragement to seek for it, and as also mentioned in the question: the Buddhas teachings are about getting dispassionate with1 all kinds of becoming. It (notion of self and it's possible harm or support) just used as a governing prinziple to gain a good notion of self. When ever there is no more notion of any self indentification then such as rebirth has come to an and. Of course it is nonsense to speculate about "what" kind of rebirth if still subject, if there is still a condition for it. Of what rebirth one may gain next, the Buddha described with the falling of a stick thrown into the air, one time falling on this end, then this, or on the side (link later) But in regard that certain actions give certain results on ones being, when ever such may ripe, and there is rebirth if the is the condition for it, in this regard the Buddha was clear and did not let any door for speculation but encouraged one with it to better take the secure way and let short timely "fortune" and "misfortune" better behind: in putting an end to birth. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

These are not the paradigm. All these are karmic results. Karmic results depend on the degree of intention while doing such good or bad deed. And those bhava after bhava (not reincarnation) depend on the suti mind(seven stages in detail) just before dying. If one know such dreadful samsara, one should better focus only at insight meditation to get liberated. 

Meditation is what you can do in every day life, not only at retreat. All your schedule you can do as you like it. The more time spent for sitting meditation, the better you can concentrate as a beginner. I recommend for sitting meditation Anapanasati (breathing in , know it, breathing out, know it)just concentrate on tip of the nose. It is so simple that one may think it is the beginning. In fact, it is Anapanasati(breathing in , know it, breathing out, know it) is the beginning, middle and the goal to enlightenment. The simplest one given by Buddha to be practised by the lay disciples.Each sitting meditation session should be 1 hour. If you cannot focus that long at first, maybe 15 minutes each. All your leisure time if occupied more with Anapanasati, your progress will be amazing. If you wish to read literature on meditation , those written by Mahasi Sayadaw are my choice. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It's just a matter of the object, of the food, but at it's root, if observing well, there is no different. Views, either greedy, aversive or defuse appearing are views. And for politics increasing greed and pleasure is more conductive. One can say that it is like controling the markted of drugs. Sometimes east did it, sometimes west. Currently Asia has it under control, made it their tool. When ever on hears that people of certain geografic or birth are inherent different, one can be sure that the observant is/was not very attentive and took either this world and views or that as real. Wordlings from Buddhist Countries are interested in the marked like popular Western teachers. An all tolerating, all serving business bring fast costumers, since the mass is not very smart but greedy and full of conceit. Since many eastern still learn service and devotion as a tool from child on, they have it generally easier in this regard, but on the other hand, those rejecting service and devotion are fastly winning people in the east. So so called "open-minded" comes generaly for a certain purpose and was always a good tool acting smart to again just win. So no hope for refuge in regard of realm of certain birth, because their conditions change as well by time, better by deeds. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Depends on the achievement of nirvana, either monk or not, in case of sotapanna, sakadagami, anagami,arahant, if they say with good intention, it is ok referring to Thera Theri Apadana. GOOD INTENTION means not for fame, not for offerings , only for the laymen to follow the proper path of Magga and attain nirvana. 

Once got the knowledge of review, there is reflection on realizing mind and body but this time is not the same as one underwent in the very beginning. Clearer and vivid as it is. Once attain enlightenment i.e, got through all 16 stages of nana thoroughly preferably fully guided by the well-learned meditation master how to recognize the changes of nana, next time meditation will begin with knowledge of arising and passing away and then going step by step upward. Please refer to insight meditation practice by mahasi sayadaw. 

There is technically no difference regarding the stages of insight meditation. If one work hard through insight meditation, he/she has to pass through all these stages no matter which methods is. Only thing is maybe so fast that no time to notice the changes. If one really wish to see, they will see it. What matter most is to achieve nibanna. Just to know "seeing the come and go of nama and rupa, no more wish for that come and go, and finally no more come and go" is enough. Sometimes higher nana stages are faster and more subtle. Sometimes just like suddenly pulling out the four delicate cotton strings covered under pile of sand, is so short in a matter of time as an example of Venerable Ananda. So please focus on meditation, dhamma show it by itself. No dispute.