When defending they can make sure there are not long lines of sight. Placing objects everywhere, etc. When attacking humans who can see further it gets more difficult, if they themselves are prepared, because they would do the opposite and have long sightlines. The short-sighted ones would need to disrupt sightlines with smokescreens as people pointed out in the comments. When they have access to current military technology they would have stuff like strike drones, etc. They just need to be able to watch a screen and not see into the distance. In short: They will not ever stand a chance in soldier battles, but they are basically on even footing with humans in everything else, so they would not need special tactics with this. 

EDIT: Bridgeburners pointed out that since it's time dilation by velocity and not gravity you have to take into account that it is a more difficult scenario and the perceived time changes strongly depending on the observer. I did not properly clarify that this might not be the effect you were going for. 

If we ignore that then there is no further answer to be provided, since the leftover question of what would happen to society is very opinion-based. A more realistic scenario would be a world-wide EMP. But the problem of the question being mostly opinion-based is still there. 

Mirrors do not reflect every wavelength on the electromagnetic spectrum. Mirrors are designed to reflect the visual spectrum (350nm to 700nm) but there are lasers in a huge variety of wavelengths. As long as the laser is powerful enough you can destroy most things in it's way. 

It would work (within reasonable limits) There is always side-effects to tampering with brain-chemistry. If it was the best for the brain to simply work faster then why would it not have evolved that way? Of course you burn a lot more calories, but there is other stuff, too. Hormones might be released and you get into emotional distress or you could have long-term effects like depression or dependency. Differing results Let's take current day drugs that work with brain-chemistry in different ways. Marijuana as an example. It does different things with every person. Of course the main tendency is to calm them down and make them hungry, but for some rare people the same strain causes panic attacks, paranoia or even psychotic episodes. (note: marijuana is a rather weak drug and is comparably not that dangerous) Body chemistry imbalance Also the side effects do not even have to be psychological or neurological issues, but can make your body chemistry go nuts and cause an imbalance in other organs causing them to malfunction when effected to severely. Physical limitations Then there is also the hard limits of the body. In the human body a signal travels about 128 m/s. So even if you were to enhance the speed in which neurons fire you wouldn't greatly increase that speed. If a signal is supposed to travel 20cm in your brain it would at least take 1.5ms to reach the destination. You can not enhance the 'computational power' indefinitely. Conclusion There are already methods to enhance focus, but they all have side-effects to some extend. None of the methods can boost indefintely. You could argue that an aliens physiology might be better "boostable" and with futuristic technology it can work to much stronger extends, but even then it will have its limitations. There is no inherent issue with "boosting" biochemistry. Just side-effects and limitations. 

At this (accelerating) rate of progress, FTL travel would be accessible to large corporations by about 2130; Civilian space habitation might be a thing from 2050 onwards, and with people living at those kinds of distances, there'd definitely be motivation (and believable likelihood) to have at least light speed communication down to a fine art within a similar timeframe. This is all oversimplification though, as it's thinking only in terms of theories/ideas, not resources, safety, economics or human psychology. My real point is that it's your story, but if you stick to the general "feelings" of progress that we've seen so far, you should be able to achieve verisimilitude. Keep in mind that FTL travel reaching stage 4 might never be believable to a particularly critical reader – even if it were possible to put a starship in every household, it probably wouldn't make sense to do so. No matter how refined the technology involved, FTL drives in fiction still usually require exotic fuels/materials, so the purchase and ongoing costs may never come down below that of say, today's jet aircraft. And what would even motivate people to travel those kinds of distances? What can't they do closer to home? Star Wars has this kind of world, but a lot of other SF assumes that only governments, corporations and maybe the mega-rich would have any interest in travelling interstellar distances, let alone the finances to do so. Still, some people have private jets today. (Edit: In light of some good points raised in the comments, I may have conflated too many things when discussing stage 4 FTL. Business use of some technologies becomes widespread while personal use may never become feasible and/or desirable. I shouldn't conflate extensive commercial utilisation of FTL with a sporty FTL corvette in every space-garage; in fact I can't name any serious science fiction that actually implies the latter. This is where the steam engine analogy becomes more representative than the computer analogy, I think. Still, I'd allow for a significant period of time between governments/megacorps developing/deploying workable FTL ships and average Joe/Jane Hauler getting their grubby salt-of-the-earth paws on them.) 

Just an idea that occurred to me – if you wanted a world that was geologically plausible on a planet similar or identical to Earth, you could always use the geography of Earth at an earlier time period, or even Earth with a higher/lower sea level. This doesn't allow you to "alter it in any way you wish", unfortunately, but it would allow you to browse the various continental configurations throughout the Earth's life and choose the one you like the best. Geography is a fairly different concern than geology, and you have a lot more freedom in this regard. You can probably draw a political map any way you like, as long as you account for certain reliable factors from human history such as civilisations liking water, political borders being demarcated by natural geographic features like rivers and mountain ranges, and powerful states having a preference for controlling their whole local landmass given the opportunity (e.g "Manifest Destiny" in the US, various attempts to "unify" Europe) Some resources: 

As Raditz_35 pointed out: You could argue either way. But: The technologies do have a similar basis - the robotic parts, but cybernetic stuff has a lot more to do with making those things part of your body. There is medical and neurological components, too. You can't just implant robotics into a person. Currently the two fields are closely entertwined, but this would not have to be, as you could imagine cybernetics to be illegal. To conclude: Without advanced robotics you can not build advanced cybernetics, but cybernetics is not something that simply follows robotics as there are lots of other things that come into play. 

The premise of your question is flawed It would mean that you have such a huge radiation density that it would most likely severely effect any living thing. Blocking (or jamming) wireless transmissions is not that difficult, but already takes a lot of energy if you do it locally. If you want to block every wireless transmission everywhere that'd be insane amounts of energy being pumped onto the earth. Probably more than the suns, since the atmosphere blocks most of that radiation. If you want to block wired transmissions you'd need even significantly more than that. You would need insane amounts of radiation on every frequency from 1Hz to 100GHz. Most of the frequencies are not very reactive with biochemistry, but some are. And also the frequencies used in current day technology are effecting biochemistry. Most of those are used so little no actual harm comes from it, but the amount of energy your proposed radiation would mean would destroy a lot. And it would also boil water, probably. (WLAN: 2.4GHz, microwave: 2.455GHz) I think even if you would ONLY have EXACTLY the frequencies we use for communication the side-effects of the radiation intensity on biochemistry would still be destructive. To conclude: Society would probably not exist anymore since everyone dies of cancer, radiation poisoning and other things. 

The brain is not one big module with a single task. It's a big cluster of semi-interdependent modules each working on their own - and sometimes conflicting with one another (e.g. mental disorders). (for reference: Robert Kurzban's "Why everyone (else) is a hypocrite") This structure implies that the mind and personality are not as simple concepts as you might think. You can not easily define what makes a person or a personality. And you can not transfer that from one person to another person without entirely rewiring the "host" brain. You also can't transfer modules as the connections of modules need to work in specific ways with other modules - maybe the other brain doesn't have these. A brain only consists of structures it needs. There is no "free space" to be taken by something else. You can't just cram more stuff in there. Especially not twice as much - like transferring another personality in there. The basic premise of your question is contradicting science. Therefore no one can give you any scientificly valid answers to your question. If you want to write about that, you can make up something fictional.