Sweet and short: if that employee quits, your company is done for. Pay him what he wishes, if it is reasonable, and if you can, add a bit more. If you really must avoid increasing his salary (which will have a cumulative effect) give him a significant bonus payment (which can be significantly higher than a raise would be because it is not cumulative). If you actually have no spare money to pay more, then you are about bankrupt anyway, aren't you? 

If you were my employee and you did that, I would be pretty sure that I can never trust you with anything of importance again. You would be in the "only ever does what he likes" drawer for the rest of the time, and I would not go out of my way to get you to develop into more mature directions. You do not want to be in that drawer; there may well be "boss decisions" in the future where you would be glad to be involved in instead of learning about them after the fact. If you really do not wish to develop in that direction I interpret the answer in the light of an "event" - i.e., a current project, where the boss needs something from you. One exemption to the things I write here is if the boss tells you that he wants to develop you from being a software developer to, for example, a fulltime consultant or team lead, with minimal coding. If you truly do not wish that, you are of course free to (and invited to) tell the boss that (and, if he insists, skip along to looking for a new job). But I do not really get the impression that the boss in our current scenario intends to do anything like that. How to handle this kind of situation Get your act together. If your boss asks you to do something (within boundaries, obviously), there are two possible answers (maybe after you asked to make sure that you really understood what he meant): 

The new starters are behaving in a way that deviates from the team established behavior. That creates stress. By accepting it and setting it as desirable you may be empowering the new hires and further degrading the working environment. 

On the other hand, the QA team could provide better information: Some testing solutions allow, for example, for screen capture - But 99% of time it just takes some additional diligence in describing the scenario to help a developer team to figure out possible causes. Also, if they're already pressured to tick N 'solved' checkboxes per day then they'll naturally pick the ones that they can solve faster, leaving the poorly written ones in the queue. 

I would say not a bad thing at all. If all the points you're concerned with are covered - namely your advancement as a professional (by way of new challenges) and monetary compensation for your work - and you're satisfied with it, then there is no reason for betting on a new environment. Unless, of course, an excellent (in comparison) proposal comes your way. It's hard to predict the future, but I would say that future interviewers will take stability as an asset instead of a liability; it proves that you had no issues joining a professional environment. Just try to stay on your toes and keep your skills relevant. 

(I assume this is a highly skilled position, not something like manual labor, routine lab work, or an unskilled position.) The answer sounds pretty obvious to me. Obviously you cannot tell them because they then won't take you. By this logic, you are obviously hurting them by leaving after a year (or they would take you). By applying to a permanent position for just a year, you are actively and knowingly hurting the company. The application process costs them real money; teaching you the ropes costs them real money; there are also usually real humans in companies, taking their time to get you up to speed, you are hurting them as well. And at the end you are gone, together with all your knowledge and experience. You are hurting them because they then have to find someone else - and they will have to do that 100%, even if they take you back a year later. With bad luck, they get such a person again, and again. People have thought about how to decide whether a particular course of action is correct; one pretty nice way is $URL$ You have to decide what kind of person you want to be. And to those who said that the company cannot give you a guarantee as well, that does not matter at all. Sure, life is full of changes, but without further knowledge, it is purely the OP's decision and responsibility. 

Time constraints may apply to Skype calls that prevents you to dig further into details - after all he's the Big Boss. He's also trying to be proactive and solve a problem. Your job as specialist is to help him make the call and to implement the agreed request. So take notes, analyze the requests after the call and provide feedback on it. Use the opportunity in a pro-active way: 

Since it was the restaurant's choice to hire people that have English as secondary language, I'll agree with @jon-custer's comment: this seems like an excellent opportunity for your sister to expand her horizons and learn a new language. 

So it is based on someone's opinion/evaluation, which may or may not reflect your coworker's merit. The logical conclusion would be that, if your coworker wants to get an invitation to the leadership program, then they need to match the evaluator's expectations. As it stands, this may have nothing to do with their professional competency at all. Let's assume, for a second, a technical specialist like a software developer: the only practical 'path to leadership' would be a position as Lead Developer. The Leadership Program may be focused on administrative leadership, with a Venn diagram showing a surprisingly small shared area between the two administration aspects. The best approach in my opinion would be to make it clear to your coworker that you participating in the program doesn't interfere with your relationship with them at all, and that you're sympathetic to their situation. As it is, your presence on the program may even reward them with an insight on expected traits, thus helping them in the long run. 

I agree with and have upvoted David Schwartz' answer to decline the offer for its simplicity, but would like to stress one point: I find it important that you learn this kind of negotiation for your own sake, especially if you want to go full freelance. The key part is 

I would suggest steering away from this train of thought, which translates to "I did everything great, but my project fails because of XXX which I cannot influence". If your project is flailing, you, as the project lead, are responsible. Period. No matter what the actual reason is. If there is something that needs to be done, and you are not able to do it, then it is your job to talk with your boss and have him enable you to do it. If your CEO meddles in your project, and you see that it causes the project to fail, then do something. A CEO has no business meddling several steps of hierarchy below. If you tried and tried and tried again, and you cannot stop him meddling, then it's time to look for a new job, not for a raise. At that levels, bosses do not want to hear explanations. Giving explanations is being defensive; and you do not want to look defensive. Although I know nothing about your project, my advice would be: 

I've been in similar situations in the past. One that specifically comes to mind was a highly specialized team whose clients admitted to be quite competent technically, but with reportedly sub-optimal communication skills. So, to your points - 

This would be a very nice thing to hear as a recruiter: the client needed help, you provided and left in very nice terms, demonstrating professionalism. (You may back it up with a recommendation letter.) And, in any case, showing that you have some professional experience is much better than nothing at all. 

So said coworker values the idea of being a 'leader', or at the very least the idea of being part of the program. 

I wouldn't necessarily see it that way. A recruiter may see a contract position as a project with a well-defined beginning, execution time and end. Imagine the following exchange: 

I suggest you sell yourself (your work) as expensive as you can. But keep in mind that employers have to keep all employees satisfied. In some organizations there are clear rules who gets how much depending on their education (which documents can they provide) the position and the time they are working in that organization. Everybody knows their position in that pecking order and they (have to) accept it. Such an organization is normally not attractive for better than average people. But even in more flexible companies the management has to make sure they keep everybody reasonably happy. Let's say they would give you 50% more salary then others because they think you are very good. And lets say you do a very good job and they would give you even more because they know you are good. Consider what will happen when other people find out that you get so much more than they get. Some will understand that you are better and you earn more. But there will be others who won't like it at all when you get more. Especially if these people think you are not so much better and if they are longer in the company then you. What will the boss do if these people complain? Obviously he can tell them accept it and that's it. But this will be bad for their motivation. So the boss needs to balance what he does. If he is too good to you the others won't like it. If he is not good enough to you then you won't work there. Maybe the boss would be willing to give you more but he can't handle problems with the others. Maybe you can make a deal that you get a "normal" salary and a big bonus which the others don't have to know about. But depending on the company it may be difficult to hide such a deal. Edit: After all the comments I like to add: What I describe here is not the way I think things should be but the way they are. Personally, I negotiated often enough the payment I wanted (mostly freelance work). I work mostly for small companies and I talk directly with the boss and that is confidential between him and me. But in bigger companies other people will know and sometimes this information can’t be kept secret. And then, if the lower paid people find out and get upset, this can be a huge problem for the whole company. Smart bosses avoid getting in this kind of trouble. What the lower paid people do is human nature. I cannot change it. 

This is all about internal communication; there do exist customers, but the problems are clearly inside our company. The reason why communication was bad were probably... 

TL;DR: I interpret the question as "I am receiving negative feedback and I don't like that negative feedback". I present two main solutions: either to reduce the negative feedback, or to reduce the fact that you don't like it. No sentence of this answer contains sarcasm or irony (including this one), and only this sentence and the one after the quote contain humour. 

This leaves you with the reason "taking care of personal/private matters". Do not say "family matters". Looking for a new job is a personal matter, and "personal matter" is open enough to include almost everything else you could possibly do. "Family matters" would be a lie. If someone keeps nagging, stick with it but not so that it gets aggressive or defensive. "Which personal matters?" - "Well, personal ones!". If they do not get the point after that flippant answer, your next escalation would be "I really do wish to keep this private." Be friendly while delivering that line. Do not say something like "I do not want to tell you" (whenever you use the "you" word you open yourself up for attack, or sound overly defensive - invoking the impression that you have something to hide). For me, it would be inconceivable that someone keeps nagging after that. You can repeat the last line ad nauseam if they do (well, obviously not..., but you get the gist). If they keep asking then there is something else going on and you are beyond the scope of a cookie cutter answer like this; you'll have to find out how to weasel out of it yourself. But what you said before does not put you in any attackable position. 

Is is generally frowned upon. The candidate should have your full attention. That is, after all, the objective of the interview. If your company allows, a viable option is to record the the whole interview in video for future reference (or, alternatively, an audio recorder) if the candidate gives their agreement. 

My suggestion would be to pick someone to serve as the communication bridge between the technical team and the rest of the company, able to translate the needs of both sides into deliverables. I have seen some Project Managers covering this aspect, but sometimes they have someone dedicated filling this role. 

This way you keep a documented paper (err, electron) trail of all impromptu requests, while freeing Big Boss to keep the call going. He may review your questions at his leisure. And, since the request now exists in a trackable, shareable format, you can forward it to your Lead Programmer, Project Manager or whoever needs to be aware of it. 

No, no, no, get rid of the anxiety right away. Throw a party For you, the important part is not the "leaving", but that you have found a better company. This means you are lucky and should handle this as a joyous event. Throw a little farewell party, the size and means of which depend wholely on the culture in your place. For example, at my current company, I would bring a few prezels and some non-alcoholic drinks. Or donuts for everyone, etc. Make it a happy little event at the end of your previous-to-last workday or so, and just reminiscence about the good times you had together. Obviously you have to invite your ex-colleagues a few days up front, and this is a perfect way to communicate your decision. 

I interpret this such that you told her your absolute minimum salary. Now, there are three facets to this: 

A lot will depend on which job you want and how much money you want to earn. Maybe a couple of years ago you were happy to take almost any job to get started. And maybe now you want a job doing this and that under those conditions. That is obviously more difficult. Make sure you match your expectations with reality. I.e. if you want a job which requires lots of experience in a certain field make sure you have that experience - otherwise there is not much point to apply for that job. Make also sure to look at more than just your "technical" qualifications. I.e. some people know a lot about technology and they think because they know more than others they should get i.e. the team leader job. But that job requires a lot more than just technical knowledge. Make sure you don't overlook these "other" requirements when you look for a job.