Apparently, you should just do the work and not try to require them to send you an email. You learned a lesson regarding how the designer expects to be treated. Not a big deal, nothing to worry about. But now you know. 

There's no way to tell if the foundation of your fear is correct or not. While it can be profitable to have specialized knowledge, in the long term I don't think relying solely on "singular and unusual" knowledge is a good thing. In today's working world, things change rapidly. Technologies go in and out of style, are replaced, and are replaced again. Tying your entire working life to one set of specialized knowledge is almost sure to cause problems at some point in time. As you have already experienced, no matter how good you are, you can be replaced. I believe the best course of action is to be a lifelong learner. Cash in on your specialty, but keep your head up and see where things are going. Be ready to change with the times. The days of one-profession careers are over for many. I had multiple distinct phases to my professional life, going from Mainframes, to Personal Computers, to Web, to Mobile technology jobs. I think we must be committed to expanding our knowledge base continually, or risk being left behind. So if your fear is that your particular specialty niche may be going away, I think that's reasonable. Eventually, all niches go away. Try not to be too frightened. Instead try to find out what you can do to stay ahead of the ever-changing work landscape. In the long-run, you'll be better for it. 

Since it seems as if it was an honest mistake, it's best to assume positive intent and reply with a mild, polite correction. Something simple like "Sorry, but I'm a {whatever gender you identify yourself as}" should suffice. You could potentially avoid mistakes like this by prefacing your name with Mr. or Ms. (or whatever term you feel is appropriate) if you feel comfortable doing so. 

If the brand of headphones is a big deal, then the company should purchase an equivalent set of headphones from the preferred vendor and give them to him. Then it would be reasonable to tell him which headphones to wear. 

Yes, of course. You already agreed to what you indicate is a "very good" salary. You chose not to look around. Even though you already had 2 years of experience, you chose not to negotiate. The company is holding this position for you for 5 months. And you haven't yet worked there a single day. Apparently the only reason you think you should ask for more is that some friends have told you they will be getting more. Deciding to ask for a raise now will demonstrate that you aren't willing to stand behind your word. At least it will show that you don't know how to discuss salary. It might make you seem "high maintenance". It probably won't cause the company to rescind the offer, but it will almost certainly start you off on the wrong foot with this company. You would be in a far stronger position if you work for them for a year or two and then ask for a salary increase. By then you will have worked really hard, demonstrated your abilities and shown them the significant value you bring to the company. There will always be someone else making more than you. Learn how to determine what you are worth and not worry about what others make. Then learn to negotiate for what you want before you accept an offer, so you won't have to have buyer's remorse later. 

You are in your twenties, and tired of working. Now, you want to take a few years off. Certainly that is something that will get the attention of a potential employer, and might raise a red flag. When I hire people, I don't want to hire someone who will leave after a short period of time. I invest a lot in hiring and training new employees. So I don't want to waste that investment on someone who won't be around. A hiring manager might talk to you and think "Gee, here's this young person in her twenties who decided she didn't need to work for a few years. If I hire her, why would this time be any different? Won't she just get 'tired' again quickly and quit my company?" You'll want to be able to talk about that in an interview, and reassure the hiring manager why this time will be different. That said, there are many jobs where they traditionally don't need or expect people to stick around very long. Sometimes, they are entry-level jobs, sometimes the training period is very short, sometimes they are just used to a high percentage of their employees coming and going. If, after your several year hiatus, you decide to go back to work and seek out that sort of job, you might not have as much difficulty convincing a new employer to hire you. Certainly, you'll be able to find some job eventually. And you are in a better position than most to know if getting a job as a shop assistant in a cake shop after not working for several years is feasible. 

We all have many interests. We each need to learn if we are free to express those interests at work or not, and to what extent we are free to do so. 

There is really no "usually" here. Some employers will pay for parking, some will not. In my part of the world, many employers do not pay for parking, while some do. Some have parking "allowances" which subsidize part or all of the cost of parking. It really depends on the local work customs, the size and type of the company, and the overall benefits package. So there's no "one size fits all" with this benefit. Many employers that do pay for parking will boast of that "benefit" in their job postings or their company website. So look there first. If you don't find it there, you can always ask the recruiter, or HR about this benefit and all others. 

Assuming you are in the US, you never need permission to move. But you should inform your employer of your plan to move, and the anticipated move date. At a minimum, they will need to update their records for tax purposes, employee mailings, telephone access, etc. It's also possible they will want you to change your connection methods while working from a different remote location (I'm imagining using a different VPN, for example). If you worked at the office and moved, they wouldn't fire you (assuming you still came into the same office each day). I see no reason to suspect they would fire you for moving while working remotely. 

All communications involve at least two pieces: the sender and the receiver. To be effective your urgent communication needs to be sent in such a way that the receiver understands the urgency, without unnecessary delay. So as often occurs - it depends. When I talk to my boss, there are words I can use that convey urgency and importance without changing my tone. Every domain has those words. My rapport with my boss is such that she understands when what I am saying is urgent and important and when it is not. On the other hand, there are others in my company with whom I do not have this rapport. Saying exactly the same words to those people wouldn't generate the same sense of urgency. You as the send of information need to ensure that the receiver understands what you are saying, why you are saying it, and what you expect them to do in response. You need to gauge what sort of tone is necessary to effectively deliver that communication - using your knowledge of the recipient. Most of this happens subconsciously when during our communications. I use tones with my granddaughter that are different than those I use with my son. Yet I don't ponder what tone I should use in either case - it just flows. As we are less certain how our urgent and important messages will be received, we need to spend a bit more time considering the tone of our delivery. 

What kind of training have you done? Have you told the interviewing team what they are expected to do? Specifically, have you informed them regarding the laws that must be adhered to during the interview process? When the team said "it's hard to relate to people that are so much older than us. We should at least try to get someone closer to our age first" and "She'll have to take too much time off to take care of her kid" did you just remain silent? If so, that was a missed opportunity. I'm stunned by the number of companies that put people on an interview team and never train them how to carry out that job correctly. You wouldn't have someone develop software without first being trained, would you? You would train a front-desk person on how to properly answer the phone and direct guests, right? You have the opportunity to correct this situation before it gets out of hand. Schedule a training session for everyone involved immediately. Explain what you are looking for in a candidate and what their role is in the hiring process (as well as what their role is not - i.e., you have the power to make the hiring decision). If you aren't capable or comfortable explaining the relevant laws that must be followed, hire a consultant to help. Your owner, CEO or Board will almost certainly be able to help you find one. Plenty are out there. 

So let's see... There are 10 identical chairs in a conference room. Since this is 10 identical chairs, and not just a random collection, we have to assume that someone wants all the chairs to look the same. Most likely, they want the conference room to look nice for meetings and for visitors. That seems reasonable. You are proposing taking your chair which you don't like, and swapping it for one of the conference room chairs. You would end up with a more comfortable chair, and presumably a more comfortable back. But now the conference room would have 9 identical chairs, and one ugly duckling. It seems reasonable to assume that isn't what management wanted when they purchased the 10 identical chairs. Now, let's assume your coworkers notice what you have done, and take it upon themselves to raid the conference room of chairs as well. You could end up with 10 mismatched chairs. It's unlikely this is what management wants. So, it seems reasonable to me that you already know it's not okay to do this on your own. But, why not just go to management and ask if you can swap your chair for the one you have your eyes on in the conference room? If you are hesitant to do that, then I suspect you know in your heart that this wouldn't be okay. You would be better served by talking to your boss, indicating that your current chair is uncomfortable for you back, and seeing if he or she can help come up with a more appropriate solution than raiding the conference rooms. 

That depends on what your goal is in this context. If you just want to feel like others agree with you that you are being harassed, then you can continue to poll folks here and elsewhere. If you want to file a harassment lawsuit, then you should consult a labor law attorney in your locale. If you want to file a case with your worker's compensation board, then you need to contact them and ask what their appeal process is. As you indicated, they already told you "that it's not bullying or harassment because it's not threatening to my personal safety and it's not in public so it's not humiliating". So ask them what you need to do if you disagree with their ruling/answer. 

Yes, they should all be included. Personally, I believe that all education is a good thing - even when not directly related to your career field. And I believe that any degree earned is a significant achievement. In the best case, they show that you have a wide variety of interests. They can show that you are a hard worker, and that you are willing to commit effort in disparate fields. You may need to be prepared to answer if you really want to go in the direction that fits the role the company is offering or if that you would prefer to go in the direction your other major would take you. ("Do you really want to be a programmer? Or would you rather be an actor?") The interviewer may be worried that you are just marking time until the job you really want opens up. Or if this would be your first job, you may be perceived as someone who would rather stay in school than be part of the working world. That could appear to be the case for someone who pursues one degree after another. For me, I'd include all my education, and then be prepared to talk about why I chose those majors, and why I now want my career to go in the direction I have chosen.