However, such large cities were atypical for Bronze Age Europe. Vráble was one of the largest settlement on the continent itself, at 20 hectares in size and numbering around 1000 people. More typical settlements would be hamlets or villages linked together through tribal allegiances. Larger settlements might form where plentiful resources, trade routes, or natural defenses made it advantageous. The Apennine culture in central and southern Italy were semi-nomadic cattle herders that lived in hamlets in defensible places in the hills. As an example, a bronze age village near Nola, Italy was found preserved under pumice and ash from the Avellino eruption of Mount Vesuvius in the Early Bronze Age; it included three huts, stockades, and fenced areas probably used for livestock. In Sardina the Nuragic civilization took advantage of rich copper mines and became one of the main metal producers in Europe, importing tin via extensive trade networks. Their villages were clan-based, led by a chief, an lived in straw roofed huts, and federated together with other villages similar to the later city-states. Like many other Bronze Age people, they left megalithic constructions such as Nuraghe la Prisciona (below) that are unclear in purpose and might have been dwellings or defensive structures. These nuraghe were cylindrical towers reaching as high as 20 meters (60 feet). Whatever they were, the Nuragic architecture was more advanced than any other Middle Bronze Age civilization in the western Mediterranean. 

Nixon is of course known for Watergate. Benedict Arnold is known for his betrayal. Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait with the intent of dominating the Middle East in the name of Arab nationalism and Islam. He believed the US would not wish to get involved. Yet, it united the UN including Egypt and Syria against him, leading to his defeat. Instead of being renown for bringing forth Arab nationalism, his actions set forth a chain of events which eventually would not only lead to his own end but the ends of fellow Arab nationalists. Marie Antoinette is a perfect example. With France in decline, the king became depressed from the pressure, and she became more involved in the politics partly to help ensure a future for her children in the French monarchy. Yet nearly every thing she tried to do resulted in the opposite. She was an easy target for rumor and criticism and as a result she is remembered today for things which historically she didn't do and didn't say. And ultimately not only did her children not rule, but the monarchy itself was abolished. My favorite though is Hippias, the last tyrant of Athens. He was so disliked that his opponents invented Democracy in order to avoid someone like him becoming the dictator. 

Initially, iron weapons would be kept short to minimize bending or snapping. Even as late as the Roman Empire, the Roman Gladius was generally made out of iron; officers might even stick with bronze swords. Occasionally luck or trial and error would result in production of steel; steel is a much better material for weapons than either bronze or iron and as such was prized (and production techniques closely guarded). However in Europe it would not be until the development of the blast furnace in the Middle Ages that steel became common enough to outfit armies with it. 

The wikipedia page includes an extensive reference list of further reading: $URL$ Here is the reading list from USC's class The Age of the French Revolution: 

The largest city in Europe was Knossos in Minoan Crete, which according to Wikipedia reached as much as 100,000 people by 1600 BCE (Pendlebury & Evans 2003, p. 35). In comparison, the cities of Ur in Mesopotamia and Memphis in Egypt attained 60,000 people by 2000 BCE. The Mycenaean culture of Greece is well known to us via Greek legends. A warlike people, they conquered the Minoans (whose empire was largely destroyed after a volcanic eruption) and defeated Troy (chronicled in the Iliad). The kings and nobility lived in palaces, and citizens in fortified towns, the largest of which was Mycenae (shown below) which had a population of 30,000 people by 1360 B.C. Like many Bronze Age settlements it was built atop a hill for defense. Lower classes lived in small houses in surrounding hamlets and estates. 

In Europe there were historically two ways to build ships. Wikipedia refers to them as Clinker and Carvel. Carvel originated in the Mediterranean while Clinker was more typical in the Atlantic. Clinker-built requires less caulking so is more lightweight and simpler to build, resulting in a flexible hull well suited for the rigours of ocean travel. However, the flexibility is a disadvantage the larger the ship is, especially if it needs to support complex sailing rigs such as for lateen sails (which are necessary when sailing across or close to the wind.) Thus, for the large sailing ships that were to come, the more complex Carvel-built became necessary. 

Find an area that is rich enough for agriculture of some form. Develop farming. Build cities. Establish a religious cult. Profit!! Build monuments!!!! Climate or over-farming leads to ecological collapse. Central settlements disband. Starvation!! :-( Re-establish settlements in mountains, cliffs, hills and build defensive structures to defend against others of their same culture who are now their enemies. Survivalists. Fortify and fight over whatever remains. Everyone mostly dies. :-( Remainder re-colonize surrounding areas, and some new civilization emerges. 

There's actually quite a bit available, even just from wikipedia: Catapults: $URL$ Trireme Rams, Corvus (naval): $URL$ Sambuca, Claw of Archimedes, Heat Ray, onagers (naval): $URL$ Battering rams, ramps, roman tortoise, and towers were also very commonly used siege weapons in this time period. If you're writing a paper or article you might research those more thoroughly; I don't know offhand to what degree these were used in the various battles of the three Punic wars. You should definitely read up on Archimedes, he's credited as being one of the most famous engineers in history, and was active in crafting defenses for his city during the Roman invasion. You should also review the use of elephants in this war; while not traditionally "siege engines", they were sometimes used to help break through defenses and were a staple unit for Carthage. 

You referenced the Anasazi (better named 'Ancient Pueblo'). I've visited a number of their sites (lost a Ford at Mesa Verde!) and have studied them quite a bit off and on. The Ancient Pueblo people follow a trend that seems to be common with ancient civilizations: 

The Roman Empire had the cursus publicus, which maintained an infrastructure of horses and way stations. The messenger himself was supplied by the one sending the message. It was used for transporting messages, magistrates, and some heavy goods too. Important messages typically travelled at roughly 50 miles per day. 

Iron is actually a rather poor material for weapons, particularly early on when iron smelting knowledge was weak. Swords would be liable to bend or break. Yet bronze weapon manufacturing had been perfected after many centuries of use. So, an all-bronze army could well have been the one doing the decimating. Iron was what you used if you couldn't get bronze! Who'd bother keeping that technology a secret? It wasn't until the invention of the blast furnace in the Middle Ages that steel (a much better weapon material) could be reliably produced. Iron didn't come into its own until bronze was already largely off the scene. The early and middle bronze age had seen some noteworthy empires around the Mediterranean, but these fell and the area descended into a major dark age. Trading routes were disrupted throughout Europe and the Middle East so many simply could not get copper and/or tin. In Europe civilization fell apart, populations dropped, and government reverted back to tribal units and petty kingdoms. Iron's advantage was that its ores were very easily accessible. And while the smelting process was more difficult, once learned it would allow mass production of iron items. It didn't matter if the bronze weapons were as good or better, if you could field ten times as many armed men. In Europe, the Greeks and later the Celts marked the start of transition from bronze to iron. These groups both were tribal people that expanded across Europe bringing an array of new technologies that enabled them to displace more primitive peoples. Their armies used a mix of bronze and iron for their weaponry. 

The Roman Empire routinely enslaved fair skinned Germans and Celts, and referred to those people derogatively as barbarians. Pretty much all the ancient Mediterranean and Near East empires including Egypt, Mesopotamia, etc. practiced slavery, and like the Romans might also have drawn from more northerly, fairer skinned peoples. However, we should be careful drawing too broad of comparisons. Slavery worked differently in different cultures. As bloodthirsty as the Roman Empire was, they actually had certain laws protecting slaves, that simply did not exist for slaves in the United States. In the Roman Empire, slavery was much more of a class-based institution; anyone could become a slave potentially - your excess children, prisoners of war, and debtors could all be sold into slavery. So, while the Romans did enslave Germans and Celts, it wasn't race-based / skin-color-based as happened in the Americas; the Romans were pretty much an equal opportunity enslavement empire. Anyway, slavery has been rife throughout history. It's hard to find any culture that didn't enslave others in some form or other, and that hadn't existed as slaves for someone else. It's just one of those nasty things humans do to each other until they learn better; there's nothing fundamentally inherent about skin color in any of this. It's just the random quirks of history and geography why things turned out one way rather than another. As to today's current correlation of skin color and social status, this is most likely an outcome of the several hundred years of European colonialism applied to every corner of the world between 1492 and 1945. It was pretty intense, and unfortunately left quite an impression, involving not just slavery but also a deliberate attempt to erect a racist social hierarchy based on skin tone. These days colonialism as a governance principal may largely be gone, but in some sense the global media carries on many of those same biases in mass-marketed entertainment and advertisement. 

According to wikipedia, yes several people have done various mappings against known historical documents, although I can't find anything to the level of detail I'd like. 

It would seem unlikely but not necessarily historically inaccurate for a First Wave Russian settlement in Pennsylvania to sing this song at a wedding; it was a popular song worldwide, and its Soviet connotations might have been overlooked. However, it wouldn't have been "brought over" with them as they emigrated over half a century before the song was written, so they would have had to pick it up via American popular culture. So while plausible, it seems rather round about and hardly likely. Now to the second question, was it the film maker's intention to show this community as influenced by Soviet culture? I've found nothing definitive one way or the other, yet a number of fundamental inaccuracies has been found in the movie; for instance Russian Roulette (a key plot element) was not played in Vietnam; one of the songs they sang early in the film, "Drop Kick Me Jesus", was not released until 1976, long after the war. Thus, it seems most likely that the song was selected because it sounded Russian folky yet still was a catchy enough tune that American audiences would enjoy it. And as said in the OP, it nicely fits the narrative theme of young men going off as soldiers to fight for their country. 

"Domesday Book and Beyond: Three Essays in the Early History of England" includes a high level comparison of Tribal Hildage, Burghal Hildage, and other documents with the Domesday Book. One of the issues pointed out here is the uncertainty of definition of the 'hide' unit of measurement. Since these were taxation documents it was advantageous for people to misstate things to their advantage, and this can be seen in obvious discrepancies between subsequent documents. Domesday allocates 70,000 hides to the whole of England, whereas in the Tribal Hidage it comes to well over 240,000 hides. Another reference that sounds interesting (but not available online): 

Not quite the traditional castaway rescue, but there was the case of the Meermin slave mutiny, where the imprisoned slavers used a message in a bottle to alert shore forces to the slave mutiny, resulting in the defeat of the slaves and rescue of the slavers. There's also the case of Chunosuke Matsuyama, where a shipwrecked Japanese seaman sent a message in a bottle in 1784. Unfortunately, it was not discovered until 1935; ironically in the village of his birth. Other stories can be found in Wikipedia, although none tell of castaways actually rescued because of a message in a bottle. It seems to be more a tradition of literature... 

You need to distinguish their opinion of the Spanish prior to the defeat of the Aztecs and after. When the Spanish first arrived, they had guns and horses but were small in number. The native americans had yet to suffer the full depravities of not only the Spanish but also the deadly diseases to come, and they were strong both in population numbers and in military prowess; they considered themselves allied to Cortes, not under his rule. That was certainly a better position than being under the Aztecs' heels. I suspect your quote comes from this period. Indeed, it took Cortes a fair bit of campaigning (and a major near defeat) to secure military victory over the Aztecs. It helped that he had help in the form of reinforcements, indian allies, and smallpox. Eventually he defeated the Aztecs, banished them from Tenochtitlan, destroyed the temples, and rebuilt it into Mexico City. With Mexico City as their base, the Spanish essentially just inserted themselves into the power structure the Aztecs had created and occupied. This worked because the "Aztec empire" was not a unified empire in the sense of say the Roman empire, but was more like a loose feudal collection of city states that cooperated out of fear of retribution; the Aztecs weren't "rulers" of these polities any more than the Chicago mafia were "employers" of the shopkeepers they shook down or the police they bribed. So, the Spanish conquistadors could simply break a few legs and become the new boss, same as the old boss. In fact even after Cortes, fighting ("pacification") continued for 60 years. The Spanish colonists recognized the indigenous nobility, with privileges, education, and even titles. So in a lot of places, the powers that had been, continued to be, and life went on as before. Even the infamous Spanish slavery was essentially a continuation of long established forced labor practices, just taken up a few notches. This was justified with the belief that the Spanish were providing protection and Christian education to the natives. As well, we should probably distinguish between the different groups of Native Americans, they weren't all the same. We can imagine that groups that fought WITH the Spanish were treated better than ones that fought against them. But regardless, all bets were off if silver mines were discovered near you; the Spanish tapped tribes pretty intently to work their mines. So, did some Native Americans prefer Spanish rulers to the Aztecs? If you were in the nobility, had supported Cortes in battle, and didn't have any silver deposits near you, the Spanish probably weren't too bad. Maybe you'd get to learn to read. For a lot of Native Americans, though, life under the Spanish was not much different than under the Aztecs. A lot less human sacrifice, a lot more forced labor, and plenty of smallpox.