By assuming the negation of the conclusion, you arrive at a proposition that contradicts a true premise. (We assume our premises are true when the validity, and not the soundness, of the argument is in question. If the soundness were in question then we would also want to know if the premises really are true, but the soundness is not in question right now.) If ~B leads to a contradiction, then it must be false. In classical logic, if ~B is false then B is true. What if we have all true premises and don't arrive at a contradiction by the same method? 

Why should one suppose that an omnipotent God necessarily has to be good? In the same way that a child might wish to build something up for the pleasure of breaking it, might it not be that God might have an interest in seeing such evils play out? What if an omnipotent God were to exist beyond what we would consider the remits of good and evil? What if an enlightened curiosity were instead to be unfolding? In fact, why should we not suppose that the universe is in fact one with such an omnipotent God? What if time and space were but of the fabric of God and that all sentient life forms are but vessels drifting through their short existences gathering the essence of experiences to once again become one with the Creator? If this last possible interpretation were to be close to the truth then perhaps the answer simply comes down to 'experience'. 

This analogy happens to have the bonus side-effect that, as most arguments so far have been based on the magnitudes of ontological contents rather than the magnitudes of ontological expanses, it now accommodates this concern by having built into it the altogether irrelevance of the magnitudes of ontological contents. So, to answer the original question, there's nothing to worry about. In comparing modern humans to dogs or to early humans with tight extremophilic analogies, ultimately no great filter to superintelligence or beyond is implied. 

Both democracy (in its purer forms) as well as populism are ideologies involving a rule of the people by the people or representatives chosen/ selected by the people. 

The driving forces of sympathy and desire can transcend human-made rules and principles - and may take their place in their absence. A human being stripped of religion and philosophy is left with desires. Desires can be constant in their presence and they can also be impulsive in their intensity. Desires are self-centric and fan outwards. Independently of moral strictures the self will tend to benefit the non-self in gratification of the self. This is amplified in a context where the non-self is either inherently attractive to the self or where the assistance of the non-self may be of benefit for the self (selfish altruism). (A few classic examples. A male going out of his way to assist a female in distress (a flat tyre for instance). A restaurateur going out of his way to please a table of clearly affluent guests. The acts provide personal satisfaction and/or improve the odds of gaining the favour of the person(s) in question. The human being is a social being. To gain the approval of one's peers one will at times contradict principles that one holds to be true and/ or desirable. Perhaps halfheartedly, perhaps not. Perhaps driven by fear of rejection or ridicule. Perhaps driven by a greater trust. Humans, particularly those of a more mature age or inclination, are more at home with the familiar - with stability - and this is where consistency can be practiced as a means of satisfying this desire. However you will find that even those who live by consistency will at least desire to make exceptions. (An example of such is a person who may consistently advocate a particular penalty for a particular transgression - but who desires to make an exception for a familiar person - in such cases it may be desirable to review the proposed penalty in question if it be so harsh that one would not feel at peace to apply it universally) 

It can be done in one step. The first man sees two white hats and says that he knows. But, you say, the problem says that the first man says "I don't know"? Exactly. The problem's definition is also specified by the second man saying "I don't know." Therefore, if you can break the definition of the problem for your two steps, I can break the definition of the problem for my one step. ... 

A dog's ontology is presumably quite limited. A human's ontology is apparently maximal. While our average intelligence is quite a bit more than it is for dogs, it's not "godly" by comparison (maybe "demi-godly" but not godly, since for instance we can't create dogs from raw materials right now). But our ontology is maximal. If the analogy should carry over, as it seems it should, as in 

There are several dimensions to consider. Pre-note: To fear consequence of losing or not gaining that which is valued by the self is a natural instinct. Even the sympathy-driven fear of certain others suffering consequences is natural enough. Firstly there is nature of the consequence itself. Is it threat of losing or not gaining that which one would consider a right or a privilege (a right to live versus the right to watch TV)? Secondly - the nature of the challenge set - whether such is cooperative or competitive (is the individual rewarded for personal proficiency or are multiple individuals assessed as a group or are multiple individuals assessed against each other?) Thirdly - Consent. Are the participants willing or forced? 

I can see the power behind the argument because to get around it a person would either have to stretch the imagination into areas that might seem implausible or have to solve a lot of academic problems, if the person is to be satisfied that Mary has all the facts and that all the facts are physical facts. Foregoing the route of solving a lot of academic problems for now, I think we can continue to think about Mary in a way that derives directly from your formulation, RECURSIVE FARTS. The original Mary is characterized with the standard scientific kind, as having descriptive knowledge. If it's implied that she has procedural knowledge, which standardly tends to be an engineering kind, it's not very much. In domains where descriptive knowledge is enough, interfacing with things around you tends to be enough. You don't need to begin an approach to knowing the inner workings of things to the extent of knowing how to reconstruct them or something like them. That is, you don't need to begin an approach that's pointed to knowing things in themselves. At most, you'd need to know enough to create simulations, which, while a lot of times very sophisticated, is not the same. But descriptive knowledge isn't always enough in all domains where physical knowledge is required. Additional knowledge is required to assemble basic components (which are usually for larger systems). Without getting into whether or not Mary has the "right kind" of knowledge about colors, we can already say she lacks some physical knowledge. That is, she doesn't know how to assemble basic components. Or, at least, she doesn't have the facilities to assemble basic components and gain the knowledge of herself going through the process of assembling the basic components. Indeed, this would be just like you said, this would be a posteriori knowledge, RECURSIVE FARTS(). Now that we may begin to question the sobriety of the original caricature of Mary, we may be able to close in on settling the issue. Even letting alone the question of the life-changing subjective quality of strolling through the wilderness, we know that as it stands Mary neither has enough knowledge ab intra nor has enough knowledge a fortiori. However, provided proper education and further facilities, whether industrial or surgically integrated with her body, she would simply demonstrate her sufficiently complete knowledge of the physical world. First she would make basic nanoconstructors. Then she would make physical replicas of everyday inanimate objects. Then she would make physical replicas of archaea. (...) And finally, for now, she would give you a neural implant to complement hers for bidirectional communication of art works and anything else that could be seen in virtual reality. Of course, the tests she had to perform to get such magic right must've involved having knowledge of the physical world to such a degree that it went much beyond descriptive knowledge, and into its superset of acquaintance knowledge. Having physical descriptive knowledge is simply not the only kind of physical knowledge to have. 

You will find persons who live variants of both these lifestyles (catering for one's own happiness vs. catering for others' happiness). If one were to think of the self in terms of finite resources while taking the use of these resources to attribute benefit to the target (whether self or others) then one would face a few scenarios: 

Addendum - It is also pertinent to add that a poorly formulated question, by contrast, will have a tendency of either confusing the respondent or lead their train of thoughts in different directions from that intended. While accidents can be positive in their results, they generally serve the purposes of neither the seeker of knowledge nor the subtle imparting of views. 

It doesn't seem difficult to determine the appropriate nature of our mind-to-world intentional states. Their appropriate nature is that they match accurately and precisely to the world, perhaps maximally so (except where perhaps this doesn't infringe excessively on most others' privacy). It feels as if this is an obvious and undeniable logical definition. However, it seems much more difficult to determine the appropriate nature of our world-to-mind intentional states. Their appropriate nature is... what? While one good first answer might be that their appropriate nature is that they reflect end-states that already have well-defined routines for satisfying them, we know this answer comes up short. We regularly see people solve problems that at least in large part had no known well-defined routines for satisfying them. This meant that they posed a problem that hadn't been posed exactly like it before (or finally solved one that had been such an open problem). What exactly is the permissibilic mechanism for people to pose unique (previously unsatisfied) problems, unique world-to-mind intentional states? Sometimes people pose unique problems and other people like them for it, and sometimes people pose unique problems and other people hate them for it. Many people act as though they have a thoroughgoing familiarity of the permissibilic mechanism, that here too there's an obvious and undeniable logical definition in effect. But where's the manual – or what is it like – on the necessary and sufficient constraints on posing previously unsatisfied problems, on formulating previously unsatisfied world-to-mind intentional states?