There are a couple ways you could do this: Option 1: Go far away Hyfnae's answer touched on this, but if you hide yourself well enough, and do so on a planet far enough away from this society (you said they only found most of the universe, after all), you can avoid detection for a long time. However, once the society's surveillance stations come your way, your activities will need to be downsized immediately. Even if you've hidden your labs well enough to avoid detection, if life on your planet starts evolving too fast or changing too rapidly you will draw more attention than you want. As a result, another option (my favorite) would be to . . . Option 2: Bring in more people What if your conspiracy included not only biologists, but some builders and surveyors as well? You could arrange to construct a surveillance station near the planet(s) you want to work with, and make sure that its leaders are fellow conspirators. Then, you would have nearly unlimited creative control on the planets around the station, as your planets can't be discovered by a society that thinks it already discovered them! Option 3: Change society The final option I can see would be to convince this society that "messing in god-like affairs" is not something to be banned, but embraced. After all, you aid that these immortals get bored of their immortal lifespans, so they build structures spanning entire solar systems. Your conspirators could simply pitch their activities as another way to ease the boredom. To make their case better, they could propose to use a lifeless planet and artificially terraform it. Where's the harm in messing with life that would never have existed in the first place? While this option, if successful, would be the best way to play God without fear of getting caught (society already knows about and agrees to your work) I can see how it would make for such an interesting story. However, I can see an interesting dynamic whereby most conspirators try to hide their activities and a few try to make it socially acceptable. These few would risk exposing the conspiracy, and might become the target of a space-age hitman. Hope this helps! 

There are really only 3 social roles a society needs to be successful 1 - Farm/gatherer class these will be your society's food producers. For example, they could grow food and develop long sharp claws for harvesting, they could be gatherers with strong skeletal structures for supporting heavy loads, or even be photosynthetic and generate fruit-like things over time. 2 - Builder class this class will be responsible for constructing your society's buildings, maintaining existing structures, etc. They should have dexterous appendages to manipulate building materials such as wood planks or stone blocks, and should also be able to lift heavy loads and collect these materials (strong skeleton, maybe one or more arms solely designed to chop down trees or cut stone). 3 - Warrior class: these would be the members of society responsible for protecting your society from outside invaders. They should be resilient to damage, with maybe a tough exoskeleton or a thick hide, preferably resistant to temperature changes both hot and cold. Now, depending on how advanced you want your society to be you could develop sub-classes for each grouping. For example, a sub-builder class that can mine for iron ore or rare materials, or a sub-warrior class that can take on aerial enemies with wings and honeycombed bones. And if you want to get really advanced, you could have certain organisms with larger than usual brain capacity and a degree of autonomy from the hive mind, allowing them to learn and design new ways for the hive to operate (think engineers to design new buildings or scientists to design new weapons). 

It depends on what your government is willing to do to maintain population. For instance, if you don't care what the people think / government has absolute power, you could simply kill off people when you're above your cap. However, I get the feeling that this approach isn't what you're going for, so I'll provide a couple other options. Sex ed Educating people about the dangers of unprotected sex and providing contraceptives is a very good way of reducing unwanted pregnancies, allowing all children born to have been planned for. While not significantly reducing the danger of overpopulation, this policy makes population growth/decline/stagnation more predictable and manageable by your government. Advance society Shalvenay touched on this, but advanced societies tend to have lower birthrates, mainly as children have stopped being necessities (for subsistence farming) and have become something more of a burden on parents. After all, it used to be that children helped produce food and clothes, but now parents have to provide that for them. Children are also an enormous time commitment, so for the most part only people who want children, knowing fully their responsibilities, have children. To increase this effect in your society, your government could sponsor efforts to develop underdeveloped parts of the world, if any exist. Once your planet is sufficiently developed, you could maximize the time commitment of children by making daycares illegal, possibly under the premise of helping children by having their parents be the ones who raise them. However Even with both of these options in place, your population will still grow. Just look at the US, one of the most developed countries in the world, where the birthrate is still significantly higher than the death rate. Unless every person in society is willing to limit the number of children they have, you're going to need to take extra steps. If you want to truly and reliably stagnate populations, your government is probably going to have to become morally questionable. Forced infertility You could develop medicine that babies are given at birth to render them infertile, and only with a government permit could they be provided with a drug to stimulate their reproductive systems again. The downside of this approach would be the immense resources required to manage these permits and the possibility of wealth becoming a factor in securing one. Brave New World-esque factories If you've ever read Brave New World, you'll be familiar with this suggestion. If your society is advanced enough, you could produce children in artificial wombs, making entire factories for children. This would give the government complete control on population growth with comparatively fewer resources. Overall If you use any of these options, your government is going to need to do a couple things to ensure their success. Firstly, census taking will have to change. Reliable death counts and birth rates will need to be calculated more than every ten years, probably at least yearly. Computerized birth and death certificates that automatically add to a counter is one option that comes to mind. Secondly, the government will have to take complete control of the world, if they haven't already. People cannot be allowed to have the freedom to have children if you seek to manually curb population growth. However, there is one final option your wise government can take if it does not wish to pursue the above methods. Nothing If your government remains in power forever, it is safe to say that if they wait long enough, the population will grow faster and faster, until food cannot be produced fast enough. This will cause mass starvation and the population will drop significantly and then grow to a sustainable level. Unfortunately, on Earth a "sustainable level" will mean that nearly every aspect of the environment becomes artificially controlled to produce just barely enough food for the now stagnant population. Foods that are efficient to farm/grow like corn, potatoes, and fish will begin to dominate markets, and many species useless to humans will die out. 

Killing other human beings. If you're not prepared to do this, don't expect to last much longer. First aid. Making things like clothing, weapons, pottery and utensils, and the other paraphernalia of day-to-day living that you are not able to scavenge from the ruins of civilization. 

Building on what Tanner said: In Western music we regard a given tone, and the tone with the frequency doubled, to be essentially the same note. This is divided in Western music into a scale where the doubling is achieved in 12 steps. Now let us postulate an alien race for whom two notes sound the same if one is triple the frequency of the other, and after some experimentation, they divided this frequency space into 19 steps. The result is a musical system that can use the instruments we use (19/12 almost exactly equals the logarithm of 3 divided by the logarithm of 2), but their music would to us seem to be harshly sharp in its harmonies, whereas ours would seem flat to them. 

If you want society to become selfless, you have to construct your world so that selfish behavior is consistently more self-destructive than selfless behavior, and furthermore this difference must be a natural consequence of action, and not a indirect consequence via rewards and punishments bestowed by whoever is in charge. The stick-and-carrot approach fails because people will readily grasp that their selfish behavior led to their suffering only because you disapproved of it and applied a punishment. A lot of the behavior that is called "selfish" in regimes seeking utopia is really nothing more than people objecting to getting screwed over by the latest five-year plan. Furthermore, in order to effectively deliver these slaps and benefits you will need to concentrate a great deal of power in your hands. This will inspire the greed of those who want that power for the wrong reasons, and you will be playing Snowball to their Napoleon. 

Because no matter how long the human race endures, we will still have teenagers. In the US, most people who smoke begin to do so at the age of 13 or thereabouts. As anyone who has spent time as an adult in a public school can tell you, the age of 13 is the nadir of human wisdom. 

We can read from historical accounts that silver and gold—which had value in their own right—were used as a medium of exchange even before standard units of currency were developed. Instead of counting out coins, the quantity of money was calculated by weighing the metal in question. At some point somebody in a civilized region with a formal government hit on the idea of standard weights of metal, at which point money as we now know it was born. 

Whatever gases you choose for your atmosphere will need to be stable at the ambient temperature. Also, whatever reaction occurs from the gases reacting with solar radiation in the upper atmosphere will need to proceed at a low rate or be more or less reversible. 

A near-complete embrace of "might makes right". In the ancient world, which was utterly ruled by brute force, children were essentially powerless. Unwanted children were routinely sold into prostitution. 

I lived in Iceland for two years, which has a pretty erratic climate (to the point that Icelanders deny that they have a climate, but instead have random samples of weather). What you need is a planet where the land exists only at places where two large-scale weather-driving systems come into conflict, such that the border between the two systems moves back and forth over the space in question. 

Or you could use the reason that we have in the real world: Political leaders trumpet the flaws, crimes, and dangers of the other race (inventing such flaws, crimes, and dangers if necessary) in order to manipulate their own herd, for the sake of influence and money. Much of the racism we have today would simply die out if there wasn't someone, somewhere who was making hay out of it. I could cite specific examples, but I don't want to start a fruitless debate. 

What a fascinating topic! I am a very late-comer to this discussion, just signed up for this site today. There have been a few quality answers already, so just a few thoughts as a biologist with a keen interest in geology and astronomy. Forgive me if I am repeating some other comments. First of all, I think that the only thing we can say with near-certainty about an earthlike planet without axial tilt, is that there would be no real seasonality, as all others also noted. That's about it, other than that we cannot say things with as much certainty as some others suggest, for the following reasons, let me elaborate a bit further; Without axial tilt and its resulting strong seasonality, other factors would become (even) much more relevant in determining climate than they are now, in particular: 1) Solar insolation, determined by the type of star and proximity to it. I understand we are here assuming a similar sun and earth combination. 2) Certain large-scale characteristics of the earthlike planet, such as in particular magnetic field and rotational speed (day-length!). Again, I understand we assume earthlike here. 3) Atmospheric composition: we can see in our Earth's past that for instance varying CO2 levels had enormous impact on climates. Higher levels, warmer climates and globally more rainfall; lower levels, colder climates and globally less rainfall. 4) Distribution of land (continents) and sea (oceans), I mean both size and location of continents: obviously very great impact on local solar heating and hence also on winds and rainfall. 5) Mountain ranges: need I elaborate?! Tremendous impact on winds and rainfall. 6) Volcanism: in particular the amount of it, adding CO2, sulphur and many other elements to the atmosphere and biosphere. 7) Life itself: ecosystems, such as large forest areas, have an impact on their own local and even regional climate. For instance, the Amazon rainforest creates part of its own rainfall by a recycling of water. Summarizing, geographical/spatial differences would become much more determining for climates, by lack of temporal differences, other than day and night. Wind and rainfall would mainly be created by differential (solar) heating as a result of spatial differences, such as land-sea, high-low, north-south, ... Winds, which are mainly the results of these spatial heating (and resulting air pressure) differences, plus the Earth rotation, would still be blowing, such as the trade winds (though in a somewhat modified form), the equatorial rising airflows, the 'westerlies' and related winds resulting from colder sea / warmer land. So, yes, there would definitely still be wind, and those bringing rain. We know this, because a lot, if not most wind and rainfall of our present Earth are also caused by relatively short-term differences in heating. But typical seasonal winds, such as monsoons, would be absent. With regard to life and ecosystems: What I find remarkable is that the lushest life and the greatest biodiversity on Earth are found in regions with the least seasonality (tropical rainforests and related ecosystems)! Tropical rainforests are climatically defined as places where the day-night temperature differences are greater than the annual/seasonal differences. So, it is absolutely clear that life on Earth does not require an axial tilt and seasons, it is just adapted to it. At the same time, the equatorial regions also show us how important geographical differences are for creating ecosystems: at the same latitude in Africa and South America we find rainforests, wet and dry savannahs and even semi-arid places. Therefore, when creating your world, first create the continents and mountain ranges and then look at the major differences in temperature. That should give you an impression of prevailing winds, and rainfall. And with that, give you a start for your ecosystems. Success! And please let us know some results. 

The importance of the moon in stabilizing the Earth's axis (obliquity) and hence its climate has been grossly overrated in the past. More recent research indicates (and calculates, models) that the stabilizing effect of the moon is actually rather small, that the stabilizing gyroscopic effect of Earth's rotation itself is much greater, and that any possible significant climate changes resulting from the absence of a large moon would rather be in the course of hundreds of millions of years, i.e. longer than present climate changes on Earth by other cause. See for instance: Obliquity variations of a moonless Earth (2011); by Barnes, Lissauer, Chambers; $URL$