From this comment by the OP, and others like it, it seems they don't appreciate the tactical limitations and vulnerabilities of a WWII submarine. I'll address that. While WWII submarines can be devastating to unescorted (or, earlier in the war, even escorted) merchant ships, they are extremely vulnerable to even small warships. First thing to realize is WWII submarines aren't really submarines like modern submarines are. They are first and foremost surface ships. They spend most of their time on the surface where they can see (relying on lookouts with binoculars), move quickly, and use relatively cheap and plentiful deck gun ammunition to sink vulnerable merchant ships. It wasn't until the revolutionary Type XXI, completed at the war's very end, that the submarine would be able to spend the majority of its time under water. Underwater a WWII submarine is very slow, has very limited battery power (a few hours at any kind of speed), limited breathing time, and must fire relatively short ranged (1000-5000 meters effective range), slow (20-40 knots), unguided, expensive torpedoes which are in limited supply and slow to reload. A Type VII submarine had only 14 torpedoes and just 6 tubes (4 bow, 2 stern). Once they were fired it could take an hour to reload. Hitting a slow, unaware, leisurely zig-zagging merchant ship was tricky enough and it usually took all 4 bow torpedoes to guarantee a hit. Hitting a fast, wildly maneuvering warship aware of your presence is almost impossible. A German Type VII submarine, their most plentiful, could do 18 knots on the surface, but just 8 underwater. Surfaced, they had a range of 8500 miles, underwater just 80 miles... at a leisurely 4 knots. While submerged a target had to almost run them over to allow a torpedo attack, they could not chase them down. While they carried an 88mm deck gun with 220 rounds of ammunition, this is a peashooter compared to what even the smallest destroyer carries. With a single gun, an unstable platform from which to shoot it (ie. the submarine rolls a lot), inferior range-finding gear, slow speed, and no armor... to be caught on the surface by even a well-armed merchantman was suicide. This was exploited by Q-Ships, armed merchantmen made to look like juicy deck gun targets. If they stay deep they're safer, but also blind relying only on hydrophones (underwater microphones) to detect ships. If they want to use their periscope they must come up to periscope depth, shallow enough so their periscope can reach the surface. It's a tricky process to hold a WWII submarine at periscope depth. Come up a few feet and your scope is sticking up high out of the water and easy to be spotted. Come down a few feet and you can't see anything. The view isn't very good, being at the surface of the ocean and through a series of lenses. Which brings us to the most underappreciated part of anti-submarine warfare (ASW): airplanes. We like to think of objects underwater as being effectively invisible, but from a high vantage point, like an airplane, a 200 foot long submarine can be seen quite easily at periscope depth. If an airplane spots a submarine on the surface it can be attacked with guns and bombs. At periscope depth it can be depth charged. To avoid attack, the submarine must dive deep to get away. Even if the airplane doesn't get the submarine, the submarine is now slow, blind, and losing battery power. With it's long loiter time, an ASW aircraft could hold a submarine down until a warship arrives to hunt it down with sonar. 

I have scoured my few Finnish sources and can't find a definitive answer to what ages men were allowed to join the Finnish army. I will note that Mannerheim, born in 1867, was 72 in 1939 when the Winter War broke out. Men aged 17 to 40 could join the Suojeluskunta ("Civic Guard") which was a sort of volunteer reservist training organization, but was not part of the military. Because the military budget was so small Finland could not afford to maintain a professional cadre of well-trained men to form the core of a wartime army. The men of the Suojeluskunta units (but not the units themselves) served to form this well-trained core. Women were not allowed in the Finnish Army. Instead they could join the Lotta Svärd, a Women's Auxiliary which did jobs to free men to fight at the front. Generally they worked at hospitals, air raid warning stations, supply, and other auxiliary tasks. An explicitly unarmed and nonviolent organization, one group was formed into the 14th Searchlight Battery, placed under military command, and armed, though it never saw combat. At first it was only Christian women who could join, but during the Winter War this was often ignored and by 1941 foreign, Muslim and Jewish women were allowed. By 1944 the Lotta Svärd included 242,000 women. 291 Lottas died, about half from disease, the rest in air raids and accidents. Only in 1995 were women allowed to volunteer in the Finnish Army and be officers. 

A quick sampling from the Association of Dunkirk Little Ships shows many ways the Little Ships were acquired, but it doesn't shed much light on how the requisitioning happened, but it does show that there were many other ways a boat could end up at Dunkirk. 

It's nothing the Baltic states did. They were caught between a paranoid and a land-hungry bully. The Baltic states had the misfortune to be caught between two of the largest belligerents of WWII, the Soviet Union and Germany. In an attempt to buy time, in August 1939 the USSR and Germany signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact to split up Eastern Europe into spheres of influence giving each side a buffer zone against the other. Shortly after they signed the German-Soviet Frontier Treaty to make some modifications. 

Midway was a distraction at a critical moment in the battle, but this more due to luck than anything else. If you replay the Battle Of Midway over again, it is unlikely it would have turned out that way again. Despite the US advantage of surprise and Japanese overconfidence, so much of the battle was down to luck. Midway made three important (I won't say major) contributions to the battle. The first was to be a known target. The second was scouting. The third was to be a distraction at just the right moment. The actual combat performance of Midway's aircraft had only a minor contribution. 

To give an idea of the scope of Lend-Lease, I found this contemporary account of the complete British Lend-Lease supply to the Soviet Union during WWII by the British Prime Minster. It is truly breathtaking in scope. Tanks, guns, trucks, weapons, ships, ammo, radar, radios, telephones, cables, tires, camouflage, mines, aircraft, oil, copper, iron, aluminum, diamonds, rubber, wool, food, machine parts, power plants, medicine. That's just from Britain. The US sent even more. An exhaustive list from From Major Jordan's Diaries puts the value at over $9 billion in the 1940s. (That source is not official, it's from an Army officer's notes and published in the hey-day of anti-Soviet hysteria, but it's the best I've seen). That said, walking around casually in the US I don't see any WWII equipment either. Lend-Lease equipment would be 70 years old and no longer in use. The majority would have either been destroyed on the battlefield (for example, the Soviets lost 77% of their tanks), or scrapped. Survivors will be in museums, old factories, rusting in a field somewhere, or sunk under water. If you want to see WWII military equipment, do what I do and go to a military museum. 

(A reconstruction of Slotin's fatal experiment. No, really! Bare hands and all.) He slipped and the cores briefly went super-critical before he pulled them apart. Slotin received a lethal dose of radiation and died 9 days later.