An important contribution to the success of The Flame and the Flower, and the novels that followed it, was an innovative publishing model: 

So I think you can read the quoted passage about dragons and the Old Speech either way. The phrase "twisting the true words to false ends" might indicate that dragons are limited to prevarication, misdirection and ambiguity, but it could also be the case that dragons can tell a bald lie. Or it could be that the narrator does not know for sure. Looking at the role of the passage in the story, I can see some further points of interest: 

TL;DR: It’s a model of the ‘superimposed worlds’ that indicates when it is possible to open a magic portal to the demon world ‘Xabiste’. Magic portals to other worlds It is established in the Lyonesse series that magicians can access other worlds or dimensions through magic portals. In Suldrun’s Garden Melancthe persuades Shimrod to visit ‘Irerly’: 

By contrast, Ged is prone to thoughtless and reckless action. So the first two-thirds of A Wizard of Earthsea consists of Ged learning the lessons that Ogion was prepared to teach him, but learning them instead in the only way he was capable of, that is, through bitter experience: 

‘The Restorer of Reputations’ has perplexities that go beyond all reasonable bounds. But a story in which everything is delusional is just words on paper and not worth the reading. So I think most readers will be driven to take a middle view in which much of the narration is reliable, but not all, and they can’t be sure exactly which parts. This uncertainty and unease about what’s ‘real’ and what’s not contributes to the uncanny atmosphere of the story. 

This paragraph has been discussed previously here on Literature; it is the narrator who cares whose flushed lips the conductor kissed, though he might try to deny or minimize his feelings. Whether Carraway is momentarily attracted to the conductor, or whether the conductor’s sweating hand has triggered a memory for him, is unclear. But either way, Carraway is thinking about sex. Then there is an ellipsis and the narration jumps to the Buchanans’ house. 

But then at the beginning of chapter III, Jude attends the church of Cardinal College and hears the choir singing Psalm 119: 

An atmosphere derived from Victorian Gothic literature, and especially the works of Charles Dickens: 

Finn meets the present Duke of Exmoor, who wears a purple wig. Father Brown suspects that this is a form of misdirection: 

There have been many attempts to resolve these contradictory descriptions; I consulted the following when writing this answer: 

‘When all the world is young, lad’ from The Water Babies (1863) by Charles Kingsley, on the theme of tempus fugit: 

In this interpretation, the ‘clues’ identified in the post are just further parts of the delusion: perhaps Hawberk lies about finding the fragments of armour in order to appease the dangerous narrator; and maybe the narrator is mistaken in his interpretation of Hawberk’s and Constance’s reaction to hearing the title “Marquis of Avonshire”. Critic Wayne Booth wrote about the problem of unreliable narrators in The Rhetoric of Fiction, with regard to the works of Henry James: 

He has gone away. Or died? (Though “he still is” makes this seem less likely.) It seems that the narrator was close to him, and is continually reminded of his absence. He may be the father or son or lover of the narrator; based on the title of the novel we suspect the last. 

but this leads him into the disastrous rivalry with Jasper. Second, Ogion believes that power over other people is hollow and that compulsion is not true learning: 

There is no evidence that classical Greeks described an unaccented initial syllable as an anacrusis. This sense of the word is a 19th-century coinage by Hermann. There is no evidence that classical Greeks used the word anacrusis to describe the start of a voyage. All the uses that I was able to find are in the context of naval warfare, and describe reversing oars in order to retreat from contact with an enemy. 

The parts emphasized in bold are interpolations by Sharp. Severn’s unreliable memories, and the creative embellishments of biographers like Sharp, led to the general belief that Keats had a family connection with Dorset; that he had visited Lulworth Cove in 1820; that he had composed ‘Bright Star’ there or aboard ship soon afterwards; and that it was the last poem he wrote. In this context, it is natural that Hardy should write a poem linking his own visit to Lulworth Cove in 1920 with Keats’ (supposed) visit in 1820, and reference the composition of ‘Bright Star’ in the lines: 

the fastest of human faculties; the ships of the Inman Line, which included winners of the Blue Riband for fastest crossing of the Atlantic. In support of this reading, note that the scansion is regular if you put the stress on in (as required by this reading) and irregular if you put the stress on man (as required by reading 1). 

A look at a map of southwest England shows that the only places meeting all the requirements are in north Devon. Lynmouth fits the bill perfectly: it has a north-facing cove, cliffs, a coast road, and it's 75 miles from Bristol. Too far east of Lynmouth and you lose the cliffs; too far west and you lose the coast road and can't reach Bristol overnight. Charles Stephen Brooks agrees with my analysis in English Spring (1930): 

There are several occasions where Ged’s attempts to compel others to his will leads to disaster or near-disaster. In A Wizard of Earthsea his summoning of the spirit of Elfarran on Roke Knoll leads to the release of the shadow; and his attempt to compel Pechvarry’s son to turn back from the country of the dead nearly causes his own death. In The Farthest Shore he attempts to teach the sorcerer Cob to desist from the Pelnish Lore: 

None of this amounts to proof that Céline was sexually unfaithful to Rochester. But according to his account he had proof of emotional duplicity, and the rest seemed to him likely to follow. Later on, Rochester believed he had one further piece of evidence, namely the paternity of Adèle: 

At the climax of the story, the conjunction of the disks coincidences with the capture of Murgen by otherworldly arms: 

So the quoted passage which I emphasized in bold is intended as an exemplar of men’s prose in the early 19th century, when Austen and Brontë were writing. It should be apparent that Woolf is using ‘sentence’ here as metonymy for ‘sentence structure’, ‘prose style’ and even ‘prose form’. The problem that women writers have to grapple with, according to Woolf, is not only one of finding their own subject matter, but of finding a style for expressing it. On Application to Study The “man’s sentence” comes from the essay ‘On Application to Study’ from The Plain Speaker (1826) by William Hazlitt. So when Woolf writes, “behind it one can see Johnson, Gibbon and the rest,” she means that Hazlitt’s style (and the style of his contemporaries) was modelled on the style of these 18th century men. In context, the “man’s sentence” is from a discussion of the extraordinary productivity of certain artists: 

TL;DR: Homer’s Ithaca is somewhere in the Ionian islands but his descriptions are hard to reconcile, so pending a really convincing archaeological find it is impossible to be sure how the descriptions relate to reality. Why do we think there might be a real ‘Ithaca’? An important first question, one that is often neglected, do we have any reason to expect the ‘Ithaca’ in the Odyssey to correspond to any real place? The Odyssey is full of characters and incidents that are obviously fictional: gods, cyclopes, sea monsters, sailors transformed into swine, and so on. Is there any reason to suspect the existence of a foundation of history under the superstructure of legend? We don’t want to be in the position of hunting for the island of Lilliput (no matter if it is described as being “north-west of Van Diemen’s Land”, at a latitude of 30° 2′ S). Here’s a brief summary of some of the evidence for the historicity of Homer’s works. I’ll write ‘Homer’ as a shorthand for whoever put the poems into the form in which they were written down, some time in the 8th century BCE, without taking a position on exactly how this happened. 

Colvin and Hardy In 1914, Sidney Colvin was working on John Keats: his life and poetry; his friends, critics and after-fame (published in 1917), and was researching these questions. Hardy was a friend, or at least a literary acquaintance, of Colvin’s, and the latter must have written to Hardy for help with the location of the “splendid caverns and grottos” described by Severn. Hardy had lived in Dorset for much of his life, was familiar with the Dorset coast, and had used Lulworth Cove (under the light disguise of ‘Lulwind Cove’) as the location of Sergeant Troy’s disastrous swim in chapter XLVII of Far from the Madding Crowd, so he was a natural authority for Colvin to consult. In The Colvins and their Friends (1928), Edward Verrall Lucas quotes two of Hardy’s letters in reply. First, 14 June 1914: 

Metaphor So even if we don’t recognize the references, the metaphor must be that ‘Galilee’ represents Christian fellowship and morality, and ‘Cyprus’ pagan religion and sexual love. Galilee is the region of Palestine where Jesus lived and carried out his ministry. Cyprus was sacred to Aphrodite, the Greek goddess of love. According to Hesiod’s Theogony, when Kronos castrated his father Ouranos, he threw the severed genitals into the sea, and 

Comparison To try to understand what readers might have expected to encounter, here are some passages describing rapes and attempted rapes in works approximately contemporary with ‘The Duel’. In The Man of Property (1906) by John Galsworthy, Irene Forsyte refuses consent to her husband Soames: 

(I've modernized the spelling in this and other extracts from Holinshed.) Macbeth not only has essentially the same dialogue as this passage: 

So again we have a contrast between Venus and Galilee. The poem that Sue reads is Swinburne’s ‘Hymn to Proserpine’ which imagines a pagan believer lamenting the triumph of Christianity. 

The sexual double standard meant that until the sexual revolution of the mid-20th century it was considered acceptable for men, but not for women, to engage in premarital sex, and so rape was used as a fictional device allowing the heroine to have sex without being responsible for it: 

By association of incense-burning with funerals, the narrator recalls that someone died; perhaps the dark man. 

never visited by the navigator and explorer Captain James Cook; not spoiled by crowds of tourists taking package holidays with Thomas Cook & Son. 

Volume 45 of Fraser’s Magazine (1852) printed ‘Nusery Literature’, a reply to the Household Words piece. This piece shows that the rhyme was well-known in England in the early-to-mid 19th century, and it describes the kind of game that children might have played with the use of the rhyme. 

This is the original sense of the word airline. Now obsolete, it survived in works on surveying and military history into the 1960s. The OED says: 

Bruja is Spanish for witch. Conventionally witches brew potions in kettles or cauldrons. The image is sinister, perhaps suggested by the images of death. The use of the Spanish language suggests that the narrator is from a Hispanic background. That’s a lot of material for such a short paragraph! Of course we can’t be sure that we’ve correctly understood everything in this dense sequence of allusions and associations. Not everything that passes through someone’s mind is significant. But we have a rough feeling for the character and background of the narrator, and some hypotheses and forebodings about what is to come. 

What’s wrong with modern Ithaca? It doesn’t match Homer’s description: it’s not the most westerly (or northerly) of a group of islands; it doesn’t have a steep forested mountain; and it doesn’t have a harbour with two projecting headlands and a cave with two entrances. This discrepancy has troubled the readers of Homer for a long time. Strabo wrote: 

Of course, an original manifesto like this doesn’t necessarily capture the ways in which a subgenre evolves. Peter Nicholls and Dave Langford, writing in the Science Fiction Encyclopedia, describe three key features that characterized steampunk as it developed: 

Although Prince Otto (1885) postdates Treasure Island (1883), nonetheless the passage shows that (unlike Sir Walter Scott) Stevenson cared about geographic accuracy and detail, and so he may have had in mind a specific location for the "Admiral Benbow", and we might be able to deduce it if we pay close attention to the text. 

The passage emphasises the magical nature of the Old Speech. Languages are normally productive: if you can say the sky is blue and the grass is green then you can say the sky is green (a lie) by simple interpolation. So it is surprising to learn that the Old Speech is different in this respect. It establishes the power of dragons (even the most powerful mage is constrained when speaking the Old Speech, but dragons are less so, or not at all), and thus emphasises the threat facing Ged at this point in the story. The ambiguity over whether dragons can lie or not adds to their mysterious nature. The passage reminds the reader of the power of true names (which are words the Old Speech), which will be the means by which Ged defeats the dragon. It suggests that the dragon's offer to tell Ged the name of the shadow is not to be trusted, and so leaves open the possibility that the shadow is nameless, as previously claimed by Archmage Gensher, maintaining the suspense on this point. The last sentence of the dragon's offer is particularly tricky, in line with the "misdirection and ambiguity" interpretation: