But once you start carving out exceptions, you start running in to trouble. That "first cause" argument says that's it's possible for something to exist without a cause. By why limit yourself to just one thing? If one thing can exist without a cause, then what's to keep some other thing from also existing without a cause? Or a third thing? Or a billion things? Or all the particles in the universe? Why couldn't two things— both existing without cause— have collaborated to create the rest of the universe? I don't have an answer to those questions. But to build an argument for the existence of God on something that is so far removed from traditional notions of cause and effect is specious at best. 

The title of this post mentions "unexplored land/opportunity." Are you receiving criticism for exploring? Or for coming to conclusions when there is, admittedly, so much unknown? Faith may sometimes cause a person to appear close-minded: unable or unwilling to change beliefs based on new evidence or experiences. That may be a 3rd reason why faith might be seen as a weakness. 

Stereotyping. I'm sure every person of faith doesn't match all 3 of these reasons. They are more of a caricature, and that might be a fourth reason: Those people who consider you weak because of your faith may be stereotyping you. 

I should know better than to jump into this fray. But I can't help myself since this is something I've wondered about myself. Here are the reasons I've collected over the years. Often times I don't remember where I first learned of these reasons, I'm going to leave this un-cited. 

It depends on how the word final is to be understood. If it is to be understood temporally and chronologically, as is seemingly always understood, death may be final or it may not be final, again, depending on the cultural type of temporality and chronology its finality is "measured" against (e.g. if it is a Christian type of temporality / chronology, death's finality may not be as final as originally thought after all). However, I prefer saying that death is final in a strictly teleological way: for, indeed, the ultimate purpose (or finality) of death seems to be that of no longer allowing life to be active. In denying life its centrality in the universe, I would say that, yes, death is (teleologically) final. 

Based on this logical distinction, Anthony Kenny in his A New History of Western Philosophy says the following: 

Here is my hypothesis: A personal God can only exist in the form of the human consciousness. Human consciousness, while being part of the human individuality, is not to be identified to it. Somehow, it is always both inside and outside the human individual that it individualizes as "that" human individual. And it is exactly this duality of place of the human consciousness that can make it be a personal God: as long as you believe in yourself (in the individuality of your self), you actually believe in a kind of personal God, who is both you (inside you) and your individuality-giving creator (outside you). 

As I am only interested in this fallacy, I am not quoting the other one, as well. So my question is actually simple: what is the difference between the two of them? As Plato and Aristotle, poor me, I am, too, quite unable to distinguish (1) from (2). 

How do you distinguish faith from gullibility? Perhaps faith is sometimes seen as a kind of gullibility. Few people would criticize you if you have faith "the sun will come up tomorrow" or "I have faith that I'm skillful and smart enough to support my family for the foreseeable future." It's the faith in uncommon things that raises eyebrows. To use the over-used Sagan quote: "Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence." It's the willingness to believe extraordinary claims on inconclusive evidence that might strike some as gullible. How do you know what to have faith in and what not to have faith in? Why do people have faith in one religion but not another? Often it's based on what they want to believe, or what they think ought to be true. (See $URL$ Or they will believe things based on the culture they were brought up in, while discounting equally plausible claims from cultures they weren't brought up in. Some say you know what to have faith in based on feeling. But that ignores the many who have feelings that are just as strong, but towards a different belief. Or it ignores the selection biases, conflicts of interest, and other influences that can subconsciously shape our feelings. Or it ignores the numerous times that feeling alone has proven to be unreliable. So to some, it may seem like faith is weakness if it appears that someone will selectively turn off their critical thinking skills for beliefs they have a vested interest in maintaining. They are inflexible. There a numerous examples of this. Consider the bumper sticker "The Bible says it. I believe it. That settles it." Or this quote from Kurt Wise: