More generally, the economic function of a recruiter is to create a market, and to create the market they need to understand it and get information from sellers (people like you and me), as well as buyers (employers). So to answer your specific questions. 

I would simply describe what you want to achieve, and your working style, and how you can't achieve that in your current job. E.g., 

As I have similarly tendencies to yours w.r.t. wanting to get the job done, and am a lot further on in my career, I would add two pieces of (conflicting) advice, if you don't mind. First of all, you may be missing out on a lot in the rest of your life if you are too dedicated to work. Second, you are unlikely to find your working environment satisfying if the majority of your colleagues have a very different mindset, and changing a team culture is extremely difficult. 

There's no need at all to put anything on your CV: this should be dealt with at interview. In my experience, having had a couple of jobs that I was in for less than a year, this part of the interview doesn't take very long (despite my fears to the contrary). Interviewers were far more interested in figuring out whether I could fit into their team and help solve their problems. A couple of jobs further on in your career, you can be a bit more honest, so long as you've managed to last a decent time in those jobs (it is important not to have a string of short-term positions). You could say at that point that everyone left, the company went under, etc. Everyone in the industry knows this stuff happens. 

I'd emphasize point 1 because from your post it isn't clear that you have told him explicitly and in detail how his performance isn't good enough; you've only said you've asked him to take extra time to undergo training and are expecting him to work hard. You need to make your expectations very clear, and also how near or far he is to meeting them. In the UK where I work there are legal hoops that have to be jumped through. Essentially you give the person a series of warnings about their bad performance, together with appropriate training, and if after three warnings the employee has not improved, you can fire them. This isn't the place to advise on legal issues (although you should have your legal position clear). The point I wanted to make was that some time ago I was very struck by an entrepreneur saying how he had wished he could just have fired several unproductive employees, but was forced to go through the process of giving them warnings. He said at the end of the process, he did fire some of them, but some of them were retained, improved their performance and several years on are good performers. So he was glad he had gone through the procedures of formal warnings. 

That's your decision, not anyone else's, and it sounds like you're not taking it lightly, which is a good thing. 

I doubt that. Most people just want colleagues who can do their job and who they can get along with. If it turns out that you're both of those things in your colleagues' view, I don't see there's a problem. The key thing is whether you can stop talking and start listening. Once again I make no judgement about the technical rights and wrongs of the situation. If you're right about your technical ideas, you may well flourish in other companies. Looking to the future, in my opinion one key question is how much you're learning. Let's say you establish yourself, stop talking and start listening more. How much do you then learn from your more experienced colleagues, technically, and in terms of things like how projects are managed, how business is done, etc? Are you then able to engage in productive, back-and-forth discussions with colleagues around the work you're doing, and, eventually around the work of the team as whole, discussions where you all learn something? Something that struck me as significant in your post was when you said your ideas were countered with "Don't trust the internet" and "experience". It seems like you have a lot of interests and ideas, and want to be in a high-achieving team. If after adjusting your talk-listen balance you aren't in an environment which values honest and open discussion of ideas above years-in-post, then it might not be the right place for you. Of course in the meantime it makes sense to get on with the work at hand and with your colleagues. (I have deliberately tried not to make this answer software-specific, in view of the comment by Pheonixblade9 under the question.) 

This is completely normal, and it's unfortunate that you didn't know. Most employees would quit after a salary rise is backdated, or after a bonus payment, because they know that otherwise they wouldn't get it. Employees who quit beforehand would be expected to know that they would miss out. It seems that you have been decent and loyal and as a result have paid a penalty. But by doing so you 

It probably helps to state the recruiter's motivation: getting paid for placing candidates. In this case, the recruiter will get paid if 

As I said above, I don't think the fact that you're applying for other jobs is outside the relationship. But it isn't in your interests to let slip any of the details. My approach is to be vague, or simply ignore any requests for details. So, I might say, "I'm interviewing with company A next Friday, it's a second interview and they will let me know within a week after that.", even if they probed for more details. There's only so many times they're going to ask the same question if you reply in a vague way. (Think how politicians answer interview questions, by being continuously vague, evasive, or repeating the same thing.) 

First, start off by searching the different sites for the kind of job you are advertising, using the keywords you think are important. You will get a good idea from doing this as to which sites are best for your kind of job. The other thing you'll get is plenty of examples of how to write job ads, and an indication as to what the state of the market is like. After that, suck it and see. Post some ads on the job sites that you liked the most, and see what you get back from each site. What I've found is that if you get in touch with the job sites, they may have an introductory offer, and, more importantly, they may be able to give you some help and advice as to how to get the best results from their site. When I first advertised with a major site, I got some useful tips as to what to put in the title, etc, to get the most hits on my ad. It's very difficult to answer your question in more detail. Hiring, just like job searching, is quite interactive, and very dependent both on your own individual requirements, and on the state of the market. You put your foot in the market, see what happens, invest some more time and effort, and try to make judgements about your successes and failures as you take it forward. 

he understands explicitly that he is performing badly; he has an opportunity to discuss; and he has the opportunity to show he can improve, with appropriate support. 

I like tables in resumes because they make things easy for the reader, by communicating structured data clearly. With free text, the person who reads the resume has to do some extra work to parse the text and then build an overall picture of the structure and how the data fits within it. There is some flexibility about the kind of data you can place in cells, and obviously my example isn't prescriptive (you could for example list the company you worked for in each base country). There are also some reasons why a table might not work, e.g. there are lots of countries you visited over all your bases, but you only visited a few from each base country. 

I don't think you have much to gain from arguing about the loss in pay, and potentially you have a lot to lose. You did a good thing, and it cost you; sometimes it plays out that way unfortunately. It would be better to accept the situation as is and move on happily, if you can afford to. 

Do not. Your manager will already know, and letting him or her know will not reflect well on you, especially if your colleagues find out. The only constructive way to "let your manager know" is to work hard and get results, without trying to show your colleagues up. 

Some time ago I was a manager and I expected good performance. I imagined that my reports would be upset about that, but I was pleasantly surprised to find that after I stopped being a manager I am still friends with many of them. More recently I have had the experience of working in a team where one team member was performing badly, and very little was done about it. As someone who performed well I found that very demoralizing. I have talked with friends and colleagues who say the same thing: if a team member is performing badly, it is demotivating for those who want to do well. On the other hand, if one of my colleagues were fired, I'd want to know that they'd had a clear warning about their performance and been given a chance to fix whatever was broken. 

Establish yourself first. You clearly can't get your technical ideas across to your colleagues and influence the team as a whole, but use them as much as you can within your day to day work. Demonstrating that you get your work done faster and more reliably than your colleagues will put you in a good position in the future to get your ideas across. I had a similar experience recently where I couldn't convince my manager to adopt my ideas, but used them myself and at the end of the project the manager did notice that the project had gone well, and commented on it (without me asking). If your manager or your colleagues don't notice your good work, and aren't then receptive to discussing it, you don't have a hope of getting your ideas considered nevermind addressed. 

It seems like in writing the question you've figured the things that you've been doing weren't working. So, if you haven't already, stop doing them. It doesn't matter if you were technically right or whether what you were doing may have worked in a different environment: it wasn't productive, so stop. Re your questions, in my opinion, regardless of the rights and wrongs of the situation, you need to keep quiet for a while, listen to your colleagues and your manager, and establish yourself as someone who can successfully work on what they're asked to and who can form productive working relationships with other team members. If there is a lot of work on, it is likely expected that team members will take the load and not rock the boat. 

Managers or senior employees wouldn't be expected to jump ship at the first sign of trouble. It's their job to sort out trouble, they are responsible to shareholders, customers, and staff, and what's more, they are paid for their responsibilities. A bit like the captain of a ship, you'd hope the most senior staff would try to stay on board to fix the problems. Having said that, middle managers can be in a position of seeing all the problems, from above and below their position, and not being able to do anything about it except try to bail out water, which can be a very difficult position. For someone in a more junior position, if you are enjoying the job, like your teammates, and think you can be part of the fight to turn it around, and you are not too worried about your next pay packet, why not stick around? Otherwise best to find somewhere safer. As you say, the only risk is future employers seeing several short-term positions, if you are unlucky to have a run of failing employers. The bottom line however for all concerned is that a failing company can be a depressing or stressful place to work, and it is never worth putting your job above your health. 

Yes. People are different and have different priorities. Who's to say whether achieving results at work or in your home life is more important. 

For the employer, a delay of 2 weeks ought not to be a big deal, and most companies would wait longer than that to get the right person. If they don't ask, you could just raise it by saying "I've heard you wanted someone to start as soon as possible, but I'm only available on Aug 13, is this ok?" It does need to be discussed however, as the employer has established the expectation already that you could start earlier. Raising this sort of thing by email ahead of an interview is awkward and risks cancelling or delaying the interview, and gives other candidates a look in. It makes sense to do a good job selling yourself in the interview to get them "hooked", and then give them a little bit of bad news. So if you were applying direct I would bring it up at interview. However as you are going through a recruiter, you already have someone whose job is to grease the wheels, and I would suggest raising it with the recruiter now, and discussing whether your recruiter should bring it up before the interview, or whether you should raise it at interview. 

It shouldn't feel good. Bear in mind, however, that there if you fire Mr A and hire Ms B, Ms B might be just as deserving of the position in human terms as Mr A. Moreover Mr A may go onto find something he is better at, or go onto improve his performance in general, which is better for him in the long run. 

You have some information that is valuable to your manager (information about the market / a first estimate of how much it might cost to replace you), so you need to evaluate what you will gain and lose by sharing the information. You might, for example, think you will gain a better reference from your manager, and it's not even unheard of to want to return to a company you worked at before, or to encounter the same person again elsewhere, so staying on good terms might be valuable to you. If you decide to share the information, don't put the information down in a text or email (written communications can come back to bite you), but phone your manager or offer to meet and discuss over a beer. Otherwise you could simply reply and say you'd rather not discuss, or failing that, just ignore it.