A die-cut and formed chamois will generally be more comfortable than just a plain pad. This type of chamois will usually have pre-formed creases and differing levels of padding in different areas. More "panels" will generally contour to fit your body better than fewer panels. All of my favorite shorts in the past have been 8-panel or higher. I also prefer shorts sewn with flat seams. I personally prefer bib-style shorts, and will wear them under a tough shell if mountain biking. I find that the waist band of regular shorts tends to bunch and roll under my stomach when I bend forward at the waist. The lycra comes in different weights or thicknesses as well. The thicker the fabric, the more support and durability, but the trade-off is more heat. 

While in your question you say you don't use a chamois, I'm going to give some general recommendations for others looking to find quick dry shorts or pants. Since specific recommendations go out of date, I'm not linking to any particular brand or model of shorts... Almost every pair of mountain biking shorts I have owned would be what I would consider "quick drying". Baggy mountain bike shorts usually have two main components, the inner padded liner, and the outer shell. Here is what I would look for: 

Sprint Hard: You will likely exit the dogs territorial boundary in just a few seconds (though it will feel a lot longer). Once outside their perceived territory they will give up the chase. Dismount: If the animal is particularly aggressive and is right upon you, dismount, get your bike between you and the animal and back away slowly. While doing this you can reach down and pick up rocks or gravel to throw. Even if there aren't any rocks, just the action of bending over to pick something up and then the throwing motion is usually enough to startle a dog away. 

The list by Bryon is great, but I have one more addition - In addition to buying parts, you need to buy or have access to a number of specialized tools and the knowledge to use them. If you are like me and find the dis-assembly, cleaning and re-assembly of your bicycle a zen-like and cathartic experience, this is a "pro", otherwise it may belong in the "con" column. 

I don't think that the exact laces are available under the Shimano brand, but the internet may prove me wrong. The closest thing I have found online is oval athletic laces like these: 

If you are on an unfamiliar route or completely surprised by an encounter with a chasing dog, you basically have two tried and true options: 

By no means will this always work. Depending on the fabric and dye, even if you get all the glue off the clothing you may still be stuck with visible spots or stains. But, if like me, you got cement on a favorite pair of work pants while fixing a flat on your morning commute it's probably worth the effort. If it doesn't work, you weren't going to wear the clothes much with the stains anyway. 

First off, I've tried several tricks to remember which way to turn the wrench on which side, and he only rule that I can consistently remember is use the rule that rotating "forward" as if it was a wheel of the bicycle tightens the pedals and rotating "backward" loosens them. If your pedals are standard size you should be using a 15mm pedal wrench. This wrench will normally have a longer handle for leverage. My trick is to orient the crank so that it is a close to parallel to the ground as the angle of the "nut" will allow, put the wrench on with the handle toward the back of the bike and press down. If you have a partner who can apply pressure to the other crank arm that might help. In cases of a particularly stuck pedal I have used a rubber mallet to whack the handle of the wrench. I've heard that if you have an aluminum crank, you can remove the crank arm and heat the pedal end over an open flame. The aluminum will expand an you should be able to remove the pedal easily, but I have never had to go that far. 

It may seam counter-intuitive, but in the case like you describe a little grease may be the solution. NOTE: If you have a carbon frame or seat-post, carbon specific grease and a torque wrench should be used. It's very easy to destroy a carbon frame or post by over-tightening when installing parts. 

The Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute, the US Consumer Product Safety Commission and the American Academy of Pediatrics agree that: 

I don't think it would be convenient or practical to use any kind of stove or hotplate while you are actually riding. If you are carrying a backpack or have things on a rack a propane backpacking stove can be very fast for creating a hot meal on a break. To cook/warm while you are actually riding I think your best bet would be to use a Flameless Ration Heater like you find included in many military-style Meals Ready to Eat (MREs). I think you would still want to assemble the FRH and MRE into a packet and attach them to a rack while you ride because the packaging can get pretty warm. 

You can adjust the tension on the pedal release, but you should also check your cleats. Shimano has two different SPD cleat models: 

Using your fingernails or a dull knife or scraper, pick off as much of the excess cement from the fabric as you can. You can try gently pulling, scraping or rolling fragments as best you can I've used a little petroleum jelly rubbed on the cement to loosen it further. Repeat step 1. Use a spray solvent like Goo-Gone. Let it soak for a few minutes and repeat step 1. You may want to rinse with lukewarm water and repeat applications of the solvent. Launder your clothing as normal, using the hottest temperature recommended for the material. You may want to dab a bit of your normal laundry detergent on each glue spot before washing as well. 

The short answer is "No, it's likely that the store has no liability for the theft of your bike." I am not a lawyer, so this longer answer is to the best of my layman's understanding The key legal issue in the US is one of Bailment. For a bailment to be created the property in question has to be delivered to the bailee (the store or it's representative) by you (the bailor), and the bailee must have both possession and control of the property. Once a bailment has been created the bailee must take reasonable steps to care for the property that has been delivered but does not normally insure the bailor against all loss of or to the property while it is in the bailee's possession unless he expressly undertakes that obligation. What this means is that the bailee is not liable for any and all damages or loss of the property while the property is in his care; he is only liable if the bailee can be proved negligent in caring for the property. Negligence can be proved if you can show that a reasonable person in possession and control of your property would not have taken whatever action led to the loss. So, you rode up to a rack, chained up your bike and went your way. There was no transfer of possession or control from you to the store. The store couldn't move your bike (at least not under normal situations) and no individual implied in any way that they would look after or protect it. Even if it was obvious to a reasonable individual that the rack was poorly installed or easily circumvented, the bailment was not created in the first place, so the store has no duty whatsoever to protect your bike from theft or loss. An overwhelming majority of cases covering automobiles have found no liability to the parking provider in similar cases. For example, when a customer pays a fee, drives his car to an available space, locks the car and takes the key, most US courts have held that you have merely leased space and that even with payment the control and possession of the vehicle necessary to constitute a bailment has not passed to the lot owner or operator. If however you valet park your car, giving someone your keys in exchange for a claim ticket and they then park your car, which is subsequently stolen, you would likely have a claim because the operator/owner had not just possession but also control of the vehicle. If you had been at some kind of event that had valet bike parking, then the answer might be different. Here is a link about bailment with more information if you are part of the small segment of the population that has to know all the details (like me). 

If by "parallel to the wall" you mean in the same direction as it would sit if it were leaning against the wall then you would probably do well with a rack like I bought when I moved into an apartment last year: 

Shampoo or body wash works great. Then I just clip the straps over a line to hang the helmet to dry. 

If you are looking to go faster on the flats you can find multiple cassette models with a range of 11-34. If you are looking for more "granny" on the hills, 12-36 is the best you are going to find out of the box without swapping out the low ring. (Sheldon Brown) That said, on most 9-speed cassettes I have seen, the smallest ring or two are not riveted to the body, so you could easily swap the 12 out for an 11 to get that much more range. 

In general hubs and freewheel assemblies from different companies require different tools. The lockrings are seldom compatible, and the procedure and tools required to disassemble the freewheel is frequently different. In my experience and leaving out the internally geared hubs, the crossover of tools required between Shimano and SRAM is the closest. I don't know that much about DT Swiss hubs, but the technical guide makes it look like there are several specialized tools required to get at the bearings. My guess would be that unless you plan on doing this yourself several times, it's probably more cost efficient to have the shop do it. 

After the first helmet you will have a better idea of what you like and what fits, and you can shop around online. You will want to replace your helmet every couple of years anyway, as it loses structural integrity overtime. The Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute is my favorite online source for helmet info. Start with the How To Buy page, but be sure to surf around on the site. 

So, the short answer is "no", but may be different wherever you are. The longer answer is that just like cyclist are allowed to take the lane when conditions warrant, pedestrians are allowed there when conditions warrant. Ultimately we are all trying to share a limited amount of space. Courtesy from all parties is always appreciated, and usually returned. 

This is common and is a result of the constant friction and increased heat of the small roller on the trainer. Larger diameter rollers will see lower degradation of the tire, but it will still be a problem. Most riders I know use less expensive tires, or older tires that they no longer trust for use on the road when they switch to the trainer. 

This largely depends on how frequently you check the true and tension of the spokes. If one gets loose you are likely to break spokes frequently, and once you've had a few break the others are likely to go more frequently. As part of my daily pre-ride check I spin the wheels looking for significant wobbles and will take care of them right then. As part of my monthly check (usually the first weekend in the month) I squeeze pairs of spokes together around the wheel to check that the tension is approximately the same. If spokes are loose or if the wheel is out of true I remove it and use a truing stand to true it up. My general rule of thumb has been if I've broken 4+ spokes it's time to have the wheel rebuilt, which at my LBS cost me about $60-80 depending on the quality and quantity of spokes I choose. Breaking spokes is not usually a reason to need to buy a new wheel unless there is some kind of defect in the rim or the hub.