If you've already talked to your boss, and nothing has changed so far, then I think you need to find somewhere else to eat. If it's that important for you to always have the same place available to eat, at the same time each day, you should probably look outside. Find a nice park, shopping center, or restaurant to eat, and encourage your friends to join you. Alternatively, try to find another empty room - perhaps someone on the sales team would be willing to let you use their room when they are in the big glass box. Many startups have limited physical space that must be shared for many purposes. In a startup, we all must learn to make do. In one startup where I worked, we gathered in a mostly-empty spot near our cubicles and set up a small table during lunch (except on Fridays, when everyone went out to the same restaurant). It was rather fun. Later, when we got more crowded, we cleaned out a storage room and began using it as a lunch/meeting room. Sometimes you can get creative even in limited space. In most startups, making sales would be considered more important than having a reserved lunch space. Try to be flexible here. 

I don't agree that 8 hours x 5 days is "typical" for a developer's job. My experience says otherwise. But more important is that it is possible that you and your boss have different opinions regarding the job requirements. The only way to know is to ask. You should get to the bottom of this right away. During your next one-on-one meeting with your boss, you should talk about job expectations, including the expectation to be available off-hours when needed. 

Even without health issues, it's almost always a mistake to quit a job before you have your next job lined up. If you decide to go that route, get a new job first, then quit this one. 

I can't imagine a case where a "blank" Facebook account would be helpful (or harmful) in this matter. I suspect that you are seriously overthinking this issue, and are worrying about nothing. 

With all interview communications, it's best to ask "When should I check back with you?" so that you know how long the other party wants you to wait. It's unfortunate you didn't do that. In general, a week between communications is reasonable. If you haven't heard back, now would be an appropriate time for a follow-up email. Something like "We spoke last week. You indicated that you would speak with your boss and decide if you would grant me a second consideration. Have you been able to reach a conclusion yet? ..." 

If your friend decides to go ahead and talk to upper management, the lawyer, or otherwise rat out the manager, he/she must make absolutely sure that she/he has all the facts right, and has some corroborating proof. If your friend is leaving, and you are one of the people remaining at the company, then perhaps it should be you who steps up and does something. If not, perhaps that's one more reason why your friend should just remain silent. 

Often, the answer is Yes. Being employed means (by definition) that you are employable. It means that you passed the interviews for some other company, and thus might have a better chance of passing upcoming interviews. Rightly or wrongly, many recruiters and hiring managers value being employed - either consciously or unconsciously. Some recruiters and hiring managers (fortunately not all), believe that the best workers are seldom unemployed, and are very seldom unemployed for a long time. 

First thing you need to do is to take full responsibility for the situation. Now, you had an assignment that was above your skill level (this should happen to all of us from time to time, or we are not pushing for growth). When this happens you gave it a good effort (I assume), realised it would take you a disproportionate amount of time, and asked for help. This is just as it should be. Now your co-worker is resisting helping, for whatever reason he has (too busy, dont care, cant do it, dont like you ... this blame game could go on for ever, and wont help you the slightest). What I believe you should do is this, in this exact order; * give it your best effort (again), try a few different approaches * identify the exact reason your cant do the job * try to mitigate the reason. Read about how to do it, make simple analogue tests, split the problem into smaller parts ... 

However, if you go higher than they will pay, they will just say "no" - no hard feelings. But you need to be ready to accept any outcome. Then you will need some hard data. What can you expect to get payed? Get some statistics. In Denmark our union has great data on all salaries, so it is very easy to see if you are getting payed fairly. Or perhaps this page could help: $URL$ Also make a list of all your accomplishments and things you have learned since starting at this company. Pay particular attention to any work you have been complimented on. If you have made any blunders, you acknowledge these and explain how they have helped you learn and become a better employee. Armed with this information get to your performance review as soon as possible - nothing like real experience. If you ask for a raise and don't get it, make sure to ask for directions as to what you need to improve on, and ask for another review soon (3mth). Then go to work on improving the things that was asked for. What ever you chose to do - don't wait, it just makes things seem more difficult than they really are. 

First, getting fired is part of being employed - it's usually nothing personal, and even if it is don't respond to it as if it is personal. Your reaction will do nothing good but add another level of harm to your own hurt. Second, socializing is always good, and you may get to know some other former employees of the firm - and who knows, somewhere down the line, that connection might land you a great job in a different place. Remember that you are ultimately responsible for your own response, and you always get to chose what an event means to you! 

Your only real responsibility (to the company, and to the world) is to deliver the maximum value you can. So if you find yourself doing less than you are capable of - I believe you must look for places to help out. Now if you are looking to take ownership and credit mainly -> see the answer from Prinz above. However, if you motive is to provide more value, it is ok to talk directly to any college whom you might assist. Work assigned by your own manager has priority, and you must inform him of what you are doing. The "wait until told" is the very lowest rung on the ladder of independence in a hierarchy. Any and all should strive to move higher. The next ones are: - Ask before (as you did) - Do and tell immediately - Do and report later - Do, period. Now I do assume you have no other assignments from your manager, that is not being handled. 

One choice is to work harder to finish all the tasks that are assigned to you, and hope your manager finds a replacement quickly. But you might be better served to contact your new company, explain what HR and your manager said, and see if you can have your start date pushed into April. They may do so, and still tell you that you can start sooner if things work out correctly at your current company. Don't wait, call them today. 

I can't believe you have absolutely no time at all to prepare. No matter how busy, there are always a few hours in a day that could be used, if it were really important enough. Think about other things that you truly don't need to do, and squeeze in a few preparation hours - at least learn something about the company to which you are applying, so that you won't come off as not caring. Next time, get other tasks out of you way and make finding and preparing for your job your priority. A good job is worth the effort. 

Unless it was specifically indicated that this could only happen during a formal appraisal session, simply find a convenient time to discuss this with your boss. I meet with each of my team members individually every week. If you were working for me, it would be perfectly appropriate to use that week meeting as an opportunity to remind me of my promise. 

I don't think it's a good idea. You can ask, but it would be very odd if a company were to move up an annual review for one person because of their housing situation. I'd be surprised if they went along with this request. Imagine if everyone came up with a reason to move their annual review around. Instead, ask for whatever it is you need in order to make your decision (without bringing your rental lease into the discussion). If you need a raise, ask for one. If you need a promotion, ask for that. If you need a transfer, ask for that. The company may or may not be willing to give you what you need or may again defer their decision until later. If you can't get comfortable that you will end up with what you need, then you will simply have to make a decision one way or the other based on the information you actually have. 

I completely disagree with the first part of this question. There are plenty of good jobs on the market for developers with less than 2 years of experience. I suppose it depends on what you view as "today's market" and what you deem as "good". Before you quit the company, sit down and do some introspection. Think about what you want out of your life, your career, and a job. Think about what is important to you, and what is not. You might even make a list and prioritize that. Then, compare that to what you are experiencing in your current job and how it stacks up against the potential at your current company. Once you know yourself better, and if you decide your current career path is lacking - then and only then do something about it. If you should decide to change jobs/companies/professions, then interview hard to find the job that meets your needs. Once you have a new job offer and acceptance, then give your notice, serve it out, and leave professionally. Whatever you do, don't just quit.