Assuming you mean a liquid ocean of water which beings sufficiently adapted could potentially swim all the way through, it would have to be small because water when compressed enough becomes ice - or else - to have a hot core, which it might have soon after formation, or be tidally heated. So, first, the easiest case, if you don’t need it to have enough gravity to hold an atmosphere, I don’t see why not. Basically you want a large comet, in an orbit which keeps it permanently liquid. We could create such a world artificially in our solar system with mega engineering by diverting a comet into just the right orbit around the Sun. However, unless we add something extra to the picture, it wouldn’t last long. The problem is that water evaporates rapidly in a vacuum. And to have enough gravity to stop that happening With surface temperature of 273.15 K and using the equation for mass loss of liquid water in a vacuum of (pe/7.2) * squrt (M/T) kg / m2 / sec (equation 3.26 - compare calculation results here: Modern Vacuum Physics) where M is the molar mass, T is the temperature in kelvin, pe is the vapour pressure, which for water at 0 C (273.15 K) is 611.3Pa, (Vapour pressure of water at 0 C), M = 0.018 kg, gives (611.3/7.2) * sqrt(0.018/295) = 0.663 kg / m2 / sec. So you lose about 57 meters a day thickness of liquid water exposed to a vacuum, or about 20.9 kilometers of water per year. The rate of loss goes up if the temperature increases and is 2.495 kg / m2 /sec at 295 k, or 22 C. That’s 215.6 meters per day and 78.6 km per year. So, a liquid water comet would not last for long. That is unless you get a constant influx of other comets bringing more water to it. What if the object is large enough to retain liquid water for long periods of time?That’s only possible if it has at least enough gravity to retain a significant amount of atmosphere, even if the atmosphere is just water vapour, or oxygen (after dissociation of the water by radiation). ~But then - it will surely have a solid ice core. In that case, if the water is also salty, it might well have a “club sandwich” type pattern of alternating layers of ice and water as suggested for Ganymede, of various types of ice, with some of them “snowing upwards” [] Ganymede׳s internal structure including thermodynamics of magnesium sulfate oceans in contact with ice But even Ganymede is not large enough to retain an atmosphere to protect the surface layer of water. Its diameter is 5,268 km so if brought close enough to the Sun to have a permanently liquid surface layer, it would vanish completely in 67 years. It could build up a temporary atmosphere though as the water evaporated. It’s gravity is similar to the Moon’s. Can we terraform the Moon? If yes, how difficult is it and is it possible with the current technology? So using a calculation from that answer, if you hit it with a comet 164 km in diameter you’d have enough material for an atmosphere which would last for 10,000 years. Since the volume goes up as the cube, that means with a similar pressure atmosphere, a moon the size of Ganymede could last for 10,000*(5,268/164)^3 = 331 million years before evaporating completely if it built up an Earth pressure atmosphere. And the atmosphere would consist of water vapour and oxygen, so might well be breathable too, especially if you can somehow introduce some nitrogen as a buffer gas. But that’s still no good if you want the core to be liquid all the way through. There is another solution though. If you are willing to do it artificially, you could cover the entire surface of a small comet with a low density liquid which also has a low evaporation pressure. Indeed, comets are rich in organics anyway, so if you could bring a comet to just the right distance from the Sun, not too far, not too close, then as it melted, it would develop a layer of scum like that. And that might well be habitable too, with organics and an oxygen rich ocean too, due to similar processes to the ones that make Europa’s ocean oxygen rich. Organics with a high evaporation rate would disappear leaving only those with a low evaporation rate, and perhaps solid layers as well. So if you are okay with your planet being a tiny comet sized object, and your water can be a bit “dirty” with organics, which means it can also support life, I’d say yes, it does seem possible. Europa’s ocean may be as much as 100 km thick, with a surface layer 10 - 30 km thick. 

Your research might benefit from clarified terms. "Hit and run" is very different from "fire and maneuver." I suspect that you're actually referring to "line infantry tactics." "Hit and run" means to execute an attack and then leave. There are typically two possible objectives for hit-and-run tactics, one is to allow a smaller force to deliver a targeted, decisive blow to a larger force, by surprising them and then retreating before the larger force can mount a counter attack. It's important to know that this always has a very specific target (the radio tower, the ammunition supply, their only tank, etc.). Once that target is destroyed, the attacking force GTFO. The other goal is to distract a larger force by mounting a feigned assault, and then retreating. The retreat involves mostly running, with little or no covering fire. The success of the retreat relies on timing, i.e. withdrawing before the other force can effectively respond. "Fire and maneuver" means to use part of your force to fire on the enemy while another part of your force moves into a better position. Overwhelmingly, this is an attacking strategy, not a retreating strategy, although Navy SEALs and other elite forces use a "center peel" to disengage from an engagement they can't win (key word disengage). Most commonly, a "fire element" forces the enemy to remain hidden by shooting at them, while the "maneuver element" takes the opportunity to move to another position, where the enemy's hiding place doesn't provide enough protection (usually from the side/flank). This is a strategy employed by fireteams (4-5 men) or platoons (15-20 men), but rarely by groups larger than that. Also keep in mind that the side that is advancing always wins. Wars are not fought over people, they're fought over places. It doesn't matter whether I kill all of your men, or just run them out of town, I still took the town and that's the real win. Consequently, there's not any real strategy to retreating ahead of your enemy while you pick them off behind you. If they're losing people, they'll just stop following you. If you're small enough, they'll outflank you and force you into a position where you can't get away, and then they'll wipe you out. Finally, what you're describing is I think inspired by "Line Infantry," but there is no line infantry method that involves falling back. With "Fire-by-rank" a rank would step forward to fire, and then file off to reload. "Salvee" meant basically everyone fired at once, and then charged with bayonets. "Swedes Way" provided perhaps the most opportunity to retreat in an orderly fashion, but that's not a winning strategy, merely a controlled route. The two most successful strategies would likely be to surprise the larger force, hoping for a quick win, or quickly closing to melee range so that bows become useless. Generally, in "asymmetric warfare' like this, the smaller force prefers guerrilla tactics, which involve lots and lots and lots of very small non-losses. They never win, but they also don't lose. EDIT: It's worth noting, as has been discussed briefly in the comments, the difference between the tactical and the strategic. The example provided was the strategic success of the Russians against both the Napoleonic campaign and the German campaign. The maneuvers discussed above are tactical maneuvers, meaning they are "low level" both in terms of who needs to understand the behaviors (individual soldiers), and the goals they are meant to accomplish (winning this battle right now). Tactical elements (units, maneuvers, decisions) are those that are designed to determine the outcome of a particular engagement. Strategic elements are those that are designed to accomplish big-picture goals, and frankly have little to do with the particular tactics employed by individual units. Even in the odd case of the Russian campaigns, the rule still holds true "The advancing side always wins." The Russians won because Napoleon and in turn the Germans could no longer afford to advance. Russia lost every (yes, with qualifiers) engagement because Napoleon and the Germans advanced through whatever territory was in dispute. Once they stopped advancing, they stopped winning. Perhaps the best-known examples of Sun Tzu's rule "Good strategy with poor tactics is the slowest path to victory, but poor strategy means certain defeat, even with good tactics." HOWEVER, it might be fun to create an army that deliberately exploits this well-known rule of warfare, by specifically practicing a "feigned retreat" during which they specifically pretend to route in order to draw the enemy into a trap. Something like an extreme version of a Pincer Maneuver. Again, this has to be carefully employed because as pointed out above, if you're running away then I'll just stay here and keep the buildings, territory, equipment, supplies, civilians, or supporters you left behind. 

Radiation is detrimental to DNA, as it will induce mutations. Though some bacteria on Earth have developed radiation-resistant DNA-repairing enzymes. See: $URL$ But, Radiotrophic fungus exists: $URL$ With a combination of melanin, photosynthesis, and chemosynthesis, they convert gamma radiation to chemical energy. Furthermore, High energy radiation gets absorbed by water fairly quickly. If the deposit is large enough to sustain a nuclear reaction, you would have a heated zone that would be more favorable to other lifeforms too, like a geothermal vent. See: $URL$ 

To make this world habitable, you will need to consider the following: What made the world flat? If it was geological (i.e. erosion), the planet would have to be tectonically dead. Life as we know it would cease to exist, as there would be no recycling of the lithosphere. Furthermore, a geologically dead planet does not have a magnetosphere, solar flares can cause mutations or even mass extinction events. Though if we consider alien lifeforms, they might survive by having a different composition. If it was external (i.e. another civilization deciding to flat the world out), the consequences can be mostly ignored, as alien tech cannot be analyzed scientifically. How high is the "continent" with respect to the sea? To have seas, you need to have two different landmasses with different hights. If the continent is too low (i.e. under 5 meters), any variation of the ocean level will flood all the habitable lands near the oceans. (Think about waves, they can reach a meter high. Even higher during storms.) Waterways would be impossible. No mountains, no high altitude glaciers. No glaciers, no rivers. No rivers... well no rivers and lakes. You would either have seas or oceans. Did I also mention that there would be no islands in the ocean, as islands are basically mountains. Furthermore, you have to get rid of tropical areas with too much rain, as an abundance of rain will carve rivers throughout the land, and you want to avoid that. Since there would be no rivers, a huge part of a big continent might be inhospitable (arid). So going back to your question: The best and most habitable smooth world would be a ocean world with smaller continents, with spread-out seas within it. Most people would live near the seas within the continent, and stay far away from the ocean, as slight variations of the ocean level floods the land. Some plant life can deal with the rising oceans, so maybe some clever humans might find a way to live on top of those plants. If you go the easy route a less habitable world (arid world) works too, no oceans, only many scattered seas. And humans only live near the small sea-oases. P.S. weather patterns cannot be deduced from the geological standpoint only, there are many other factors. That question warrants a new post/topic entirely.