Measure the rim in a more accurate way for starters. Even 0.1mm can cause a change in the braking power. Also, with the bike resting on its handles and seat, flipped over, ask someone to lightly hold down the front brake while you slowly turn the wheel and figure out exactly where the trouble spot is and how big it is. If there is no visible difference, and you don't have the means to measure the rim more accurately, then it probably is the width of the rim being uneven. On the other hand if you find that it does not occur at the same spot every time, maybe the problem is elsewhere. If you can, see if the width of the rim changes radially, fatter near the tire and thinner near the spokes. If the difference in this width isn't constant, it could be causing the problem 

You will have to decide the worthwhileness of the project for yourself. Money wise it won't cost much more than $50 (~20 for the seat, and the rest for brake pads and other implements like WD-40 if you don't have them). I would personally do it less to save money but more for the learning that would be gained from doing it. But the importance given to learning experiences differ from person to person and its up to you 

Get a new seat and seat post. Ride the bike and see if anything sounds or feels amiss. Places to look out for are the moving arts like headset(handle), the drive train and the brakes. The drive train seems to be in prime condition except for rust. Spray some WD-40 or equivalent rust remover on anything thats rusty and make sure you wipe off the extra cleanly. Then lube the whole drive train. Your brakes will need replacing for sure, best not to take risks with safety. 

Bangalore, India Regular buses do not allow cycles, especially since the door is too small to take it through. Ac-buses are supposed to allow you to take your cycle. You will be charged an extra 'luggage' fee which keeps changing so I shan't bother mentioning it. However, during peak times conductors will often disallow you due to lack of space. If you want to travel by bus, try doing so in the early morning or early afternoon. Metros do allow cycles 

I had a similar problem with a recently serviced relatively old trek. When I applied brakes or did a bunny hop, I could feel the handle move around. This may not apply to you since your bike is no where near as old as mine was but this was the problem with mine. The bearings in the tube had worn out significantly and dirt and grime had taken the place of metal. When I rebuilt it and removed all the dirt after it was sitting in my garage for nearly 3years unused, the gap became more noticeable. My only choice was to replace the bearing. This might be your problem if you've not used it for a long time and you recently cleaned up the inside of it. Note: the compression bolt mentioned above did nothing to remedy the solution. So if it doesn't in your case too, the bearing might just have worn out from use and grime stuck inside prevented you from noticing it 

When complete, the Florida Keys Overseas Heritage Trail will be longer than this, at 106 miles (171 km). But currently its longest off road segment is 34 miles (55 km). Unfortunately I wasn't able to cycle this region last year due to Hurricane Irma. I look forward to going sometime soon. 

The other end is at the Jamestown Settlement, a few hundred meters from the Jamestown Ferry (also part of the ECG route). 

I don't recommend this as your first multi-day tour. The trip you've proposed has hazards which will test even the most experienced riders, and you'll need to plan very carefully if you want to make it to Tucson alive. There are some things I'm quite surprised no one mentioned about this particular route: First, there's basically one route for cycling from LA to Tuscon, and it's almost exactly the same route for driving from LA to Tuscon. I-10, CA-111, I-8, I-10. In all you'll be spending about 300 miles, the majority of the trip, cycling on freeway. (To get an idea of what it will be like, see this video.) While cycling on the freeway isn't necessarily any more dangerous than your average city street, it can be if shoulders are narrow in places (most often old bridges), or if there is construction, or if you have to swerve to avoid debris. And you will be avoiding a lot of debris. Freeway shoulders collect lots of stuff that will be complete hell on your tires. Beyond the goatheads that are everywhere, you will run into the steel wires that come out of disintegrated truck tires. For this ride you will need the most puncture-resistant tires you can get. Continental Gatorskin, Schwalbe Marathon Plus, etc. Anything else, and you will be changing flats more often than riding. And even with puncture resistant tires, bring plenty of extra tubes. I don't recommend cycling on the freeway at night. Even with lights, you won't be visible for long enough for drivers to figure out what you might be before they pass you or accidentally drive right into you. Plus, from experience I can say that your headlight probably isn't strong enough to light your way. Several of the scariest situations I had while touring were night riding and not knowing if I was about to run into road debris because I was going too fast for the distance of my headlight beam to cover. Plan to stop early each day, well before sunset. Fortunately there is a whole lot of nothing out there, so finding a campsite won't be difficult. Typically you want to start riding around first light and stop to avoid the worst of the heat of the day in midday, perhaps riding some more in the late afternoon. Another issue with freeway cycling is construction. You need to check with Caltrans and the Arizona DOT for any construction along your route, as a construction area may not be passable for cyclists depending on the work being done. For instance, the area where the I-10 bridge collapsed last July is not passable for cyclists at this time (though it's not on your route, and a short detour exists). Check for construction a few days before you start the tour, as Caltrans doesn't usually make this information available more than a week in advance. And note that for most of this route there are no alternate routes, so if there is construction going on it may mean a 100 mile or more detour for a cyclist, or rescheduling the trip. Second, there are very large stretches of this route with no services and no towns to speak of. Do not let Google Maps fool you; some of the "towns" shown on the route are no better than wide spots in the road, and some of them can hardly be said to exist at all. I would be carrying at least 8 liters of water at all times whenever possible, and plan to drink it all in a day in moderate weather. If you do this in the summer, which is ill-advised, figure on 12-16 liters of water each day. Use a hydration system (e.g. Camelbak) so that you don't have to cycle one-handed on the freeway or throw your neck out while drinking. You need to drink before you feel thirsty. If you feel thirsty, you're already well dehydrated, and if you get a headache, stop immediately because you're far gone. Plan to stop anywhere that might have water, such as the freeway rest areas, to top up your stores. I would also carry three days worth of food at all times. While I don't expect any cities with lots of services on this route to be more than two days apart, you want to have something in reserve in case something unexpected happens. Third, the desert weather in summer will be extremely hot. This is not something you want to do without prior training or experience. Until you know exactly what you're in for, I strongly urge you to reschedule your tour to a more temperate time of year. 

Good epoxy is known to bond metals, especially aluminum very well. Make sure the surfaces are clean and slightly rough for a better bond. I use the same two part epoxy hobbyist aircraft builders use for fixing pretty much anything, including broken ceramic mugs, small broken metal things and even as an insulator on the bottom of PCBs to prevent any shorts. When looking for replacement cable stops try to get something with a solid base and not hollow so you can glue the whole thing down. From the looks of it the original was only glues around the edge which is probably why it came of. Another solution could be solder. It will be stronger but look a little asymmetrical, but as long as you do it to the other cable stop too it should look fine. It melts at a low enough temperature for nothing to happen to the heat treatment of the aluminum. I take no responsibility for the frame if you do this however, it's only my guess, and is completely untested. Would like some input by someone who knows a little more about solder and hest treated aluminum about this solution, it seems workable 

First, you should understand how suspensions with lockouts work. Fluid suspensions(oil or air) like yours have a valve inside them that lets the fluid flow through at a constricted rate on the way up, and very quickly on the way down. This is what gives the dampening effect on suspensions. Lockouts effectively completely close off that valve. However, obviously the valve is not infinitely strong. At some point, it will give way and let the air through. This is where blow-offs come in. Blow-off basically refers to that point where the lockout 'fails' and dampens the shock anyway. The model you have has something called TurnKey which is Rock Shox patented name for blow-off. It has an adjustable blow-off point which will let you set the amount of force required for the blow-off to occur. Now that you know how these systems work, consider your case of riding your MTB as a BMX on a track. If you set the turnkey/blowoff too low, you'll risk it suddenly dropping on a big landing and if you are taking a turn or something immediately after, you can risk losing your balance. If you set it too high, you probably can damage the valve in the shocks by stressing it too much. So to conclude, not really, riding on the lockout won't affect the suspension too much because as soon as the wheel hits something too hard, the lockout will 'fail' and go back to normal damping as long as you don't set the blow-off so high that it is practically impossible to hit the bow-off. Just don't set it so low you hit the drop-off all the time and defeat the point of locking out. 

Presta Valves, or any valve for that matter do not leak after you have taken the pump head off. The valve should automatically close even without you having to screw down the valve. Doing that only applies pressure on the valve to reduce leakage over time even further. If the valve keeps leaking till you screw it down means that there is some damage in the rubber of the tube valve. Where I live we can actually buy just the tube valve, disassemble the presta valve and replace the tube which might be damaged. However, that requires some experience and a tube valve which you are unlikely to find. Your best bet is to just buy a new tube. Sidenote: Even on a new/fixed tube you will always have some very small leakage when you pull the pump head off. This is because that little pin that gets pressed down(that's what opens the valve and allows air in) when you put the head on has to come back up and that only happens as fast as you can take the head off. So don't be alarmed if you hear a short hiss when you pull the head off. To reduce it, try pulling the head in one clean jerk but it really wouldn't change much compared to the total volume of the tire