Consider speaking with a team member to get substituted and not-accounted for beforehand. This way you won't be bound to this obligation by any means and the company wont have booked flights and accommodation that they 'll have to change(which may not even be possible at the time) or have to scramble at the last minute to find a replacement for you to attend. EDIT: since apparently some people misunderstood this, I suggest to be tactful about this and quote personal reasons as to why you cant make it. No need to inform your co-workers of your intention to resign. 

If it was your main source of income and you put enough hours in it to be deemed a full time occupation I don't see whats wrong in including it to be honest. Its not an illegal activity and shows many positive traits in you,as in analytical skills mentioned, if you had the prowess and intelligence to pull this through. An explicit mention in your CV, perhaps mentioned in an "Others Section", as mentioned already, or just as your last work experience can get the employer to ask more about it and you make your case about it as intended. 

I had got good salary offer and position from this MNC company from different city than I'm in currently. However I got Counteroffer + Retention Bonus from my current employer and I have taken the decision to stay here. Reason of holding back with current employer is because I have lot of job hops in my resume (No of years = No of job hops) also I'm comfortable staying with the current employer. But I'm confused that how should I approach new employer to inform this decision without burning bridge with this new employer and Should I inform thru email and wait for them to notice OR call the HR inform him and then formally tell the same on email? Just for information if this matters, we have 2 months of notice period in my region and it's been 20 days since I have accepted the offer. 

Since noone touched on this: Keep in mind the issue they face is most likely them only being able to get the FR keyboard version from the french market. Doubt it would cost them anything extra to get you the US one over the FR, if they were both offered, I mean they did offer to get the exact model you asked for, doubt they would make a fuss over keyboard layouts to begin with. 

Thats pretty much most of the applications of programming right now though. Noone sane pays you to program just for the sake of it. There are applications in commerce/communications/banking/interacting with the public sector/IOT/advancing another science(ie biology) just to name a few, they dont hire you to be a computer scientist(usally). Now if the company that you seek hiring at, isnt in a field that you have interest in or seeks for someone for a specific programming task/technology that isnt of interest to you then by all means just go to the interview as a practice since you want some and just respectfully decline afterwards. 

I wanted to know how to deal and negotiate with new employer regarding joining date and required leaves few days after joining. I tried all i can with my current employer to not get notice period extended but now it seems to get the relieving letter and F&F, etc i have to serve extended days and also for easy transition of work handover. Current notice period is 2months. Extension is of 10 days. Problem 1: If i get relieved under extended notice days then i would get no break between job change and have to join from next working days. I had given tentative dates keeping buffer days for getting break but seems my notice period has gone even ahead of the kept buffer period. Problem 2: I will need two leaves after joining new company within next 2 weeks for exams of distance learning program i am pursuing ( they already they know about my pursuance but not about upcoming exam of the course and i came to know the schedule of exam today itself) Update regarding extension of notice period The key person who had to conclude exit date was busy in his personal matters and then in other projects under company. Now after almost 20 days of putting letter he has concluded after my repeated attempts to get Exit date. Background story 10 months before company did some technology certification for three employees due to cost incurred company got certified employee sign bonds of 12 months but i was exempted from signing bond somehow (Due to reason HR or gods knows). Note that I was promoted for going for certification at last minute because one person was not well and was hospitalised. As i am leaving and having not signed bond but implied bond period to other two employees, my manager is asking for extension to compensate a bit and ignoring the reality. Might be manager is thinking that my future employer withdraw the offer due extension in notice period and so that he can retain me for few more months. Also note that my current employer asked for 3months +2 months notice due to bond things explained above but now settled for 10 days extension but with no fixed assurance on exit date even after sharing KT plans and past experience of new team member's KT. Update New job location is in different city so there is some relocation stuff also involved. 

I think its kinda late at this point and would be perceived somewhat offensive to decline a good will gesture(a raise given on their own). If I were you I would just make certain that whenever its time for an evaluation round, I would schedule a meeting with my manager, plead my case and why I deserve a raise, then ask for a specific amount. Either I receive that or not, I ll know I ve done all I could for it and I ll consider my options if the result is something Im unhappy with. Also, keep in mind that to escalate to a bigger pay level sometimes changing jobs is needed, otherwise people will go off your initial base wage for any future purposes(raises/bonus etc). p.s. Goes without saying that anything non-trivial should be communicated face to face. 

First of, I find it very good to think of the future and go for a change of career when you still have the luxury of choice and its not a matter of utmost importance to support yourself financially in a dire way. That being said I would still consider if my current line of work is welcome in another firm before I did something radical, unless you really dont enjoy it either in which case; move on. About the pay issue, its perfectly normal to say you didn't enjoy your last job or want a new "challenge" as the reason you re changing and as such you recognize you may have been fairly specialized in your last line of work(and equally well compensated- do NOT mention you think your pay was overly high even for that) but seeing you consciously looking for a change(which will come with a learning period and all) and that you will accept a pay cut in the process of switching careers and having to start lower.I wouldn't insinuate necessity as the reason for this change as it may play against you during such a negotiation.