In this perspective, Stivers there was both an economic and a political cost - but here the political cost is not just internationally but in terms of its intra-bloc reputation as well: 

Kjeld Erik Brødsgaard, Hainan: State, Society, and Business in a Chinese Province (Abingdon, Oxon; New York, NY: Routledge, 2009). Richard Louis Edmonds, “‘Hainan Province’ and Its Impact on the Geography of China,” Geography 74, no. 2 (April 1, 1989): 165–169. Jonathan Manthorpe, Forbidden Nation: A History of Taiwan (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2005). Chaio-min Hsieh and Gong-fu Zhong, “Hainan - the Island of South Sea A New Province in China,” GeoJournal 20, no. 4 (April 1, 1990): 385–391. R. T. Phillips, “The Japanese Occupation of Hainan,” Modern Asian Studies 14, no. 1 (January 1, 1980): 93–109. Anne Cseste "Ethnicity, Conflict, and the State in the Early to Mid-Qing: The Hainan Highlands, 1644–1800" in Pamela Kyle Crossley, Helen F. Siu, and Donald S. Sutton, Empire At the Margins: Culture, Ethnicity, and Frontier In Early Modern China (University of California Press, 2006). 

Emphasis mine This claim of an "unsuccessful last-minute appeal" is also made here: Encyclopedia.com Entry for Fourcroy 

1800 William Wraxall, Memoirs of the courts of Berlin, Dresden, Warsaw, and Vienna, in the years 1777, 1778, and 1779. Archive.org 1774 The Annual Register, or a View of the history, politicks and literature of the year Gbooks 1773 Travels through Holland, Flanders, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Lapland, Russia, the Ukraine, and Poland, in the years 1768, 1769, and 1770 Gbooks 1779 A View of Society and Manners in France, Switzerland, and Germany: With Anecdotes Relating to Some Eminent Characters. By a Gentleman, who Resided Several Years in Those Countries, Volume 2 Gbooks H. M. Scott The Emergence of the Eastern Powers, 1756-1775 Gbooks 1783 The Gentleman's Magazine: And Historical Chronicle. Volume III, Gbooks 

Emphasis mine. Prior to this though, p336 refers to the continued interaction up to the arrest though "even if their political convictions separate them," but later notes that "Fourcroy insisted on a purge to get rid of the counter-revolutionaries, the emigrés, and all those whom public opinion rejected" even if others that might fit Lavoisier's description, that could make "the Lycée républicain a new and regenerated institution" should be spared. There were other occasions when Fourcroy did have a role in someone's release, as in the case of Vandermonde, arrested for corruption, and Vandermonde was subsequently released (p332). 

A full answer would have to do a detailed comparison of resources and relative numbers of invasions across time and territories, which is a bit much, or else track down the motivations of leaders for each particular war, which someone might offer here. Let me get at your question in two ways: 1) What resources were there, and how were they exploited by various states that controlled the territory 2) Why might your teacher have used that particular explanation, and put this into the context of a particular historiography. For this, let me focus on two sources, cited below in form [Source:Page Number]: 

Many of these points and others also contained in a shorter 1994 article in Policy Review by Matthew Spalding found here: 

This looks like a great area for more research. The question makes the important distinction between what is found (or in this case, not found) in law, and what actually happens in practice. This is especially the case when we are talking about Soviet law. Below I'll summarize what little I could determine from these three sources: 

The Jewish population, especially on the west coast such as the Bene Israel, known as the Shanivar Telis (Saturday oil men?), keep to Saturday for their Sabbath [8:489]. The Zoroastrians in India have the interesting concept of intervals called Gahambars: 

Vienna to Prague Six days William Wraxall (Wikipedia) claims to have left Dresden 24 November by carriage (he doesn't say how many horses), and arrived in Vienna on 30 November (probably 450-500km). “On my journey to Bohemia, Moravia, and Upper Austria, I only stopped to change horses” [1:297] He also claims that of this, he made the stretch between Dresden to Prague (probably 150-175km) in 38 hours [1:296]. However, this leaves us with the stretch between Dresden and Berlin, which is probably 180-200km directly north, but a number of accounts seem to suggest that rather than direct, they travelled via Leipzig (perhaps 275-300km) Berlin to Leipzig Three Days A number of travelers going from Berlin to Vienna seem to pass through Leipzig rather than go directly south. This does not mean that diplomats didn't take a more direct and faster route but gives us an outer estimate. Joseph Marshall (Joseph Hill) writes of a departure from Berlin on 1 June, and arrival in Leipzig on 3 June. [3:287] He goes on via Meissen to Dresden, but not clear how long it took since he appears to have stayed in Leipzig and Meissen for a time. Warning: This account may be, as many travel books of this kind in earlier times, a compilation of other circulating accounts posing as a single narrative and the contents should be treated with care. See this H-Habsburg entry. Even if the diplomat traveled the "long way" via Leipzig, and the Leipzig to Dresden portion took the same amount of time as the longer Leipzig to Berlin portion, this still yields 6+3+3=12 days. If diplomats took a much more direct road from Dresden to Berlin, this time would likely be shorter. On the Other Hand Frederick II, who strictly limited interaction with diplomats who he kept in Berlin while holding special interviews in Potsdam, seems to have treated his own diplomatic service as a form of "covert taxation of the nobility" [5:100] which lead to the (claimed) impoverishment of some of his envoys, including Graf Jakob Friedrich von Rohde in Vienna. If you didn't have good resources to pay off all the post expenses and "extra-post" expenses and other challenges and have carriages with fast horses, the trip from Vienna to Berlin could take much longer. One 1773 anonymous account reports that the Prague to Berlin segment alone took 12 days due to delays.[2:179-181] Calculations of stage coach travel distances, etc. around the world are very useful for determining the outer bounds of what is physically possible. However, to the degree possible, we should try to answer questions like these based on historical sources when these are available. Some of course, may yield less plausible claims: There is a claim of the fast trip of a courier from Berlin to Vienna in an alleged 48 hours in 1783: 

Sex and Russian Society edited by Igor Kon and James Riordan Sexual Revolution in Bolshevik Russia by Gregory Carleton Homosexual Desire in Revolutionary Russia by Dan Healey 

Also, the most famous two addresses, by Theodor Herzl and Max Nordau are usually translated from the German, which would be unusual for such important documents, if they were originally delivered in Hebrew or Yiddish. Probably More To This I think that even if the main language or official language was German, when you bring together something like 200 delegates from nearly two dozen countries, the actual experience was likely to be much more complex. Through a process of purification through editing, the language of the protocol very likely hid serious code-switching, the insertion of Yiddish or Hebrew phrases, and other linguistic mixing that is common in these kinds of settings. Marcus Ehrenpreis gave a talk on the Hebrew language. He grew up writing Yiddish, and it wouldn't be surprising if Yiddish made its way into his speech. Jacob Berstein-Kohan may have used French while studying at St. Petersberg and he could probably assume, if a German word didn't come to mind, that dropping in a bit of French now and then would be fine. Of course, this doesn't come through in the record, but may come through in diaries or memoirs if you continue research. One place to start would be the University of Basel, where there was a 1997 exhibition on the congress: 

This is a good question that must come to many people's minds when they see the two very similarly sized (Taiwan only slightly larger) islands. The similarities are a even more numerous than the visual. 

Emphasis Mine This Laugier account is repeated in Madison Smartt Bell Lavoisier in the Year One p182 On Google Books 

Page Numbers above are from: "Nomadic Pastoralism" Rada Dyson-Hudson and Neville Dyson-Hudson Annual Review of Anthropology Vol. 9, (1980), pp. 15-61 Walled access at: $URL$ 

However, Taiwan has had far more strategic and economic importance, and Hainan only grows somewhat in importance in the 20th century. This is not because of the reasons you suggested: lack of harbors or natural resources. Hainan, though seen as an "island at the end of the world" [6:229], and a "backward place of the Chinese empire" where exiles were condemned to go [4:385], it was close and accessible to the mainland (24km, vs 144km for Taiwan), has 68 harbors [4:391], and was a "treasure island" (宝岛) with some 30 important minerals [1:10] (especially iron ore that was most fully exploited under Japanese occupation [5:101]), in addition to being a good place for rubber (60% of all Chinese rubber production at some point [1:12]) and sugar production. I would argue that the main reasons for the relative greater attractiveness of Taiwan to various powers, at least up to the 20th century comes from its location: 

This is a good question. So many encyclopedia entries, passing mentions in books, etc. pass up the issue of ending the blockade, as if the motivation for dropping it was obvious. Daniel Harrington, in a mid-1980s round up and revisit of the arguments over the crisis, gives a typical example of this, "By mid-March, with the worst of the winter behind him, Stalin realized that whatever leverage the blockade afforded was shrinking rapidly" [3:110] This is true even in very recent accounts. Ted Hopf's book on the early cold war, writes, "After the airlift demonstrated its capacity through the winter, Stalin dropped his currency demands..." [2:141] which were the final obstacle to coming to resolution. Usually there isn't much attempt to explain why he couldn't continue the blockade another year, two years, etc. The assumption I think many people make, even when works don't really show any evidence that Soviets thought this way, is that the political cost in terms of loss of international reputation was high, and not worth dragging the crisis out. My quick look through the literature didn't say much in detail on this however, but perhaps someone can chime in. Part of the problem, I think, is that the overwhelming predominance of literature on this subject seems to use almost exclusively Western sources (would be great if someone could point out recent work which makes use of Soviet archival sources). I found one important exception to the above in the form of a 1997 article by William Stivers 1 in Diplomatic History which is frequently cited in subsequent works and encyclopedia entries on the subject of the Berlin blockade. I'm frankly surprised to see no integration of its findings into the Wikipedia entry on the blockade. I saw three major takeaways from the Stivers piece that can help us answer your question: 

I'll focus on Zolberg's take. The book opens a discussion on this question with the same Declaration of Independence quotation (see @Mark-C-Wallace's answer) criticizing the English King for having "endeavoured to prevent the Population of these States" and thwart efforts to "encourage their migrations hither" but then emphasizes the importance of the conflict that this concealed: 

However, elsewhere, there is a claim that Fourcroy "pleaded for Lavoisier's life": Arthur Donavan Antoine Lavoisier: Science, Administration and Revolution On Google Books On p295-6 chapter on "Revolutionary Politics": 

Emphasis Mine It then quotes a letter from Lavoisier to Fourcroy from prison in French, which unfortunately I don't read but publisher of the letter doesn't conclude in a way that suggests that it settles the controversy. 

The evidence is very strong that cases of cannibalism happened, especially during the Great Leap Famine (1958-1961), but also during the Cultural Revolution. The other answers offer some good references from journalistic sources and general survey histories. This has also received more detailed attention in the historical scholarship and from Chinese Communist Party sources: Zheng, Yi, and T. P. Sym. Scarlet Memorial: Tales of Cannibalism in Modern China. Boulder, Colo: Westview Press, 1996 (Google Books Link). 

Several memoirs of the period suggest that the Berlin to Vienna journey very likely could be completed in 12 days or less. This matches up fairly closely to @Eugene's estimate of two weeks. However, one account suggests that someone with more limited resources and unexpected delays could easily take much more time. The route they [1,2,3,4] usually seem to take is the following with locations mentioned in some accounts in [ ]: 

I was fascinated by a passage in Thomas F. Madden's Venice: a New History describing the complex process used to elect the doge of Venice. This process is explained briefly here: Wikipedia: Doge of Venice - Selection of the Doge 

This connection, which traces the emergence of rest days in both the Buddhist uposatha (On Wikipedia) and Sabbath contexts again here in article by Edward Westermarck: 

There are three big questions there, with the second, on profitability of the colonies, a tricky one which can plunge us into discussion and the last, on why states bother, quite broad. Others may like to weigh in on them and I'll focus on your first part, "I have been told by many acquaintances that the loss of the thirteen colonies actually BENEFITED the UK...Is there any truth in this statement?" The historical consensus seems to be a resounding yes to the broader question of general benefit in the long run. The most recent restating of this I found is by Maya Jasanoff in her 2012 book Liberty's Exiles. Though it is primarily on the loyalists, she sums up some of the benefits of the loss of the conflict to Britain in her opening section on what she calls the "spirit of 1783," some of which speak directly to your interest in the economic aspects in particular: 

Having said this: I would not be surprised if rumors of cannibalism were spread and vastly exaggerated even when referring to this period. It has a long history as a literary and political trope in China, at least since the famous Chinese writer Lu Xun uses cannibalism to represent a total failed society (See Tears from Iron by Kathryn Edgerton-Tarpley and What Remains by Tobie Meyer-Fong discussion of this). Perhaps the most extensive discussion of the border between fact and fiction when it comes to the history of cannibalism in China I have seen is in Yue, Gang. The Mouth That Begs: Hunger, Cannibalism, and the Politics of Eating in Modern China. Duke University Press, 1999. 

These two factors may have been important: 1) It seems that Benedictine monasticism is not a strong or important force in the Ottonian lands. There is almost no mention of the Ottonian lands, for example in Marilyn Dunn's Emergence of Monasticism for example. One reason for this may have been the prominence, instead, of the "Aachen Rule" for canonesses and canons found in the monastaries/chapels that the Ottonians were particularly fond of attaching to their noble houses. A bit on this in a footnote on p164 of Henry Mayr-Harting Rule and Conflict in an Early Medieval Society: Ottonian Saxony: "majority of the houses we have discussed here did not follow the Benedictine rule in the tenth and early eleventh centuries but a form of the Aachen rule..." 2) The critiques implicit of priestly life and the separation of it may have caused tension with the Ottonian rulers with their strong control over bishops, prelates, and religious life. In Mayr-Harting's book, this comes through strongly in chapter 8 "The Ottonians as Sacral Kings" and 9, "Lay Nobles and Sacrosanct Rulers" Still though, hoping someone might be able to add more on direct interactions between the two. Whatever antagonism there was, if there was active antagonism, it must have found resolution. Hentry II became an oblate for the Benedictine Order and is still remembered by it.