Utterly unknown. So Hawking proposed radiation, that reduces the mass of the black hole (BH) by black body radiation. The effective temperature is antiproportional to the mass of the BH. In the linked paper, Hawking concludes that BHs end in "fairly small explosions by astronomical standards." There are different solutions to the equations of general relativity that produce black holes, not only the common Schwarzschild metric. Whether the curvature singularity or the event horizon vanish before the BH completely evaporates, depends on the internal structure of the BH. As any mass, even very small ones, can become BHs if you compress them enough, there might be a singularity until the very end (not taking into account quantum mechanics). On the other hand a "vanishing event horizon" is not something we should be strictly speaking about, because then it wasn't an event horizon in the first place. You may see the looming problems with black hole remnants. Also: according to the no-hair theorem, BHs are completely characterized by mass, electric charge and angular momentum. If you can see a remnant, e.g. a clump of matter, could you derive its complete properties from the previous three only? In research, a remnant seems to be generally undesired but possible. This fresh and unreviewed paper jumps on the bandwagon and proposes white holes as remnants. So the debate about the end of BHs and their information theoretical implications is still a hot topic. Disclaimer: I'm not a BH specialist. (And I'm waiting for the time where "black hole specialist" is a craft job designation.) 

More "pulling" mass, but there is no reason this mass suddenly appears. Something to decrease the speed of the Sun around its orbit. It is probably the case as the Sun is slowed down by the gas of the interstellar medium, but this effect is very small. 

Observing the Sun through a telescope is very dangerous, whatever the telescope you use, if you don't use the appropriate tools. A telescope a basically a light collector: its purpose is to collect all the light that is arriving on his primary mirror and focus it on a point. You may have already tried to make the Sun light converge through a little magnifying glass (which works quite similarly to a telescope). If you make it converge on something like paper, it will simply burn it. This can eventually be the cause for big fires (example, a glass bottle in a dry forest, concentrating the Sun's light on leaves). Here is an example to convince you: $URL$ A telescope works the same, except that the collecting surface is usually bigger, so it will be more effective at burning ... your eye for example (astronomers make this joke that you can observe the Sun with a telescope twice in your life: once with your left eye, once with your right eye). Or, for bigger telescope, it could even start a fire, or burn instruments... To observe the Sun, you will need a proper filter that you will put usually "before" the telescope. You may also observe it indirectly on small telescope by projecting the image of the Sun.You can see examples here: $URL$ 

Gravity is not necessarily a real thing. When you read the literature concerning general relativity about gravity you will learn that acceleration can be experienced as gravity and in the fabric of space/time gravity is "merely" a curvature in this fabric that. This means that gravity is highly debatable as something that could be seen as an independent force / object in the universe. When gravity exists as a force, whether it is an exchange of gravitons between two objects with a mass, or whether it is a curvature in space / time due to the mass of an object, the phenomenon "gravity" is always related to the mass of an object and doesn't stand on its own as an independent force of nature. Dark matter is not a "mysterious" thing that passes through itself. Dark matter is just the container concept of matter out there that doesn't interact a lot with other matter, but just leaves its marks in the universe by showing a gravitational force as interaction with other matter. Since we have only little understanding of gravity and we still have difficulty measuring gravity as a force in the universe, we have difficulty understanding and measuring dark matter directly. This doesn't mean it is not out there. 

First of all it has to be stated that it is difficult to have a scientific discussion about multiple universes. The problem with multiple universes is that it can be logically deducted from assumptions and hypotheses, but not tested nor empirically verified. This makes discussions around this topic, like string theory, highly "religious". There are different multiverse theories coming from cosmology, physics and philosophy. One of the theories comes from the cosmological theory of cosmic inflation. Cosmic inflation states that there are always fluctuations on the microscopic level and this results in energy waves that can form into matter and anti-matter pairs. The cosmic inflation now states that at the beginning of our universe there was a cosmological constant or a big vacuum that is by nature unstable and caused the microscopic fluctuations to happen on a cosmic size and thus resulted in a rapid expansion of the early universe. This cosmic inflation is a variation of the (hot) big bang theory, that explains a number of observations in the universe that are not explained by the (hot) big bang theory. What it doesn't explain is that if I have an energy fluctuation at microscopic level, it can happen that this energy wave splits into two matter pairs or an anti-matter/matter pair. Later these pairs annihilate each other and what has happened at microscopic level evens out on macroscopic level. However, when particles appear at microscopic level, what needs to happen to let these particles exist for a longer time to have stars evolve from this matter. Now back to the multiple universes. The going theory now is that if such a thing can happen to our universe, such a thing can happen in the endless vastness that contains our universe and multiple universes can start and exists next to each other. These multiple universes might also explain that when I have a cosmic fluctuation, I have two universes that come into existence. One with the matter and one with the nati-matter. Bear in mind!!!! These are all philosophical hypotheses and none of it can be verified, falsified or empirically tested. If I now have made it logically possible to have multiple universes coming from different cosmic fluctuations, I can now have different universes. For instance, I can have for each matter universe a corresponding anti-matter universe to get the energy balance evened out. Now if I have several universes with each different compositions, I can also have universes where, at least, the laws of nature apply differently. In a universe without dark matter, laws of physics apply differently. Whether the "laws of nature" are totally different in other universes, is difficult to scientifically proof. Especially with theories that are build on our laws of nature. When you think we're already on thin ice here, philosophers can make it even more unreal. If I have cosmic fluctuations that can happen under different circumstances, which result in universes with different compositions that then have a different application of the laws of nature, I can equally well argue that there will be universes where certain laws of nature don't exists, while there are some particles that don't exist in that universe. So, to answer your question briefly, there are theories that say there are other universes that have different laws of nature. However, multiverse theories are highly speculative and are difficult to proof. So, whether these theories are right, we'll probably will never know. 

I have a galaxy 'A', say at redshift 1. Let's suppose this galaxy has no peculiar velocity. What would be the redshift of another galaxy 'B', that has a radial velocity of 500 km/s, relative to A? All this in the standard (Planck) model. Any tools to do get this easily (an python code, astropy?) 

There is an incorrect assumption in this question. There is no "super massive black hole which holds the galaxy together". There is just a super massive black hole. It is often believed that black holes have a huge gravitational force. Actually, they simply have the gravitational force of their mass. A black hole of 50 solar masses has no more "gravitational power" than a star of 50 solar masses. And if the sun would instantly change into a black hole (of equal mass), the Earth trajectory would not change at all (but yes, you would have to turn on the heater!). Now, the question is: considering that the black hole at the center of our galaxy is super massive, does it plays an important role for stars like the Sun, at our distance? To answer this, you simply have to ask yourself if the mass of the black hole is important or negligible in front of the mass of the other components that are inside the orbit of our Sun. The mass of the black hole at the center of our galaxy is about 10^6 (1 million) solar masses (from this paper: $URL$ The total mass of the Galaxy is about 10^12 (a thousand billion) solar masses ($URL$ The mass inside the radius of the Sun is way lower (you could calculate it from the speed of the Sun and its distance from the center), but still, the mass of the black hole is very small compared to the rest of the mass inside the Sun's radius. So for the effect of the black hole to become dominant, you would need to be very close from it. What would happen if instead of this super massive black hole there would be many stars, totalizing the mass of the black hole? Nothing. If would not change anything on the Sun trajectory. To change the Sun's trajectory and make the Sun "fall", what you would need would be: 

So, to get back to your second part of the question, "massless gravity", this is not a viable alternative. Gravity exists either by massive objects exchanging gravitons and therefore exercizing gravity upon each other, or a massive object "denting" the fabric of space / time and therefore creating a gravity field. In either case gravity cannot be seen as a farce that exists without the existence of mass. Secondly, to the first part of your question. Whether we can observe objects directly or indirectly, this doesn't make it more or less realistic. Dark matter is generally accepted to be there. We just haven't found a way to measure it. We can only see that the visible matter in the universe can't explain the gravitational pull on the visible matter and therefore we assume there is some other matter out there we haven't been able to "see". Hence, dark matter. However, dark matter does interact through gravity and our current successes in measuring gravitational waves might also result in a better understanding of gravity and how to measure the effect of dark matter on the gravitational pull in the universe. So, to answer your question: "No, we call dark matter because we can only observe it through its influence on other matter due to gravity. There is no such thing as gravity without mass." 

I don't think the title of your question and your question are really in sync here and I'm not sure I will correctly answer your question. However, I will give it a try. To give you a hint of the conclusion. My answer would be, "NO". There are several clues / reasons why I come to this answer.