An interesting idea might be that, since plants vary in how fragile they are and their uses, people with this ability carry certain types of plants with them in unique ways. For example, perhaps one such 'plant-controller' or however you want to term them, may find that the flexibility and relative strength of a tough jungle vine mimics rope well and has a variety of uses from the mundane to the combative, as well as defensive. They know they'll be journeying into an area that lacks much plant growth beyond scrub brush and stunted trees in the mountainous crags, so they seek to find a way to bring such a useful plant with them. In the end they decide to bring a moderate belt-pouch or, perhaps more reasonably, a backpack filled with the rich soil of their jungle home in which they transplant such a vine. They then encourage it to grow, wrapping it around them in coils much as one might do with a length of rope, offering some light-weight protection, while also keeping it at hand should it come in handy. Various iterations of such a practice could come into place with other useful or rare plants, and could also be used for a sort of fashion or status display as well. 

1. Physically, to survive against the modern forces they would no doubt face eventually and to survive in general, they would need to be hardy. Humans are actually not terribly durable, and rotting ones even less so. You have to think that over time they're going to face the seasons, if their bodies can't hold up to heat/cold/weather, then their spread is going to be not insignificantly limited by that. They would also need to be fast enough and strong enough to catch people. While that may not be too difficult initially when no one knows they exist, once people know to watch for them good luck catching them. Locked doors are probably durable enough to stop any zombie without above-average strength, and cars and other vehicles are going to be able to outrun them, probably even relatively healthy adults too unless they have above average speed. In addition, in my opinion, they need to retain some level of intelligence. Humans got to where they are because of their ability to use tools, be creative, and plan ahead. If these are just your typical mindless shamblers, bait them into an alley somewhere and box them in. Dispose of as you see fit (fire, explosives, bullet, drop a brick on them, w/e), rinse and repeat. In addition, lone zombies are rarely scary and probably not an issue unless they're some kind of super mutant. So you'd probably want them to have some sort of pack mentality. If they have lower levels of intelligence this makes sense anyway, we know many animals work in packs/prides/families to increase their chance of survival, so it stands to reason that any creature with baser instincts is likely to come to a similar conclusion. So in my opinion there would need to be something that enhances their speed/strength and they need to either retain or mimic some form of intelligence. They should also probably roam in groups for practical reasons. 2. Assuming, as you said in the comments, that the incident isn't reported then I don't think the time it takes to go from bitten to infected is terribly important so long as it happens before word gets out. After that, presumably your zombies will disperse in all directions in search of food. Initially they'd likely happen across the slow, the weak, and the isolated making easy targets. Some may die as they encounter larger cities, but enough of them would probably make it into other areas that their numbers would grow. 3. This largely depends on the attributes of the zombies, as mentioned in one. The hardier/faster/stronger/more relentless the zombies are, and the harder to kill, the fewer you need of course. To give any kind of actual number is beyond any reasoning I can come up with. 4. I'm going to have to go with no unless your zombies are super human and capable of using tools. Even if they manage to deal with the various armies, they're only on one continent. If, let's say since you started in Chicago, all of America was infected. Unless your infection time is long enough for a flight/boat trip across the oceans, you're not going to expand beyond the americas with your zombies. That being the case, the other countries on the other continents can either choose to simply never go there again, or they could bomb it to obliteration, or just pick a point to start from and systematically destroy everything. With such a focused effort, unless your zombies are driving tanks and using weapons, eventually they're going to be overcome by any kind of organized armed force. 

Assuming no magic in this scenario, the best bet for survival on the human's end would likely be avoidance as stated in the comments. Moving underground or into caves narrows down the number of directions a dragon could approach and more or less mitigates the advantages they gain by flight. Barring that, however, ballista and other similar contraptions are feasible for the time frame and in fact did exist. Though perhaps not a guarantee for defense, it stands to reason that individuals would quickly hone the skills necessary to track and shoot down dragons with such weapons to survive. With dragons becoming, presumably, one of the primary threats to these people it would also be reasonable to assume that they would focus research in improving these weapons as well as developing new ones, thus speeding up discoveries in ranged weaponry compared to historical progress. As far as creative, low-tech solutions to dealing with flying threats: In the book series "The Black Company", there is a point in which, to counter broom-flying wizards/witches, the enemy who have no magicians to aid them send up large balloons with thick cables/tethers attached to them. The tethers are lined in spikes and other nasty things and put up in a pattern and volume that would foul up any sort of flying adversary. While certainly not fool-proof, it's a start and offers a similar protection as walls against ground-bound adversaries. Combined with ballistae and other such machines, it may be enough to deter or at least slow down dragons. Edit In addition I find it likely that they would develop some sort of early warning system, and, if not having the entirety of their structures "dragon-proofed", at the very least they would have some sort of shelter created after the first few attacks. Like a system of towers using light to carry warning, or some other such set-up, to give warning of any dragon sightings. This would, hopefully, give time for the people to get into the dragon shelters, whether they be stone buildings, underground cellars or something else, so at the very least there's no loss of life to accompany property damage. Edit 2 In response to your edit, if I recall correctly in the D&D universe there are a couple types of dragons (I want to say maybe Bronze or Brass) that are more focused on gather knowledge than laying waste to the country side. These, should they choose to communicate with humans, could certainly prove to be almost benevolent or at least neutral to humans so long as they comply in it's requests to garner knowledge. Though it could still be a hazard as it is still a dragon with all the might and fury that can bring when displeased. I think the example they gave was of the Brass (or bronze, or copper, whichever one of the metallic dragons it was) burying humans in the ground up to their neck so they could be questioned and not try to run away. Not exactly ideal, but presumably they're released when the dragon is done, better than being eaten or killed just because. 

My opinion would be that it's likely going to primarily serve people that pass for wealthy in your universe. Because the things are so varied, and presumably there will be many one of a kind things, the rich (and famous?) will often visit trying to get the next thing that will set them apart and show their status: exotic pets, alien art, surreal objects, weapons and items of exceeding craftsmanship, etc. In addition, there would likely be a/several group of scientists/mages/intellectuals based at or very near to Edge. They'd want to be close so as to have the best chance of claiming anything particularly powerful or promising for technological advancement before it could be bought or spirited away. Likely there is also a fairly successful black market where more dangerous "products" can be bought/sold, and presumably less than willing slaves as well. The question of security would probably need to be addressed. I don't think you mentioned, in particular, any reason why dangerous creatures/people/items couldn't pass through and wreak serious havoc on the area/people near the Rift. As far as imports, it seems to me that a government or plutocracy or whatever else could probably simply arrange to trade for anything it needs. They'd likely have treaties in place offering something along the wording lines of "goods to amount to a total of X {currency} for y amount of {food}", etc. This way, even if it is inconsistent, they might be trading one ultra valuable item one month, and a bulk of more generic goods the rest. Presumably, however, if most of its inhabitants are risking themselves near the Rift where things could be quite dangerous they probably import specialty tools found to be useful over the years by "veteran Rifters" (filler name, sorry). Anything from carts/wagons to move bulkier objects, to specialized kits for dealing with magic items, hazards that are possibly radioactive, or dangerous creatures/people. 

I can't imagine any way this wouldn't work on an "expendable" limb. I think the question truly becomes how fast does it need to be done. If it's spread through the blood, then it's going to come down to how fast your heart is beating and how quickly it spreads. While I couldn't find any hard numbers to go with that statement, I'm sure they're out there. This quote from tvtropes kind of gets the idea across though: "Sometimes when sucking out the poison isn't enough, someone simply cuts off the limb in question, above the problem. Naturally, this is not recommended in real life as blood flows faster than an arm or leg can be cut off, amputation is dangerous enough as is, and amputation to prevent infections are an old and largely outdated medical practice." - $URL$ Hardly a scientific explanation on the matter, so perhaps someone can go into the details on that. In short though, if you have a tool capable of taking the limb off quickly enough than theoretically sure, you could stop it, it's just unlikely you have such a tool. 

The primary reasons for most (or at least a lot) of conflict between peoples are resources/land. With that no longer being an issue, there's probably significantly less time being spent warring. With that, and the addition of unlimited resources, your only limitation on research (since resources are free) are time and people to do the researching. I'd be inclined to say it would advance technological research much more quickly than a nation constantly worrying about conflict with other groups and limited resources. 

The Gladiator Zombies are not tool users, as such, they're capable of only melee combat. For the style factor, a gladiator type loadout might help with the style factor. A spear is relatively light-weight, at least it should cause no problem for a fit post-apocalypse survivor, and provides the safety of keeping your enemy at a distance. This prevents bites and grappling, while offering efficient killing potential. A simple metal blade is neither terribly difficult to forge, nor to maintain, and difficult to break. The shaft of the staff may be more fragile, but is easily replaced and can also be replaced with materials stronger than wood for better durability (albeit likely more weight unless you use a lighter metal). A dagger or large knife honestly is likely already commonplace on nearly every survivor as it is useful as an emergency weapon in close quarters, and as a tool. This adds very little to the overall weight of the kit, and provides a means by which to create a new spear shaft from available wood if necessary. A short blade of some type allows Ned to continue to defend himself in tight quarters or in the event of a broken spear, while also not adding too much to weight. Again, a simple blade is easy to craft, easy to maintain, and durable. Optionally replace with a handaxe for an additional multi-purpose tool/weapon. Flint and steel allow fire starting which doesn't really need explaining, everyone understands the plethora of uses of fire from cooking to light sources to distractions and more. Despite the heat, a double-layer of some light but sturdy material. This should hopefully prevent any stray bites or scratches from breaking the skin and infecting the bloodstream. If not full body then at least in key locations (forearms, upper arms, gloves, neck, and legs). This could be a layer of leather, or even things like normal clothes wrapped with reinforcing layers of duct tape. The goal here isn't to make armor, only to prevent the skin being broken, this should still be a fairly light-weight solution. I had initially considered a cape or cloak of some sort, which could also be quickly bundled around an arm to block or deflect, but honestly it would provide too much purchase to grasping zombo's. Obligatory bundle of rope. Every good adventurer needs one for escapes, shelters, prisoners and more. Thus our leather or duct-tape clad gladiator can face the infested hordes and build his glory. (While still being light weight enough to hopefully outrun any hungry foes should their numbers prove too great). 

I could be wrong, but there may be better places to ask this. It has more to do with epidemiology and science than any real world-building. However, if you're looking for a way to describe a similar event through story-telling there are plenty of ways you could do so. Depending on technology levels (assuming the same rough time frame as your reference), perhaps they could release other benign airborne infectants or chemical compounds that react with the virus in known ways, thus gradually controlling its evolution through a similar dispersion method as the virus' initial release. I find it, however, extremely unlikely that all the released virus would evolve in exactly the same or similar manners given natural causes. Especially if it spread world-wide, different strains would develop in response to their locale, adapting to survive different temperature extremes, and to overcome varying levels of societal hygiene and vaccination based on the greater common values of the population they infect. As seen here: $URL$ (I know wikipedia isn't always the most reliable source), as different strains adapt to their individual situations they also produce offspring, which in turn can have their own unique characteristics, and so on. You would have to make a virus extremely resistant to outside stimuli to keep it from evolving in varying ways throughout the planet, while still leaving it suspectible enough that it can be manipulated at a later date to become what you described. At the very least my limited understanding of the subject matter would suggest it would be one heck of a balancing act. 

Expanding upon the idea of giving your villains a backstory here, since I can't comment yet and this may contribute enough to warrant being an "answer" in itself. But if you want to humanize your demons, you could create a world/universe in which demons began as humans and perhaps some even retain looks similar to or with components of their original human form. Angels, for instance, are often portrayed as "beautiful" humans with glowing wings. There's no reason a demon couldn't be human-esque as well, but with attributes that lend themselves visually toward whatever characteristic it is that motivates them. Perhaps their eyes glow in a way so palpable that it openly portrays fury, lust, or greed. If you start them as a human, and have other characters, perhaps demons willing or bound to work alongside scholars or wizards or whatever you have who can explain their origins. Maybe a demon bound by vengeance was originally a prince or king known to rule with a kind heart. However, upon being trapped and forced to watch a slow but inevitable slaughter and ruin wash over his land as he could do nothing to stop it (a bit cliche but it gets the point across) becomes so compelled with the need to avenge the atrocity that he himself crosses the line, taking it out on anything his now perverted sense of justice defines as "the enemy". You could even have demons who work as "recruiters", intentionally creating these scenarios to raise up new hellspawn.