The company apparently has unlimited resources, but are there any constraints on them at all? If not, there would seem to be a lot of options. Deployable nets? Electric current, like electric eels? Mesmerizing color patterns, like cuttlefish? Baiting the whales with a chemical or physical lure but moving faster than they can catch, leading them into whale pens? Superheated or explosive chemical discharge, like bombardier beetles? Concussive blasts based on water pressure, like pistol shrimp? A paralytic or deadly toxin? A toxoplasmosis-like infection that makes whales attracted to capture areas? 

There's no real reason that a long day-night cycle would make it difficult for life to exist or evolve. Consider: there are animals that live in deep caves and deep oceans for whom there is no day-night cycle of any kind. But even for regular surface-dwelling life the major issue (to my mind) would be related to temperature. This could be a problem with things like frigid temperatures at night and reliable water sources evaporating during the day or baking soil. These have a lot of ordinary meteorological solutions-- I've experienced plenty of warm nights and cool days, and it's always possible that life can only develop in a narrow climatic region of your planet (even if life forms migrate elsewhere later on). You could also have an atmosphere conducive to heavy cloud cover, mitigating the sunlight substantially, as long as there is enough gravity/atmosphere/ozone (or equivalents) to keep water from escaping into space. Or there could be geographic regions that provide for a reliable amount of shade during the long days, like a fortuitously positioned valley among mountains such that there is always significant shade cover. And water itself could be stored in huge, deep oceans large enough to withstand evaporation processes during the day or in underground aquifers (where even if the temperature were high enough to evaporate the water it would quickly condense again). 

Given the overwhelming similarity of most day-to-day experiences (unless you've got some wild social/experiential setup), the passive accumulation of experience likely wouldn't be worth much. Especially if qualia cannot be destroyed, inflation should quickly drive the relative value of most individual qualia to virtually nothing. Most people will be poor by dint of the commonness of their life experience. 

Key Question: How are these subsistence-farming, blacksmithing humans producing/finding these batteries? Why is it that the androids can't or prefer not to produce or find the batteries themselves? Answer to question as posed: Infinite ways. There really isn't a limit on how this might work. Addiction and reward systems, as outlined by Renan, could do it. But to make the servitude really invisible I think the best tool is going to be control of historical information. Time is on the side of the immortal machines, and so minor changes over time can really add up. Human society could be manipulated via introduction of new cultural or social standards in which service to the machines is highly valued, and people self-organize to be of as much use as possible. The humans' religion might be an especially handy tool for this. If the machines control information, they could provide "help" in the humans pursuing something that they know humans will never achieve (maybe it's impossible but humans don't have the knowledge to be aware of that, for example) in exchange for service. If the humans don't have a good way to record historical information over time, they might never know how little progress they've made over countless generations. If informational manipulation doesn't work for you, the machines could monopolize some necessary resource, like water, via ordinary acquisition or subversion (like draining away all potable water into a supply the machines exclusively can access, or poisoning the sources humans can easily reach) and then effectively enslave the humans through trade. Which method might they choose, and why? With so many options, answering the question of why the androids would bother to rely on the human population at all for access to batteries will help narrow down which specific methods might best fit their situation. 

You could go the midichlorians route (sorry for prequel reference). Idea being that some ancient civilization genetically engineered people with this blood magic ability as you described. That civilization collapsed and after a new one was built in the millennia that followed, the the use of this baked in ability was outlawed. You could also go the route of an infectious nano-tech "disease" being responsible for the blood magic. In this case the source doesn't have to be an ancient galactic civilization. It could be something that the current galactic civilization spread by accident, or something that they encountered as part of their expansion and then inadvertently spread throughout the galaxy (despite their best efforts to contain it). 

I like the idea of a six limbed body plan. If your thing has four legs and two wings it can be more of a hawk, where it uses it's wings to travel but hunts by pouncing from the air and then is basically a lion on the ground. Long jumps for chasing sure. Even powerful enough to carry plenty of weight by the air back to the nest after its made its kill - sure. But don't expect it to be agile or graceful, this is a land predator that can fly. Contrary-wise you can also have the falcon version of this animal that hunts other flying things (this is an and, not an either or) that has four wings and two stubby talons for ripping up whatever it can catch. This thing would be very fast and maneuverable in the air. You are looking at creating a whole new taxonomy of griffin like creatures. There's a lot of room here to design what you like. 

Very near future. Here's a Wired article claiming that lab grown meat is just around the corner because it will be less expensive than farm raised meat. If that's the case - and it may well be soon enough, raising livestock is expensive - then there's going to be a pretty quick transition and yeah, the livestock populations are going to be completely wiped out. It'll be like horses after cars. I have wondered at the ethics of annihilating literally billions of animals for the sake of not having to kill them later... I don't think people will dwell on it too long. Taking the slaughter out of the equation and cheaper meat will make it easy math for most people, even if cattle (beef and dairy, apparently lab-milk is even easier to make than lab-meat) become and endangered species as a result. Transition won't be overnight, but barring major regulatory or health hurdles, if the meat is cheaper it's going to be fast. Maybe livestock will be added to zoos, allowed to roam free in open areas out West (like the horses), or raised in small quantities as a luxury item though you can expect the cost of "real" meat to skyrocket. In the event of regulation or poor quality lab-meat transition will be slower, but I'd expect to end up in the same place pretty quickly as the lawyers resolve the regulatory issues and quality will improve over time. 

What about making them 4D beings? Their body and head are attached, but it doesn't always seem that way from our 3D perspective. You could have some fun with the whole 'outside of time' and linking that to the funeral/death aspect of the Dullahan. 

Definitely done this with a funnel, powdered sugar, and a propane burner. Fun, fun. For the dragon, just have it spit out some aerosolized liquid through a special gland in its mouth - maybe even pyrophoric, which means it ignites when it makes contact with air. So no spark is needed. If it flares up big, but doesn't persist it might be more useful to scare off bigger (non-fire breathing) predators, and/or your dragons could be pack hunters that use their fire to scare and corral prey. And of course fire is hot, so even if it's not napalm, it's a good addition to the list of natural weapons along side teeth, claws, horns, and tails. 

Rare and precious experiences maybe, but outside of novelty of experience or self-identity construction, why would people value these so highly in most cases? 

It's a stretch, but it's not totally crazy to think that an animal could produce a light pattern of rapidly shifting colors that could trigger a very specific sort of seizure which presents as immobility. That could also be turned on and off at will, as the pattern of lights and colors would need to actually be happening to have any effect. 

If people are essentially trading experiences, would one person care about having the experience itself (a lot would be essentially duplicates, at least in any meaningful way. How many bowls of soup would a person want a record of eating?)? In at least some cases the experience would be rare and interesting, but the vast majority would be minor variations on common experiences. Because of this it seems clear that there would be no fixed value to a quale. In this case supply and demand forces would be odd, because an original core experience would be much more valuable than a common one, and the validation mechanisms shouldn't be able to enforce a common value of any individual quale. Would some people try to monopolize experiences of a given type, and sell them at exorbitant prices? Would there be a thriving rental market? Do people lose qualia in a transaction, in exchange for something new? If so, how would peoples' identities handle the constant shifting of remembered experiences? Would they cling to their own subjective ones, regardless of market value (like remembering the birth of your child, or an intimate moment with a loved one)? Would people work in exchange for customizing their remembered experiences, essentially valuing the person they want to be vastly more than the "balance" of qualia in their accounts? And, importantly, if the qualia are intrinsically valuable, how does the market react to inflation? Can my subjective experience of a quale on Tuesday be traded to you on Wednseday, generating a new "echo" quale of your experience of my experience? What would the value relative to the original be like? Could it be more valuable, if something about my own experience is different, adding to the original experience? Can people assess the quality of a quale before completing a transaction? If not, what opportunities for fraud and deception exist, and what mechanisms exist for protecting against them? As time passes, even rare qualia will be more or less duplicated, diluting their value. I imagine there would be a major drive in society to mint original qualia, riding ahead of a wave of ever-inflating and ever-less-valuable existing qualia and their derivatives. How easily can meaningfully novel qualia be produced, and how much ability does the average person have to produce them? Relating the value of qualia to physical goods or services also seems hard. How many experiences, and of what type, would a farmer be willing to trade for a discrete, physical potato? If the amount of meaningfully distinct experiences is relatively fixed, at what point does a farmer have enough experiences to not be willing to engage in further transactions in exchange for production of physical food? If the qualia are simply tokens of exchange, you retain the issues of varying quale value but don't have to deal with the identity crises. It becomes essentially a fiat currency, but one that would probably experience ever-increasing devaluation. As tokens, you can hand-wave away a lot of implementation details (why do we use qualia? Well, if you want to buy something, that's what you have to spend. The rationale isn't so important when you need to buy groceries). In thinking about these questions, a couple of your goals for the currency seem to be shaky to me. I'm not convinced that qualia can be: