You might make arguments why pirating content instead of paying is always or often ethical (I would likely disagree), but the reason why you are watching the movie doesn't make a difference (with few exceptions; if it turned out that somewhere in the background shot out of a window we can see a car being stolen, then it would be ethical for a police officer to watch that scene without paying). 

You are looking for a fallacy that could result from this statement, not for a fallacy in the statement itself. An obvious fallacy that could result from this statement would be to make the wrong assumption that "thy neighbours" means explicitly only people living nearby or who are personally close to you, and that it is perfectly allowable to spread lies about people who live further away. 

Take two species. Mostly identical, but one has genes that make the members of the species try to survive and produce offspring, while the other species doesn't have that tendency. Wait ten generations. How many of the second species are left? Quite simply, species that don't have genes that tend to produce offspring will be dying out quite quickly. And because they die out, we don't see them. The fact that we see a species proves that it must be designed to survive and reproduce. Within a species, there will be variation of behaviour. Every member of a species having the same behaviour doesn't tend to be good for survival of the species. And there is no need for individual survival. With some species, there is no need for survival past the production of offspring, and often the individuals of the species will naturally die shortly after offspring is produced. 

Your understanding is definitively good enough as a working hypothesis. The relation between alienation and unification is one of the major topics of the book, i.e. something not defined but explored. The Socienty of the Spectacle is much easier to read as a whole than as a system, i.e. repeatedly rather than incrementally. Still, let me provide some background and some explanation: Alienation For Hegel, alienation basically is the result of reflection: the subject presents itself as an object when we reflect on it; the same goes for all our parts and all we are part of, our properties, the categories we think in, society, nature. For Hegel the unity is generated by the spirit or (at least in Marxist understanding) by thinking: ultimately the spirit realises that all the things that seem to be other objects are really its own product. Now, Marx’ critique is this: Marx claims Hegel has got it the wrong way, that Hegel’s philosophy has to be put on its feet. To understand this, recall Hegel’s Philosophy of Right: Hegel starts with the notion of property, this notion then leads to contradictions which require the new notions of contract, law, moral, family, society, and, finally, the proper »State« in which all the contradictions find their solution. One part of Marx’ critique is that Hegel only presents the ideal of unification but not the real praxis (the economy) which actually unifies. Perhaps more importantly, he tries to inverse the process: What if, Marx asks, the totality is not the reconciliation of contradictions but rather the process by which the contradictions (property, or, for the later Marx: commodities) are generated in the first place? This question is the basis for Marx’ project. But this reversal has important consequences for the notion of alienation: alienation no longer means that we have not (yet) understood that we and the object we are regarding are really the same; rather, our totality produces real contradictions, it produces conditions in which our parts and what we are part of, our products and what we are produced by, are not »ours«. Unification While in Hegel, alienation and unification can be seen as opposites (the alienation ultimatly disappears only in the final unification), even for Marx this is not true: the capitalist mode of production unifies (almost) everything, but alienation remains: the products of the worker are not her own, but present themselves as an alien and potentially hostile power. In Marx, however, the unification is not total, because the remaning alienation (although the later Marx no longer uses that notion) is understood to be visible and the necesessity obvious to abolish dispose of the mode of production that creates said alienation. This is where some 20th century Marxists disagreed: It seemed that the unification indeed tended to become total, and the question became how to explain that. Debord provided one of these attempts. Society of the Spectacle ›Alienation‹ occurs for the first time in Thesis 8: this is pretty Hegelian, »reciprocal alienation« means that »reality« as well as »spectacle« become what they are not, reality because it presents itself in the spectacle (therefore as something else than reality), while the spectacle is real, e.g. a spectacular concept of reality. While for Hegel and Marx alienation was between subject and object, Debord describes alienation in a process that is already removed from the subject. According to Marx, the subject creates her own alienation by producing; not so with Debord: the alienation has already happend before the subject even appears. In Hegel, contemplation of the object is the process by which alienation is ultimately overcome, For Marx, contemplation (or thinking) provides us with what is required to change the conditions that create alienation. But for Debord, contemplation is exactly that what creates alienation: when we contemplate (watch, observe) we do not really critically analyse. Rather we understand reality in categories provided for us, in categories we use but did not create. For Debord these categories (the spectacle) structure and constitute what is real to us. They create our reality. And they combine every aspect of reality. Everything fits. That is unification. At the same time, the spectacle (the cultural discourse, the political discourse, the way we see our surroundings in our roles as workers, commuters, tourists, revellers, etc.) is somewhat removed from what we really do (as opposed to our role). Unification means that everything fits together, everything can be explained by something else and, therefore, everything that is can be justified. If alienation can be justified, any hope is lost. Debord’s project hinges on the hinges on the possibility that the unification is a wrong one. So while Debord tries to explain why alienation and unification must present themselves in our society as identical, his project requires that we still can distinguish between them. And, indeed, there has been much discussion, if and how this is possible. 

Logically, both forms are identically. The only difference is the expectation of the reader. If you start with "if P were true", then the reader expects an ending like "then Q would be true, but since we know Q is false, P cannot be true". That ending might not come. A famous example is geometry, where it was assumed for a long time that the "parallel postulate" of Euclidean geometry could be proved. Many mathematicians tried to find a proof by contradiction, and ended with "then Q would be true, and Q is really really weird, but we cannot show it to be wrong". In the end, "were" had to be replaced with "is" and we got hyperbolic and elliptic geometry. 

Mary's argument is of course totally wrong. A lie is roughly speaking knowingly telling the untruth to deceive; making misleading but true statements may also be classified as lying. But Mary doesn't give any evidence whatsoever that John knowingly says an untruth, and therefore no evidence whatsoever that John is a liar. Sure, it is a possibility, but Mary doesn't even give an argument. It seems that Mary doesn't know the meaning of "outright lie". Bob's argument isn't very strong though. There is no need for any indications that people might get shorter. All that is needed is John misreading something, or misremembering something, to make his statement not a lie. John might have read one number in feet and inches, and another number in centimetres, and might have gotten the conversion wrong. That would be a silly mistake, but he wouldn't be a liar. After your edit: Doesn't matter whether Mary is right or wrong. When discussing fallacies, we check whether logical reasoning is correct. Mary didn't give any reasoning whatsoever that supports her conclusion. 

is a valid argument. But presumably, it is not sound. When calling an argument "sound", you defer the questions of knowledge and certainty. But usually, an argument should not only have premises that happen to be true, but premises that we find plausible (in which case, you might call it an persuasive argument). You can have arguments that are valid, sound, persuasive; but usually not absolutley certain. 

Old pagan religions vanished because they were usually closely tied to ritual. Once the temples were destroyed and the priests dead, the religion pretty much ceases to exist. While there are myths and cosmologies associated with these religions, they weren't primarily about believes. There weren't usually debates about the right believe: Socrates was accused of introducing new good. Also, some philosophers like Xenophanes, argued against the humanising of gods, these were moral arguments, not theological ones. While Christianity, for example, emphasised believe, even here the notion that religion is something entirely subjective, something one happens to believe in, is rather new. One could even argue that, ironically, the fact that today there seem to people who "believe" in pagan religions again, was only possible in a christian/post christian society that made your religion or lack thereof a matter of choice. 

Read slowly. While understanding texts like this will become easier with practice, the is no recipe to »easily understand works […] complicated in language,« no more than there is a simple recipe to easily understand, say, mathematical proofs. So instead of a recipe, let me give you some guidelines: Details While the text might seem somwhat poetical, that doesn't mean it is vague or imprecise. If there are ambiguities, that usually means you have to take both meanings into account. Let's take the first sentence: 

You might have not voted under the assumption that all available candidates are reasonably decent human beings, and electing any of them would lead to a reasonably good outcome. When that assumption is wrong and the candidate that the majority voted for turns out to be Hitler jr. , you have the right to complain. So does everyone who voted against him, and everybody who voted for him and didn't realise what the person would be like once elected. Of course it might turn out that all of you just lost their right to complain... 

Newcomb's "Predictor" only has a reputation for being very good at predicting one specific action. That is far away from "the future is pre-determined". And for Newcomb's problem, it is quite irrelevant exactly how good the predictor is. For Newcomb's problem, it is enough to convince you that you are playing against such a being. The "Predictor" doesn't even need to exist, as long as you are made to believe that he/she/it exists. So Newcomb's problem says nothing about free will. Instead of digging his problem up, you should go straight to the root and say "Would the existence of a being or machine which can 100% reliably predict my future actions say anything about existence or nonexistence of my free will"? And in Newcomb's problem, your free will or not doesn't create any paradox. You have two choices, you pick one, based on free will or not, and there is an outcome. One choice gives you either $1,000,000 or the satisfaction that you proved the Predictor wrong. The other choice gives you either $1,000 or a $1,001,000 and the satisfaction that you proved the Predictor wrong. But there is nothing paradoxically in the outcome. (Personally, I would assume the Predictor is a cheat who changes the contents of the boxes after you make your decision, and that's how he gets such a high success rate. So I'd pick only the box with the million, assuming that the Predictor will put the money in the box to avoid being proved wrong). 

Here, »peace« and »war« are not to be understood as under international law (because there peace is not a kind of war); of course this technical meaning is meant as well (the context – Valéry wrote this 1919 – should give a hint). But obviously Valéry doesn't see peace and war as pure opposites and we can suspect that »war«, for Valéry, has taken quite an abstract meaning that also includes peace if it »allows acts of love and creation«. What this abstract meaning is we cannot decide from this portion of the text; we could, however, build a hypotheses – conflict? change? – which we test as we read along. The Whole To understand seemingly complicated texts, you have to relate the details, the single sentences and arguments to the whole text. First, there is an inner structure. The portion you cited has four paragraphs: (1) Peace and its origin is more mysterious than war. (2) Some people may be intuitively sure of the answer. (3) Valéry wants to examine the problem by means of the intellect. (4) This method is limited, but so is any other. Of course, there are some more details we have to examine, e.g. the juxtaposition of sensation and intellect. Does Valéry mean that some people simply feel that peace is right, but that he himself wants to give reasons? Or does he mean something else? To answer this, we need to take the outer structure into account: the cited portion is only the beginning of the second letter. The Context To understand the details, knowing the context is helpful. The context, however, is pretty much everything. So we have to think about which context we want to examine. (1) Knowing the hole work is generally a good idea (in this case it is rather short). But usually, we should be able to make sense of an excerpt on its own. In fact, it often is a good idea to identify the questions which the complete text might answer: We might expect to find more in Valéry's concept of war, but not necessarily more on his distinction between »sensation« and »intellect«. (2) Biographical and historical information can also help. World War I and its aftermath has obviously to be kept in mind. (3) Intellectual context is probably the most difficult to establish. But again, we should be able to make some sense of the text, without knowing too much about what else people though. Questions of thinking vs. feeling were a hot topic back than; but we could suspect as much from the excerpt. Knowing what Bacon said about idols is also helpful; but it is quite clear to say »that this notion of the intellect is an idol« means the notion is somehow wrong or at least insufficient. 

In principle, Holmes was right. However, there are a few problems in practice. One problem is that after you eliminate the impossible, there may be two possibilities left. Or hundred. Or infinitely many. So the result may be true but less useful than what you wanted. Another problem is that you can never eliminate the impossible, you can only eliminate what you think is the impossible. What you thought was impossible may in fact only be very improbable. If you eliminated something that was very improbable, then what remains may not be just improbable, but actually impossible. A third problem is that it may be difficult to determine exactly "what remains" means. You must be able to determine exactly what it is you eliminated, and to determine exactly what it is that remains. Of course, we (or the detective) will sometimes run into situations where it can be established what is impossible, and where we can determine just one thing which remains, and in that case "what remains" is quite likely to be true. 

Some of hour knowledge is hidden deeper in our brains than others. That doesn't mean it's not knowledge, as long as it still can be remembered, even with effort. So the name hidden deeply inside someone's brain is still knowledge. While I have knowledge of many products (I know that 2 by 2 equals 4; I remember it, I don't calculate it), for larger numbers the result is not stored anywhere. It's not knowledge. And you are right, knowing how to produce the answer when you don't remember it isn't knowledge of the answer. Like knowing how to bake a cake, and even knowing it and having all the ingredients, plus time, plus an oven, is not the same as having a cake.