There's no way to know for sure on what basis your manager will evaluate your performance, until the review is completed. So there's no real way to know what to expect, since you and your manager have no history upon which you can draw. But he could: 

If you are in the US, you are entitled to be paid for the hours you worked even if you did a poor job (unless it was piece/project work). 

You seem to be thinking that you can profit from running across this new startup. It's extremely unlikely that an intern with no experience can decide to become some sort of ad-hoc sales agent for a startup company without a real product. And there are ethical and legal issues that could get in the way of trying to personally profit from a deal with the company for which you are interning. You would probably be best served to pass along the information about the startup to someone in your company who is in a position to act on it. Just mention that you happened to run into this company and found it interesting, but don't go into depth about how that happened. Perhaps if this arrangement is beneficial to both sides, you will generate some goodwill for yourself. Don't expect anything more. 

Yes, it's certainly possible. If you haven't found that sort of job yet, you might need to re-evaluate the way you search for jobs, the way you evaluate a prospective job during interviews, the field within which you are searching, how you evaluate "market value", what your definition of "feel like a human being" is, or all of the above. It's very hard to perform an effective self-evaluation. We all think we are better than most everyone else (it's good to be optimistic!). And what we value as necessary to "feel like a human being" may be quite different from what others value. I've had many jobs which match your criteria (at least my definitions of your criteria). I've only had a few that didn't. Perhaps I was uniquely lucky, but I don't think so. (As far as "never bored", I'm not sure that's realistic. "Never" is a long time. Would you settle for "seldom"?) 

When joining a new circle of people (either socially or professionally), the fit will always be unclear initially. A short contact period may or may not be sufficient to clear that up. Some people can learn to adjust and fit in anywhere, and some people cannot. A friend of mine ran a team where fit was particularly important. What he did was offer new candidates a 3-month trial period. He would hire them on a trial basis for 3 months. If it worked out well for both sides, the hire would become permanent (with an increase in salary). If either side decided that it wasn't working out as hoped, the trial would end without a permanent hire. He liked the results, although it did cause some folks to decide not to take that trial route and reject the job offer. You could propose a similar trial period, and use that time to decide if you like your co-workers enough. In some jobs, a "working interview" works well. My wife works as a dental professional, and that is common for potential hires in the offices where she has worked. Basically, you go in for a day and do the actual work (sometimes without compensation). They get to see how you do in a real work environment, and you get to see them in the same light. And when setting up an on-site interview, you can always ask to meet people in particular roles. When I interview candidates for my team, I do an initial phone screen. If they seem good, I invite them in to meet and talk with people face-to-face - me, their co-workers on the team, and usually someone who would be a peer, but on another team. My intent is twofold: to gather input from different viewpoints about the fit of the candidate, but also to give the candidate a chance to meet some of the people who will be co-workers. I never want to hire someone who won't fit in or who will be unhappy. You could request something similar when you set up your interviews, just don't go overboard and ask for too many people, or too much time. Good luck! 

It's not clear what you mean by "enforced" here. If you are asking "can you be fired for not wearing a required uniform?", the answer (at least in my locale) is "Yes". A company can change its uniform requirements whenever they wish. The presence of a union may alter the answer, and as HLGEM correctly points out, the laws in your particular locale might change the answer as well. You could start by contacting your HR department (if you have one), and learn your particular company's rules and regulations regarding uniforms for your position. 

I won't get into the feelings of underperformance, or lack of feedback implied in your question. Rather, I'll answer the specific question being asked. You part gracefully, by seeking and gaining employment elsewhere. You might seek an internal transfer. That could be difficult to achieve if you are truly underperforming in your current role, as few new managers want to take on a demonstrated underperformer. You would first need to understand the reason for your underperformance. There are many possible reasons from poor technology fit, to a clash between your learning style and the training available to you, all the way to something like depression. Regardless, you would need to understand the reason, and be on the path to curing it, before an internal manager would likely want you to join their team. Or you could seek employment elsewhere. In that case, a new company won't have direct exposure to your underperformance. You still should examine your reasons for underperforming, and seek a company where you can become a steady performer once again. Either way, that is how you part gracefully, rather than getting fired. 

In my opinion, knowledge and achievement are never a bad thing. Only you can decide how much you value your efforts versus your achievement. I suspect "well, I let my grades slide because I concluded that my significant industry experience made it a waste of my time" isn't exactly a wonderful story to tell. 

It probably depends on the position you have within the company. I tend to hire relatively experienced people on my team. I don't expect to have to tell these people what to do every hour of every day. In an early part of my life, I hired very entry-level people. Those who didn't eventually demonstrate that they were capable of finding useful tasks on their own and who waited around to be told each task, never progressed very far. Your situation probably isn't "your fault", but it still makes good sense to see what you can do about it. Ultimately, only your boss and you can determine what is your responsibility, and what is not. Since you aren't yet sure, it's clearly time for you to have a conversation with your managers. Tell them that you are finding times where your task list is done, and you aren't sure what to do in that situation. I guarantee they will appreciate your bringing this up.