Suzue is a Japanese company. The threading for the freewheel is ISO for the Suzue Sat. No. 6. In general, its quite easy to measure these things by just measuring the thread pitch. Aside from French and Metric BMX freewheels, the rest of the freewheel standards (English, USA, ISO, Italian) are all 24 TPI and about 1.375", and are effectively interchangable. 

I have had my glasses damaged when falling off/getting hit on my bicycle, even with a helmet. Since my lenses are polycarbonate, they tend to just bounce on the road if they do come out of the frame. I'd think in some of those hits that my glasses would have broken if they were made from glass (especially when my glasses have hit the curb or rocks). Based on this experience, I wouldn't risk using glass based sunglasses on a bicycle if I had the option. You can find safety glasses which act like sunglasses for a relatively low price, which don't look bad (e.g. the Uvex SafetyPro line) [but note these are likely not tested for sports, but are designed for some level of safety]. The best person to ask would likely be an optometrist or eyeglass retailer (the former likely being less biased than the latter) on what they would suggest for sports. This article (Cobb, Clark, and Chad Hulsopple. "Eye injuries in athletes." eMedRef (MU) (2010).) suggests use of polycarbonate for sports. 

Yes. You can take any 7-9 speed Shimano rear derailleur and use it with any Shimano 7-9 rear shifter. And the Deore front shifter will pair fine with the Altus FD. 

On Rim Brakes: I'd be surprised if you managed to wreck a set of brake pads in a week (or even several hundred miles in nasty commuting weather). Off road riding (MTB, cyclocross, etc.) can chew through a set of pads within a ride or two though depending on the terrain and the technicality of the ride. If they're trying to sell you new pads on a bike (instead of possibly adjusting them), I'd be very suspicious. You can tell if you need new pads by either (a) the pads have been on there for a few years and the rubber has hardened up and they aren't working or (b) if its due to wear, 

I think you're confusing a fixed gear with a single speed. A single speed bike can have a fixed gear (the cranks must (things the pedals are attached to) turn whenever the rear wheel turns), or a freewheel (you can coast, i.e. not have the cranks turn when the rear wheel turns). Luckily, a lot of fixed gear bikes have so called flip-flop hubs, where one side is fixed gear and the other side has a single speed freewheel. For a single speed freewheeling setup, you can take any frame, put on a single speed wheel and if it doesn't have horizontal dropouts (or eccentric hubs), attach a chain tensioner to it. For a fixed gear setup, you need horizontal dropouts or an eccentric hub since you'll snap a chain tensioner in a fixed gear setup while braking. Generally, the economical ways to do a fixed gear are starting with an old road bike (say 80s, which has horizontal dropouts) and putting a flip flop hub wheel or fixed gear wheel in, and adjusting the chainline, or buying a bike which is already fixed gear (or has a flip flop hub). Since fixies have become fashionable these days, the latter is usually the easier option. Building a bike from a frame and components is possible, but you need to check compatibility and sizing and everything on your own, which judging by the wording of the question, you do not have. I would recommend getting an already assembled single speed bike with a flip-flop hub. That way, if you find you don't like fixie-ness, you can flip the wheel and get a usable single speed with freewheel. You can also have two gear combinations (though a bit hard to switch between them given that you have to swap the wheel) this way. You can also probably walk into one of many bike shops in the NYC area and figure out a single speed which fits you well easily this way. I would also recommend having a front and rear brake installed on the bike, even if it is fixed gear only -- it may not look "cool", but it can easily save your life in NYC. Also, these links from Sheldon are essential reading, especially if you go the build your own route. 

There are a variety of bikes with the same wheelsize. A few companies, such as Surly, still make mountain bikes with 26" wheels. A lot make 27.5" wheels, and a ton make 29" wheel based bikes. I believe Jamis also made 26" wheel bikes until quite recently. Provided the hub spacing is the same and you have disc brakes and an appropriate rotor, you can just slot in a 26" wheel into a 27.5" frame provided the spacing is the same (which it likely is). If you have rim brakes, they won't line up and you can't use the wheel. Note that the riding position and what not can change. A lot of people have done 69er or 96er bikes in the past where they've taken a 26 or 29" frame and put in a wheel size of the other. 

Tubulars would be a bad idea, because you need to glue new ones on and most shops don't handle tubulars so getting spare parts when necessary is hard. Most people will run a standard clincher for touring on roads, since there isn't much benefit for running a tubeless system for riding on the road and most wheels for road bikes are not tubeless ready (especially for high spoke strong wheels you'd fit on a touring bike). Everyone knows how to handle tubes and the tubes+tires are available almost everywhere if you choose an appropriate wheel size (you'll be able to find 26" wheels almost everywhere, 700c many places, 650b less so in the US, for example). If you want to run tubeless, you can (which would be a preferable starting point for off road touring) since you can always throw a tube in a tire or put a tube+new tire on if necessary (if you find a shop, note that it might not be equipped for tubeless). Note that you are carrying some extra kit with tubeless such as an extra valve, sealant, less tubes than you would carry with a tube system, plugs, and what not versus say a patch kit, some boots, some tubes. 

From Surly themselves: "What year was my frame built? You know that serial number on the underside of your bottom bracket? No?! Ok, so flip your bike over and take a look closely at the bottom bracket shell (the cylinder at the bottom of the frame around which your crank rotates). There will be a code stamped into the shell starting with the letter "M". Sometimes this stamp has a bunch of paint that has collected in it but look closely, it is there, I promise. The following number after the M signifies the last digit(s) of the production year of your frame. So, for instance, M2598144 was made in 2002, M8128666 was made in 2008 and M10034269 was made in 2010. Now write down the serial number and keep it somewhere you can find it in case your bike gets stolen. This might be the only identifiable mark on your frame if it comes back to you!"