The claims are that the through axles offer a stiffer fork, giving more precise handling and performance, over a 9mm QR. 15mm through axles evolved as a lighter alternate to the 20mm ones - which are heavy and overkill for XC and most all mountain riding, with a similar weight to 9mm QR but the stiffer performance. At the highest end (both bike and rider) I am certain the performance improvements are real and measurable. As you drop down in cost/ rider ability, somewhere there is a crossover point where it makes no difference - the forks performance (or lack of) smothers any real difference. The cynic in me believes that for all but the most elite on the most expensive bikes, the placebo effect of spending $1000's on new kit is more of a driver for the better performance than any real, scientifically measurable difference. Many reports I have read are similar to "My shiny new $5K toy with 20mm axles is much stiffer and more predictable than my 10 year old $1K bike with 9mm QR. Those 20mm axles are the best!" One definite advantage of through axles is that there is a documented and real issue with QR on front forks and disc brakes, where the front wheel is ejected under heavy baking due to the torque generated by the disc. This has been half solved with "Lawyer lugs" - the wheel stays on now, but can come loose. This is only a real issue for those with large disk rotors and those that fail to do the QR up properly. The average XC rider on 160mm discs will never see the problem. A possible disadvantage of through axles are the removal and re-installation of wheels is harder, often needing tools (you can get QR through axles), making less suitable for field puncture repairs etc. You may need a new bike rack (if you use a fork mount style). 

I would suggest replacing the inner as well as all the outers. If the inner is frayed at all, you will not be able to rethread it. The benefits of a new cable are much better shifting, to the point cables are considered a consumable by many riders - just like tires and brake pads. Shifter cables are very generic and cheap - as low as $5 online for a set. You will also need a cable cutter. Dedicated bicycles ones make the job fast and tidy. You can use heavy duty wire cutters, but needs more care and is less successful get tidy and fray free cuts. If you don't have access to a decent cutter, you could buy one for about $25. If you plan this to be a once only, the LBS will install a new cable cheaper than buying the tool. 

Neither - If you use metric for the thread repair, where will you get metric threaded pedals from? Also be aware the left pedal is left hand thread. Suggested reading How to fix a stripped pedal crank Better than those would be the correct tools for the job - e.g. $URL$ - Of visit the LBS and get them to do it for you (probably for less as they already own the taps, so you only pay for their time and the coils.) 

Adding to the Supurb answer by @kibbee The second day you may find the start hard - muscles are a bit tied and sore. Legs are not working like the did at the start of the first day etc, they are stiff and sore.... When it's a training schedule, you (well me anyway) would normally say "Best to rest and recover" - so it's not something you will have dealt with much before. If this is the case - take it easy, and get warmed up slowly and before you know it, that sore and stiff feeling will be gone, and you will be feeling good again. At the end of the first day - you need to get the glycogen stores replensihed - this is best done with a decent quality carbo feed within an hour of stopping. It's nice to have a rest and cold brew and socialise - but make sure you get a carbo meal in. Now is not the time to be on the latest anticarbo fad diet - or shy about going back for seconds either (not the wine/beer). You need to replensih the calories you used. It's also important to recover lost fluid - We used a rule of thumb when climbing moutains - if you have got dehydrated- drink until you pee, then drink another litre before bed. As you have already riden 100 mile in a day - you can do a second day -it's your head that will stop the legs turning, not the otehr way round. "If you think you can or think you can't, you will probably be right" (paraphasing Henry Ford.) I am saying you can do it - I am not promising it will be easy - good luck...... 

The hitch is not designed to take the kind of forces that 6 bikes can produce. A trailer sits on the ball and cannot twist the hitch, a rack adds twisting forces in all directions. The end result (I have a mate who manages a bike shop) can be pretty expensive - like the guys who's hitch (with 4 bikes on the rack) failed while being followed by a 30 ton B-Train. Luckily for him the remaining scrap metal only damaged one truck tire - you would think the cost of replacing the bikes was all you need you worry about..... If you do, you need to strap the top of the rack to the roof of the car, and strap the rack and bikes to limit the twisting forces in the hitch. The addition of 6 bikes on the back of the vehicle will also upset the balance. Most cars have a ball weight limit - some as low as 60kg, few above 100kg. I imagine your van is on the higher end of the scale, but 6 heavy mountain bikes + rack will be close to 100kg. (if you are US/UK and think pounds, thats 130lb - 220lb). You may find you are overloading the hitch and voiding warranty / breaking laws / voiding insurance There is a reason most manufacturers stop at 4. Above 2, they almost always recommend/require straps and heavy duty hitches. 

Here is what I did that resolves the issue of "WD40 is not a lub" My problem was RX shifters that did not work at all after a few of years of storage - They were throw-away if I could not get them working, so I considered that WD40 was acceptable. WD40 - did not work. After 2 days still got no movement, so pulled out the big guns Aerosol Engine degrease - can be anything that dissolves the dried and ineffective grease, toyed with using brake cleaner (I had a can on the shelf). It does not need to be a lube - the idea here is to get ride of the stuff that does not work anymore. Cleanup with lot's of hot soapy water. No cleaning residues left inside the shifter. Now working but obviously metal one metal... Aerosol Grease. This is magic - it has a light carrier that gets it to places you cannot normally get grease - which then evaporates away, but being a grease, is the right stuff for the shifter. It's better than oils and teflon lubes etc, as it's a higher pressure lube than those, and the shifter has very high pressure contact points. You will get away with WD40 and oils, but this will cause the shifter components to wear out faster (and probably won't be a smooth). The wear issue may or may not be a problem you are concerned with. 

(I am not talking about the things you buy from department store with two wheels for $100.) There is a mis-perception boarding on conspiracy that steel rusts and aluminum doesn't. Aluminum bikes rust about as much as steel. This is mostly propagated by people who have never owned a decent steel bike and don't know what they are talking about... Quality steel does not rust significantly, otherwise how do you think all those bridges and ships don't fall apart after a few years. Do you avoid buying a car made from steel because it rusts? When did you last see an aluminum car (Land Rover - but plenty of them rusted their way to the wreckers yard) I have a 1992 steel MTB that lives outside. Apart from the old surface rust where the frame is scratched, there is no rust on it - except the chain, nut and bolts, cluster, seat rails..... i.e. all the accessories that an aluminum frame has that are made from steel - hence my assertion that Aluminum bikes rust about as much as steel... The accessories do on both, and the frame doesn't on both. Have you seen what happens to aluminum when it corrodes, which it does.... I would rather ride a old rusty steel frame than an old, poorly maintained aluminum frame..... 

'Normally' the answer is 'Its worn out, you should replace it". This you already know. Looking at this from several aspect is the key to making the decision. The movement will cause the chain rings to slop around. A small amount won't affect things too badly, but eventually you will suffer poor shifting and chain slipping. The chain will start to slip as the chain rings move in relation to the derailleur. Worst case is a chain break, and very worst case would be the chain dropping off the cassette into the spokes and locking the rear wheel (although a properly adjusted rear derailleur should prevent this even with lots of slop in the chain rings). ,Eventually it will become unsafe. I presume by "pulled the thread out" you mean the crank extractor stripped the crank arm thread. I had this happen once and found the cheap extractor was undersized. I was fortunate enough thread was intact that a workshop quality extractor had enough to pull the crank. If the thread really is stripped, you will need a new crank arm. The bike as is has very limited life - I would not expect many more miles before it gets so sloppy its not rideable. Either retire it or look for used parts - a donor bike, a mate with a box of bits, or a local bike coop. 

The cassettes you listed are Tourney (9 speed), Altos (8) and Alivio (9) respectively. At this component level there will be little practical difference between them. A skilled rider might notice better shifting, and there might be a weight advantage on the higher spec cassettes, but the difference will most likely be swamped by everything else that makes up a bicycle. Durability might be marginally different but irrelevant. Durability is determined more by maintenance and tolerance of the rider for poor performance than parts quality, and is affected by chain wear more than any other aspect. As far as value for money - the discount off RRP you get will be the determining factor. If looking for this quality range cassette, I would go to my favorite online parts site, filter on the speed and cassette size I need, sort by discount and scan though for something in my price bracket. 

The manual pretty much sums it up. The helmet should sit naturally at the correct place without the straps. The straps are only there to hold it in place in a prang, when a bit of chaffing / bruising is the least of your problems. A small amount of slack (you should be able to fit two - three fingers between the strap and you) is best. If the straps are pulling the helmet out of position, loosen them. Be aware that not all of us have the same sized and shaped heads, so it is possible your helmet is just not a good fit. Note also the bike helmet only protects against brain injury. Theres plenty of scope for a large amount of pain and cosmetic damage - think what a face plant at 30mph would do, and still scope for massive brain injury with a properly fitting helmet. Its a reasonable argument that wearing a helmet provide a false sense of security - essentially if you would not do it without a helmet, don't do it. Your helmet is a very last resort - a "get out of jail" card that only works sometimes. Worth wearing? - I have a mate with a brain injury (non cycling) ... need I say more..... 

My dad had this exact problem (Just one knee). My first attempt was 150mm cranks. No where near enough, but worth the $30.00 (Cheap kids bike part) as an experiment. Next I went to crank shortener. He started at equivalent of about 130mm, and is now up to 145. Since then he switched to using an electric bike - his crank shorteners moved with him to the new bike (the different Q Factor is not a problem for his casual use). We though about drilling/tapping a longer crank to a shorter one, but decided for his use the benefits are not worth the cost (And are quietly hoping to get him up to the 150's). The electric bike has funny right hand crank that does not help. More expensive options include pivot cranks and "Power Cranks" and are worth investigating is money is no option. I would invest $120 or so for crank shorteners. This will establish what length you need and allow adjustment as your knees improve. Stay on the shorteners till you feel the improvement has stopped, then consider purchasing/fabricating cranks of the correct length. If you invest in short cranks now, you may be buying longer ones later. 

Re- iterating comments- Second hand will offer best value for money. Avoid chain store bikes. Much better to get a use quality bike that is 1/2 worn out than a new cheap and nasty one. I suggest a Hybrid (or Comfort) bike with flat handle bars as a good starter. Road bikes are designed light to go fast at the expense of comfort (experienced riders are used to it). A Mountain bike is another alternate that will work, although not quite as well on paved surfaces. Key things are to get the right sized bike. If at all possible get a cyclist mate to help out (ask around work if you don't know of anyone - I am sure someone will step up). Visit a couple of bike shops, I recommend find ones with lots of kids bikes as they know about tight budgets and are used to dealing with inexperienced riders. They may have suitable used bikes, or last year model on big discount. Even if you do not plan to buy from them, you may need them fro service, so they should be more than happy to talk about your needs and offer advice. Don't spend all your money on the bike. You will need helmet, pump, spare tubes and puncture repair kit (learn how to use these). I strongly recommend padded bike shorts. If skin tight lycra is not your thing, you can get baggies (common with MTB'ers) and even ones that are underwear. Really good shorts are expensive, but even cheaper ones will make a difference to comfort when riding. You don't say what your current fitness level is. Make sure you start out easy, even if you are super fit. Cycling uses different muscles to what you are used to going to hard to quickly usually ends badly. I would say 10 miles a day is too much for the first weeks, but is a good target. Don't be talked into buying a bike for when you are fitter and training for the Tour de.... If you do you will upgrade it before then anyway, but do by a bike that is of reasonable quality.