Now you know there are ants and you are in a hurry.You have stepped on the grass and suddenly you remember about the ants.You see some dead because of your running. Here it does not generate bad karma because even though you knew about the ants you still did not had any idea or a plan to kill the ants by stepping on them. 

Prologue As we all are aware Lord Buddha used a certain method when teaching Dhamma to the common man,and that was breaking things down in a way that particular person will understand. So the teachings were very dynamic bit stayed true to the core.Lord Buddha used this style of teaching because people had different levels of intelligence and potential when it comes to understanding complex teachings. When Lord Buddha found people with very low intelligence much simpler methods were used to teach dhamma.But with people who had great potential much complex teachings were used according to their character and potential. 

I am sorry i do not remember the names in this.But here is the complete story. There was an ambitious monk while Buddha was alive.He wanted to reach nirvana but he had a little problem.He was able to reach "Samadhi" but couldn't hold on to it.he kept loosing and regaining it.He was terrified by the idea of facing his death without a "Samadhi" at least.He kept trying but it was obvious that nothing is going to change.One day he had enough of this game that his fate was having with him and decided to end his life while remaining in "Samadhi".This is not something Lord Buddha would agree with so no one knew this.he took a knife and cut his throat but years of practice was able to be useful at this moment.His mind started to reach higher levels of concentration and he went with that using his samadhi. By the time he was dead he was no longer a normal monk he was an "Arahant".Lord Buddha heard the news and came to see his body and said this is not a normal one he is an "Arahant",Give the body the respect it deserves.That's how the rest of the people got to know about the real story. 

Enlightenment happen when knowledge is certain (such knowledge is usually called jñāna), so practice is supposed to provide result as 100% certain knowledge, in regard to what is also required to cease defilements and suffering. Knowledge about 'everything in the World' is not included in that. (Maybe Buddha knows all that, though.) 

__ * I assume that Mahayana Theravadin is possible, who don't deny Mahayana canon and/or aspire to become bodhisatta. 

It's said that enlightened person feels single pain (only physical), while not enlightened feels two pains (physical with mental pain). SN 36.6, Sallatha Sutta: 

Buddhism is not Nihilism because it does not reject values, morals, and religious truth. Buddhism is not Annihilationism because it establish idea of karma (i.e. inheritance of actions). Actions are not destroyed at death and inherited in next birth. Thus, it is useful to do wholesome deeds and practice Teaching. 

Hinayana is complicated philosophical term, sometimes it refer to lower motivation, sometimes to some misunderstanding of Teaching, sometimes to smaller knowledge, or restricted acceptance of Buddha's Teaching, and sometimes it's misnomer for early schools. I want to stress, that term is philosophical from just a few of Mahayana sutras. It is not a simple thing as school, (and Mahayana is not a school too). Hinayana as type of motivation (lower than reaching Buddhahood) is acceptable lower motivation in Mahayana schools for some types of personalities. So, in that sense Hinayana is survived inside of any Mahayana school, which accepts such notion. In the sense of non-Mahayana: many Mahayana schools accept and their canons contain non-Mahayana teachings. All traditional Mahayana schools actually have survived vinaya lineages of early schools, not related to Mahayana doctrines. On the other hand, Theravada developed bodhisatta practices and philosophical concepts which thought by some to be distinctively mahayanistic. It just don't generally accepts Mahayana canon, but don't officially denies either. So it's personal choice to accept it or not. Some Theravada scholars studied Mahayana, for example famous Walpola Rahula, he even wrote dissertation on Abhidharmasmuccaya with parallels to Pali canon. 

According to Buddhism someone who reach a higher level of Meditation (Samadhi) would be born in the Brahma realm. These beings are not sexually attracted to female gender (They don't have a female gender), They are with or without a Physical appearance. But when Buddhism describe the destruction of a universe it says that beings from almost all the realms are born in this "Ābhassara World" which is a Brahma world. 

A good birth A good birth is not about physical wealth.It is actually about mental potential and health. (A)- Imagine you are a rich man (B)- Imagine you are a dog in a rich man's house (C)- Imagine you are a Poor man (D)- Imagine you are a dog in a poor man's house As you can see option (A) is good,but why Buddhism has a signature and it is always referring to the path to nirvana. So the "Good" here is the man in option (A) can easily do many good things when the man in option (C) would have to go through many obstacles in life. The dogs have no potential so obviously it is a bad birth. Now consider this (A)- Imagine you are a rich man, But very unhealthy (B)- Imagine you are a dog in a rich man's house, But very healthy (C)- Imagine you are a Poor man, But very healthy (D)- Imagine you are a dog in a poor man's house, But very unhealthy The rich man has an issue,He is unhealthy but the poor man is not.So the rich man is fortunate to have wealth but not so fortunate to have health.But the poor man was the exact opposite. Now consider this (A)- Imagine you are a rich man, But very stupid (B)- Imagine you are a dog in a rich man's house (C)- Imagine you are a Poor man, But very wise (D)- Imagine you are a dog in a poor man's house As you can see even though one man is rich he has very low potential to reach nirvana.But the poor man is wise so he is with great potential.This change everything making him the most fortunate,the best birth among these four. Now consider this (A)- A god. (B)- A human. (C)- An animal. An animal has no potential towards nirvana.But a man has much,therefore he is more fortunate and his life is good compared to the animals life. But when you compare a god with a human you see that the god has much more potential than a human.So in this pair the god is the lucky one. A good Karma A good karma is something you do which would effect positively in this life or many lives to come.These could give you a birth with much potential to reach nirvana and make you healthy,strong,kind,wise and etc.It could also be powerful enough to give you a birth in higher realms,making it easier for you to reach nirvana. So any karma that would ease your path to nirvana is a good karma,any birth that would give you a better chance to reach your path to nirvana is a good life / birth. May triple gems bless you! 

All factors of the pratityasamutpada occurs in this lifetime. Just from different causal rounds of it. And of course, there is much more relations between the nidanas than just sequential enumeration of 12 states. 

I think both interpretations should be somewhat intertwined and doesn't need to be clearly distinguished. See, you'll not say 'I only take refuge in Gautama Buddha, but not Buddhahood', or 'I will take refuge only in Buddhahood, but not Gautama Buddha', both of these sounds weird. Buddha Gautama represents Buddhahood, so we can not separate Him from Buddhahood. Abhidharmakosa-bhasya of Vasubandhu explains taking refuge in Buddha like this: 

It is. Tanha, in the form of chanda, is conductive to exertion. With wisdom you could direct it on the right way. 

There is no physical signs of that and we can not verify it. Probably only enlightened beings (such as other buddhas) can verify this, so until we are enlightened we can't. Btw, he also attained Nirvana before his death too. So-called nirvana with remainder. 

Multiple gods are just living beings, and god (or deva) is type of good birth. So, believing gods is easy—it is just more fortunate world, or life form, than ours. • It does not contradict idea of karma because beings rebirth as gods because of their own wholesome deeds. • Praying to gods is not forbidden as general act, but this is not Buddhist practice. Even though this is not Buddhist practice this does not necessarily contradict the Dharma, it would hugely depend on practitioner attitude and views. But if you pray for salvation or to clean sins this would contradict with karma. 

Here's the answer to your last analogy.... What kinds of circumstances come in this category an what does not? 

This would look a bit rude what i am about to say,but as we are advised in Buddhism a good friend is a one who correct another for his own good. Here is the thing my friend,Lord Buddha used to slam some beliefs that existed in his own age,One of which is materialism.So please try to understand if you believe in materialism you are not a part of any form of Buddhism Because materialism is against everything Buddhism stands for.Before being a materialist please understand that to explain everything in science is still extremely impossible so how can you believe in a half-made belief? I'm afraid you are going to have to choose between Buddhism and materialism,it is that simple. If you have any question we all are happy to help because as to Buddhism materialists are not bound to a good place in the lives to come.Because they generate an unusual karma (Lord Buddha said that universe expands and shrinks ,so when the time is right the universe as we know it meets it's end but people with views like materialism will have births in planets with such harsh conditions even in this chaos those planets will not be destroyed and without any hope of a comfort they will have to suffer for eons until the new universe is born.).If you have any question regarding this question please ask. 

May no evil come to all, Living beings and to all beings who have been born May all find comfort. Lord Buddha is with values above measuring Dhamma is with values above measuring Sangha is with values above measuring Because of polluting "Klehsa" these beings like Snakes,Scorpions,Spiders,Insects and Insects are with measurable values. I have done protection,I have chanted. May all beings go away from me. I worship Lord Buddha,I worship seven Lord Buddhas of this era. May the power of truth in these words bring comfort to all! 

Some theistic beliefs could contradict with Buddhist views. For example, if you believe that God is only savior, that is contradiction of belief in karma. Or, if you believe that God judges your experience, that contradicts with karma again. Or, if you believe that teaching given by God is best, that is contradiction with refuge in Buddha as best teacher of gods and men. When you deny, in such a way, right view and Buddhist refuge, you probably not practice Buddhist meditation correctly. But, if you just practice wishing of happiness to all beings (metta), that's not necessarily contradict with some God is Love idea. 

There could be other habitable planets or even Universes too. So even though nobody could birth as human on the Earth (or Mars), they could birth in other places. Also, fact that somewhere somebody (or everybody) could not reach Nibbana does not disprove kamma. Buddhas are rare, and other beings need Buddha to learn Dhamma. 

Friends are important in buddhism. Good friends (kalyana-mitra) are Buddhist teachers, not just some pleasant companions. From this I derive that bad friends (papa-mitra) should be not just some non-prefect associates, but really evil company (like gangsters, thieves) or wrong teachers (of some evil, for karma, teaching). 

Manas is past mind, citta is future mind, and vijnana is present mind. Sometimes it's also said that manas is fore-running, citta far-going, and vijnana is birth-relinking activity of mind. Also, manas is supporting (subsequent) and thinking/contemplating aspect of mind, citta is accumulating and diversity aspect of mind (it's increase with defilements or cease without them), and vijnana is cognizing aspect. In Yogacara citta is equated with alaya-vijnana (storehouse consciousness), manas with klista-manas (defiled mind), and vijnana with pravritti-vijnana (functioning mind). 

Yes there is... Buddhist point of view on daily life and goals established by an individual is quite simple. 

Not only Lord Buddha was capable of miracles everyone was willing to assist Lord Buddha in any way possible knowing the power of Karma they could gain. That's why you see a "King of gods" acting like a personal assistant. 

Here is one event on video in broad daylight... Rays of lights on Somawathi Stupa Images of the event taken in few different days and angles... 

Well, Before we continue you must ask why you gave up the identity "Being a Buddhist" and you should also ask why are you still here in this SE. I am not trying to be rude.i'm saying this to make you realize the deceiving side of the mind.It is important you understand this and come up with solutions. 

Say i am a Differently able person and i cant move my arms so how does my Vinyana work? Is that part of my "Kaya Vinyana" (The vinyana that works with the body) deactivated or lost contact with the arms? What is the connection between the Vinyana and a uncontrollable body part like arms or legs? I am not reffering this question about Blind,Deaf or Mute people only about the people who are not able to use existing and functioning body parts 

You are not going to get away that easy,You are burning from fires of your next life and lives to come. Don't you think about these..... 

I normally do not dream and if i dream those are very long and mixed when it comes to content (Both calming and provoking). So what is the Buddhist point of view on dreams. 

Buddhist practice usually eliminate causes, not consequences. If you eliminated some sankhara, it will naturally re-appear when conditions of its appearance are meet. Unless you destroyed bad sankhara In a way arahants destroy tanha, but that's difference case, I suppose. 

They are the general characteristics of (or elaborations on) the Truth of Suffering (dukkha-sacca), and consists of: impermanence (anicca), suffering (dukkha), and non-self (anatta). They are found in many places in the canon as this is one of central concepts of the Dhamma. For example, see AN 3.134 for them together, or SN 22.59 for just one of them. Probably, there is no fundamental differences between traditions, but there is differences: elaborations, different scholastic interpretations, and other details. 

Consciousness is simply ability to know or, more complicated, it's property to have object. Pali commentaries define consciousness (citta) in three ways. Agent definition - citta is what cognizes an object (arammanam cinteti ti cittam). Instrument definition - by means of which mental factors (cetasika) cognize the object. Activity definition - nothing other than cognizing (or knowing) the object. Third definition is considered to be ultimate definition, while first two is provisional definitions, all of them are supposed to refute view that these functions are performed by Self. Probably consciousness could be hard to define in mechanistic-materialistic view (or standpoint), it's because such view eliminate consciousness. So, how to define thing that is fundamentally eliminated? To correct this we should recognize that consciousness is of fundamental (phenomenal) nature and does not need to be reduced to matter or derived from matter. For all of us consciousness is basic fact (phenomenon).