Sounds to me they were kept in a secure location until they could be repatriated (remember there were no ways to do so using normal means at the time as there was no shipping between the countries while they were at war). As the USA also held German nationals in similar conditions, it was a natural that they would be handed over at the same time, both groups in effect serving as hostages for the well being of the other. While they reported of a lack of food, that was probably no worse than not having their normal excess they were used to in pre-war Berlin. The entire German population was on rationing, it would be quite normal that the US diplomatic group was similarly limited in what they had available to them (in fact the same was true of POW camps, while indeed conditions there were harsh and food scarce, it was not much more so than for the population in the surrounding towns and German authorities (probably correctly) assumed that if they supplied enemy prisoners with more food than the local population they'd have riots on their hand). 

Yakov Stalin is not Anna Karenina. There is another version. $URL$ $URL$ June 24, 1941. Yakov took command of the 6th artillery battery of the 14th howitzer regiment of the 14th Tank Division. July 16, 1941. Yakov's orderly - A. Kovalev: Yakov got the task of moving the battery closer to the front line. The column was bombed by the Luftwaffe. The horses, Yakov and the adjutant fell from the explosion of the bomb. However, allegedly, "Yakov" quickly recovered. This is already a lie. Mikhail Grigorievich Grigoriev, Colonel-General, commander of the first combination of ICBMs (Plesetsk Cosmodrome), First Deputy Commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of the USSR. He said that he saw Yakov died on the battlefield. Perhaps he did not see personally, because he fought 30 kilometers from Yakov. Stalin's adopted son, General Artem Sergeyev, claimed that Yakov Dzhugashvili had never been a prisoner, but died in battle. The Germans interrogated "Yakov" between July 11 and 13 (the real Yakov was still at war)! The Germans did not know in which regiment Yakov fought! This is absurd! The name, rank and regiment are allowed to speak to any prisoner of war. Doctor of historical sciences Sergey Devyatov: "There are about 10 photographs of Yakov Dzhugashvili in captivity. Specialists of one of the Defense Ministry's centers analyzed them. This is a very competent photomontage. ... when the photos were over, they made a mistake by giving a "mirror image" of one of the photos - on it there is a clasp on the jacket on the other, "the female side"." "In German documents, it is said that Yakov Dzhugashvili - the son of Stalin owned three languages: German, French and English. " The real Yakov at the institute and the academy did not study German and English." Total: There are no photos (10 photos-it's not many) of the prisoner Yakov. Traces of photomontage 10 photos of the prisoner Yakov. No audio record of the prisoner Yakov. There are no video records of the prisoner Yakov. The note of the prisoner Yakov does not match. Witnesses in the camp never knew Yakov before the war. The Germans burned the body of the prisoner Yakov. 

Several reasons. First and foremost, they perform the same role on the battlefield, providing a fast moving spearhead. Second, and related, many of the units were cavalry units before getting tanks, they just exchanged their horses for tanks. Artillery exchanged guns pulled by horses (and trucks) with self propelled guns (at least part of them, most armies still have pulled guns). Same with infantry, where horse drawn carts and trucks were replaced in part with armoured fighting vehicles. And those latter two are in part to "blame" on the tank. Their deployment was needed for those units to keep up with the tanks. 

South Georgia was invaded in early March, on the 19th the British noticed an Argentine flag flying over the islands, well away from their own scientific station there. The Argentinians had landed armed forces disguised as scrap metal dealers on the islands. The next day HMS Endurance, embarking part of the Royal Marine detachment to the Falklands, sailed from Port Stanley to confront the Argentine landing force at South Georgia. On the 24th Endurance reached South Georgia, but was ordered to reinforce the British outpost there rather than sail around the island to the Argentine camp, possibly because of uncertainty about Argentine strength in the area. This was fortuitious, as that same day the Argentinians landed another roughly 100 troops on the island (Endurance carried only 20 Marines and was itself only lightly armed, more a police vessel than a warship). 

You read a very correct article. Unfortunately, we are very few. I read a whole book about this moment - "Иной Сталин" ("Another Stalin"). You understand history better than others. My regards. 

The western bank of the Volga in Stalingrad distracted attention and dispersed the strength of the Wehrmacht. In the same way, strikes from the north of Stalingrad distracted the attention of the divisions. Wehrmacht was forced to destroy the bridgehead and defend Stalingrad from the north and south. As a result, all the shock divisions concentrated in one place. Checkmate. p.s. "shock divisions" - 4TA. 

Germany already fought on two fronts. This is the first world war. And Hitler fought in this war. He was not an idiot. Germany in the 1920s is an outcast country. The same outrage as the USSR. Germany and the USSR helped each other. But... The USSR is the single socialist country in the world. But the "problem" was that this single socialist country was developing rapidly. Industrialization, free medicine, free education, free land, autarky. This is a threat to the entire capitalist world. It is a flag, a symbol for all Communists in the world. Stalin said that "either we will become an industrial power or we will be destroyed." All the Bolsheviks understood that the USSR was the number one target. The question was: who, where and when will kill the first country of people's democracy. The choice was perfect: Germany. In one moment a friend turned into an enemy. Hitler - huge assassin. Hitler received Czechoslovakia. Hitler received Poland. France did not want to fight and actually gave up. Even the Poles defended the capital. The French applauded the German troops. When Hitler became strong, he attacked the USSR. Because Hitler is a hired killer. The USSR is a victim of a hired killer. Everything is very simple. By the way, there is one more "strange" moment. "Idiot" Hitler did not mobilize the economy. If you are at war, you must mobilize the entire economy. I suppose the master just kept his dog on a leash. The owner was afraid that Hitler could get out of control. The owner put on a muzzle - he forbade the mobilization of the economy. When the hired assassin missed, the customer organized his destruction. p.s. In 1941, Hitler controlled more factories and engineers than Stalin. Mobilization + technology = thousands of Panzes, Stugs, Ganomags, aircrafts, artillery, divisions, corps, armies. The USSR could lose, but the German shepherd had a short leash. 

Interestingly, $URL$ does talk about a supreme state arbiter elected in 1990, so maybe the title changed. But again indicates effectively a civilian rather than military position, which would not be uniformed. 

I've read, a long time ago, that the current trend for men to be clean shaven started during WW1 when troops in the trenches had to wear gasmasks a lot. As these don't get a proper fit on a bearded face, the soldiers had to shave or risk death by gas. Later of course pilots wearing oxygen masks to be able to fly high altitude aircraft in WW2 (and the interbellum to a degree) would also need to be shaven for the same reason. It sounds plausible, but I've not been able to independently verify it. 

Actually, the oldest national anthem in the world is the Dutch Wilhelmus, which dates back to the Dutch revolutionary war, being composed in 1574, with the text being even older, having been traced back to at the latest 1568. It was not designated as such however until 1932, but had been the de-facto national anthem since that time, including being used on official occasions like crowning of kings and queens. $URL$ has details. 

You will long search for a black cat in a black room. Because it is missing. Russia fought with different nations. The Far East - the Chinese, the Caucasus - the Chechens, Finland - the Swedes :) , the Baltic - the Germans :). But after the "occupation" this territory received bonuses. Finland is captured - maximum autonomy, the Caucasus is conquered - resorts are built, Asia is conquered - the first railways, the Baltic states are annexed - industry is built. Russian joke: hordes of Russian barbarians broke into peaceful Asian auls and left behind factories, theaters and libraries. Do you want a black legend? In the Far East, the Russian Cossacks (Gurans) brutally fought against the Chinese. China still remembers who are the Gurans. 

It is very difficult to compare different concepts of the army. Wehrmacht is a Western system (special forces + specialization + logistics). The Red Army is a Soviet system (universal soldier + autonomy). It is absolutely not correct to compare KV-2 and any German tank. The role of KV-2 is an assault tank against the pillboxes. In the Wehrmacht a Stug was this role. Absolutely not correct to compare tanks. No separate tanks are fighting. War - this is not separate tanks. War - this is a confrontation of Army structures. Already in the first days of the war, Soviet KV and T-34 attacked the German infantry. The result: burnt KV and T-34. You can compare the Soviet and German tank company yourself. The Soviet tank company have a 10 tanks. The Soviet company has no other means of reconnaissance. After the battle, the Soviet tankmen repairing the tanks themselves. The Soviet tankmen themselves are digging tank trenches. Soviet tankmen themselves guard tanks at night. The German Tank Company had a 2 platoons of tanks and supply units. There are motorcyclists in a German tank company. Excellent scout. There is a repair truck in a German tank company. Crews are resting. There is a separate supply truck and other tanker-soldiers who repair and refuel tanks. As a result, the German tank company is more mobile. The German tank company rebuilds the tanks more quickly. It does not matter what tanks are in the Soviet tank company (T-34 or T-26). The Soviet tank company is slowly rebuilding tanks. Soviet tank company "blind" on the march. Very often the Soviet tank brigade had one repair truck. You can compare yourself to the German tank battalion. The Soviet mechanized corps consists of 4-5 types of tanks and 4-5 types of fuel. It is impossible to properly supply this monster. The main force of the Wehrmacht is not tanks. The main force of the Wehrmacht is the infantry. But the German infantry had the support of artillery, tanks, aircraft and trucks. During the war, the ratio of infantry and tank units changed. In 1942 the Soviet tank brigades received a lot of infantry. Later, the Soviet tank brigades received a lot of artillery and good supplies. As a result, in 1945 the Tigers and Panthers could not stop the outdated T-34. 

I'm pretty sure that by that era the cuirassiers were mostly ceremonial. Like the bagpipe playing Scotts in British infantry regiments, they were a leftover from a "more civilised era". And there are still troops in old fashioned plate armour to this date. They are of course all ceremonial, and tend to put on 21st century uniforms and weapons as needed. Think the Vatican's Swiss guard, the state's only military unit. They were shining armour, halberds, and helmets while on ceremonial guard duty, but have a full arsenal of assault rifles and other modern hardware as well for when and if it comes to an actual armed conflict. The British guards at Buckingham Palace and other locations are the same, they're in fact rotated on and off that duty between several regular mechanised infantry units among which this ceremonial duty is shared. While during the late 19th century there might have been units wearing plate armour as a regular part of their combat uniform, this would almost certainly have been a transition era. Remember that even in the Crimean war there were some cavalry charges where the cavalrymen were armed with lances, going up against infantry and artillery armed with rifles and cannon. 

The Japanese emperor said that Japan received an elementary school on Hassan and a secondary school on Khalkhin Gol. For this reason, the Japanese were in no hurry to receive a "higher education". Japan decided to start a war against the USSR if it was occupied by Leningrad and Moscow. Guaranteed victory. 

30th years. Most of the buildings are a typical village house. Heating is a Russian furnace. Fuel: woods. Joke: "The city is a big village." In the center of my town there are still many village houses. More modern buildings along the central streets had heating at the house level. Most often these are administrative buildings. Sometimes it's one boiler. Sometimes a few furnace. Fuel: wood or coal. Industrial facilities had their central heating boiler. Fuel: coal or foreign spies (This is a joke!). Mobile version for a one-room apartment - an old furnace-"burzhuyka" ("печка-буржуйка" [furnace-bourgeoisie]). Fuel: wood, coal. Good link: $URL$ 

The US developed many and very effective AA missiles. BOMARC was an early example and remained in service for over 20 years. Redeye, Stinger, Hawk, Nike, Patriot, THAAD, Terrier, Talos, Tartar, Standard, Spartan, Sprint, the list goes on and on. And that's just SAM systems, doesn't include AAM systems, of which several (Sparrow, AMRAAM, ASRAAM, Sidewinder) have found use as SAMs as well. Of course the number of different systems doesn't come close to the number of different systems employed by the USSR at one time or another, but that's in no small part because of different design and numbering philosophies. When the Soviets designed a new system they usually started from scratch, the Americans tended to do more gradual changes, morphing one system into another over time. Prime example of this is the US Navy Standard system, now in its 3rd major incarnation but still outwardly similar and using the same name. And it can be argued that Standard is merely a further development of Talos and Terrier. The Nike family is also comprised of several missiles bearing the same name. And at current THAAD is several weapons, Patriot is now in its 3rd incarnation as well. On the AAM side, AMRAAM is in its 3rd incarnation (though the AIM-120B was not produced), Sidewinder has seen over a dozen variants (including several SAM and ground attack versions, and anti-ship and anti-radar missiles). Also, they may appear cheaper, but are they? A single missile costing a few million dollars can indeed bring down an aircraft costing a hundred million, but you will likely need several missiles to bring down that aircraft. Also, missiles are far less flexible than are aircraft, taking longer to forward deploy (especially the larger ones that would replace long range fighters) and are more prone to suffering from environmental problems that aircraft do not. Just ask the British about the trouble with their SAMs during the Falklands campaign.