I am a native speaker of English, but I make (and notice others make) English mistakes all of the time; I change negative to positive and vice versa, I switch "he" and "she", I make spoonerisms, I leave 's' off of third person singular, and so on. Mistakes just happen. I hear native speakers make mistakes in my second language as well. One difficulty for me in becoming an advanced speaker of this language was in getting over the occasional error. Eventually you realize that natives make mistakes, too, and one's time is better focused on enriching one's manner of expression instead of worrying about spoonerisms (especially if you're the type who makes lots in your native tongue). I think it would be helpful to know what the average speaking error rates are among native speakers, so as not to hold oneself to the impossible standard of 0% error. Are there any studies showing average error rates for native speakers of a language? I know "error" can be broadly interpreted, but take my examples above to be approximately what I'm considering an "error". 

It needs to be learnt in a fast amount of time, and be very, VERY easy but still not lacking things. This is especially true since you will need to capture large amounts of monolingual speakers, for example most English-speakers. The average person from the USA doesn't even feel like they have enough time in the day to cook dinner "from scratch" (I've even heard complaints about how "it takes such a long time for water to boil for my instant ramen"), but at the same time English speakers pride themselves on the small nuances that come in word pairs like "handrail, banister, balustrade", and often believe that other languages don't have them. So the constructed language has to heavily cater to both of these aspects. There needs to be proof that the language works and that people speak it. Meaning, before you even publish the book that teaches it, set up a forum for it, translate material and write original material in it, have some audio recordings, etc. People already say things like "you're learning Icelandic? WHY?" because they believe it's useless and there's nothing worthwhile in it, so you have to combat this very strongly starting from the very beginning. 

How do I isolate each of the formants in my speech? I want an easy way to hear F1-F6 for learning/demonstration purposes. I believe Peter Ladefoged mentioned a way to isolate either F1 or F2 in "A Course in Phonetics". Possible solutions involve moving the tongue in different directions while listening to the pitch created by air moving through the mouth (air whistling?), flicking the throat, etc. 

I have been reading Velupillai's An Introduction to Linguistic Typology, and the author stresses how much work still needs to be done for sign languages in general. She mentions in particular that there are almost no reference grammars available for any sign language at all, so that typological studies become rather difficult. I'm now trying to find a reference grammar on any sign language, and I can only come up with one: New Zealand Sign Language: A Reference Grammar, by Rachel McKee. It's only available as an ebook, and I'm not sure if it is actually a comprehensive reference grammar or a shorter grammar for reference by learners. Can anyone refer me to a comprehensive reference grammar on any sign language? If I am mistaken and there are now plenty, a list of some good examples would be especially useful. 

Ease of learning, reading, and pronunciation. Therefore there can't be consonant clusters (imagine Russian), or sounds not in most languages (ex. English's þ, ð, and w, the distinction in its two l sounds, or its many vowels), and the alphabet/syllabary should look distinct even if the person hasn't learnt it yet (ex. katakana, runes, hobo symbols, or most of the roman letters - not Arabic, Braille or kanji). This is not just so that the language doesn't feel impossible, but also to help hard-of-seeing people and dyslexic people who recognize letters slightly more based on "shape" (it's hard to explain, but telling the difference between o and 0, or n and h in bad handwriting, can be very hard for example). 

There is no "famous, red, blue, wet, dry, lethargic, celestial", as in Esperanto they're "fama, ruĝa, blua, malseka, seka, letargia, ĉiela". All are adjectives in both languages. "angrily, wetly, very, lethargically, on Mondays" are "kolere, malseke, tre, letargie, lunde". All are adverbs. "sincerity, hound (dog), dilapidation, epoch, eczema, shoulder-blade" are "sincereco, hundo, ruinigo, epoko, ekzemo, skapolo". All are nouns. "pony, puppy, kitten, duckling" are "ĉevalido, hundido, katido, anasido" (ido means "an offspring", so it's like "baby horse"). 

I'm looking for a colloquial English corpus that has time expressions marked in it. I don't need the time expressions to be coded in any special way, just that they be marked so I can find them. All of the corpora I've found are from news or broadcasting, and there's a big difference between the two for time expressions. I'm look for more complicated time expressions like "we meet every other Tuesday", etc. 

World phonotactics database: $URL$ World Atlas of Language Structures Online: $URL$ Not sure if that has morphological information or not. 

Sometimes in machine translation, a model called an "interlingua" is used to represent grammatical or semantic structures in a language agnostic way. The term does not specify the structure of the model in any way, but is a good search term for this topic. Wikipedia has an article on it. Also, here is a recent example from Google's research blog with some details on their model. They use something called an 'interlingua'. This paper provides an overview.