Soul in the context of Buddhism is that was contemporary considers atman, which is permanent, pleasant and controllable. What is established in Buddhism is that there is nothing as such and everything constituting a being is subjected to the 3 Universal Characteristics. Also there is not entity as a being. What is there is a causality arising process, which also is presented as the 4 Noble Truths, Dependent Origination, Conditional Relations. The continuity of the causality process can be taken as a trip in a vehicle. Each point of the journey is different from the other but still point of the same journey, hence there is a continuity but not also the entirely the same. Death is like changing vehicles. In Buddhism Ghosts and Spirits are not tormented souls of past being. They themselves are life forms which inhabit the 31 planes of existence. When one dies and is reborn as a Ghost or Spirit this is like any other rebirth. This is a new existence. It is not the same being in the previous birth or nor a different being, but the continuation of the causality process. 

1. What are the ten courses of action & their significance? They are unwholesome and wholesome behaviors that lead people to live unhappily or happily now & in the future. Unwholesome Course Bodily Conduct 1. Killing & harming living beings. 2. Taking what is not given. 3. Sexual misconduct. Verbal Conduct 4. Lying. 5. Slandering. 6. Harsh talk. 7. Useless Idle chattering. Mental Conduct 8. Covetous thinking. 9. Hateful thinking. 10. Seeing distortedly with wrong view. Wholesome Course Bodily Conduct 1. Abandoning killing & harming living beings. 2. Abandoning taking what is not given. 3. Abandoning sexual misconduct. Verbal Conduct 4. Abandoning lying. 5. Abandoning slandering. 6. Abandoning harsh talk. 7. Abandoning useless idle chattering. Mental Conduct 8. Abandoning covetous thinking. 9. Abandoning hateful thinking. 10. Seeing undistortedly with right view. (You can find details about them in the references provided below.) 2. What are their references? You can find them in many discourses throughout the Pāḷi Canon, specially in the 10th book of the Numerical Discourses (Aṅguttara Nikāya). Two examples are: AN 10.176, Cunda (Cunda-suttaṃ) & MN 41, Brahmans of Sala (Sāleyyaka-suttaṃ). 

How much of this warmth, sympathy and understanding is taught in medical school? Very little. It's all science - diagnosis and treatment of symptoms. Symptoms that present themselves in a biological machine not in a human being. Without the balance of a basic compassionate view, failure to cure every patient, will eventually take its emotional toll on the doctor. From a basic view of compassion there is no failure only a desire to help, to support and care for. In ayurvedic medicine, doctors ask the following four questions upon seeing their patients: 1) Is there a disease? If so, what is it? 2) What is the cause of the disease? 3) Is there a cure for the disease? 4) If there is a cure, what is the treatment? Sounds like the Four Noble Truths right? Buddha must have been exposed to Ayurveda in India and re-framed these questions to diagnose the human condition. Buddha could have kept quiet about his great liberation under the Bodhi tree and just live out the rest of his life in bliss and happiness ... but he chose to teach and share with others out of COMPASSION. So I think my answer is clear ;) 

Where can I read original Jātaka tales online? At Sacred Texts there are 6 translated volumes that contain all of them. 

Is this common sight to see a refrigerator in a monk's room in Theravada monastery? The few times I've been in a monk's private room, I never saw one. But in the same housing (under the same roof), it's common. 

Notice that, in the second watch, sleep (niddā) is not mentioned. It mentions only lying down on the right side in the lion's posture (dakkhiṇena passena sīhaseyyaṃ kappeti). This could be an indication of not sleeping at all and continuing to practice mindfulness while, at the same time, resting the body. On the other hand, the absence of the line "he cleanses his mind of any qualities that would hold the mind in check", which is included in the first and last watch, may indicate a less active practice or even sleeping. I'm sure there are more references regarding this theme but I don't recall any additional ones at the moment. 

I totally agree with you! I recently watched Alive Inside, a brilliant documentary about the plight of the elderly in America who are struggling with dementia and other related diseases. The documentary clearly illustrates that the root cause of the problem is not that the care givers and doctors are inhuman but that the system in which they find themselves, conditions them to think of the elderly under their care as 'patients' not human beings. Until they are 'cured' we must hide them away in institutions. Science is great at solving problems but, in the medical profession, it has been taken too far and patients are seen as puzzles to solve, dials to turn and control rather than as HUMAN BEINGS. So what's missing is COMPASSION. The modern Hypocratic Oath states: 

Momentary concentration is cultivated specifically for vipassana practice but can result in Jhana as well. Daniel Ingram: 

The origin of 108 in the ancient buddhist scriptures seems to be from the total number of feelings classified in different ways by the Buddha: 

(Disclaimer: Bear in mind this is just a way of seeing things, I have no interest in discussion since it belongs in the chat & this question is very much opinion based. Anyone can argue in which ever way they want and still be supported by references and\or experience.) Does it have to be one or another? Can't it be both? To me it seems a bit of both and I would also add psychology. 

I have heard on various occasions that the Buddha slept very little. I was also looking for some specific reference in the literature that can attest to this. One of the most common references in the early texts is the wakefulness (jāgariya) pericope: