Your airmen will need to wear oxygen tanks during battle, pressure suits and very warm clothes or die instantly from asphyxiation. Obviously you can't maintain a 10 km unpressurized altitude for too long with a human crew, (and steampunk has no radars, right?) so sneaking up on a low-hanging (mere 2000m) ship through stormclouds or from sunblind spots will be a favored tactic. The ceiling on propeller craft seems to be around 17 km. Perhaps the first combatant to successfully pressurize their superheavy ships and develop jet or rocket engines could manage horizontal movement at altitudes of 20 km and wreak havoc on the fools below. See: The American Steel Industry, 1850-1970: A Geographical Interpretation, by Kenneth Warren 

Dulaku was reborn, it seemed, ever so slowly, even as the wave of nanogoo consumed him before pain signals even had time to process alongside his extremities. Or did he die? Reinstantiation in the computronium substrate was rather confusing, at first. The perceptual frame switched from bifocal perspective into various stages: first, an isometric disembodied construct view, then gradually, as new layers of perceptual machinery were added to his consciousness it crystalized into a million-perspective four-dimensional approximation. Movement was also different, and rewiring took a seemingly impossibly long time. It felt weird to have disconnected parts, at first, but they were all soon embraced into a perceptual unity as the previous homunculus bio-representation was replaced by the Swarm. Miliseconds passed. He willed the Swarm into the nearby buildings, with those waterbag sculptures in the shape of, -- uh, what was it, people? -- littering the hallways, as if frozen. Is this pain? His larger unit-constructs seemed to be suffering attrition from automated fire. There were so many things to look at, and he had trouble focusing for a while, but as new parallel primary attention processors were cloned, then copied across the network, he felt a momentary sense of loss and desyncronization, then finally the ultimate perception layer build emerged, a metacognition framework that again unified the parallel streams, and He was now in many places at once. He directed His medium-sized units to overwhelm and silence the machine resistance, and it was done. Time to grow --- 

We are on the verge of the age of self-driving cars. This is a fact, with Google, Uber and other companies rushing to develop safe, self-driving road vehicles. What is less clear to me is the social impact of it. To keep the question short and sweet, think of the vast world of American Suburbia, where possibly a majority of Americans are currently brought up, with parents often reduced to the role of being their kids drivers for various afterschool activities and even play-dates. Or conversely, the kids as prisoners of their parent's willingess to drive them anywhere. Now in a few short years, our roads will be awash in self-driving cars. How does this change US society in respect to children? Do parents let teens and tweens self-drive away, unleashing a new era of freedom for parents and teens alike? Or do they keep an even tighter leash on them, by constantly monitoring all their comings and goings, 'helicoptering' in at the most embarrassing times? Something else altogether? 

Ok, so we now have non-magical kings and merchant princes firmly in control. What if they do want to make use of magic, for important state business (c), like, for instance, temporarily lifting an island off the sea-floor for their daughter's 10th birthday. It would take a team of dozens of mages months to plan out the cast, work everything out theoretically as much as possible, minimize the aural cost of each component, weeks to create a secure casting framework of supporting guide-spells, and then perhaps a single mage-architect with a dozen support-mages would actually use this combined effort to direct a Weave of the aural flow into this hypercomplex casting framework and get a floating island with purple roses and gold-brick roads. Or perhaps you can have depletable auras, but persistent imbued magical items. I think it's a very fun setting, if done carefully. 

Mmm, a substance both lighter and 5x stronger than steel? Military applications seem obvious, no? It'll work great .. that is ... until the enemy realizes spider silk is.. um.. flammable. Then, I'm guessing you'd have lots of cobwebs everywhere? Perhaps you can bog the enemy down in silkwebs and light them up? 

IF the Islands move in a regular orbital pattern (ellipses), you need just a few parameters to know where they are at any point in time (orbital distance from the imaginary center of the sphere, measured in mega-Yoshis plus 3 for their stated positions at the start of the Epoch, $T_0$ and from the center plus 3 corresponding velocities for their movement during the next $\Delta t$ interval. Depending on the shapes of the orbits, you may need also need Eccentricity ($e$), and the Semimajor axis $a$, but we'll assume clean circular orbits for simplicity. 

One of Alice's interstellar jaunts will take her to a Gold Planet. It's a planet that was recently covered in a meter deep layer of gold dust (for realism, it is mixed with silver, platinum, teensy bits or uranium and the like) I've been thinking about how to do this -- since planets don't naturally tend to refine gold and deposit it as nice uniform layers. My latest idea involves using a Kilonova, or double neutron star collision. This should generate an expanding cloud of gold and other Lanthanides (a few thousand Earth masses), hopefully enough to plate a nearby word. I am slightly worried however of what having a kilonova going off within gold dusting distance might reasonably be expected to do to a planet(ary system). Would it make sense to expect a kilonova gold dusting to lay a 1 meter layer of gold dust on a planet, or would the side-effects (have been)/be a bit too dramatic? 

Immobile defensive platforms. (100m-10km size) Designed to protect the core operating areas of the AI-minds, strategic points, main power-plants and other vital resources, these vast, building- or even city-sized platforms would be defended by vast batteries of kinetic interceptors, megawatt lasers and smaller, mobile platforms. Tank-sized vehicles and helicopter-sized drones. (~10 m size) These are large, heavy vehicles, with extensive mobile firepower, field repair and power generation capabilities, which can be employed to break through heavy fortifications, or for indirect support as a repair & resupply hub for smaller tactical units. They still require some infrastructure for sustained mobility, i.e. roads, resupply stations, larger repair facilities). Androids and light drones (~1m size). These would be the typical hunter seekers and ground droids you would see in the movies. Designed for fast tactical response, these bipedal and quadrupedal machines would have easy access to the ruins of the human cities, where the rubble and hiding tunnels would make it difficult for larger machines to penetrate. With at least human-level AI operating locally, they could be EMP-proofed and likely carry enough energy on board to outgun most human fire-teams and operate for extensive periods of time. This would require advances on the energy-density front that are beyond our current human civilization, but probably trivial for an advanced AI. Ultra-light drones. (~10 cm) Rat and Squirrel sized, these would be the primary scouts of the robot army, and capable of neutralizing small, weakly protected human fire-teams and noncombat personnel. Unlikely to be EMP-proofed given the weight and mobility requirements. Hyper-light drones. (~1 cm) Bee and mosquito sized, with minimal electronics (some might even be bio-hacked biological exemplars carrying deadly vectors), these could be employed in large numbers to infiltrate and assassinate unwary and badly protected human fire-groups or large non-combat personnel groups. Low weight and low autonomy means that a higher-level carrier platform must be nearby. Nano-devices and viruses. Taking the fight against humanity to the extreme, these devices could be infiltrated into the bloodstream of humans staffing control centers and other decision nodes in advance of a first strike. With high-level enough technologies, they could even be deployed broadly and either annihilate 99% of the human population in a first strike or even alter the brain-patterns of its human host to take over control of the biological forms altogether.