The answer seems to be in some cases that taking a break can help. Various studies have shown increases in productivity and focus after doing something that requires very little concentration after spending a lot of time on a a task that required a lot of concentration. Other studies have shown that taking a break can have little effect while other studies show differences in results based on what you do during the break. A study done at the University of Illinois showed that breaks were effective. From Brief and rare mental ‘‘breaks’’ keep you focused: Deactivation and reactivation of task goals preempt vigilance decrements: 

Maybe There are no firm statistics for the amount of guns in the US at any one time. Estimates are based on surveys to gun owners, estimates of illegal guns and guns imported into and manufactured in the USA. The issue also gets blurred if you choose to consider military bases or overseas territories as part of the USA and how broadly you want to define gun. For example, are self-made guns to be included? According to the US Census, the population of the USA is about 311 million people. Most reliable or semi-reliable estimates I can find for the amount of firearms in the US seem to put the number at between 200 and 300 million. According to this Reuters report which quotes from a 2007 survey(I will link to it when I find it), U.S. citizens own 270 million firearms which would be less than the total population of the US. According to data from the General Social Survey collected in 2004, there were approximately 44 million firearm owners with Americans owning 192 million firearms.[1] A National Survey on Private Ownership and Use of Firearms from 1994 also put the amount of of firearms privately owned by Americans at 192 million.[2] According to statistics from the NRA, it is estimated the total number of firearms owned by Americans in 2010 is about 300 million.[3] It is not clear to me how these estimates are calculated, if they included seized guns or account for smuggled or self-made guns. While it does not seem unreasonable to me that the number of guns in the USA could surpass the number of people living there, at the moment, the figures we have would indicate that this is not the case. These figures are restricted to the census population and privately owned firearms. If we consider: 

No. A probiotic food, as defined by the dictionaries (1) (2) (3) must contain benefical live bacteria (regarding the human organism). Scientific literature calls those bacteria probiotic (4). Tequila does not contain these benefical live bacteria, as its alcohol concentration would at least atenuate them if not outright kill (lactobacilli are more fragile than pathogenic bacteria) them. Also they are not part of the production process; tequila is fermented with yeast, not bacteria and if these bacteria would be later added, would have to follow FDA regulations and be declared. Not to be mistaken for prebiotic that identifies foods that enhance the presence of benefical gut bacteria, but does not contain them in a live and active state. 

The cost of feeding a child supposedly is "a little over $1 a day" (USD$ or CAD$ ??) don't trust data that came from a 5 min google search 

Is the sum of gross revenue of all the candy crush over all mobile platforms enough to feed a million children in africa? 

Youtube channel veritasium, on a video called "The real moral dilemma of self-driving cars" (ref) claims that if all cars in 2017 were self-driving, hundreds of lives could be saved. So he is claming that the self-driving technology of 2017 would be less lethal (regarding number of deaths in car accidents versus miles driven) than human drivers. That a self-driving car has a higher mileage per death than human driven cars. Is it so? 

So, there is evidence that re-heating cooking oils can have a negative health impact. It is unclear to what extent the impact would be on humans at this stage. Given that the study experiments continuously heated the oil for an extended period, re-using cooking oil once or twice is probably OK. 

This is hard to answer due to the lack of readily available mail statistics. What I did find was several pages talking about the volume of mail for Santa and some pages talking about the volume of mail addressed to god. Canada Post receives millions of letters to Santa each year. Letters to God and the easter bunny are also mentioned but do not seem to be as common. Letters to god are forwarded on to the Western Wall in Jerusalem, although sometimes only if sufficient postage was paid. This article from the Guardian states that each year more than 1000 letters to God are received, while this article from The Hindu states that in 2008 around 2000 letters to God were received. It is important to note that many post offices have programs for dealing with letters addressed to Santa such as the Letters to Santa program in the US. I can't find any official statistics so it's hard to say for sure, however given what we do know: 

So the 1.7% is valid if you agree with Fausto-Sterling et alia definition of intersex, that is contested as too broad by other authors. 

Note that it only states anatomical differences, while the studies above include other categories. Other source dispute the broadness of the definitions used by those articles [3] - from their abstract (ellipsis mine, follow previous link for the full text): 

But I could not find any reliable data on CC daily earnings. It could be over a million dollars, so the claim has some basis. So, skeptics: 

That seems an awfully high rate. BBC does not cite any sources. Is this 1.7% figure reliable? (note: the article is about Kenya, but I am interested only in the worldwide figure. 

Discussing the mobile app in-app-purchase model, candy crush came up, and someone said the gross revenue of that app family alone could keep over one million children fed in africa. Some googling around I found some references: 

[1] - Blackless, Melanie, Anthony Charuvastra, Amanda Derryck, Anne Fausto-Sterling, Karl Lauzanne, and Ellen Lee. 2000. How sexually dimorphic are we? [2] - Am. J. Hum. Biol. 12:151–166, 2000. © 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc. Review and synthesis. American Journal of Human Biology 12:151-166. [3] - Sax, Leonard: How common is lntersex? A response to Anne Fausto‐Sterling, The Journal of Sex Research Vol. 39 , Iss. 3, 2002 (paywalled) 

This belief seemed to spread in April 2011 via twitter. Due to Ryanair's reputation as being overly greedy at the cost of the consumer, I think many people have simply assumed that this claim was true. It does not appear that it has been looked into too conclusively, but the investigations that have been done indicate that the claim is not true. Popular travel blog tnooz investigated this, which has an unsourced quote from a Ryanair official denouncing the claim as untrue. tnooz refers to a company called Invisible Hand which make a browser addon of the same name which helps to find the lowest flights on airline websites. Invisble Hand tested this claim by running 52 flight searches in Firefox and Chrome over 2 days, with cookies being consistently cleaned from Chrome but not from Firefox. The conclusion they reached was: 

There is strong evidence to indicate that in some (many?) cases, the cause can be developmental, i.e. a result of various effects while in the womb. To quote from Wikipedia to summarize the theory: 

In this clip from The Daily Show show, John Stewart puts forward the argument that Ron Paul is being ignored by the media, showcasing some convincing clips to that effect. Are the clips referenced in The Daily Show an accurate representation of Ron Paul's media coverage?