A classic interview question for salesmen (which is essentially what marketing is): Here, try to sell me this gives random item from desk. The idea is that a good salesman is able to sell everything from the mundane to the special. I don't really see a difference between "sell me this random item" and "how would you sell our product?" as an interview question. As others say, though, don't abuse this: only ask for a high-level overview, with some in-detail questions to ensure they understand the market. You don't want to end up in a lawsuit because you scammed someone in working for free. 

I didn't get any comments on it, although I did sometimes wonder myself how appropriate it was, with the Communist revolution reference, the skull and the general Gothic-lite appearance. I wasn't asked to stop using it, and after a few months, I switched to another image as part of the brand redesign of our company. What makes an image safe for work (aside from the obvious "no nudity or gore")? and is a SFW image also a suitable desktop background? 

I recently redesigned my resume to make it easier to read and edit, by removing nested tables, moving certain areas, and combining others. Part of what I did was replace some of my personal information with a scan of my e-ID. They look like this: 

Suppose 2 people call each other for professional matters and the phone call ends unexpectedly without either of the participants ending the call (be it deliberately or accidentally). Who should call the other party to resume the phone call? Neither party isn't really an option, but if both parties call each other at the same time, you get a conflict and neither party gets through. I'm interested in 3 scenarios, since they might be different: 

In case you want a high-tech solution: place motion sensors in all rooms. Configure them so that if there is no motion for 15 minutes (to allow people to go to the bathroom when working late) in the entire building, the alarm gets enabled. Actually, motion sensors might be somewhat tricky: people easily set at their desks for 15 minutes without moving long. An alternative might be to check whether all computers are turned off (not including the servers, obviously). You can even do this with the above suggested lights solution by Nit. In any case, if humans are unreliable, machines are your next best bet. 

Other people have already dealt with the grief related aspects of a deceased employee. I want to talk about the business related aspects. 

Many people here are recommending consumable items: chocolate, baked goods, flower baskets,... However, people often have dietary restrictions, either biological or self-imposed. You need to be certain that the person you're gifting to does not have such restrictions before you give them your gift. Even flowers could be risky, considering hay fever and pollen allergies. If you do not know whether they have such restriction, or don't want to tip them off while asking for these, an alternative is to give them something leisure-related. Many bosses mention their hobbies or personal life during less formal moments, like during lunch breaks, smoke breaks or just randomly during work hours. If they mention something specific, like a certain hobby or sport they do, you could gift them something related to that. A boss that likes to golf (clichéd, I know) might enjoy receiving a set of personalized golf balls, while a boss that likes to play video games might enjoy a gift card for their preferred platform. On gift cards: Many people consider these impersonal and not really suited as a gift. however, they have 3 main advantages: 

Another reason why a short reply doesn't necessarily mean lack of interest is that people are more and more likely to answer emails using their phones these days. And as anyone who has used a phone to answer an email can tell you, a phone keyboard does not really suit itself for extensive replies with punctuation and many line breaks. On most phones, you actually need to use a different section of the onscreen keyboard to type any punctuation beyond a period. Anecdotally, my boss at my previous employment frequently answered emails from his phone. His replies were like yours: short and no punctuation. He did however have an email signature that read "Sorry for the short answer, am on my phone." I can tell you that if I'm using a 4" phone display, with a keyboard that takes about 2" of that screen and an email client header that uses another 1", I'm going to type the shortest email I can get away with. And yes, sometimes that's just 5 words with no punctuation. If I need to type any real long answers, I'm just going to reply something like 

Talk to your administrator. Tell her what you explained to us, that the music helps you focus and that you perform much better with the music. Work out a solution with her that will make you both happy. As Melburslan said, it's possible that this is for insurance reasons to avoid you getting injured on the job because you missed an important sound. It might just be the headphones she's having issues with, not the music. 

One important matter is to make sure your resume does not contain nested tables, for two reasons. The first is that nested tables make it harder for automated software to process the relevant data. The other is that nested tables are hard to get right, and even harder to edit, especially on mobile devices and online platforms, to the point that they often do not display properly. Another important caveat is, when you give someone your resume digitally, send it as PDF. PDF looks exactly the same on all computers, whether they're using OSX, Windows, a *nix product, iOS, Android,... It's basically a printed version of your resume, so you won't have any surprised like the user not having your special font or your tab stops being mangled. 

In my previous job (lasted about 19 months), I struggled with the lack of project management and testing, to the point that my performance and code quality suffered immensely. In my current job (4 months in, still getting trained), we have both Agile development and a better testing and development structure , leading to me working faster, being more efficient and producing higher quality code. However, because of the poor performance in my previous job, I have a less optimistic impression of my code quality in my current job. My code works, is done on schedule and has far less bugs and testing issues. However, whenever I or one of my coworkers find a bug during peer review, it makes me feel like my code quality and performance haven't improved much. This affects my mood, even though I objectively know that my performance has improved compared to my previous job. In turn, this mildly and temporarily affects my motivation to work. I've already discussed this with my coaches at work and the special needs job center that helped me find this job. my coach at work didn't really have any advice, and my special needs job coach told me she couldn't help me and suggested I go look for an autism coach. Is this normal? And will this effect go away on its own if I continue working, or should I look into outside help, as my job coach suggested?