I've never had this specific benefit, but my wife has. She's worked at the same company as long as I've known her, and the privilege seems to have been slightly modified every summer, but the general concept is that Fridays in the summer have modified hours. Some years have meant that every other Friday is a half-day. Other years meant that they can leave an hour or 2 early every Friday. And some years, the benefit was not offered. The only way to know what the specific benefit means is to ask. 

One other reason I have found is external recruiters want an editable version of your resume for several reasons. 

"Is this job with Company B, both in the short term and in the long term, worth ruining my reputation with Company A"*. Will I ever need Company A in the future for a job, or a client". 

But I don't mean that in the way I think you will interpret. From the contents of your question, it sounds like you want to use an "anonymous" survey as a soap box to rant against the company. Regardless of the anonymity of the survey, you have to wonder how seriously they will take a survey if it is nothing but a list of complaints. I've taken many similar surveys in my time and I've always tried to offer constructive criticism because no place is perfect. At the same time, I always counter negative (but constructive) feedback with something positive. My belief is that negative feedback will be more easily accepted if it is balanced. Someone who just responds negatively to everything may be seen as a disgruntled employee or an unhappy person that is never satisfied. As I mentioned (and want to reinforce), make any negative feedback constructive. Don't say "You guys suck, I hate all of you because you make me work 160 hours a week and only pay me $10/hr". Instead focus on how to frame the feedback in a constructive manner. "In similar positions in my locale, the pay rate is $x but my rate is far below that" and "the quality of my work suffers because I am expected to work more than y hours per week". Explain how it is better for the company not to work the employees so hard for below average pay, not that the company is the worst place in the world to work. 

I am in the process of designing my first batch of business cards and considering putting the phonetic spelling of my surname beside it, in a faded font. My surname is foreign (much like me). What I want to accomplish by doing so is giving new acquaintances the confidence to pronounce my name without worrying about getting it wrong. It's also a novel thing to do and I believe it could enhance first impressions by showing me to be thoughtful. Yet there are several problems I can see after thinking about it for a bit: 

Again, the line between professional and personal has been crossed. The professional thing to do at this point is let your boss know about it, so he may better manage his resources. He might even allocate you to a lower-priority task to give you some breathing space. 

You won't be asked to set up anything. The coding environment will have been set up for you. If they're feeling fancy they might even put it in a VM so they can re-use it for other applicants as well. Have a look at this article by Jeff Atwood, which talks about and cites experiences of other prominent bloggers on this subject. A choice quote (Dan Kegel): 

This depends greatly on the hiring processes of the company involved. In cases where your application is emailed to HR or hiring manager or internal recruiter, then CC'ing your contact would be the best decision. This allows him/her to see your complete application (resume/cover letter) and provide specific details to the hiring manager about your application. However, in many larger companies the process won't involve much email initially. When you apply, it is usually via an online form of some kind. When this happens, it usually won't be possible to CC'd your contact at all. In those cases, it is best to apply, and then directly email or call your contact and provide the details of your submission (such as an application number or job posting number or some other name/number to identify the specific opening and applicant). Your contact would then be able to contact HR and the hiring manager to provide his/her feedback to your application. I've done both methods in the past depending on the size of the company, and at my current (Fortune 100) company, I can confirm the 2nd suggestion is the only way to get an internal contact to provide a recommendations unless the specifically referred you to the position (which is a 3rd option if the company provides the option for employees to refer external candidates). 

You have to enter the system first to change it. If your way is not accepted, or even fairly evaluated, then that's the way it's gonna be. In time you'll establish your authority, stop being the new guy, and have your opinion heard more. Your manager said you need the buy-in of other developers, which means you have to be accepted by the pack. It it what it is. Now for some practical advice: Do they not like your variable names? Big deal, change them. Yes it's petty, but it keeps them off your back, and you don't have much political capital at the moment. Or if you want to mess with them, put in a ducky. The one I'd be worried about is the scope creep. Do the other devs have the authority to expand the scope? In any case, every time this happens inform your manager by email (make sure to include links or IDs or whatever your CR system uses). The point here is to get a paper trail which explains your delays. 

It sounds like you wanna get close to her, but you also want to do so from a position of strength. It doesn't look like a true friendship to me. Some of my best friends disagree with me completely on a number of issues, and I respect them for holding and debating their opinion; but of course your colleague (or you) may not see things this way. I'd advise you to steer well clear of politics and focus on the job. Your mistake wasn't siding with the other guy at that debate they were having, it was expressing an opinion at all. Their mistake was debating politics in the office in the first place. If people try to strike up conversation on that topic, say , and stick to it. Make her respect you as a professional first and as a friend second. You have no control over this whatsoever. You can only act once that behaviour has been established. You're scared she might be giving you the silent treatment and have you ostracized from the group, but you have no evidence for that either. Just make sure you don't preempt the passive-aggressive treatment (it's easy to get caught up emotionally). Even if the others have moved on to another messaging group, keep using the original for work-related stuff if that's what you were using it for in the first place. Work is work, friends is friends. 

Given this, you must assume that if your immediate management hasn't specifically tasked you with something for Project Z, then they currently have higher priorities--priorities delegated by their management. It is not your job to go around them by having someone outside of your chain of command tell you what to do. More to the point, it IS your job NOT to go outside of your chain of command! If the CEO asks you to stop what you're doing and shift gears, you do it. It it's some random person/manager, you don't. Period! 

I don't agree with either of the answers currently posted. You could have handled this better (and still can) but first: 

If Chloe knows what she's doing then she kicks it back up to her boss and so on until you either get assigned to Project Z or you stay with what you're on. Either way you can rest assured you're working on what your company really wants you to be working on. As this conversation (and ensuing fires) progress (and they will!), don't say no to anything. That's important for your own political safety, but don't say yes either (say, "I'll be happy to as soon as I'm tasked with that"). Don't admit you agreed to anything yesterday if it wasn't something you were authorized to agree to. Move forward on this premise and you'll both be fine and won't be surprised again. And because it's totally relevant here, I will leave you with a quote from The Tao of Programming: 

Why is that? Weren't they looking at their website? The people supposed to look after it? I don't think that would be the case, but, from a game-theoretic perspective, not mentioning it at all is your safest bet. 

Are you noticing a pattern here? I am. You haven't given a timeframe of your actions so we don't know how long you spend at each job. Be aware that by changing jobs often, you come dangerously close to being perceived as a job hopper. You can find plenty of articles online with the pros and cons of that practice. Anyway, the pattern is that when your job becomes difficult, you quit. To answer the title question, no, you shouldn't tell your manager that you hate your job. You are infuriated by working with sub-literate fresh-out-of-college devs, imagine your manager having to manage someone who actively hates their job. What you should do is have a chat with your manager. It's part of their job to make yours easier but they can't do that if they don't know there's a problem. Let them know of the issues you face, and if that doesn't go well, then you should start thinking about looking for greener pastures. 

It is very unusual in my experience for a company (at least not a small company) to begin the on-boarding procedures and schedule a start date without a signed offer letter. While this wouldn't be a contract, it is your official signal to them that you are committed to joining their organization and accepted the terms of their offer. But it wouldn't be out of the question they they took your verbal acceptance at that signal of commitment. The fact that they gave you a start date and started a background check indicates to me that they think you have accepted, even if you don't think you accepted anything. On the company's side, this likely means that they have informed the other potential candidates that they have filled the position, and the manager has begun whatever processes are needed to get your started (ordering equipment, getting accounts set up, etc). Since there appears to be no real legally enforceable contract based on your description, you aren't committed to anything. You can walk away without fear of legal repercussions. However, you will likely burn your bridges with company A and it would be a surprise if they ever considered you for another position in the future. Depending on the industry and what the competition is like, you would be surprised who you run into in the future, and who will remember your name. You may even encounter Company A as a client, or someone from Company A in a management role of another company you wish to work with. So the decision should come down to two questions... 

His case must show that the sacrifice is worth it, but, unfortunately, he doesn't have to make his case to you. In any event if that document exists you may want to read it, maybe you'll become a convert yourself. You could ask that the proposed changes are introduced slowly so that the team gets a chance to catch up with the changes. You also want to prioritise items in terms of how easy they are to replace, ie. start with changing source control and leave Java for the end. If everything gets dumped in your lap from week 1, there's gonna be a sharp peak in mistakes and frustration. No matter what happens in the end, this is the situation you should be actively working against. 

When a coworker happens to make a joke in a similar vein I usually look at them, or elsewhere, until they stop chuckling and realize they're being stupid. My body language basically tells them "that wasn't funny". I think women are much better at it (the stare). It probably won't work on a group though. If these messages are exchanged via IM, you could point out that this is easy to get misinterpreted if someone sensitive became aware of it. You know what I mean, all that PC stuff that everyone keeps going on about. Do you really want a record of yourself saying this stuff? Same thing with the jokes made verbally : Imagine if someone walks by and overhears you. People are sensitive these days. I know you're joking, but every time you do you're taking a risk. What I'm doing here is pointing out the penalties to the co-workers without making myself involved, or presenting me (well, you) as the offended party. 

I find a greeting line of some sort very important in exactly 4 scenerios in emails. I almost never use them otherwise 

To echo, some of the other answers, the further back you go, the less someone cares, so it may be perfectly acceptable to estimate to the best of your knowledge (but this could depend on the individual company and may not be acceptable to all). True story from my own experience... I applied to a company I had interned with 13 years prior (a Fortune 500 company with very strict hiring processes), and I actually had the wrong dates for the internship on my resume. I had the months correct, but I was off by an entire year. I repeated that error in my background check as well. And no one even questioned it or asked, and I was hired without issue. In fact, I didn't even realize the mistake until I applied for an internal position 2 years later when the internal application pre-populates your internal positions. So you should try to be as accurate as you can, but when you get past the last 10 years, it becomes less important to be 100% correct. They hiring manager is more concerned with your experience. 

Reddit is a mix of everything. The reaction you'll get will also be a mix of everything. A personal blog is a well-quantified medium, which has its set tone (personal, professional) and its target mood and audience. Copy the article to your personal blog, and in there, link to the original Reddit post. 

There's no damage to be done; companies make offers all the time, some of them get declined. No bridges will be harmed in the process (if not, you don't wanna be working there anyway). 

Caveat: Conversing on daily trivia is part of the human experience. Failure to participate or reciprocate in a (culturally-dependant) reasonable degree may lead to your being branded as grumpy, weirdo, or indeed antisocial. 

That would be a bad move because in essence you're telling them you don't know how much you're worth. You might as well hold your pinky to your mouth and ask for one million dollars. X negotiated its own bed and slept in it as far as compensation goes. Whatever they used to pay them is likely significantly higher than what they would pay a single employee, who has none the benefits of a dedicated contracting company. Would you give that salary to someone? No, it's best to treat this as any other job. Figure out your acceptable range and make your offer in good faith. The fact that you already know the product and the client should give you a small boost. You should use that to your advantage, and that's as far as using the previous relationship should go. 

Realize your management team has priorities. Assuming your company halfway knows what it's doing, the topmost management tiers delegate responsibility down. Your direct managers should know more than you about what is going on. If they don't, start looking for a new job, but let's assume for the sake of argument that they do. 

You handled this poorly. Clearly you haven't faced this situation so don't worry about it too much, but do learn from this and don't make the same mistake again. Here is what you should have done: Reply with complete confidence that Project Z is not currently in your wheelhouse. 

All of these things are critical skills if you're going to survive in the workplace and not get deluged by a ton of requests for work outside your immediate tasks. As soon as that starts happening you'll never get anything done and you'll be fighting fires forever. Regarding the answer above that suggests "What you need to do now is deliver", NO NO NO NO, and NO! Doing that circumvents your chain of command. Do not work for even one minute on a project outside of your group unless your manager has asked you to do it. Doing so undermines your manager and your team. Trust me, you do NOT make yourself look good by doing this, instead you make yourself and your team look like chumps that can be taken advantage of! Moving forward, what you need to do is act like your team and your current projects are so valuable to the company you can't possibly be interrupted. If someone outside your team even tomorrow asks you how your work on Project Z is going just deflect entirely: