In other words: eat a lot, follow a good routine where you lift heavy weights with good form, take rest days, get good sleep, and keep at it. 

Officially, all accessory workouts have been removed from the StrongLifts program because people were getting too strung up over them. Accessory workouts are supplemental--they should only serve to assist with your individual goals. However, people were falling into the "more is better" trap and adding all of the accessory workouts into their routine (to their own detriment). 

Set a target goal of push ups to do (mine was 120). Calculate how long it takes you to do a typical push up (I used 1.2 seconds). Calculate how much time you get for rest. This is (mine was 240 - 1.2 * 120 = 96 seconds to rest). Determine how you want to structure your breaks (short and frequent, long and infrequent)*. I decided to split the challenge as follows: 

Whenever I see instructional videos on standard deadlifts, the lifter is using either mixed grip or overhand grip; however they never go on to differentiate why they are using that particular grip or the pros/cons that come with each. What is the primary difference in mixed grip vs overhand? Are there pros/cons to each grip? Is one particularly better than the other? 

I would place practice as the most important part of the regimen and certainly requiring the most time and effort. That said, strength and power are very important as they create the foundation upon which your moves rely upon. 

Personally, I think the "full body" approach is better for people new to strength training. There is a very good article on the Nerd Fitness website that talks about building your own full body routine. An important excerpt from the article is: 

Given all of this, we need to determine an appropriate weight/frequency increase on an individual exercise basis. My recommended approach would be as follows: 

Why not do both? You can go to a specialized store to try on various trousers and see which ones feel best, then you check them online to see if they're sold at a discount. Also, many online shopping sites (for instance, Zappos) have incredible return/exchange policies, so don't let the fear of choosing the wrong trouser be a barrier to ecommerce. 

Your trainer is correct. When training for muscular endurance you want to be in the 12-20 rep range, so 15 is a perfectly reasonable rep count. In contrast, 1-3 reps trains for strength, 3-5 trains better for power, and 6-10 trains better for mass. See below image for a reference chart on where you should focus your reps / weight depending on your desired result (endurance, strength, power, mass, etc.). Knowing your ORM (one-rep max) is important because it allows you to set appropriate goals for different rep ranges. Since we don't know your ORM, we can only guess based off your doing 10 reps of 35kg comfortably; using the chart below, the 10 rep range should be approximately 70% ORM, so that puts you at a 35/0.7 = 50kg ORM. Using 50kg ORM, we can determine that an appropriate weight for endurance at your current level would be approximately 40-60% ORM, which in your case will be 20-30kg. 

I am 25 year old male, 67cm in height, 74kg in weight, and have approximately 8% body fat. The 8% figure comes from a 9-point caliper test, while the less accurate 4-point caliper test measures me at 9% and the much less accurate navy body fat test has me at 13%. Ideally I will be getting a hydrostatic pool test soon, but for now I feel 8% is accurate enough. I wish to still lose some body fat, as I am so very close to my ideal physique, but I feel that I am almost encroaching on my essential body fats. As you can probably guess, the majority of my pinch sites were about as lean as can be, but the abdominals still have a ways to go. Since I am not a bodybuilder/competitor, I have no reason or desire to ride the line of bare-minimum bf%, but instead would prefer to have a reserve padding on top of my essential fats. Given this, about where should I be maintaining my BF% levels? 

I've seen this a lot in my friends who've gone periods of being vegetarians, and also experienced this first hand as someone who's been a vegetarian for a full year before going back to being an omnivore. The stomach distress you're feeling is quite normal, and may be just as much psychological as it is physiological. While the psychological response depends largely on what your mindset is towards meat and why you chose to reject it for four weeks, it can be just as tangible as the physiological response. From the psychological perspective, being a vegetarian trains you to dislike meat (YMMV), and when you start eating meat again you will have to overcome that mental roadblock that meat === bad. Even having a placebo that you believe to be meat can result in your body rejecting it with stomach aches or even vomiting. Even the taste or texture of meat can be enough to trigger a psychological response. From the physiological perspective, being a vegetarian for a prolonged period of time will result in your body not being accustomed to the process of digesting meats. It's not like you lost the ability to digest meats, you just have to give your body time to re-acclimate to the whole process. I'm not quite sure how long of a period it takes for someone's body to "forget" how to digest meat, but I've seen it happen to people in as few as two to three weeks of being vegetarian. My suggestion is to gradually re-introduce quality meats back into your diet so your body has time to re-adjust to that whole animal fat digesting thing. What do I mean by quality? Well, anything that is not fast-food, since most fast-food burgers can barely qualify as meat in the first. Stomach distress is normal for people in your situation, and as long as you don't overdo it (save the hot-dog eating competition for later, okay?), you should be fine. 

The other answers from Dave and Eric cover the various physiological reasons for resets, being overtraining, rest, etc. I won't go into that. Instead, I'll address the often overlooked psychological factor. Every time you plateau, you fail. You are failing to get to that next weight and bypass the roadblock. Sometimes this is just a speed bump, and next week you get back on track and eek out more progress. But when you have failure, after failure, after failure, after failure, then mentally you start taking as much of a beating as your muscles. After enough failures, you start expecting to fail instead of expecting success. This is called psyching yourself out. The best way to avoid mentally handicapping your progress is by taking those resets as Rippetoe prescribes. Resets allow you to put some distance between your roadblock, build up momentum by getting some small "wins" under your belt, and the next time you get to that roadblock you will hopefully have enough speed to break on through to the other side. 

Let's expand upon these points so you can see exactly what I mean. Point #1 shows us that weight loss happens when consumption is less than usage. There are three possible ways we can make that statement true: we can lower consumption (dieting), we can increase usage (exercising), or we can do both. Doing both is usually the recommended path because it is a lot easier to maintain. You are currently doing both and that is a good thing. Point #2 raises a red flag and says that you need to be careful about how much you eat. Your body burns calories constantly; even when you are sleeping/stationary! The amount of calories your body needs every day just to stay running is known as your BMR (basal metabolic rate). If you consume too few calories and get too close to your BMR, then your body goes into a sort-of "crisis mode." When in crisis mode you body starts burning muscle for fuel and keeps your fat as reserves... this is the exact opposite of what you want! Too avoid this scenario, you need to make sure your final caloric intake is enough to support your body and not send it into crisis mode. Point #3 is actually somewhat misleading, because they aren't technically exclusive, but instead they are competing against opposite goals and as a result they detract from one another. Muscle gain requires a caloric excess to fuel growth, so your options become 1) over supply the body with calories for optimal gain but some fat gain, 2) guesstimate the target calories and maintain BF but not gain optimal muscle, 3) dont change anything, little muscle gain but some fat loss. The same applies in reverse, as when you do cardio under anything but the most perfect conditions you will be losing at least some muscle in addition to the body fat. TL;DR: you can do both at the same time, but will see sub-optimal results as opposed to just pursuing one. You'll want to remember that if you are working towards the two goals of losing weight and gaining muscle, that you'll not want to use body weight as your metric for tracking progress. Instead, you want to calculate your BF% (body fat %) because your muscle gains will directly increase your weight and make you feel like you aren't achieving your goals when you really may be!