Brushing aside the realism of the kingdom and its wall, let's go on to tactics. The real logistical problem is not so much the wall, but how to move troops and supplies in and out of the territory once the wall is neutralized. Without any gates, there's no way to effectively do this without tearing down the wall. So, as the Roman commander, my mission is to tear down that wall Mr. hankhoward. The simple way of doing it would be to scout a way to undermine sections of the wall, and create a nice, big gap in it. A wall that big needs a lot of support, so destroying it from the foundations seems easiest. Let's assume your engineers thought of that, and sunk the foundations deep into the bedrock, or used some other methods to prevent undermining. Using the mighty engineering knowledge that Rome was excellent at, my scouts would identify the weakest portions of the wall, and line up ever onager, ballista and trebuchet I could manage and hammer that wall for as long as it takes to make a hole. Doesn't matter how thick your wall is, eventually it will fail to that assault. I don't like the dirt ramp option, but it is an option. The reason I don't like it is that it still makes transport of munitions hard. If I have a nice, big, hole in the wall, I can move my equipment through easily, but if I have to move everything up a ramp and over it, it becomes more difficult. Not to mention that I want Roman citizens to eventually colonize and trade in this land. EDITS: A rule of cool option would be to set up a bunch of scorpions or other ballista-like siege engines and mount ropes to them. Run a bunch of legionnaires up to the walls, support them with archers to keep the enemy's heads down, and fire ropes over the walls. Legionaries climb up the ropes and take the wall. You could also do this with siege towers, ramps, or anything else, but the idea of firing ropes over the walls just seems cool (provided you could find a way to properly anchor them and keep them from getting cut). You could combine this with a distracting attack to keep the defenders concentrated in one area so your ropes don't get cut. I also would like to see the option mentioned in another answer where the romans divert a river into the wall to undermine it. The best part about that plan is that it is relatively low maintenance once started (it just takes a while). 

Many other responses are awesome, but this is the way I'm thinking about it: Something in-universe prevents the use of traditional weapons (very strong shields that deflect anything smaller than another ship, for example) so the effective tactic was to turn your vessel into a very large torpedo. To do this, you reinforce the front hull to an insane degree, and mount a large amount of charges on the front of the vessel. When you ram an enemy ship, you penetrate their shields (because the shields can't deflect a vessel of your size and mass) and deliver the payload directly to the enemy vessel, badly damaging it, or at least ripping open a vulnerability for boarding action. You could "improve" this design by jettisoning the "torpedo" portion prior to detonation. Maybe having it attach to the enemy ship and allow you to egress a little before the explosion, lessening the damage to your vessel. The best part about it? You don't need to be going at "ramming" speeds to deal your damage, but you are undeniably ramming the enemy (ramming them full of torpedo). 

It depends on how you want your magic radiation to work, but here is one standpoint: Radiation of any kind causes cellular damage by (among other things) breaking apart nucleotide sequences so they cannot be easily repaired (consequently, our cells are amazing at DNA repair, repairing as many as 1 million individual genetic lesions per cell ). Now, a normal level of damage is caused by all sorts of things, from environmental factors to regular oxidation due to metabolic activity, but each repair made to the nucleotides can introduce an imperfection or an error, the compounding of these errors eventually leads to diseases (such as cancer). Large doses of radiation lead to extreme illness and death, and all sorts of screwy things happen to the body post-radiation exposure. There are stories of Hiroshima victims who had rapidly growing fingernails that had blood vessels in them, so when cut would bleed extensively. Typically the damage is most severe around bone marrow, GI tracts, immune system, and hair follicles. Given data on effects of radiation exposure to fetuses the easiest way to cause the effects in the world that you want is to have people dosed with 1-2 GY of radiation, which will impact fetuses (by miscarriage, or genetic malformation) but not cause mass deaths among the adults. As to how your hero became superman, it was random chance. The DNA damage that occurred to him was minor enough to not cause him to be miscarried, and early enough to impact stem cells that would become his muscles. A random repair to his genes increased his strength, and was replicated through his whole body by the fact that this damage was done to his progenitor stem cells when he was an early fetus. (Note: low-doses of radiation are the best scenario here, as higher doses would likely just kill the fetus or deform him). The harder part becomes testing for this. In this scenario, the fact that he was born healthy (and above average) was probably taken as a blessing, and since "all babies exposed to magic radiation die" nobody bothered testing him (if they even bothered developing a test). Likely the test of exposure was more a test of overall health than a scientific test to determine exposure. It is possible at some point in the future, some test is developed that can determine if someone was ever exposed to radiation, or determine that some part of his genetics was altered by exposure to radiation, but given he had been an adventurer/hero his whole life, it is likely he had exposure at some point anyway. Now, to get to your point of magic causing some sign that it was a magical radiation exposure and not a "natural" genetic malformation, I think we can go into CRISPR territory. Perhaps, instead of being generic radiation, the magical radiation is "smart" radiation. Based on the kind of spell that created it, it does specific things to cells. Most of the time, the level of exposure causes so many changes to fetal tissue that the fetus is changed to become incompatible with life, and terminated by the mother's body, or the changes are so severe they cause rampant birth defects. As above, perhaps your hero was lucky and only got exposed a little, or perhaps the magic that hit him did so at a perfect time, where most of the effects were compatible with one another and did not deform him (save for his improved abilities). In any case, these changes can leave a certain genetic tagging in place, perhaps some sequence all magic imprints on genes that are changed (rewriting the largely useless junk sequences that are present in all DNA sequences left over from evolution). The reason it was never discovered is as above, your hero was never sick as a child so nobody thought it was possible he was magically afflicted (which raises the question of how many others there might be). When he finally gets around to getting tested, the truth is revealed. This could also explain any other changes you want him to have (a lessened or inability to perform magic). Since this is magic radiation, there's no reason it can't be smart enough to make specific changes and leave tags in the genetics. 

I'm blatantly stealing the first bit of this from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy: Instantly teleport her undergarments 5 feet to the left. Repeat as necessary to prove your point. Better yet, swap them with another nearby person. Change the color/style/design/etc. That should do it, and it is very fun as well. 

Could something similar to a naval battleship main gun work in the vacuum of space? Let me set the stage: A turret of 2-3 large caliber guns, loaded with an explosive shell. Artificial gravity keeps the round and the powder bags seated properly, and the loading chamber is isolated from the inner atmosphere of the ship to prevent loss of atmosphere during firing. The level of technology in this setting is very advanced, an approximation would be Star Trek/Star Wars levels, where there are interstellar starships with shields and nice thick hulls, and a form of FTL travel utilizing wormholes. Now to the specific questions: What would need to happen for the gun to fire the projectile? Would there need to be atmosphere around the shell? Without oxygen would the firing generate the gasses needed to push the projectile out? Would an explosive round, like a conventional naval weapon, have a considerable effect in space? Would there be an explosion? What could be done to improve the effectiveness of such a round? My goal is to have a navy that is slowly adopting more...advanced...weaponry, like railguns, but has a strong love of their old projectile weaponry and is wont to give them up. I'm just not sure how feasible that is in the real world, and how much handwavetonium I'm going to have to add to the guns to make it feasible. 

This is an incredibly bad idea, for all the reasons other people have mentioned, but I will add one more thing (seen often here in Missouri when we get floods): Sewage, Water, and other utility lines are designed to be above water. Bad things happen when these things get flooded. Most electrical lines are secured and insulated well enough to withstand some water, but most of your breaker boxes will be in the lower floors of buildings, as will outlets on the first few floors. If you seal off the first few floors of your buildings so that they are watertight, you will need to be very careful with plumbing as well. The funniest thing I've seen is a building surrounded by sandbags that got flooded out because they didn't seal off a toilet and the flood water level went above the toilet's water level (flooding the building not only with water, but sewer water, requiring a lot of cash spent in renovations).