Your question was about deer hunting in Pennsylvania and Oregon where the majority of the deer are whitetail deer and mule deer, respectively. My answer applies to both, generally. There are many other species of deer, and I am not referring to them here. Also, the answer to your question is very complicated. I'll try to keep it short. Before a game department can design any deer hunt, whether rifle, archery, or any other, they must understand the needs of deer versus the needs of other animals, including humans. Therefore, they employ biologists to help guide the process. These biologists study deer herds extensively (and most other wildlife), and provide a ton of information. Here is an example of Idaho's summary of its deer herd in 2016. (Idaho has lots of whitetail and mule deer hunting opportunities.) It is also helpful to hunters to understand, at least basically, the needs of deer and their resulting behaviors. Following is a short summary of deer behavior and how it changes throughout the fall months: Deer change their behavior throughout the year due to weather, food sources, breeding, and hunting, among many other reasons. These factors change quickly in autumn, when most hunting seasons take place, and easily change deer behavior. I like to break autumn into four main "seasons" of deer behavior: 1. Late-Summer; 2. Transition; 3. Rut; and 4. Winter. 

I often encounter semi-wild cattle on the "range" here in Idaho. Much of our land is public, primarily mountainous, and has seasonal cattle grazing (spring to fall). Cows with calves and range bulls are a definite danger if you don't pay attention. The range bulls are a bit like moose: occasionally scared of people, but usually a bit irritated by your presence. They will usually move out of your path if you are quiet and confident, but once in a while, I meet one that is belligerent or on the "warpath" (usually a range bull). I treat them the same way I treat a moose: 

We're assuming here that each wire on this particular fence is strung 9 inches above the lower wire - and that we want to cross safely. It is not safe to climb over a barbed wire fence. Neither is safe to climb a fence post. The first carries a high probability of being snagged on barbs and the second carries a high risk of staple/nail/wire failure, resulting in injury to the hiker. Both of these methods will also potentially damage the fence or the post. This leaves two methods for safely crossing the fence - between the wires, or under the bottom wire. If the wires are loose enough to easily spread apart, then it is possible to safely cross between the wires: Option #1 - Crossing between the wires: Using both hands, lift all of your gear over the fence, one piece at a time (backpack, walking stick, etc.), and place or drop gently on the far side. Do this near a fence post so there is no danger of tripping over any of it when crossing. Then go to the middle point between two fence posts where there is the most slack in the wires. Stand next to the fence, facing down the fenceline (so either your right or left side is nearer to the fence than the other). Pick a wire that is just above the height of your hip - this is the wire to go under. You don't need to touch this one. Firmly grasp the wire directly beneath that wire, with both hands, and push down. Don't push hard and don't put your weight onto it - just push it down a few inches to allow room to pass between the wires. Cross between the wires: 

My kids enjoy playing "The Alphabet Game", "I'm Going on a Trip", and "20 questions". The Alphabet Game This is a version of I Spy. Each person has to spot something that starts with each letter of the alphabet, starting with the letter A and going in order. Those with the sharpest eyes tend to reach Z the quickest, but only if they are paying attention. (Example: A - Ants, B - Bird, C - Pine Cone, etc. ) Kids, and older people, with smaller vocabularies and knowledge learn quickly from the game and soon compete well against Alphabet Game Veterans. For example, when someone spots a porcupine quill for the letter Q, younger kids will remember what to look for in the future for that letter. Each player goes through the alphabet on their own and is not allowed to leapfrog off what another spots - and whoever spots it, claims it. So, if everyone is on C and a single Clark's Nutcracker flies by, whoever spots it first, and names it, gets to move on to D. A sharp-eyed and knowledgable player can reach Z while another is still back near the beginning at, say, the letter F. They also have to spot the object/animal when they need the letter, otherwise it doesn't count. Adults have no advantage in this game over an attentive youngster. Also, the rules can be adjusted for hard letters. For example, if they are allowed to spot items carried by the group, then Z is really easy: just spot a zipper on someone's pack. There's only one winner per game, but the game cannot start again until everyone has either finished or quit (usually a player wants to quit only when they are really tired). Those who have finished will usually start pointing things out, but not saying anything, to help those that are lagging - all so they can hurry and start the game again. Caution: This can create diversions on your hike. For example, if everyone is on the letter F right as the trail nears a creek or marshy area, the players will probably scatter out looking for Fish or Frogs. But that usually just adds to the fun, doesn't it :) We also do a version of this game when driving, trying to find the alphabet letters on road signs, license plates, business signs, even mountains (towns around here like to put giant white letters on mountains, just the first letter of their town). We've tried to come up with other versions, too, like picking a book that we've all read and taking turns naming a character whose name starts with the letter our turn falls on. But the only book that has worked out with has been the Harry Potter series (it was lots of fun the one time we played it, but it was just dull the next time we tried). I'm Going on a Trip This is a memory game. The first person says "I'm going on a trip and I'm taking a ________. They name something. The next person repeats the statement and adds one more item. The game continues, each person adding a new item at their turn, until one player forgets something on the list. Everyone pays attention and tries hard to remember because they want to catch another player saying something in the wrong order or skipping an item. When you get it wrong on your turn, you're out. Last person still in wins. 20 Questions I think most people know this game, but here's my version for whoever doesn't know: Someone imagines something (usually something they just spotted). The game starts when they've got the image in their head. Then anyone can ask questions - only yes/no questions. The person being asked the questions must always answer honestly (or no one will ever want to play with them again) and cannot give any help or hints (we break this rule if younger kids are playing). The game ends when someone correctly guesses the item. The winner then gets to choose the next object and the game starts over. Singing This was mentioned above, but I'm repeating it here only because it's really not very popular very often. I think it takes a lot of energy (and oxygen). Plus, it sometimes just sounds like a bunch of noise - especially to other folks out there in the woods. About the only time we sing is if we're really in the mood (lots of energy) or somebody's scared of something (like it's getting dark and we're still hiking). 

Use your ears. OK, Let me explain that. But first things first. The direction of the wind is what we call “downwind”. If I throw a handful of white flour into the wind, the direction that flour travels is “downwind”. The breeze picks up the scent of nearly everything it touches and carries that scent along wherever it goes. Like the white flour, but on a scale so small that you can’t see it, the smell of nearly everything on your person and in your camp is picked up and carried on the wind. Any animal passing downwind from your camp then knows everything that is in your camp, just by smell (if its sniffer is sensitive enough – and a bear’s is). So, you are exactly right. Store your food at least 100 feet downwind from your camp. If a bear is attracted to your camp, he will most likely be tempted by your food, so keeping it far from you will help keep you safe. Hopefully, the canister will do its job and keep your food safe. Generally, the wind blows different directions throughout the day, because of terrain and changes in temperature. At night, temperatures even out and cool and air movements usually settle down, becoming slow and steady (no hot, moving sun in the sky to heat up the air). Therefore, if you don’t know the prevailing night-time wind directions in your area, it would be best to check the direction of air movement after the sun goes down (assuming there are no storms stirring things up). As air cools, it sinks, flowing downhill. If you are backpacking in hilly or mountainous areas, rest assured that the breeze will be blowing downhill during the night (unless there is a storm). If one is near the ocean (I know, you stated that you are inland), then the wind should blow out to sea when the sun is down (I live far, far inland, so I have not experienced this, but that’s what I was taught in school). Here is the best way that I have found to discover the direction of the breeze near my camp (Using my ears): Wait until dusk, that calming, shadowy time between sundown and full dark. Walk in a wide circle around your camp (20-30 feet out will do), stopping several times to test the direction of the air currents. To test the direction of the air currents, simply uncover your head, face and neck, and turn slowly. The fine hairs on your cheeks, and especially your ears, can feel the breeze (even a very soft breeze). When you feel the breeze blowing across the fine hairs on your cheeks and both ears, stop. You are facing UPwind. DOWNwind is directly behind you. Sampling the wind like this in a circle around your camp helps you make a very confident assessment of the wind’s direction. If the breeze is gentle and erratic, you may have to make a couple circles, and even then, you may have to guess a little. However, it’s ok if you don’t get it exactly right, as long as you place/hang your food far from camp. The goal is to place your food in such a way that it does not lure a bear into your camp. 

I clean all of my firearms, including rimfires, on about the same schedule: A light cleaning/oiling. I swab the inside of the barrel with an oil-dampened (just oil) cloth AND very lightly coat all easily-accessible metal surfaces: