It shows a pattern where the temperatures are dramatically lower where ice sheets have built up relative to today. Interestingly, a lower overall temperature means weaker mixing across latitudes, so some areas are actually warmer. Boston gets chilled by -20 according to the map. Also note the altitude effect. If the surface is raised by 1 kilometer, then due to the lapse rate, the temperature at the new surface will drop by 6.5 degrees. This is a very important factor in stabilizing large ice sheets. 

Pretty confident to answer No here. Tsunamis are caused by water displacement due to earthquakes; this has nothing to do with global warming. Any changes in density would be trivial, and although the water would have more thermal energy, this would not affect or be influenced by the kinetic energy of the Tsunami. The only way in which a tsunami would be made more severe would be that any sea level rise due to global warming would be added to the Tsunami height. 

I can't see there being any physical cause - the water depths are too great for an ice mountain and the feature cross-cuts other geological features. Plus, it's not aligned with either the spreading axis of the mid Atlantic ridge or normal to it. That means that it is highly unlikely to be a fault or a hotspot track. Given that, some sort of processing artifact seems most likely. 

Actually quite interesting. Oxygen is made by the splitting of water, either by photosynthesis or by UV-based photo-dissociation in the upper atmosphere. In the case of photosynthesis, the reduced-carbon products must be buried in order for a net accumulation of oxygen to happen. In this case the oxygen effectively comes from water: (1) 2H2O + vis. light. -> 2H2 + O2 (Water to hydrogen and oxygen) (2) 2H2 + CO2 -> H2CO + H2O (Carbon dioxide and Hydrogen to carbohydrate and water. Carbohydrate is buried) And from UV-dissociation, we get (1) 2H2O + uv -> 2H2 + O2 (Water to hydrogen and oxygen, hydrogen is lost to space) The oceans weight over 10^21kg, most of which is oxygen, so there is plenty of mass there. Edit: Methane Photodissociation The reaction is effectively (in an oxygen free atmosphere): (3) CH4 + 2H2O + uv -> CO2 + 4H2 (lost to space) Note that without hydrogen loss to space, there is a limit on the amount of oxygenation that can happen, because the reduced carbon generated in photosynthesis has to be buried geologically. Estimates for the amount of buried reduced carbon are hard to find (carbonates don't count for this purpose). So the ultimate source of oxygen in the atmosphere would appear to be water, mostly. 

What you have probably seen in the movies, as used by the oil and gas industry is reflection seismology. This is where you shoot off a sound source (explosives, airguns, etc) and track the reflections of the sound waves from the various rock layers below the surface. At a smaller scale, there is Ground Penetrating Radar, good for a few 10s of meters at best, which is higher resolution and good for detecting voids. 

Brief answer (on tablet) When an oceanic plate is formed, the crust is hydrated by the hydrothermal vents systems at the ocean ridge where it forms (hydrated means that the minerals are altered to include water in their structure). When this crust is subducted in the ocean trenches around the Pacific, it is taken down towards the mantle; as these hydrated minerals heat up again, they release water. This water then lowers the melting point of the mantle above the descending plate, which melts to produce a basaltic/andesitic melt with a high water content - the water is dissolved in the magma. When this melt reaches the surface again, the high concentration of water leads to explosive eruptions as it comes out of solution. 

Natural gas can occur above and below oil formations however when they occur in the same formation natural gas will sit on top because it’s density per kg/m3 is 800+ and natural gases density is 400+ weight of natural gas weight of crude oil 

Most of the time the ocean appears to be blue because this is the color our eyes see. But the ocean can be many other colors depending upon particles in the water, the depth of the water, and the amount of skylight. The colors we see depend upon the reflection of the visible wavelengths of light to our eyes. The Franklin Institute provides a good explanation of how we see color at $URL$ Chlorophyll estimation Chlorophyll concentrations are derived from images of the ocean’s color. Generally speaking, the greener the water, the more phytoplankton are present in the water, and the higher the chlorophyll concentrations. Chlorophyll a absorbs more blue and red light than green, with the resulting reflected light changing from blue to green as the amount of chlorophyll in the water increases. Using this knowledge, scientists were able to use ratios of different reflected colors to estimate chlorophyll concentrations. Intrinsic Absorption The reason the ocean is blue is due to the absorption and scattering of light. The blue wavelengths of light are scattered, similar to the scattering of blue light in the sky but absorption is a much larger factor than scattering for the clear ocean water. In water, absorption is strong in the red and weak in the blue, thus red light is absorbed quickly in the ocean leaving blue. Almost all sunlight that enters the ocean is absorbed, except very close to the coast. The red, yellow, and green wavelengths of sunlight are absorbed by water molecules in the ocean. When sunlight hits the ocean, some of the light is reflected back directly but most of it penetrates the ocean surface and interacts with the water molecules that it encounters. The red, orange, yellow, and green wavelengths of light are absorbed so that the remaining light we see is composed of the shorter wavelength blues and violets. $URL$ $URL$ 

How can I be certain this is jade. I bought this rock from a thrift store for 40 bucks. I thought it was a bit pricey for what it is..does anybody have any solid tips on how to clean up the unfinished side of the Stone? And what tools can a guy use to carve jade 

Do you know the (TVD) true vertical depth of these wells. Are you certain the wells are tapped into an oil formation. Oil wells deplete in the production sense but the mess still remains as well over time oil will seep back into the fractured zone. The clean up and maintenance of equipment would be great. There may also be the presence of other toxic gases such as h2s. Think of a oil spill on land or ocean and the coast of cleaning it up. In my opinion I be very impractical and coastly. In most cases impossible because of the differences in formations Case studies strictly geothermal Geothermal Well References 

The question derives from physically being at various locations around the world and witnessing different colours. I chose to use blue as an example because this is how Earth Oceans are commonly referred by. I do agree that there is various different colour schemes. There are several theories: 

Why does the colour of Earths oceans vary? Coast lines around the world appear to have different shades of blue. The further one travels from the equator north or south the deep blue the ocean becomes. Is this effect a result of ocean temperature or salinity? 

If hydrocarbons were primordial, then we would expect to find them mostly in areas where the mantle or mantle taps reach the surface - mid ocean ridges, and ocean island volcanoes. We don't. The major oil fields are located in continental extensional basin settings. There is plenty of evidence for mantle outgassing - including all volatile species such as hydrocarbons - in the first few hundred million years. Furthermore, on geological timescales the mantle is still undergoing vigorous convection and can be considered liquid. Is irrelevant. This is simply wrong, if referring to pores that can offer any support against pressure. The crust becomes ductile at about 10-15km, and the mantle at 60+km, meaning that conventional porosity cannot exist. See (1). For the Earth, outgassing was essentially completed billions of years ago, as we can see from isotopic evidence (and I suspect that the moon-forming impact didn't help). 

Well, one way would be to look through The rock forming minerals and see how many are represented. I strongly suspect that not all would be, so from that perspective the answer would be No. But from an inspection perspective.. For any given mineral structure, we can make changes by simply substituting various cations and anions as in pyroxene; for example, we can substitute Mg(2+) for Fe(2+). Or SiO4(4-) for AlO4(5-) - requiring other changes. So, assuming you had suitable equipment, you could find a naturally occurring crystal that was close to the desired symmetry group and tweak it with substitutions until it matched that group. Or more simply, adjust the pressure and temperature until the symmetry changed. There is a lot of phase space to explore. So from that perspective, the answer would be probably yes, we just haven't synthesized them all yet. 

Let's look at this. A very large number of points for one question. First, the solar system. We do not see any hydrocarbons in the inner solar system (Mercury to Mars). This is because in this region of the solar system, dissociation by solar UV rapidly destroys primordial hydrocarbons. This effect is much weaker further out. Oil well 'replenishment' will happen to some degree over several decades, just from internal migration of oil. Typically only a certain percentage of oil in place is recovered, with the rest left in isolated pockets by the water flood. Give it a few decades and these oil pockets will tend to remigrate and link up, giving the appearance of replenishment. I'm not sure what you comment of The source of methane way too deep to come from fossils. No fossils involved.. That's an unreferenced assertion. Helium is present in Natural Gas as a result of accumulation of alpha-decay particles from radioactive isotopes; we can see this from the massive enrichment of Helium-4 over Helium-3. It's not a paradox; geological structures that can trap methane will also trap helium. The current theory behind petroleum geology is that source rocks with a high organic content (often containing biological hydrocarbons from algae and leaf waxes) are buried in sedimentary basins; at temperatures around 100-150 degrees C this kerogen breaks down to form crude oils (this is verified in the lab). Oil then migrates out of this source rock; if it encounters a trapping geological structure, which need not be sedimentary, then it accumulates as an oil deposit. Gas is similar, with a wider range of source rocks. The physics of how this happens are well known and established. I would also note that we don't see hydrocarbons coming out of mantle-derived volcanoes such as at Hawaii. This is a major problem for any theory of primordial hydrocarbons. Additional Points First, it would be nice if you provided references rather than a link to a book to buy.