This is especially gruesome in countries that were hit the hardest, not by economic crisis in itself, but by the insane "countermeasures" they were forced to adopt. Greece being a much bleaker example than Portugal: 

Guessing it does not count as science-related: iPads are so bad for your healthy sleep that even Apple offers now a redshifting feature in newer devices. But that is partially because: Evening use of light-emitting eReaders negatively affects sleep, circadian timing, and next-morning alertness: 

The identity of the plant material allegedly used as a contraceptive is therefore in doubt and the non-replication easily explainable. Recent studies on properly identified plants, extracts and constituents do not find any adverse effects, except for possible allergies or really extreme doses. To the contrary, many findings seem to indicate that consuming stevia might be more beneficial beyond giving a sweet taste. 

Stevia, the herb, is used as a general health drink tisane in local native populations and their reproductive behaviour seems to be quite ordinary. Some Western regulatory bodies seemed to be relatively unconvinced whether an exotic herb would be even less toxic than the chemical industry's well-trusted aspartame. The actual use of stevia as birth control does not look too far fetched or too strange in the spectrum of different methods tried so far. Its effectiveness for that purpose seems very doubtful. Although there are some old reports that do note the use of stevia as a contraceptive agent by indeginous people: 

Although it also was quite a small sample: Light at night is bad, but iPads make it worse. At least as long as they emit too much blue. The American Medical Association's Council on Science and Public Health: "recognizes that exposure to excessive light at night, including extended use of various electronic media, can disrupt sleep or exacerbate sleep disorders, especially in children and adolescents. This effect can be minimized by using dim red lighting in the nighttime bedroom environment." Exposure to Room Light before Bedtime Suppresses Melatonin Onset and Shortens Melatonin Duration in Humans Joshua J. Gooley, Kyle Chamberlain, Kurt A. Smith, Sat Bir S. Khalsa, Shantha M. W. Rajaratnam, Eliza Van Reen, Jamie M. Zeitzer, Charles A. Czeisler, Steven W. Lockley J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2011 March; 96(3): E463–E472. Published online 2010 December 30. doi: 10.1210/jc.2010-2098 Sensitivity of the human circadian pacemaker to nocturnal light: melatonin phase resetting and suppression Jamie M Zeitzer, Derk-Jan Dijk, Richard E Kronauer, Emery N Brown, Charles A Czeisler J Physiol. 2000 August 1; 526(Pt 3): 695–702. doi: 10.1111/j.1469-7793.2000.00695.x PMCID: PMC2270041 

The chemical constituents are there to explain quite a bit of action, also applied topically. As the paragraph cited above indicates, until recently systematic research into this avenue was not really attractive for pharmaceutical companies developing drugs. Only the persistent failure of conventional new drug development to arrive at a satisfactory relationship between effects and side-effects has renewed scientific interest in the herbal medicine direction. That means there is a comparative lack of research comparing thousands of years of folklore uses and believe in "it works" with decades of pharmacological research into synthetic drugs and their result of "it works almost OK, but not great and has a number of side effects". The current verdict on reviewing the evidence systematically still stands: 

It is indeed likely that for several decades the identity, ethnobotany, taxonomy and natural habitat for the species were all a bit unclear: 

quoted from: Eric Yarnell: Botanical medicines for the urinary tract. World Journal of Urology November 2002, Volume 20, Issue 5, pp 285–293 $URL$ (amply sourced references) But that's about it: it is a herbal remedy of which certain parts have been used in the studies that can promote diuresis. “Cleaning kidneys” and “drinking that regularly” are certainly not advised and also not approved by Commission E! If it is intended to be used as medicine it should be done so under some clinical supervision – especially for long term use. (Which probably runs diametrically against using this herb in the first place?) This is especially urgent advice since one of the side effects of using parsley may lead to what?: Renal damage! According to the sources cited in Robert Tisserand's Essential Oil Safety Book there are also several genuine side-effects and numerous interactions to consider. And among the quotes from that book there is an updated commission E statement: 

In its essence this is true. Therapeutic doses of coal tar – or Liquor carbonis detergens – are used and effective against overproducing sebum, dandruff and a range of other problems with hair. Its use is of very ancient origin, as the drug of choice it was superseded in many areas but still remains in the first line for treating some disorders. Olansky S: "Whole coal tar shampoo: a therapeutic hair repair system". Cutis [01 Jan 1980, 25(1):99-104], (PMID:7353401): 

That commission was set up to promote clinical evidence and I haven't found anything that brings parsley and kidney stones together there. Further: using a diuretic to ‘get rid of’ a kidney stone will in the vast majority of cases just not work. The original Commission E papers on parsley (in German and as images!): Petroselini fructus (Petersilienfrüchte). / Petroselini herba/-radix (Petersilienkraut/-wurzel). Although there is a kernel of truth at the root. One notable journal has the following claims substantiated: 

This is a religiously motivated idea. And it is very probably a quite terrible idea from a health perspective. It is definitively a terrible idea from a taste perspective. After reviewing the available literature for claims and results we have to conclude that there is no evidence to support these claims. Two experts who should really know the literature on this confirm this with testimonials found quoted at the end of this answer. 

Perhaps some will remember the famous historian Hugh Trevor-Roper from his involvement as an early expert witness when the Hitler Diaries were published in the early 1980s. People were quite quick to nickname him "Hugh Very-Ropey" afterwards, while man sprung to his side and defended this as on honest, one-time mistake. That it was not. He did it again, of course, and before, many times. One such instance is this Table Talk: 

User experience Scanning through women's self help forums reveals a wealth of opinion on this. But no consensus. Doing the same search over articles published in women's magazines gives you a strong consensus. Trying to paraphrase that: "This is a real effect and you should do it and here is an affiliate link to the finest products for this on the market today that you can use." Market situation The above strongly suggests that the shampoos contain something "that works" on your hair or even in your hair. Unfortunately they most often do not. The effect any ingredient in there could have must be weak. If they did display a strong effect they would be classified as medicinal products under some jurisdictions (like in the EU). If the product in question is identical to the one sold in the EU this reasoning applies.1 Examining medicinal shampoos in a pharmacy I did not find the instructions in question on any bottle. Looking at bottles from other (foreign) markets, even those that are sold for dandruff prevention etc, I did not find the instructions in question. Manufacturers showing off these claims as scientifically proven are non existent. Some are even on record flat out denying this "need": 

Conclusion Seems sad to not have an excuse for avoiding the shower? But if you need one, "vitamin D reduction" is most certainly not very suitable. Vitamin D is present on the human skin, and transported there with sebum, but only in small amounts compared to what is transported away inwards. Whether from sunlight or nutrition, excretion of that substance is low. Synthesised with sunlight vitamins are mostly transported away from the skin into the rest of the system, not outwards. Once present on the skin the vitamin can be absorbed through the skin, regardless of origin. But again, compared to internally absorbed amounts or currently illegal ointments containing vitamin D the amount is very, very small – not meaningful. As a fat soluble substance on the surface of skin it then can be washed away from there. But the impact of the small fraction present on the skin is not a justifiable excuse to avoid washing for 48 hours after sun exposure. 20 minutes of sun exposure have been experimentally shown to be enough time in regular individuals at not too extreme latitudes to produce adequate amounts of vitamin D (while totally disregarding washing behaviour). If washing would be a concern for vitamin D (re-)absorption than washing would not be the only problem there: the skin microbiome eats away at it, your own sweat washes it away, abrasion diminishes it and then we have this impractical invention of clothing where a lot of the sebum from your skin ends up in if you look at white collars after wearing them for a while. tl;dr In Summary: a very small grain of truth seems to be in the original claims. The proportions and conclusions drawn from that are widely off. As phrased in the title, the claim is true in theory – but very largely irrelevant in application. 

update: There are different fields of scientific enquiry dealing with the subject matter: archaeology, history and theology. These fields have requirements for evidence that differ only in their details. From a historian's point of view finding one piece of evidence is very interesting but an undesirable status. Finding two pieces of evidence is more desirable. Sometimes you only have one have to make do. But if you have at least two pieces and the two pieces are in essential agreement and independent from another then a very important step in the direction of reliable evidence has been made. If some theologians are content with the single evidence they get from the bible that is another matter. One example is the unsettled debate over the existence of the historical Jesus. If you are looking for two independent sources for his existence you cannot use the gospel of Mark and the Gospel of Lukas for that. Those are dependent from one another (although the exact relationship is still a hot matter of dispute). Finding a letter of Pilate detailing the circumstances of a very unusual execution of a jewish troublemaker and an Alexandrian account of a very unusual passover around 30 CE reported to them from their Jerusalem brethren in faith at roughly the same time and you have the perfect sensation. So, it may be less surprising now, but: the bible is evidence. The bible does not get special treatment because it is the bible. But this is true either way. The bible is not discounted as evidence; but every piece of evidence is required to be treated the same. It is literary history in some of its parts (we would all agree that the psalms are not?) with varying degrees of reliabiliy. One big problem is that the actual texts are written with a huge historical distance from the times depicted in them in the case of Davidic kingship and everything before. While some argue that a few of the earliest texts in the Old Testament are probably written in the 8th century BCE some even argue that the core texts of the Old Testament weren't written before the exile and remained in flux, slowly solidifying into the received text until the 2nd century CE. That means eyewitness accounts or those accounts of contemporaries are not extant for the time in question. As time progresses historical depictions get more and more distorted. Case in point: The hittites mentioned in the bible (one of the sins attributed to David was that he sent Uriah the Hittite to his certain death for want of his beautiful wife (2Sam), Solomon extracted tribute 2Chron)… were indeed regarded as literary invention. Then the ruins of Hattusa were found and in there the vast archives of a once big empire. Triumph for biblical archaeology! "Atheist science doubted their existence as Bible hokum. Yet: The Hittites really did exist!" That is in a sense very true. But it is a double edged sword for biblical literalists and fundamentalists: The biblical Hittites are not the Hittites. The Hittites as depicted in the bible are indeed a military mighty enemy. Unfortunately this gets into conflict with the universally established timeline: The vast Hittite empire centered in Anatolia wholly disintegrated in the great bronze age collapse. What remained or re-emerged in its place and certainly so in the close neighbourhood to the Israelites were the so called Neo-Hittite (City-)States. Carrying forth the culture and traditions for some time. Much smaller in scale and far removed from the once powerful empire of kings like Hattusili and Suppiluliumas. Conflicts between those two entities – Israelite Davidic empire and Hittite empire – on that scale are off by a few centuries. On the other hand: conflict between a small Davidic fiefdom (very well may have been on the rise then) and a few local Neo-Hittite small powers are a very plausible match – yet again: not on the scale as depicted in the bible. Since the different fields of archaeology, history and theology are differing in their details when researching the same place and time, it is consequently difficult to present an over-arching consensus. Most researchers of archaeology and history seem to converge on the view depicted below although there is no complete consensus: mainly that the account given of the entire united monarchy is less than a historical narrative depicting actual events accurately but more like a mythological construct from much later times using the methods of history writing to lay out a plan for the great future to come. Within the field of theology there is even more dissent since some participants in that discussion insist that it is simply all true or that the evidence from the Bible has greater credibility than anything else. What follows are the counterpoints to the view that the King David existed exactly as depicted in the bible or in the consequence, that such a king even existed at all: