Lastly, fresh powdery snow is a lot easier to go through than wet solid stuff. But powdery can be far worse if a hard icy surface lurks below the snow. Bottom line: Just go out and ride through snow and see what you can handle, then ride through something a little tougher. Best part is, the soft snow makes falling easier! 

You can't. Calories burnt depends on your speed, elevation change, and your body composition. e.g. riding at 30mph burns more than double the calories per hour than 20mph. The calorie calculators just make a rough approximation, and their margin of error is significantly greater than the difference between their assumed bike weight and yours. Just take what they provide as an estimate, or supply your weight as being your actual weight plus the extra weight on your bike and call it good. 

The better and more comfortable you are in the snow is important. I'd say its the most important factor apart from the bike. While some have trouble steering in just an inches, others can handle nearly a foot or more. 

Carbon fiber isn't necessarily a "weak" or "fragile" material. If you had a tube of the same diameter and thickness of typical CF as a typical steel frame tube, that CF tube would be extremely strong and durable. Metals like steel and aluminum are isotropic materials. That means their mechanical properties are identical in all directions. If you have a cube of steel, it will respond the same way regardless which direction you pull or push on it. Carbon fiber is a composite material. It consist of tons of little bundles of the fibers held together with an epoxy. A block of steel is, well, like steel, but carbon fiber is like a big bundle of straws glued together. In one direction, it is extremely strong, but if you push or pull to the side, it will collapse. In that one dimension where it is strong, it is vastly stronger than steel. However, in other directions it's rather flimsy. So, engineers have been able to exploit those properties in bicycle frames. In a bicycle frame, the vast, vast majority of the forces are primarly along a single dimension. They can make tubes thinner and lighter yet still retain the desired strength and stiffness. So, there is no mechanical reason that you couldn't build a fully loaded touring bike or something like a Salsa Fargo with a carbon frame, and it could be just as tough and durable. And it would probably be lighter than a steel or aluminum frame. But the reason it isn't done is because of the market. Carbon fiber is an expensive material and difficult to work with, and its mechanical properties are best suited for when you demand very light applications. When you build a steel framed bike, when you get the tubes sufficiently strong enough along their length, that because of steels isotropic properties, you get the lateral strength for free, the strength to resist things banging into it, withstanding crashes, etc. In a carbon fiber frame, you don't get the strength in the other dimensions unless you choose to design it in. In carbon fiber bikes, where weight is a serious concern, the engineering decision has been made to not make the frames strong in those areas. They could do so, but they choose not to because its not necessary for the bikes intended purpose. When you build a heavy loaded bike, you lose a lot of the carbon fibers advantages, and so it would be far more economical to use steel or aluminum. Especially when throwing a couple filled water bottles in your pannier nearly exceeds the weight savings. 

Yes, in your picture of the caliper you can see the barrel adjuster at the left side. Usually when mechanics set up a cable brake, they’ll allow about one rotation of space for loosening, and the rest will be available to tighten the brake as the cable stretches and the pads wear. So, it’s possible that you may not have enough adjustment at the barrel to make it as loose as you want. If this is the case, you could loosen the allen bolt clamping the cable and let out a bit of slack there. You could also adjust the position of the static pad, which is the one nearest the wheel. This is usually done with an allen key from the wheel side, turning it clockwise to move the pad inwards and anticlockwise to move it outwards. You don’t want to back it out too far, though, as this might cause the rotor to start rubbing the caliper body when you apply the brakes. You should be able to observe this easily enough. So, I would start with the barrel adjuster, then if you don’t get enough slack from that, let a bit of cable through the pinch bolt. 

Yes. That’s just for the rebound, so the return to its neutral position, not the downward compression stroke. Towards the tortoise increases the rebound damping, making it return more slowly. Towards the hare will make it return faster. If you try it at each of the extremes the difference should be obvious very quickly. 

Your high limit screw is the most likely problem. Less likely is debris preventing the derailleur from moving all the way out. It's always good to keep your drive train clean though, and turning a dirty screw can damage the threads; clean the area thoroughly before making adjustments. The book probably recommends not turning the high adjustment screw while it is loaded (shifted to the large chain ring). That's a good idea. I'll confess sometimes I shift to the small ring to make sure the screw turns easily, then make adjustments while on the large ring. If the screw won't turn easily, see below. Shift to the small sprocket and the big chain ring and adjust the screw to leave a small gap between the derailleur and the chain. Then shift to the tallest sprocket (second tallest is good enough) and make sure there is a gap on the inside. After adjustment, the screw should still be bottomed out (when shifted to the large ring). Verify by turning the screw counterclockwise. If the derailleur doesn't move outward, something else is wrong, hopefully insufficient cable tension. Test the adjustment while shifted to the shortest and second tallest rear sprockets to make sure it shifts smoothly and the chain doesn't rub on either side. Don't worry too much about the tallest sprocket--you shouldn't use that combination anyway. If shifting is unreliable, not smooth, or you drop your chain occasionally under load, tweak the adjustment. Dropping the chain under load can be caused by the derailleur moving too far out, even though it doesn't rub on the chain after shifting. Take a screwdriver with you on your next couple of rides. It's already in your gear bag, next to your Allen wrenches, pen knife, spoke wrench, and tire tools, right? A spring keeps the screw nominally loaded so it won't turn while shifted to a smaller ring, but mine will still wander, so I use locktite once I'm satisfied with the adjustment. Mark the head of the screw wrt the derailleur (ink will rub off; scribe with a knife or chisle) and remove it. Clean male and female threads with a degreaser, apply a tiny dab of locktite to the screw tip, and reinstall the screw. The screw will bottom out close to the adjusted position, so it's not necessary to count revolutions while backing the screw out. The locktite I use is not so strong that I cannot turn the screw after it sets. If the screw won't budge next time you need to adjust it, try penetrating oil, and if that doesn't work, warm up the area with a hair dryer or (very carefully) with a heat gun to soften the locktite. Use a heat shield if you are worried about blistering your paint or damaging a composite frame. Edit: I recently broke a 20+ year old index shifter (brifter) while adjusting it. I think I overloaded it by pulling sideways on the cable as a shortcut to see if additional cable adjustment was needed. Pushing the cable sideways has a very large mechanical advantage, i.e. it greatly increases the load on both the shifter and derailleur when the derailleur is at end of travel (already pushing against the high limit screw or the derailleur is jammed). 

If the brake pads have been contaminated by something, such as oil or a lubricant, they’ll be almost useless. The pads will move in normally and at the lever the feeling will be of the pads making good contact, but they will be pretty ineffective in slowing you down. You will need new pads. If there is air in the hydraulic system the lever will feel spongy, so it won’t bite very well. The pads will move in and make contact, but you’ll be able to keep pulling the lever a bit more, and they won’t be as powerful as they should be. You will need to bleed the system to remove the air. If the brake pistons have been moved outwards, away from the rotor, the lever will move further than it should before the pads make contact with the rotor. This could have happened if the pistons were pushed outwards by the rotor when installing the wheel, or just by normal flex in the frame, fork, and wheel when riding causing the rotor to push the pistons. To fix this, try removing the wheel from the bike, then giving the brake lever one gentle pull about 1/2 or 3/4 of the way through its travel. Hold it there for a few seconds and then release. Then reinstall the wheel and try again. You may have to force the pads apart a little to fit the rotor in again if the pistons have moved too far inwards. If they didn’t move far enough you may need to repeat this a couple of times, pulling the lever slightly further each time. Be careful not to overdo it. If you have had to move the pistons in a long way you may need to top up the system with some more brake fluid. Be sure to use the correct fluid for your system.