"Proteins" isn't even consistent with the rest of the sentence in that quotation! It isn't principally protein. I think that paragraph is a paraphrase of the relevant paragraph from Elements of the Nature and Properties of Soils, a standard introductory textbook, ยง4.1: 

There are two main problems that "wear out" soil, and people working on this deal with both of them. A soil might be low in organic matter and nitrogen, perhaps because all the crops were sold away and the topsoil eroded off. This would also happen on a new sandbank, or where a landslide had revealed a lot of subsoil. Naturally what happens is that the site is colonized by "primary succession" plants that are good at surviving there. These plants photosynthesize carbon compounds, and have bacteriological associates that fix nitrogen out of the atmosphere. The plants and bacteria live and die and leave detritus that slowly turns into richer soil, and somewhat more complex "secondary succession" plants move in. Reclamation agriculture or reforestry helps this along, and agroforestry tries to forestall soil loss by growing trees instead of arable crops. But C and N are not all that plants and bacteria are made of -- just about everything else, eg P and K and Mg and Ca, comes from the geological parent material of the soil. When as anions and cations these elements are being traded and fought over by plants and microbes, they are soluble, and over time they will weather out of the soil. Over geological time they weather out of the underlying rock, which is the problem in the oldest parts of the Earth, and then it's difficult for even primary succession plants to grow. Hawaii is a beautiful natural laboratory for this, as the islands are made of the same lava but are of very different ages. The classic work on this is by Vitousek; here's an open access paper following up on it: Primary Succession on a Hawaiian Dryland Chronosequence. There's a ecology-economy group trying to fix this problem in Haiti. Haiti has exported so much, for historical reasons, that their soil is terrible and they have to import a lot of food although they were recently a very NPP-productive place. SOIL works on designing and introducing composting toilets so that the elements imported as food are incorporated into agricultural soil instead of running off (causing public health and fisheries problems as they go!). It's a very nice virtuous-circle, though it takes a lot of work to keep it going. 

@kwinkunks already gave a good answer on the short time scale. On long time scales, mantle convection and plate tectonics redistributes large amounts of mass, and the conservation of angular momentum requires that the direction and speed or rotation of the Earth changes accordingly. (This is independent of the fact that the orientation of Earth's axis may stay put but continents may move over it, changing the "apparent" location of the poles.) Changing mass distribution because of mantle convection also indices torques on the Earth due to coupling with the rotation of the moon around Earth, and the Earth around the Sun. This, too, over time leads to changes of the Earth axis's direction. Both of these effects act on time scales of tens of millions of years. 

The glacial buzzsaw hypothesis (summary; sample paper) is that mountains can't get much higher than the elevation at which glaciers form cirques. The upper walls of the cirques are steep and erode easily, which planes off the peaks above them, shortening the mountains. The evidence is, to summarize, that they don't get much higher than the cirques. Cirques are lower in higher latitudes. The highest possible mountain would therefore, I imagine, be near the equator and somewhere quite dry to minimize glaciation. But a very high mountain intrinsically alters global wind and weather patterns -- the Himalayas are sometimes called "the third pole". I don't know if you could have a dry, tallest-in-the-world mountain near the equator, no matter what plate tectonics was trying to do. 

The Italian Civil Defense's map of earthquake risk zones shows Rieti in at best Zone 2, "Medium-high seismicity, quite strong earthquakes possible", and near or in Zone 1, "High or catastrophic seismicity, strong earthquakes possible". The map of recent earthquakes in Rieti shows regular earthquake activity. Last year an earthquake killed hundreds in Rieti. There was a famous long legal case in Italy over earthquake predictions and warnings. 

Since it is not specified in the question (and to complement the other answer), the strongest magnetic fields on Earth are not naturally generated, but artificially. The current world record holder seems to be the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory (NHMFL) in Los Alamos, USA, with a magnetic field strength of about 100T (so about two million times higher than the Earth's magnetic field). This quora answer suggests that they have since increased it to 300T. There are a few other high magnetic field laboratories in the world, for example the Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf (HZDR) in Dresden, Germany, which briefly held the record before with a field strength of 91.4T. These magnets are usually pulsed magnets, so they cannot maintain the field strength for longer than a few milliseconds. For longer durations it seems like the MagLab in Florida, USA is currently holding the record with a 45T magnet. 

The equations you are looking for are called the "McKenzie equations". You should look at the papers of Marc Spiegelman at Columbia University for more information. 

What happens at a divergent boundary is that indeed the two sides are diverging along the entire length. However, this does not mean that there needs to be a crack (and indeed there isn't). Rather, lava pushes into the area from below but most of the time doesn't actually make it to the surface before it cools. This process is called dyke intrusion, and the wikipedia page just linked to has some very good pictures. Because the spreading rate is pretty slow, it's also not necessary that dykes intrude the entire length of the boundary at the same time. Rather, they could introduce a part of the boundary this year, and some other part a couple of years later. If this just keeps happening, the intruding dykes will still push the two plates apart on average over many years. 

There are, however, other potential effects on the environment: The accelerator consumes a huge amount of power (about 200 MW at it's peak). Generating this power has an impact on the environment, as already mentioned. Materials can get activated when being irradiated by the beams. These materials (most notably anything made of iron) are kept under radiological supervision and can only be taken out of the underground area if there is no radioactivity detectable (anymore). One does not want to contaminate the environment with radioactive materials. Some detector components contain substances which are regulated because of their impact on the environment (because they are greenhouse gases). The LHCb RICH1, for example, contains perfluorbutan (C4F10). The amounts are negligible on a global scale, though. The beam pipe at the interaction regions consists of Berryllium , whose dust is toxic. Special care is needed when working around it (and probably when dismantling it at some point). 

Water pressure on both sides of the continent makes sure that all horizontal forces cancel out. So water pressure will not move a continent to the left or right because the pressure on the other side exerts the same force just in the opposite direction (assuming equal water depth). But the water pressure puts the continent under compression and will push the two sides of an ocean apart (putting the oceanic plate underneath under tension). In total, however, these forces are far too small to have any impact on plate tectonics. 

You can just think of this in terms of energy. To leave a mark in the geologic record, you have to use something that is at least as strong as the forces that are shaping the world around you: erosion, melting, tectonic forces, wind and weather. These are all very energetic things that are happening around us all the time, and for long time spans. If you want to compete with this, and leave a recognizable, permanent mark on Earth, you have to have something that is at least as energetic. That is difficult already for humans to achieve (though we do -- we have significantly accelerated erosion, and our moving of rocks and earth will clearly be distinguishable for a long time to come). But think of what it would take to do this from several light years away? Even a well focused laser beam would be far larger than Earth at these distances, meaning that you would have to send your laser beam with a far larger power and duration than the processes on Earth, just to leave a bit of a mark. This is clearly not possible. 

In addition to @Michael's excellent answer, keep in mind that magnetic fields (just like electric fields) drop off with the inverse of the distance squared (and even faster for e.g. dipoles). Take for example the magnet used in the LHCb experiment at CERN. It is a large dipole magnet with a maximum field strength a bit above 1T (the Earth's magnetic field is on average about 40-50 uT strong). This puts it in a similar category as the magnets used to bend the proton beams to keep them going in circles in the LHC (which have field strengths of about 7.7T). As can be seen in the following picture, at a distance of 5m this has been reduced to 20 mT (the line with label 3), so by about a factor one thousand. This is still a thousand times stronger than the Earth's magnetic field, but continuous work for authorised persons is already permitted at 200mT. Taken from the technical design report of the LHCb magnet. In addition you should keep in mind that this experiment (and indeed the whole LHC) is about 100m underground, so the magnetic field from the magnets is basically undetectable at ground level, even right above it. 

There is no good reason. It's simply a convention that someone started a long time ago and that stuck. Like the question whether an hour is divided into 60 minutes and a minute into 60 seconds. If you go to Australia, you will find plenty of maps for tourists that show Australia at the top and Europe at the bottom. 

If you have a sufficient number of sensors, e.g., land-based or ocean-bottom seismometers, in the vicinity of where strong earthquakes typically happen, then it will take a few seconds for seismic waves to reach them, and a few hundred milliseconds for the electric signal to get to a place where a warning could be triggered. On the other hand, the gravimeter would provide essentially instant warning. So you save a few seconds. At the same time, it takes many many seconds for earthquake waves to travel to the places where the warning would matter. In fact, the earthquake rupture itself may be many many seconds long. And it will take minutes for tsunamis to reach shore. In other words, what you gain in advance warning time is not actually very large, and it may not be worth the effort. I would also not be surprised if it takes tens of seconds or minutes to actually see the change in gravity in noisy gravity measurements, and/or to take the same amount of time to just process the data.