So these "star-cross'd" lovers will die to bury their parents' strife. Many of Shakespeare's tragedies end with the main characters dying, so it's likely that the audience already knew that the main characters would likely die, and the prologue might be slyly hinting that they will "take their [own] life" (although that line clearly means "take their lives [from forth the fatal loins ...]", thanks @DLosc!), but doesn't tell you anything about why this death comes about. The audience knows something sad is coming, but they don't know what it will be yet. In my opinion, this prologue sets you up to think that the suicide will be engineered by the lovers, perhaps of the "if we can't be together, life isn't worth it" variety. As you watch the play, however, things seems to get better and better for Romeo and Juliet while things get worse and worse for the Montagues and the Capulets: they meet! They fall in love! They get married! A cunning plan is hatched so that Juliet can run away from her family and be reunited with her husband! All this time, the audience is thinking, "Wait a minute, this is a tragedy? And the prologue told me that they're going to kill themselves? How will we get there from here?" And then, boom, a letter goes awry, Romeo decides to kill himself and, just like that, the audience knows where this is going. Without the prologue, they would spend Act 5 wondering if Romeo's plan can be stopped; with it, they are certain that his plan will succeed. This lends additional tragedy to the scenes of Romeo planning his death and Friar Laurence learning that Romeo doesn't know about the scheme, since the audience already knows that these schemes will fail, that Romeo will die, and that this will almost certainly lead to Juliet's own death. I'd argue that, without the prologue, Act 5 could have been longer, with more potential interruptions to Romeo's plan -- and further increasing the audience's hopefulness -- before a surprising finish. But Shakespeare opted to let the audience get ahead of the story, giving them a longer period of time to feel sad for the characters before their actions destroy their own lives. This makes this more like the end of Julius Caesar (where Caesar's ghost tells the non-history-buffs Brutus' final fate, who then has time to reconcile himself to it), rather than the end of Othello (where Iago's plan succeeds right to the end, when it is unexpectedly revealed and some small sense of justice is restored). It's also a bit like an episode of TV where the teaser shows you, say, a street covered with the debris from an explosion, and the audience then spends the rest of the show trying to work out how that happened. 

a quick third-person overview of a bunch of characters, flowery descriptions of the scenery, and exhortations to the reader to do something (look at, or appreciate the irony of, or take pity on, something or the other) a short length (2-3 pages at most) 

In-universe, is it ever explained how he came to use Tarzan as the spelling of his name? The paragraph above would indicate that he would have switched to using "White Skin" as his name once he learned those words, but instead, we see that he used Tarzan. 

What did it mean to do so? Is this a point of medieval Western tradition of hospitality that's being referenced here, or something internal to the Seven Kingdoms that's as yet unexplained? 

Personally, my father, who would be of a similar age to Estha and Rahel, and is of a similar situation to Velutha, attended the local public school, which was considered one of the best in the district, and an engineering college, and go on to get a decent job. 

The original claim isn't that characters break the fourth wall, just that they are aware that they are fictional. In TV Tropes terms, this is leaning on the fourth wall or lampshading. (Not coincidentally, both use the same line from Twelfth Night as a page quote!). Many of these examples "could also be interpreted in other, non-immersion-breaking ways", but I'd argue that an audience watching a play on a stage with a literal proscenium would not fail to notice that the actors are commenting on the play in progress. Here are some examples from the Leaning on the Fourth Wall page: 

That suggests to me that the speaker in that poem is Whitman himself. Reynolds appears to share this view (emphasis mine): 

The closest I've seen is A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess, whose first-person narrator, Alex, narrates the entire novel in NadSat. Nadsat isn't a distinct fictional language, as you ask for, but it is a fictional argot invented by Burgess. Here's a representative quote from Goodreads, which is clearly readable but not fully comprehensible to an English speaker: 

The old money have, over decades and centuries, developed a highly indirect (hence, euphemistic) and repressed society, whereas the new money would be far more direct. No doubt they feel some irritation and impatience for the silliness and lack of forthrightness of the old money. 

Oddly, Burroughs calls it a "strange system of spelling", whereas it should be a strange system of pronunciation. If he did assign sounds to the various characters, and using (g - LA), (o - TU) as representative examples, he could have wrote down "Tarzan" in about as many characters, using different alphabets of course. 

One of the characteristics of Haiku is that the poems are usually of 17 syllables (5-7-5). Exceptions exist, of course, but 17 is the norm. Why 17? How did the originators of Haiku come to settle on 17? How does it contribute to a haiku's aesthetics? 

Here, it's not used in the first sense, but in the second. Frost is saying that he can't help but admit that there is great relief in being able to put these people out of their misery. However, when he comes to his senses, he considers how he would feel if someone were to offer the same for him ... which is arguably more than what he would offer to those people — a choice. 

Ah, but the prologue doesn't spoil the ending of Romeo and Juliet! Take a look at those lines again: 

Whitman was slightly closer to Lincoln than "just ... a citizen": according to David S. Reynolds in the Journal of the Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History, he had a nodding acquaintance with the President (emphasis mine): 

Hypsipyle is a lost or fragmentary play written around 410 BC by the Greek playwright Euripedes. This particular fragment might have survived from its inclusion in Book IV of Symposiacs by the Greek/Roman biographer and essayist Plutarch, who lived between AD 46 – AD 120. So this is likely a fragment of Hypsipyle that we only know about because Plutarch quoted it in his book ~500 years after the play was written. 

P. G. Wodehouse is known as a consumate stylist, and a lot is known about how he plotted and wrote his novels. Did he ever say anything about his writing in the first person? I'm particularly curious about how he wrote "as" Bertie Wooster, who has a very distinctive writing style that differs in some ways from Wodehouse's own. Has he (or his biographers) written anything about how he developed Bertie's "voice" and then sustained it consistently across ten novels and over thirty short stories over 59 years? 

So, either the intention to convey a particular meaning is evident in the work, and therefore it already means that, or the work doesn't convey that intention, making it irrelevant. This itself could be a fallacy: Does the author even have intentions? - as James Downey argues: 

I'll only address the question from the translation requirement POV: what would you call a person who uses fetishes for magic, given the culture is African (as opposed to, say, Haitian), but in the context of Western literature? Given various factors, I feel this would be more appropriate than actually giving a nuanced description of such a person in African culture: 

Mr Anderson then goes on to examine the eponymous speeches where he feels peripeteia happens in the positive sense. 

Are keteks (the form: palindrome [allowing for conjugation, etc.], n [≥2] thoughts) based on some real-life form of poetry, or are they purely fictional? 

E. M. Forster's A Passage to India was published in 1924, in the decade after the Indian independence movement really started to gather steam. Forster incorporated this into his novel, showing the strong emotions raised within the British and the Indian communities after an Indian Muslim is arrested for assaulting a British schoolmistress. What did the British and Indians of the time make of this novel? Were there any articles written about this novel, or books reporting on it? I've tried Googling for contemporary reviews, but I just end up with reviews of the movie, made in 1984, long after India became independent in 1947. 

In-universe, Nadsat is Russian-inflected cockney slang spoken amongst teenagers in the novel's dystropian future England. Out-of-universe, Wikipedia says that Burgess "knew that if he used modes of speech that were contemporarily in use, the novel would very quickly become dated. His use of Nadsat was essentially pragmatic; he needed his narrator to have a unique voice that would remain ageless while reinforcing Alex's indifference to his society's norms, and to suggest that youth subculture existed independently of the rest of society." 

It seems that Sredni Vashtar, like many of Saki's stories pitting children against adults, was inspired from his childhood. Saki had lost his parents at an early age, and was fostered by tyrannical aunts. From Reading Saki: The Fiction of H.H. Munro by Brian Gibson: 

In the beginning, Macondo was a city solidly set in reality. Magical things happened, but everybody agreed they happened. However, as time passed by, gradually the hold of Macondo on reality started slipping. Things became increasingly illusory. There are several instances of this: 

(The books are horribly racist and misrepresentative of African culture, but still likely to be familiar with fans of science fiction or fantasy.) 

A fetish in this context is like a voodoo doll in that it lets someone access magic. Unlike voodoo dolls, fetishes don't have to be doll-like. They can be plain objects or even parts of bodies (human or animal). Correspondingly, a fetish man is like a voodoo priest in that they access magic using an external object, often with an accompanying ritual. For translation, I'd suggest that you look up some translations of Tarzan novels. There are a few witch doctors in them, and some of those witch doctors use fetishes. Since the these books are pretty popular and mostly public domain in some countries, you might find good quality translations already existing in your language, which you can then rely on for familiarity for the readers. For example, from Tarzan and the Leopard Men (particularly appropriate since it was published in the same era, and also has a hyena fetish): 

There really aren't that many authorship debates, since an author's name will usually become associated with a story whether or not they actually wrote the work in question --- such as Homer (leading to the Homeric Question) or Aesop --- and with the invention of the printing press, they'd usually get their names on the cover to boot. Pretty much the only way we find out about authorship controversies is if those debates themselves enter the historical record, such as with Alonso Fernández de Avellaneda; lacking further evidence, we might have come to the conclusion that de Avellaneda was a real person. Wikipedia lists all of twelve authorship debates, none of which appear in Jasper Fforde's books except for the Shakespeare authorship debate. So I think the answer to your question is no, no other debates over historical authorship over literary works are referenced in the Thursday Next series. The question of the existence of certain works is an interesting one for the Thursday Next series, given that one of the books in that series, The Great Samuel Pepys Fiasco, doesn't actually exist! Looking through Wikipedia's list of literary forgeries, I don't see anything mentioned by Fforde, even such famous frauds as Ern Malley, but there's probably some in there I don't remember or haven't connected with fraud specifically. I'd love to know if anybody thinks of others! 

This isn't the first instance of controversy after Carter took the reigns. A biography of Lee by Marja Mills also ran into trouble. How Unauthorized Is the New Book About Harper Lee? from Gawker (July 18, 2014): 

People often fail miserably at accounting for their own biases even when simply observing something (so they might unconsciously ignore things) - biased observation Even for the things that they do manage to observe, people do not write down every last bit of minutiae, but only selected bits - biased reporting A summary is by definition a product of the writer's judgement on what is important and what isn't from the larger text (which has already gone through conscious and unconscious filtering), and therefore is a direct application of their biases. 

I believe you're only thinking of "unreasoned judgement/preujdice" when talking about bias. If that was all, sure, there might be texts which are unbiased about something (but not, in general, unbiased about everything)*. Was that the debate topic using such a narrow definition? If not, Everyone has biases: tendencies to favour or disfavour things. Now: