Here is how standard logic is violated. Imagine you asked B to both persons and get two "no". Then from rule 2 you can infer: if I had asked A to one or the other, they would have answered "no" (otherwise rule 2 would be violated). Then you infer that if you had asked A to both of them, they would have answered "no". But then, rule 1 is violated... How can you solve the problem? Obviously you cannot assume that the two persons prepared their response in advance, unless they already knew what questions will be asked. There's no way to prepare answers in advance and respect the three rules (at least one would be prepared to answer "yes" to A, the other "yes" to B, and your would violate rule 3). You can assume that they communicate by telepathy: they tell each other what question they're being asked. But this violate locality. If you do not want to violate locality, the only solution is to assume that there's no sense to ask "what would have happened if we'd asked different questions". This is CFD violation. Now this solution is a bit bizarre, because you can only attribute a definite state to the persons (their dispositions to answer in certain ways) relatively to a set of questions. In the case of quantum mechanics, you can only attribute definite properties to particles relatively to what will be measured on them. This is a mark of contextuality. So this kind of solution is not truly realist. CFD can be considered a criteria for realism. All this indicates that you have to drop either locality or realism. Either particles "communicate"at a distance, or their previous state is relative to what is measured. (I did not mention another solution which is the many world interpretation: there, properties are contextual because they are relative to a branch. CFD is violated because measurement results are indefinite: all possibilities occur in different branches. Arguably this is still a realist solution). 

Consider an object as a variable. If you seek a generalized answer, you must seek generalized means to get it. The meaning of property in objects is reversed. The object is not one's property, but it HAS properties. More specifically, it defines attributes, which themselves define the object. If you add yourself to its attributes, you are attributed to the object, which can't be logically right since you and the object do not depend on each other to exist. However, humans sell lands and food to each other. Does this mean that the earth is the humans property? Surprising, I will answer yes because as long as we are there, we need it. It is not the amount of money that gives value to an object, but its scarcity and its importance. Even then, the value is only given in terms of how easy it is to get it yourself versus how hard it is to sell it: offer/demand curve, which is theoretically fair to humans, but does not consider the objects inner properties more than what pertains to human usage. I will conclude stating that it is a necessary evil, even if you build it yourself; because even if humans are satisfied the object itself is not taken into account. Even less in practice. In practice, it is far from being fair to all parties. Value is relative... 

I think there is a point or two to pull out of the original question and supporting expansion of the question. First, you state, 'suppose there are people who like...' If we take part 1 of Kant and apply a universal rule evaluation, we could say it is good to give people what they like. So satisfying part 1 eliminates the negative of part 2. In other words you are not treating those people like 'means', your treating them like ends. Second, 'treating someone' like a mean versus and end is a rather complicated by the more imprtant fact of allowing the other party to participate in the decision. Sadly, I am not more well schooled in Kant, but I do enjoy pondering his universal rule. 

The last comment by LordScree points to the heart of the original question and the appropriate philosophical answer. Geneic changes take place randomly and support the survival of individual ( families over time ), species in varying environments. This is the common association of evolution with genes. But Richard Dawkins broke this link with his idea of a meme. Certain ideas are more effective - reproducable - and therefore fitter and reproduce. Combining these concepts, like any good philosopher, and you can concieve of 'evolution' meaning change over time; survival of the fittest meaning 'things = genes, ideas, culture, spending habits, cleaning habits' leading to reproductive success. In other words, evolution has brought humans to the point of decoupling evolution from strictly genetic change and incorporated 'self created' environments into the 'random' changes that lead to reproductive success. 

Philos=to love, sophem=wisdom. I would define "love" as a passion and "like" as an acknowledgment, or a sort of respect. Most seem to blindly "like" wisdom, though they don't seem to even know it. We humans are by nature philosophers in this respect, but to be a philosopher to me is to have taken a step further and ACCEPT the path to wisdom as an endless trail of a lifetime. That is what a passionate student of wisdom would do. Therefore, I think being a philosopher means being human by nature, but also having taken this next step. Both have "seeking wisdom" in common, but one lacks this understanding. Using boolean logic to answer this question based on these observations: 

I perceive 2 different questions which I think I can answer both. 1: The meaning of context 2: Why "if P is true then P or Q is true" is true I will start with the second one: In boolean logic, the inclusive or operation (also called OR) evaluates to true if any one of its operands is true. When P is true in an OR operation, the other operands need not be evaluated because OR needs only one true statement. In "P OR Q", whether Q is true or false does not matter because P being true, OR evaluates to true. An alternative case where the value of Q would matter is the exclusive or (XOR), which says "either P or Q but not both". That is not the case, therefore "P OR Q" is true, whatever Q evaluates to (true or false). By the way: "true OR false" is true, just as "true OR true" is... First question, the meaning of context: The word context has prefix "con", which means "bring together". The "text" is about the syntax, not the semantics. In language, a sentence is a context, consisting of individual words (or pieces of syntax) brought together. When you say "the meaning of something depends on its context", you mean that the semantics vary based on where the piece of logic is situated in the text brought together. In other words, it is situated inside a finite environment composed from its structure, evaluated in that environment, thus yielding a value. I hope I was clear enough... 

What you are advocating is that the wave-function would be a compressed object for storing efficiently, in a computer, the state of systems, and that the dynamic of the universe would apply to these compressed objects, which would explain the puzzling features of QM. This is a thoughtful idea, however I think there are strong objections against it in the final analysis. First it should be noted that we are not merely assigning classical probabilities to quantum particle positions, but complex numbers (and in composite systems, not only to individual positions, but to possible configurations of the whole system). Probabilities are calculated from the complex coefficient. That explains the interference pattern (different "possibilities" are "interacting" because of the way complex numbers add up) but if probabilities were assigned directly to the system, QM would loose most of its puzzling features. This point is not fatal for your metaphysics. Perhaps having complex coefficients assigned to possible configurations is an efficient way to compress a system state. But as noted by Jobemark in his answer, the wave-function would not be a particularly efficient way to store a state, to the contrary: the wave-function of the universe assigns a coefficient to any possible configuration of the universe, whereas a classical universe would have only one configuration, which is much more simple. Then there are all the objections to the idea that we live in a computer simulation (which is just a modern variant of traditional scepticism). What kind of universe does this computer live in? A classical universe? If so, we are simulating a quantum world in a classical world, which is strongly inefficient (exponential calculation time). So it might be a quantum universe instead, but then the difference between being in a simulation, or being a part of that universe, is slim... Or maybe it is a third type of physics, but without spelling out what physics exactly, the proposal seems hard to evaluate and not very informative. Finally, the main problem to solve in QM is not really that wave-function describe systems rather than individual states. It is the problem of the correspondence between the model and empirical measurement. Transposed to your metaphysical theory, the problem is: when does the "collapse" occur? As your metaphysics does not really answer the question, it does not solve the measurement problem per se, and you have to fall back on a standard solution to complete your theory (either spontaneous collapse, or maybe in your case some form of dualism, with consciousness provoking the collapse? However these theories have other problems of their own...). So in my view the main objection to your interpretation of QM is this: it is a speculation which actually solves no known philosophical problem. 

Interestingly I don't think Kant & Darwin are incompatible. In fact, I am begining to think they are actually two components of a much larger model on the development of 'success.' Darwin's idea that attributes are random is not really relevant to Kant's point. I would submit there is a slight missreasing. Darwin posits that features are random in their development or that nature does not develop features purposefully. But in a sense nature does. Features develop in a particular environment and support the continuation of both a feature and creature. Evolution selects the features which lead to reproductive success. Evoltion is the process of nature. Therefore nature is not random it is experimental. And like in the concept of brainstorming it doesn't matter where 'ideas' about a problem come from, each is put on the table and reviewed. In a sense Darwin was stating features, like ideas, appear and there source is not important in the evaluation process. The feature's reproductive success is critical. And this leads to Kant. All 'organs' fill a specific purpose. Meaning the existence of the 'organ' implies, by its existence, that it has supported reproductive success and therefore is fullfilling some purpose. Of course this ideas maybe filled with extaneous blather that will be filtered out as it's reproductive success is refined. 

It depends on the kind of possibilities you're talking about. If you're talking about logical possibilities this is clearly not true. There are conceivable states of affairs that did not occur. I guess you're talking about possibilities that are not merely "in the head". If you're talking about nomological possibilities (what is possible given laws of nature) this is still not true if you assume "the initial state of the universe could have been different"is true. There are counterfactual possibilities corresponding to different possible universes with different initial conditions. Now you could assume necessity of the past. Then your statement is true, by definition: if determinism is true, laws of nature determine the future state of the universe and so there's only one possible way the world could evolve. Finally you could talk about metaphysical possibilities. Many authors since Kripke believe that they are distinct from nomological and logical necessities, in particular because laws of nature "could have been different"metaphysically speaking. In that case, your statement is false because there are metaphysical possibilities corresponding to alternative laws of nature even if the world follows strict laws of nature. But others think that metaphysical possibilities are the same as nomological possibilities (in particular, dispositional essentialists) and others that they are closer to logical or conceptual possibilities. As to how long people have been thinking that, well, since there are different understanding of possibilities it's hard to say, but questions about necessity and determinism go back to the Greeks.