A good weld is continuous. A visible line where the weld stops and starts again can indicate an inferior weld. There is such thing as too much blobbiness, which can lead to unwanted concentration of stress in the weld. Conversely, a proper zig-zag or stitch weld can prevent stress concentrations (per @TomO's answer). A thick weld can reinforce the joint (per @TomO's answer). 

I use a tool made out of a steel wire clotheshanger to squeeze the two pins together and open the link. 

I just ordered Park Tool PPL-2 Polylube 1000 Grease Tub (1 Lb) from my LBS. I was surprised when they didn't call it waterproof and tried to steer me to a Phil Wood product as the waterproof one, because I thought I'd seen Polylube described here as waterproof, i.e., suitable for unsealed bearings. Nothing against Phil Wood, I just thought people said PolyLube was waterproof too. Is it? The Park Tool site says "repels moisture". I assume that's the same as "waterproof" and the LBS person was just misinformed? 

Is it common to see spoke nipples with heads rusted only on the side toward the hub, but not on the spoke body? I'm working through all the spokes on my front wheel, inspecting and spoke prepping all the nipples and replacing some. The above rust pattern is what I'm seeing, on almost all the nipples. If it matters, the spokes are (I think - magnetic) painted steel, the nipples are also slightly magnetic, and the rim is double-wall aluminum. 

The project's coming along. I'll have a final report after I try some with sticker paper in the printer. 

I need to get a crank puller for my square-taper spindle. There are several available on eBay and Amazon. What information do I need -- about the puller, my bottom bracket and my crankset -- to pick the right crank puller? My spindle is a bolt-type square taper. (Is there a wide variety of crank puller types -- meaning I need to be careful to pick the right one -- or will it be obvious just by looking at them which ones fit and which don't?) Here's what I have, in pictures. 

For attaching graphics to a painted metal bike frame, is there a better option than Scotch tape or clear packing tape? I'm looking for something transparent and adhesive, but not so adhesive it can't be repositioned or removed later. The graphics I have in mind are home-printed "stickers" (but on printer paper, so they don't have adhesive) and registration marks for things like seat and handlebar position and angle. I'm not up to speed on painting, so that's not an option. Scotch tape isn't fully transparent and I don't think it's going to last. Clear packing tape is nice because it's clear but the adhesive can be hard to remove after a while without using things that can damage paint. 

No, from the perspective of a bike owner/user, there's nothing inherently wrong with fat blobby welds. While the quality of individual welds can vary, they're not automatically bad simply because they're fat and blobby, and can be perfectly fine. Some other considerations (pointed out by people with specific knowledge of welding and frames -- i.e., not me -- in comments and in other answers): 

If mine were missing I'd do just what @RoboKaren said, either make a plug out of a genuine cork champagne cork or maybe one of the plastic ones or (probably what I'd do) just duct tape over the area after cleaning the area with soapy water then mineral spirits to remove all surface contaminants and make sure the tape sticks. You can get black duct tape if you want it to blend in. BTW I'm assuming my suspension fork uses elastomer "springs" for the shock-absorbing effect, but I'm not positive because I've never been inside. 

There's this video, which shows how to clean a freewheel without disassembling its innards. (What @daniel-r-hicks said reminded me of this.) It assumes you can get it off the bike to work on it. 

If you wanted to go cheap, you could just take a pair of socks and cut off the foot or even half the foot, if fit into the shoe is the problem. Then wear this over your ankle and part-way down into the shoe. I like the idea of improvisational engineering so this works for me. I do something similar for my wrists, although in that case it goes all the way to my fingers. Toasty warm. I have a pair of gaiters from backpacking but I hadn't thought of that, I'll try that next time. I bet that'll be great. Those shoe covers and overboots look great too. I went though some plantar fasciitis. To fix this (along with stretching) I got custom orthotics which mandated bigger shoes, and I got them big enough to wear two pair of socks all the time. That alone is enough to keep my ankles warm on all but the coldest days. 

I think if you work out the geometry and then make sure that the parts of your tool supposed to be square, parallel, equidistant or perpendicular are actually those things, then yes, it is that simple. It can be a little disorienting to find yourself doing a thing that you've looked up toward for some time as a lofty goal, like gazing up at a distant mountain peak you might some day climb. I've always considered truing a wheel to be a life goal, some mysterious process that would magically result in a round and strong wheel. But then I found myself with the time, the bike, and the YouTube videos, and what do you know, I'm truing a wheel. Arrival is like stepping off the end of a fast escalator, but you have arrived. You're there now. Welcome. :) (I still want Jobst Brandt's book.) 

I bought the 16oz size PolyLube 1000. When I first opened it it was full to the top. A couple weeks ago, I opened it again and found it collapsed in the container, shown in the picture. 

WTB is offering a rim/rim design described as conforming to a standard, the Tubeless Compatible System. The rim has a rounded well over the spokes along the center. Is this rim incompatible with clincher tires and tubes? And is there anything special here compared to other tubeless designs? Here's the description: $URL$ Here's what they say: 

Is there a way to tell if a spoke or spokes are too tight, if you don't have access to a tensionometer? I had to tighten several, and obviously I don't want them too tight, otherwise you risk broken spokes and damaged nipples/rims/maybe hubs. 

Sizing tests on the frame and a reminder on the stem, both with Scotch tape. The one on the stem has been holding for three months. 

What's the channel in the brake track of this rim for? (I think it's in the brake track, anyway, and that the brake pad would cover it.) I would have thought it better to have an unchanneled surface for better brake contact. Note that rims have a channel on the inside for seating the tire bead, but here I'm talking about the one on the outside of the rim. 

Is it normal to collapse so much? It was warm when I first got it, and it was probably packaged at room temperature, but now it's around 30F. Maybe there was an air pocket, released as the grease pulled away from the sides of the container? I've only used a volume of about five stacked quarter-dollars (two hubs' worth) dabbed from the top in the middle. 

(I'm shopping for an 80s/90s steel frame bike and the GTs may be a possibility. It turns out I kinda like a horizontal top bar for the look of forward motion that to me a compact frame doesn't have.) 

At one point I had to replace my rear V-brake mech (at the wheel). At first I tried a Shimano BR-M432, recommended by and bought from my LBS. I brought it home to do it myself, but the more I looked at it the more it seemed like a bad fit. In two significant ways, the Shimanos were shaped differently (see pictures) from the generic brakes that came with the bike. The mechanic at the LBS insisted he could make them fit, but in the end I returned them. Instead, I bought something off eBay that looked like it had the same design as the one I was replacing. That's what I'm using now. So my question is, was the mechanic at the LBS right? Would the BR-M432's have worked? (The reason I'm asking is my current brakes really could be better so I'm looking at this again. I assume the Shimanos were more like a standard than the generic ones I have, meaning fit at the mounting interface will likely be a problem with any good replacement brakes?) In the pictures you can see two potential problems, 1) the return spring mounting pin is shorter and 2) the brake body doesn't slide all the way onto the mounting post on the frame. Together, these mean the return spring pin penetration is about 3mm or 4mm less with the new brake. On top of that, the new one's return spring pin is conical on the end, not squared off, giving it even more wiggle room.