I haven't found information about bench pressing this way being dangerous. I assume it's possible if you really lose stability yet refuse to drop the dumbbells, which is not something that most of us would do. Anyway, it's pretty easy to solve this - just get some wooden/plastic piece to put your feet on. 

There are no certain rules/methods to be considered "ideal". Each of the recommendations you see in videos & articles are based on research assumptions that may conflict (for example, progressive overloading means a very proper warmup and preparation for the final sets, but in contrast you may "waste" too much energy in these mid sets), but still most of them make sense, so the best way to test them is by trying and seeing if it's good for you (calculable gains as well as your general feeling). As long as you're satisfied with your program's results, in numbers and in the mirror, keep going, and keep in mind that results should be tested in the long term. In addition to the rule #1 of dedication (diet and training), I follow a general recommendation by Arnold who says that you basically need to "surprise" your body since it gets used to your sessions over time. It means that you should change your plan and methods from time to time, sometimes the exercises order, sometimes the weight/reps for a set and sometimes the whole program. One of his videos where he mentions this can be found here. 

First of all, these tests are definitely not limited to upper body strength. In fact, lifting and carrying heavy weights require very strong legs and lower back. Assuming you have at least 3 months of preparation, I strongly suggest following some strength training plan such as Starting Strength, StrongLifts 5x5, etc. These strength plans for novices may help you increase your overall strength significantly in a pretty short time, and since the tests you mentioned are consisted of short & concentrated challenges rather than endurance challenges, I think that this will be the best approach. 

Though, the affections is very minor (about 2 cm range). To sum up, studies from recent years actually state that high protein diet is good for most of us, so if such powder may help you to increase your overall protein consumption (which is presumably not high enough according to your post), I recommend you to take it. 

(This answer is according to your goal, hypertrophy) Reaching failure shouldn't be your goal. According to a few articles I read (a very good one can be found here), training constantly to failure may hinder your results. I have two main rules in this topic (both also appear in the article): 

It's hardly possible to give you a handy tip without referring to your whole diet program, and it also depends on the type of protein shake you take (whey or blend), but in general, both gives you a decent and clean portion of protein and you can rely on the first as much as you can rely on the second. On the one hand, consuming a lot of tuna on daily basis is considered problematic due to the high level of mercury in it. On the other hand, protein shakes, especially with water, don't make you satiated at all, so if you're on a low calorie intake diet, consider eating vegetables around that time. 

In addition to that, remember that calves are actually used daily, so it's a bit harder to challenge them. Vary the reps range, do supersets, etc, anything that will shock your body. Don't train the same group on consecutive days, but find the way to increase the muscle stimulus in the current workouts. 

There are more parameters to take into account (for example, body adaption), but that's the general idea. You don't have to perform any sports in order to lose weight, but it definitely helps, and has more positive effects on your body. In order to develop muscles, you need to stimulate your muscles, cause them damage and thus encouraging your body to support them and make them bigger and stronger. This is also not a simple topic to sum up in one paragraph, but my main suggestion for you is to have a plan. The web is full of beginner's plans, and some of them may be even bodyweight-based. As long as you're not going to the gym, these are (in my opinion) the most essential bodyweight exercises. Each of them has dozens of versions: 

That was a brief. If you are really hardcore into this subject, you should read about recommended foods as well as foods to avoid, but keep in mind that most of these researches are based only on statistics. 

In my opinion, this plan is not efficient and therefore you should change it. There is a couple of reasons for that: 

About 10 days ago I started feeling a strong pain in my right forearm in certain movements. I consulted the doctor and he said it's presumably a stretched tendon, the expected healing time is up to one month, and that I should avoid exercises that involve forearm stress at this time. As I mentioned, it's noticeable only in certain movements and in the gym I faced it only in shoulder training. However, I prefer to avoid the risk and follow his orders. My question is which upper body exercises may be considered "not putting stress on the forearm", if it even exists. For example, I thought at first that bench press may fit in when done with moderate weight (10-12RM), but in the end of the concentric part of the move I do stretch the forearm. Any idea for such exercises? 

First, regarding schedule, I'd recommend you to consider adapting the intermittent fasting method. Since I began to eat according to it, my hunger became much easier to handle as I am not much hungry during the fasted state and my meals became biggers. Regarding food, the answer is vegtables. They are rich in fibers and have low glicemic index, therefore helps your feel sated for a relatively long period. The choice of which vegtables to consume is not crucial, but try to primarily plan on on green ones (lettuce, cucumbers, etc). The best way would be probably preparing a homemade salad with some high-protein food added (chicken breast, tuna, etc). 

Is there not a simple rule that "if you burn more calories than you take in...?" The answer if "Yes, but...". The body gets accustomed to a state of calories deficit and enters a more "efficient" mode where it uses less calories to survive, in addition to muscle mass loss which results in less energy required for weight maintenance. Few tips: 

Find a version of each exercise that you're able to perform, preferably at least 8 reps. For example, here's a video of 16 pullup variations, from easy to insane. Find your level in these variations. If you wanna use dumbbells wisely, one set is not enough in the long term. You should build your own set, or, which is much easier, register the nearest gym. 

Have a proper diet. Yours is unclear from the post, but if your carbs intake comes from a single banana and a few beers, it's far from being ideal. Do a carbs load once in 7-10 days. It helps maintaining your metabolism rate, which becomes slow in a long period of calories deficit. When other things don't work, reduce a bit more your deficit, changing your diet or adding a cardio session. 

But more than all of these, I strongly recommend you to change your goal. Chin ups are great but they definitely don't cover all the major muscles of your body, so unless you train for a "max chin ups" contest, you should go for a different program, which eventually will also lead in the long term to more reps in chin ups. 

In a side note, as your goal is getting muscle mass, remember that nutrition is crucial, and almost no gains will be made with a bad diet. Good luck! 

Getting back your stability and ROM is extremely important. My physiotherapist said I could stop when the leg was "almost" back to normal, but today, almost a year later, I still feel a difference in the ankles functioning. Keep going with this training even if you feel your functioning is relatively fine, because the process "stops" when you stop practicing. Do single leg exercises. Lunges, single-leg leg press and later single-leg squat, single-leg leg curl, and maybe even single-leg calf raise (though I didn't try it myself). The strength difference between your legs increases on every day of "rest", so this is important for "balancing" your muscles. Get back to everyday functioning as soon as possible (recommended by your doctor, of course), in order to shorten your recovery period. 

There are plenty of articles and forum threads that explain why it's better to bench press with your feet stable on the ground, and the keys are always stability and tension. A quote from one of them: 

For a couple of months I'm trying to get leaner, therefore I'm logging my overall food intake in order to keep a constant amount of calories deficit. I'm a male, 22 y/o, 186 cm/6'1", 82 kg/181 lbs. Using 6 different RMR calculators, I've gotten the following results: 1875, 1878, 1968, 2167, 2253, 2254. The major disparity between the results got me wondering how do these calculators work, since they are not aware of my fat percentage and of how "fast" my metabolism is. Is there any way to estimate my RMR more precisely? In addition, your I entirely count on RMR when deciding how much calories to consume every day? Thanks. 

It depends on what the specific site gives you: BMR, RMR, or RMR + estimated calories that you burn according to your lifestyle. Most websites offer the later two. If you're not working in a physical job, the best approach will be sticking to the RMR calculator and add the calories that you burn in your workout (100-150 for a strength session and whatever the machine says in a cardio session). One thing to remember is that these calculators never reflect precisely the real needs of your body. Track your progress and change your total intake if things are going too slow/fast. 

Your workout's level of success depends on many variables, so don't deduce that you have serious problems after 4 days. It may be related to stress, insufficient sleep, some hard work you've done, and some days we are not at our best for no apparent reason. Anyway, if your goal is to maximize your chin up reps while not doing other exercises, I recommend the following: 

When it comes to choosing a plan after such a long break, a good approach will be treating yourself as of a beginner. That means starting with a full body workout about 3 times a week. The reason for doing that is to let your body accommodate to the "new" stress it's going through. Don't avoid compound & heavy exercises such as deadlift and squat, but don't go too heavy too soon: in this "coming back" period, maintain a relatively high repetitions range for such exercises (8± per set), start with light weight and increase it rapidly from day to day. After about 4-6 weeks, it will be a good time to move on to your next plan based on your goals. 

This form is wrong because your stability is bad. It's very important to keep a stable & core-involved position during your bench press, which means contracting your abs and keeping your feet on the ground, pushing through your heels. Personally, I can affirm that my bench quickly improved by about 10 pounds since I started following this approach. It depends on your goal. If you're training goal is developing pure strength, it may help, but then your should consider doing dead press (here's a video example). If your main goal is hypertrophy, there are better approaches. 

As far as I've read about this topic, your method (called a triangle) is considered useful for hypertrophy, but your descending pyramid (the second part) should be taken to muscle failure on every set. This way, the ascending pyramid is considered a warmup and then you get to a few sets that do challenge you while letting you perform a decent amount of reps, unlike a fixed weight to-failure sets where you may find yourself reaching failure too early in the set withing a set or two. As I mentioned, it's good for building muscles, but I don't think that this method affects fat loss in some particular way. Obviously you can add it to a superset or a triset and then things are different. 

In order to lose weight, you need to be in calorie deficit. According to your parameters, your daily calories intake for functioning is around 1950-2000 per day, so as long as you'll consume less, you lose weight. When performing aerobic training (running, swimming, cycling, etc) you burn more calories and thus your calorie deficit increases. Strength training will also help for two reasons: 

First of all, soreness is definitely not a good tool to measure your training session quality. There is some correlation between the "damage level" and the feeling of soreness, but the lack of soreness doesn't indicate a too low-intensity workout. There are a few points I suggest you to think about in order to assess your training: 

Protein powders are not different than "natural" high protein foods such as cottage cheese, poultry, eggs, etc in terms of "being natural". It's sort of real food with other ingredients removed so you'll be able to consume a lot of protein without consuming other organic compounds. In addition, I actually read about a few researches which state that high protein diet affects your height for good. An example from the following article: 

Since you have gained a noticeable amount of muscles while doing exercises for your obliques (obliquus externus abdominis), it makes sense that your waist circumference has minorly increased. In my opinion, you should look at it in a positive way because it represents the gains you've made, and anyway it's not gonna significantly increase anymore due to this muscle's structure. You can see some crazy obliques here - you probably notice that it has a limited effect on hip size (yet it does). I read once an interview with a coach who recommends his bodybuilding trainees not to do too much of obliques training because it may be a hindrance on their way toward the V-shape. Yet, if you're not going for such contest, core workout for strength & stability is more important than avoiding another cm in your circumference. 

It depends on how bad your injury is. When I went through a pretty serious sprained ankle injury, I did a lot of physiotherapy exercises for improving the stability and the ROM of this area before starting leg training again, including treatment with electricity and a very painful stretching massage. Only about 3-4 months after the injury I started working out again, starting with a high rep range (about 15/set) and putting a little effort into separated legs exercises (lunges, single-leg leg press, etc). My conclusions are the following: 

Go active. The Western culture have become way too inactive, a way of life our body is not accustomed to. Especially if you spend hours in a deskjob, make sure you exercise or perform some jogging on daily basis. Saying that, you shouldn't go hard & heavy everyday. Watch your diet. It's easy to get lost in all the trends around, but the basic rules are quite simple. Maintain a sufficient intake of protein, consume fat from healthy sources and fit your carbs amount to your weight goal. The last sentence summed up the topic very briefly and you should go deeper to understand it better and create your daily menu. Don't overdo. More is definitely not always better. Create a routine that is sufficient but not extreme, so you would be able to follow it in the long term + you wouldn't exhaust your body to injuries. There are plenty of beginners plans for strength training online, most of them are more or less the same (or following the same principles). Marathoners and others who practice sports with extreme physical demands are not improving their health by doing so - health is improved by performing a considered level of sport, and as a hobby, and not a pro, I recommend to stick to this. Sleep enough. That's pretty simple actually - sleep is important and you should make sure you sleep enough (at least 7 hours, 8~ recommended).