I don't see "Akashic" or "record" in the linked "Glossary of Buddhism" ... so the term "Akashic" might be Theosophist and/or from a tradition other than Buddhist, but I don't know. 

Well, if here you are enjoying something, maybe I shouldn't go out of my way to complain about it and to tell you that your enjoyment or your behaviour wrong. If you were enjoying some "good movie", it might not be polite to interrupt and say you shouldn't. Still in this question you do seem to be asking, "what's wrong with it?" -- and so to be on-topic maybe an answer ought to try to tell you. I enjoy sex just like I enjoy good movie. Maybe there's some difference between enjoying a movie and enjoying sex. Assuming you mean "sex with someone else" then a difference is that sex can lead to wanting to find pleasure in, to repeatedly or perpetually find pleasure in, to control finding pleasure with someone else. That can lead to wanting to control or own someone, to assign to someone else the responsibility for your happiness, can lead to suffering for both of you. It's not quite like enjoying an inanimate object. Also a movie is shareable (anyone can see it), whereas a sexual partner is less so; so having a sexual partner could lead to isolation, jealousy, to not treating everyone equally. Also a movie (unlike a sexual partner) won't make further demands on you: maybe a movie will cost you a few hours, whereas desire for sex can cost a lifetime. Until and unless i become enlightened I will be driven by my needs. Well, it might be better to call sex a "desire" rather than a "need". Sometimes some kinds of addict might call their desire a need though: for example they might say, I need alcohol; I need drugs; I need people to admire me; I need to feel proud; etc. I think the way it works is something like: 

See also this answer, which lists 33 synonyms for (or attributes of, nouns used as names for, and/or adjectives which describe) Nibbana. 

Some versions of that show him with a "gourd". When I first saw that I thought it meant a "wine container", because this is how it was published in Paul Reps' book: 

I think we're supposed to distinguish between wholesome and unwholesome desire. I think the word for greed or unwholesome desire is Taṇhā (literally "thirst"). The Wikipedia article says, 

That's part of the "miracle of instruction" (i.e. it's a miracle and instructive). Towards the top of that same sutta, the Buddha says, 

I'm not sure that I should try to grasp this topic, for example because of the warning in the Sabbasava Sutta that questions like "what am I?" will result in various types of "views of self", a "thicket of views", a fetter -- and because I think it's an intellectual idea, which may be associated with "Mara". 

Another way to answer this question would be to say that the "cause" is karma, craving, and/or (in more detail) the 12 nidanas. 

I suppose some people might say that Buddhism is in decline, or perhaps was even lost after the first few hundred years -- I don't think so, I suppose that even at the time (which the suttas talk about) there was a variety of people. Still, I like reading, too, to understand what the ideals are. as a self-aware Buddhist, how can you analyse if your thoughts or actions are right, without having much knowledge about Dhamma (Dharma)? I think that maybe, without a knowledge of the Dhamma, you can't (determine whether your thoughts are right and wrong) -- that's a reason why you might (or should) want to know more about Dhamma. 

... implies that a stream-winner is defined by the ability to "distinguish what is well spoken from what is ill spoken". Also the Kaccayanagotta Sutta says that right view is a knowledge that is independent of others 

This answer says there are 9 types of conceit (including e.g. "thinking one is superior when one is not"), of which only 3 types are true (including e.g. "thinking one is superior when one is"). It says that a sotapanna is only capable of "true conceit". To say "judge people unfairly with self-conceit" would therefore imply that the Buddha is more deluded than a sotapanna. 

I think that at least some elementary Buddhist doctrine is helpful with its generic advice about "how". You wouldn't tell doctors just to get on with treating patients, without teaching doctors "how" to do that. You teach them skills ("wash your hands") and useful theories or views (for example, about "germs"). 

This doesn't answer your question but -- even if there are (written) records I guess it may be difficult to identify plants from written records: for example even if they record the common (local) name of the plant and where to find it, that historical information may not be useful in modern times. So instead of historical Buddhist records, you might be interested modern scientific studies like (to pick one at random) Wild food plants and wild edible fungi in two valleys of the Qinling Mountains (Shaanxi, central China). 

So apparently a "white lie" intended benevolently to shield someone from harsh truth must be phrased skillfully. In the case of "the student got kicked out from a University", if you wanted to white-wash that, perhaps you could reply to repeated direct questioning by saying things like, 

Is it true that a terminal illness can be seen in a "positive" way, like purifying past karma? Yes I think there's opportunity for "spiritual advancement" or whatever you want to call it, opportunities to become a different, better, more enlightened, wiser person. There's a verse early in the Dhammapada for example, 

Are there other such canonical stories of the Buddha's past lives in the Pali Sutta Pitaka, outside of Jataka? There's a bit in DN 16 -- not detailed, only that he was reborn here from a previous existence in Tusita heaven (the which event is one of the reasons why a great earthquake can happen): 

Is only self awareness enough to be a human being? I think that from a Buddhist point of view, the good thing about being human is the ability to understand Dhamma. There's also a koan called Joshu's dog: 

Apart from ideas like "Jesus is God and is also the Son of Man, and therefore God i.e. Jesus is a person too who you can relate with", I think that when you say "a personal relationship with God", there is only one person in that "personal relationship" (because God is not exactly a person). And so, "a personal relationship with God" means "a person's relationship with God" not "a relationship between two people one of whom is God". So if you're talking about "a person's relationship" it's possible for a person (i.e. a Buddhist) to develop their "personal relationship" with something other than the "God" of other religions. Buddhists develop some relationship with some combination of Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha. 

MN 24 for example explains that "knowledge and vision of what is and is not the path" is one of the (several) stages of enlightenment. 

I think that dukkha is the reason why the reader is looking for a way to stop the cycle. I think that, because the "four noble truths" were the first thing that the Buddha explained, during his first sermon after enlightenment (with dukkha being the subject of the first of these four noble truths). The fact that dukkha is the cause of the search (i.e. that "the search is the result of stress") is also stated explicitly, in the Nibbedhika Sutta: 

I guess you mean "repeat the words"? I think not. As an analogy: if I decide to go somewhere, then I might be verbal or have some specific direction[s] initially -- I might decide, for example, "I will travel, to that place". After I have started, while I'm going there, however, I won't keep repeating that same phrase -- instead, I am conscious of 1) being somewhere 2) moving in a direction toward a destination 3) what I see on the way. If I decide to start meditating, instead of what I was doing before, then discursive thinking (producing words) stops. Instead of thinking about words, I think about "real" (defined as "actually existing as a thing", so physical as well as sentient) people, who as people exist here and there in directions more or less far away from me. Thinking about that physicality (with the intention of being kind "in real life") switches off my discourse. Switching off my discourse, my breathing changes, instead of shallowly I breathe deeply. Conscious of suddenly breathing relatively deeply I'm conscious of being more relaxed, of well-being, of well-being being associated with metta. Conscious of well-being (or of "travelling in the right direction") I have no desire to change that direction, and instead want to continue in that state. If you're travelling (for example on foot or by car) and start to veer towards the right or the left, then you correct the steering to resume the right path/direction. If I start to leave the state of well-being then I'm conscious of what I'm beginning to do wrong (for example, thinking about myself instead of expanding my conscious attention to include and wish well towards other people, or for example beginning to think discursively again), and undo that (don't continue in the wrong or less rewarding direction) to return to the right direction. Doing this in bed is especially pleasant: relaxed, warm (under cover), eyes closed. Eyes closed makes it easier to expand/extend my awareness (or imagination or consciousness) of space (instead of being stuck behind my eyes and looking in one direction, i.e. visual consciousness). Warm and relaxed, and breathing, contributes to the feeling of well-being. Sometimes my thought (or focus of awareness) comes back to my body (instead of being 'out there'). I think that's because it "needs attention" e.g. it's tense or uncomfortable in some way ... it's enough to consciously relax that part (musculature) that feels of tense, for the feeling (of tenseness) to go away, after which my mind is free to leave again. It usually isn't very long before I'm asleep, though. See also Meditating as sleep aid. Another pleasant thing about a metta meditation is that it's time to do nothing except goodwill (i.e. wishing people well). It's time to stop making practical plans, to switch off the discursive machinery. 

I do not know what is my Dhamma anymore Part of the dhamma says that all dhammas are anatta (dhammas are not "me", and not "mine"). So the question, with the word "my" in it, looks wrong to me. Here it is again without "my": 

In Buddhism, "Brahmā" is a type of deva. (In Hinduism, Brahmā is the creator god, see also Brahman.) Some online references to descriptions of the Buddhist "Brahmā" include: 

If you're unable to help then it might mean literally suffering with: someone said of the earliest Christians that they'd love (have compassion for) each other; that if for example they didn't have enough food for two some day, then they would fast together and then eat together on the next day. "Sympathy" is I think essentially just the same as "compassion", only it derives from Greek instead of Latin: "sym" means "with" and "pathos" means "feeling". What the word means in Buddhism Wikipedia's Karuṇā article seems like a fair introduction. It says, 

The first story of the Dhammapada is about someone who couldn't see with their eyes. Maybe someone with psychosis cannot properly see with their mind (and cannot form criminal intent). 

The following seems to be an apposite quote for this question. The commentary to the Shorter Discourse on the Lion's Roar says that the following quote says that eternalism and annihilationism are, both, views which do not lead to liberation i.e. the end of suffering. 

Is a personal opinion/answer OK? There are different types of dukkha and I think you can see aspects of any/all of these in breathing. 

I guess, depending on what you mean by "realising", it's not sufficient, and perhaps the answer is no: "impermanence" is not mentioned in Itivuttaka: The Group of Ones, which mentions more than a dozen other "one thing"s as being sufficient 

Bikkhu Bodhi quotes that passage in a couple of his essays, e.g. The Taste of Freedom and The Living Message of the Dhammapada. 

If you feel hurt by someone and will not "forgive" them, then you would retain feeling hurt and enmity. 

I think that unwholesome states of mind are conditioned and temporary. It's difficult to generalise (i.e. I was told there are different results/experiences for different people) but if someone has a mental illness they may have seemingly unwholesome states of mind, and this condition might last for decades, for a lifetime -- but/or, a change in medication, a change in their social situation (friends), might condition a thorough "night and day" change in the states of mind even before the end of this life. Sometimes it may seem that the range of (or the extremes of) experience is wider: i.e. a longer and more acute experience of a hell and/or a heaven (even in this life) than other more "normal" people will experience. I'm not sure that Buddhism rightly talks about what's "destined" for people, i.e. perhaps it isn't correct to ask about it: because you can't predict the future and it may surprise you; because you should have some faith in the possibility of salvation, of becoming enlightened, of teachers, of refuge, of the three jewels; because there's some scope of agency and good (or bad) intentions, i.e. results are not predestined; and because the ability to see the effects of kamma on specific people is one of the Buddha's supernatural powers (and the fact that he did it sometimes doesn't mean that we should assume that we can). 

"How to function properly in society after enlightenment" may be the same as before. There's a quote from Zen buddhism (which is explained here) which says, 

I think I remember a story told of the Dalai Lama walking through a crowd, and meeting someone in the crowd who had some mentally illness. According to the story, the Dalai Lama took that man's hand in his own and held it for a while, and the man (who had been unhappy) relaxed. The story was told as an example of His Holiness's compassion (and communication). 

One of the Dhammapada stories (for example) suggests it's possible. Dhammapada Verse 142 – Santati Mahamatta Vatthu 

Here's a version in French (I don't know whether buddha-vacana.org has an English-language translation of the Dhammapada) whose footnote gives the same explanation/interpretation of 'shore' as the accesstoinsight.org footnote does: 

In short, is having a goal of seeking financial success and money considered an attachment to the world? I think so, yes, but it isn't everyone who wants to be or who can be a monk (monks have no livelihood at all as such, and live via the generosity of laypeople). Still, Buddhism (especially later Buddhism e.g. Mahayana rather than Theravada) has doctrine that includes "skillful means". Many non-Buddhist cultures think you're clever if you're rich but not attached to wealth. I can't confirm from my own experience whether that's possible in practice, though there are examples in the literature of rich people being generous. Also your intention matters. If you're earning money to spend on showing off, to increase your pride, to spend on "recreational" drugs, etc., maybe that's not wise. If you're earning money to help other people or to repay your debts to society then maybe that's not unwise (and even if it may be attachment, isn't the same especially unskillful kind of attachment). The Zen story Publishing the Sutras seems to me an example of non-attachment within attachment: attachment (or dedication) to collecting money with a specific end in mind, and non-attachment in being able to renounce or change that goal if circumstances change. It's presumably easy, though, to spend your life on the accumulation of money.