As you can see a significant proportion of North America is considered to be vulnerable to this effect. Of course the vulnerable area will move with the expanding deserts to cover an ever larger area as the deserts grow. 

Society defines them all as one religion, that's what keeps them together. That they worship various different gods in the pantheon is about their role in that society. Sailors worship the god of the seas, farmers fertility, young people love, there's a god for everything you need and every aspect of life. Because all the gods in a pantheon have a specific role, they don't generally have trouble coexisting, sharing followers, or with people making sacrifices to different gods when in need, say a merchant about to take a long voyage. The gods aren't just gods, they're gods with a job, a role to fulfill, and a reason to speak to one rather than another. 

The total lack of consideration for embouchure by the average child is compensated for by the shape of the mouthpiece. The shrieks emitted from these poor instruments merely a function of how hard said child blew down it. While this particular instrument may not be ideal for your situation, the basic principle of design would certainly be transferable. 

Dredging The first thing to note when you search for dredging is that it's not Wikipedia at the top, it's an advert for a dredging contractor. This isn't something that can be ignored, it's a matter of ongoing maintenance in any managed or artificial waterway. When water enters, whether through the channel or as runoff, it carries suspended particles that are dropped as the energy in the water drops. The more initial energy the water has, the higher the particle load, the more the silt builds up as the flow slows. Most things that end up in the water eventually sink, adding to the build up. Plants will grow and die in the water, fish will poo and die in the water, animals will occasionally die in the water. There's no avoiding the problem on an open waterway. Ultimately the people will have to dredge to keep the channels clear. 

If he likes rice that's always a good start. You can just keep it at the wrong temperature and at least get him good and ill. The same can be done with meat and fish but it can be more obvious. You can also transfer all sorts of entertaining bacteria around the house as part of routine cleaning duties. Flicker the lights to trigger photosensitive epilepsy. Slightly distort the sound coming out of any audio equipment to just make him feel ill. Sorry were we trying to kill him or just torture him slowly to death? Turn out the pilot light on the boiler but leave the gas on (sparking it later optional). Trip him with a roomba at the top of the stairs to the basement (master plug not in basement option: lock the door). In very cold climates, turn off the heating at night in winter and open some windows. In hot climates seal the house and gradually turn up the heating when he tries to turn on the aircon, hyperthermia is as bad as hypothermia. Turn off the water, say there's a pipe burst if challenged. 

(I have a vague memory of a Star Trek character refusing to use teleporters because of this) Are you, you, after you have teleported? Are you just a crude copy that thinks it's you? Does that actually make any difference? Also now there's some other guy who knows all your account details. Make sure you change all your passwords and bank details because he's gone to the Bahamas on your dime! On this particular note I'll leave you with Will Riker and Will Riker. 

Give them nothing to build a boat out of matched to the nastiest coastline you ever did see. No wood, no reeds, no beach, just jagged cliffs facing onto the Southern Ocean. Much like Zavodovski Island. House building is able to cope with this restriction, it just makes it a bit harder and more expensive to build, as long as they have the stone, but far from impossible. However by taking this option you're effectively limiting the people to stone age technology unless they already have active mining and iron working before the wall was built. 

Light Hussars are a reasonable choice for this, heavy cavalry would be a problem. Centaurs have a balance issues, they're much heavier on the forehand than they should be, this causes problems with speed, climbing hills and maneuverability when compared to a good horse. As heavy cavalry with additional armour, you're only going to make the balance problem worse. Hussars mostly dropped the heavy armour in the 17thC, however weight on the upper 'human' part remains a problem, no heavy armour. Weapon choice has similar limitations. Archers are good, muskets rather redundant as you're losing the speed advantage with the much slower weapon. A light lance would work but not a heavy spear or polearm. You have the same situation if you want to use a sword, keep it light (however you get into the eternal argument about cavalry swords and whether you should make them for cut or thrust). Possibly the biggest advantage that nobody has mentioned is the man on a centaur option and all the additional options you get when the two can work together or separately. The man in turn can carry much heavier weapons than the centaur himself as he won't upset the balance in the same way. 

You're going to need to bring up some real leverage to get the ordinary street people with no connection to the forest to care about something happening more than a mile from their front door in this period. One of the key ways to do this would be to downgrade from "city" to "county town" or even "village", the populations of these smaller urban environments are more likely to still have a connection to the surrounding countryside and depend on it more directly for food and fuel, and Sarriesfan's considerations about common law come into play. You'll also need a real rabble rousing speaker, these are harder to find and liable to be hanged quickly if caught. Your technological period overlaps the Bloody Code years in England where just about everything was a hanging offence. 

The second man here is going to have a lot more base points against his name before standing in the election. It's a standard case of paying the piper for the tune and your system is going to be very vulnerable to it. There's a second factor between these two candidates, that of available resources. 

A core of granite would allow mining in the outer layers but tunnelling through would be prohibitively expensive and time consuming. It's almost universally quicker and cheaper to go round granite hills. 

Average Joe was an amateur astronomer. While he was out in the wilds one day with his telescope he was kidnapped by aliens, carried off and kept as a slave on a world somewhere in the Milky Way. Having learned enough of their language and technology to steal a ship he now needs to find his way home. The ship is powered by narrativium and travels at the speed of plot, it's guaranteed to get him home before his dog dies as long as he points it in the right direction. What knowledge could Joe have that would allow him to find his way home, or is he lost forever? 

The hard solution is to change back to a currency that has innate value. Whether you use gold/silver coins or trade goods, it doesn't matter if it's forged if the value is intrinsic. The problem is with the fiat currencies we're using at the moment which, beyond the word of the government backing them, are utterly worthless. This does cause economic problems, currently cash flows are dependent on the amount of money in circulation not being fixed, banks and share traders believe they generate value by their trades, if the central bank wants to introduce "quantitative easing" (aka devalue the currency), they just have to declare that there's more of it in circulation. If the currency had actual value then they'd have to find more raw materials from somewhere and the current economic model is lost. Consequences Change back to cash economy All currencies effectively become gold backed The international exchange rates stagnate Moving money becomes heavy and riskier International trade becomes increasingly risky as payment needs to be carried not just transferred Increase in piracy on the high seas Money laundering becomes easier Inflated property prices would drop Large company pay day would be a nightmare, either you need to pay cash or everyone needs to use the same back (possibly even branch) as the company The list goes on. All in all, economic chaos. 

Chatsworth House That's as obscure a reference as any, but one of the things Chatsworth is famous for is the fountain. The Emperor Fountain was the highest in the world, reaching 90m, when it was built in 1843. It's gravity powered by a lake in the hills 122m above the house. This is really a game about plumbing. The shorter and straighter your pipes the less pressure loss as the water moves from source to fountain. The lower the pressure loss the higher your fountains will be relative to their source. 

Answer to an older version of the question asking about global effects The first problem is clearing up all the animal corpses. The second problem is the replacement food sources. Are you planning to just open the barn doors and let the hens out? Thousands of hens with no survival skills just left to starve and be eaten by foxes in the wild? Letting the sheep run wild across the hills wouldn't be as much of a problem, it would take them some years to die back to reasonable numbers and many of them are left out for much of the year anyway. Remember though that their wool keeps growing and growing. Overheating or exhaustion from carrying the weight would eventually kill them, but not for a while. The milk herds are going to be a problem, those cows need to be milked every day. how long without being milked before they have serious problems? You'd have to ask a vet, the internet suggests 2-3 days but no sources I trust (mostly vegan propaganda sites). This leaves the hens and cows being a problem before there's any impact on the food chain. Starting at the younger end of the scale with the vegan baby removed from parental custody. While I was working in medical circles there was something called a "muesli baby", of which this is an extreme case. Babies can't live on a vegan diet without supplements. Older children and adults on the whole will be fine with a few tablets, though most of the supplements probably aren't vegan. 

The biggest mistake he can make is being too nice. The dark ages and early medieval are largely dominated by subsistence farming. People got quite upset when the common land was taken away and enclosed into private lands but this was a key driver of people off the land and into factories and other industries. If he actually wants anything to change then he's going to end up the most unpopular leader in that historical period, people don't like change. You can force people into primary education, but this takes the children away from the work they were doing which makes people poorer in the short term, again this will be unpopular. You can industrialise processes, but this will be unpopular because it takes work away from individuals and makes people poorer. (See Luddites) What this basically comes down to is that to cause progress he has to risk riots, as a general rule, rulers didn't much care for riots, they preferred the quiet life. Progress comes from discomfort, it comes from having problems to solve, it comes from having a need to make things better, and a lot of the progress through that period of history came with some real discomfort. 

My instinct says that he can never get a message to them, due to the double lag of starlight and speed of light messaging. 

Pre-Tech hunter gatherer Barter Post scarcity for everyone Post scarcity based on slavery Common ownership of everything (true communism) 

Good and Evil When you get superheros you need supervillains to counteract them. When this starts to happen, the shades of grey that exist in the world start to fade away, people are either good or evil. There's no such thing as necessary evil, just evil. There's no let up for being fond of (long haired white) cats, you're evil. This leaves you with a problem. To kill someone, or permanently restrain them is an act of evil. We might call it a necessary evil but once good and evil become black and white, necessary evil ceases to be an available option. You can't stop the Joker's reign of terror by killing him, that would be an evil act, which makes you no better than the Joker himself. It's what he's trying to get you to do, he's trying to commit suicide by Batman. To remain good, you cannot kill. You cannot deliberately kill anyone, under any circumstances. You may only capture and contain. Once you start killing, where do you stop? That one was really evil, the next was evil but not quite so evil, the last down the line considerably less evil, but by this point you've killed more than they have. Are you evil? Basically yes. In a time when everything is black and white, you cannot be a shade of grey or you'll be all by yourself with enemies on both sides. Too far to the left for the right and too far to the right for the left. 

The most recent pandemic was H1N1, Spanish Flu in 1918-1920. Viruses are much harder to treat than bacteria since the dawn of antibiotics, mostly with a virus you treat the symptoms and wait it out. In the case of Spanish Flu it primarily killed the young fit and healthy, soldiers coming out of the war, killed effectively by immune overreaction. The spread can also be considered to be down to vast numbers of people on the move and living in close quarters who would not normally have done so (i.e. not during a war). I'm not going to write out the various theories of how such an aggressive strain of the flu came into circulation, but given the existence of such a strain you'd have to find some way of spreading it rapidly before the dangers became known. With current monitoring of causes of death for exactly the reason of preventing another pandemic, you'd have to have a war at least on the scale of the Korean War, with large numbers of troops manning front lines, coming from across the world to high density locations, with people flying in and out steadily. Otherwise it's going to be nasty but localised, covering no more than a few surrounding regions. See Ebola for reference. 

If they could have, they probably would have. Tall buildings have always been vanity projects, and the most vain have always been the cathedrals. That's where you spend your money if you want to show the world how great and pious you are. Castles (the only other deliberately imposing large buildings being built in the same period and the same regions) are more practical, they mostly top out in the 35-40m range. The cathedrals topped out at 150m with the now lost Lincoln Cathedral spire said to have been 160m. The first building to take the "tallest in the world" title from the Great Pyramid, it wouldn't have lost that title from 1311 until the Eiffel Tower if the spire hadn't fallen down in an Earthquake. Construction was a stone tower base, 83m, with a nearly 80m wooden structured spire on top. The principle of the spire is simply to show how tall you can build a structure. The taller you build it the richer and more powerful you are. Hence my initial statement, if they could have built them taller, they would have. 

Only a very small number of senior crew on a starship know how to properly plot course and speed to best effect and efficiency. Everyone else has their role but it's not navigation. Escape pods that automatically choose their destination, and don't allow the occupant to interfere, will return the largest number of persons to a safe destination. Any interference with the navigation systems on the pod could lead to arrival at an unsafe location, arrival at an unsafe speed, or failure to arrive anywhere at all. It also prevents an 'inside man' from loading pods up with high value goods and firing them off to pre-arranged locations for collection by pirates, as pods can only travel to Federation bases. This regulation reduces the weight and complexity of the pod and its controls. It also reduces the potential for crime, and makes the pod valid for completely untrained personnel. Let's consider some examples