I like the book of Sister Chan Kong, "Learning true love" (I've only the german version "Aus Liebe zu allen Wesen"). It is a biographical report about her time in Vietnam and the war-time, when she got in contact with the buddhistic dhamma and buddhistic practice (in contact with the vietnamese monk, the venerable Thich Nhat Hanh). It is, I think, a most impressing example how one can be mindful and still in action for peace, compassion, mutual understanding, de-escalation and social work. 

I have long liked $URL$ but in the last time he does not write too often, so I'm not really "up-to-date" with it.. 

As I understand things: Metta-meditation is not "magic", not something like "positive voodoo". In the first instance it is a training for you and your ability for loving kindness. Based on this it is also a stepwise training: you start with simple ones (loving kindness with yourself, your mama, your spouse, your best friend). After you have some fluent experience you change the subject to more neutral persons, and then even to some people you dislike (or you think they dislike you), or to rivals. The effect of the training - if successful for you : then your new way of impulses might have effects to the world... 

These marks are historically conditioned, related to the ideal of beauty at that time, or at least of the people writing those lists; seemingly rational arguments for long ears are a part of the idealization game, be they accurate or not. D. Ingram in Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha (pg. 302): 

(With the risk that this only corresponds to a certain interpretation of Theravada buddhism, in particular based on Mahasi Saydaw and Sayadaw U Pandita's texts.) Nibbana is "state" when mental processes (samsara, uniterrupted moment-to-moment arising of conscious experience) cease, thus it is a "state" called supramundane, outside of time & space. It is said to have a profound impact on how one relates to experience and can be achieved through vipassana (contemplation practice). Vissudhimagga describes 16 stages of insight naturally occuring during contemplation and the knowledge of fruition (phala-nana, #15) is just this. The reason why I put "state" and "experience" in quotation marks is that the "moment" is missing from consciousness (like discontinuity in time which you only realize when it's gone). "It" is never achieved permanently but its purification effects are lasting. The very first "experience" of nibbana is called stream-entry (sotapatti) and it can be attained repeatedly through practice. The Buddha said that Nibbana is achieved through vipassana (which cultivates wisdom, and rests upon morality/personality and concentration), as explained in other answers in more detail. 

First, because writing an own answer at all, I like to take the opportunity to thanks all contributors for their answers/comments. Second, perhaps "the Buddha didn't like me make bold statements like this..." ;-) I fell sick right in time before the meeting and I couldn't propose my prepared statement. In balance, I had time to listen to audio-talks; I took "the historical Buddha" by Werner Liegl (of course in german). And this reminded me to be not too fierce with the "non-mystic-Buddha" which should become the core of my intended statement! Of course I knew/know that, but it was surely worth to be recalled, that the concept of rebirth (in the sense which the Buddha gave it different from the Brahmanism/Upanishads) and the concept of karma - which for any adept/disciple are hidden/invisible in the beginning and is thus in general of the quality "mystic" . Of course this itself was not needed to be recalled, but getting reminded by Werner Liegel that it is well at the ground/beginning of the teaching, "the turning of the wheel", it is of course no petitesse, but one should surely give it the same reverence that I wanted to give the aspect on "nothing-hidden-in-the-fist". I think now, my first version of the statement would have been (at least) suboptimal, and sometimes one can even find some good in it, when a sudden problem prevents the intended action... :-) 

Find a place where they can welcome you, stay a few months, practice. Ordaining is not for lifetime for Buddhists, and you may change your mind after a few days/weeks/months/years, that's quite unpredictable, even though you may feel now you will stay a monk forever. No need to know that in advance. I can recommend the temple in Chom Tong, they have an international section (you don't have to speak Thai to train there) and do hardcore practice, which sounds like something you want. You can stay there both as a lay person or ordain if you want. 

Drug obsession is a problem of the first training; get rid of that obsession using suitable means (I'd give +50 points to Jeff's answer, it is great); they are designed for that -- by smart people who knew something about drugs. Meditation is not designed for dealing with drugs; while it could theoretically help (since it cleanses craving in general), in practice one would not be able to handle the strain of suffering being brought up, since a relatively stable psychological basis is missing. Even MBSR will not let you in unless you are 1 year clean; and that is relatively light practice. 

Training the ability for selflessness, peace and compassion is very likely advantaguous for a (socially organized) species, even if it looks sometimes disadvantaguous for an individuum. And - if I'm relaxed not to run blindly and hysteric for reproduction, that's in a materialistic view surely benefitial for me (and as well for possible reproduction-partners ... ;-) ). In short: emancipation from the totalitaristic greedyness of the "evolutionary paradigm" is -in my view- a step forward in the evolution of human kind (and that is also the background for answering this here in a buddhism-forum: the teaching of the Buddha can be understood as teaching for emancipation from greeds ("tanha") attachments and illusions.) 

There was a conflict with (Buddha's brother in Law(?) or cousin) Devadatta (see the Devadatta-suttas). Devadatta tried to become chief of the sangha instead of the aged Buddha; and to collect adherents/followers he claimed 5 (?) stronger ascetic rules. Because there was this conflict at all, thus the Buddha must have had milder ascetic rules and according to the transmission in the suttas, he had refuted that radicaler asceticism rules (but allowed them as individual training). So I would put the answer to your question 

The Chom Tong tradition (linked in the answer above for Thailand already) also has a number of centers in Europe and around (incomplete list): 

My approach personally is lot of practice (daily & retreats), and picking up theory if/as needed. Otherwise it is just dry scholasticism, and I've had enough of that already. 

morality training, which we'd today probably call "personality development" int the broad sense: that includes biological, psychological, social, relational, ethical arrangements which makes the next two steps possible. concentration training (samatha) which leads to tranquility of mind, and is a prequisite for the next one (in some traditions concentration is trained simultaneously with vipassana, but is still conceptually dinstinct). insight training (vipassana) which leads to freedom from suffering. 

Metta is a type of samatha (tranquility, concentration; 2nd training) practice (with a particular object: loving-kindness), so it feels good and has other benefits -- but it does not produce any insight/wisdom. It is not a criticism, it is simply not its goal (just like eating does not produce wisdom, but is still something very useful). I've seen people doing "too much metta", as an escape from looking at negative stuff they had inside, in particular hatred they were unaware of and could not deal with. As you say that it feels addicting, be aware of attachment to those mind-states (attachment to jhanas is removed only at the moment of final enlightenment -- says the theory of 10 fetters) as much as possible. What produces insight/wisdom, and also removes negative conditions (incl. attachments), is vipassana (3rd training). Take good care to do enough Vipassana, that's what ultimately brings more understanding about oneself and better life. 

"(...) not even Alaro Kalamo has faith/conviction, but I have; not even Alaro Kalamo has persistence, but I have (...)" Palikanon.com, MN26, Kay Zumwinkel 

I like the story, where the Buddha explains how different people get a different perception of the world because of their individual access (sensual/mind-structure/etc) of the "things". He took the example of an elephant where a group of blind people touch the elephant and shall describe the elephant by what they are sensing (and then extrapolating). I think that would be a fun for the children - to get the eyes covered and then try to recognize some toy-animal by touching only a part. And then let the children compare what they found out... One need not reduce this to the question of form; the teacher/constructor of that animal (or whatever) can put different material to different places (feather, leather,...) and so on. Possibly one can construct analogies to perception of interaction of the people in one family or school: there will be some short scene be played by the teacher (and helpers) and the children can observe the same scene from different locations and/or different filters (no sound, only a keyhole to look at). The scene might be something from the view of the kids: papa gives a bit money to one child and not to another one. Some kinds can see the face of the papa (and the grief on it, because there is not enough money for all) and some cannot see the face of the papa but something else...(room for your phantasy). Then let the kids re-tell what they have seen and how they felt, and let them compare... Just a spontaneous idea, for what it's worth... 

Note that in 1. and 2. you are supposed to manipulate your experience as a part of the training, where as in point 3 (vipassana), non-manipulation is essential. It is very important to be aware of this context, otherwise people might use meditation instruction in daily life (e.g. being mindful of pain or other's suffering instead of going to see doctor or helping someone). During vipassana practice, you should be aware of things happening; this might include what you conventionally think you do, such as stretching or relaxing, but actually happening in a way by themselves (that is one of the 3 characteristics - anatta, non-self or non-controllability), though we are often in habit of ascribing them to ourselves and making ourselves guilty of such actions, thinking we are performing "badly". Before you relax, try to become aware of feelings taking you there (disliking, maybe feeling of helplessness, thoughts about the pain never going away, craving for peace or similar - dunno) which actually make you want to relax. And if you relax anyway, be mindful of judging thoughts or whatever else comes afterwards. As others said, fulfillment from the practice is something very hard to measure and is definitely not co-extensive with good feelings during the practice. In the long run, you actually want to bring bad feelings up (so that you deal with them), a little bit in the line of "no pain, no gain", but let the practice take you there, it does its own thing quite well if you don't interfere :) (PS: I attribute the 3 trainings discussion and difference in goals they have to D. Ingram's Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha.)