So, the user and the members of the group can read this file (I think). I added the root to the group ossec : 

The left part of the pipe is the response of your service, and the right is used for treating in your graph soft. EDIT 1 : 

And all works fine. During the install, I'd got the same fatal error and it was a problem in my DNS resolution. Maybe you have the same problem of accessibility (DNS, firewall,routing,vlan,...). 

Hopefully, your GPO has blocked the interactive sessions and could use these two solutions. good luck 

This script read an OID and store the result in the variable drive. it tests the evental error of snmpget and return 3 (unknown for nagios) if problem. The snmpget options are : 

You can prefix the name of your file and select his format like this example. And in the properties of your collector, you must select Restart the data set (sorry my interface is in french, you can see the image below) and select the duration of the task : 

In bacula, there is the option to declare the client to put the saved files : $URL$ By default, if you have only the option declared in your job, it will define the source and the destination of the restore job. If you want to plan a restoration, you can add the option in your job declaration. 

If you want to deactivate the notifications to all yours deveices. You can modify directly yours templates with . And for yours hosts with notifications you put le propriety in his configuration or create a specific template. 

You can put your command in a script with an output on the console. Bacula will write this output in the log file of your job. Like you, i have a job which save dumps of databases. For that, I have a script which do the dump before the job and a script which delete the dump after the job. Example of my script which do the dump before the job (it's in powershell but the idea is the same): 

You can use to log the executed process on your server. You can add a new collector and select all the counters for your process. When your process with weird activity starts it will be logged and you will be able to see the time when it starts and ends and which is his parent process. Moreover, you will be able to see all infos for this process. Be carefull, to select in yours counters the option to save the process which will be created after your perfmon. 

The result is very quick, and certainly no where near the limit of three whole seconds. Also, this doesn't happen on all hosts, for example, it happens on virt1, virt2, and a VM called nas, but not on any of the other VMs. Hopefully, there's a Zabbix guru here who can help. Thanks! ETA: Here are the stats that asaveljevs was talking about: 

I think this started happening after I accidently ran highstate with an appended to the end like . Any theories on how to get it back to the normal output format? 

I have several hosts I want to connect directly to my WAN subnet, eg., 1.1.1.1/29 (web, mail, and router for LAN). I have a web managed switch (DGS-1210-24), and was wondering if there were any security concerns with creating an untagged VLAN for this purpose. 

We have a Dell 1950 with a DRAC. The DRAC is assigned an external IP and we don't have access to the firewall to create any rules to secure it. Assuming the password is secure enough to avoid brute force attacks, can the DRAC have an external IP like this? My gut says no, but I've always worked with the OS, never with the hardware. Thanks! 

How would one go about objectively benchmarking different x86 server for their potential as x86 routers? One idea I had is to setup two subnets, 10.0.0.0/24 and 10.0.1.0/24, on opposite sides of a router. Then setup an Iperf client and server on the two subnets. However, this would only test raw throughput, and not how services like NAT and firewall rules act under load. What is an objective way to test the throughput a router could handle in reality, eg. test NAT, firewall, and thoughput all at the same time. EDIT: Is there a way to test a routers throughput directly without dealing with the bandwidth limits of the CAT6 cable in between. 

It looks brand new, and kinda like the world's smallest blade. It even has the all-purpose port thing on the back. Anyone know what it is? 

While appears to be the next best thing since sliced bread, I thought I'd post an alternative... You can use piping to unzip the log files before grepping them, without taking up disk space. For example: 

I would prefer not to change the permissions for security reasons. Has anyone done log monitoring of using Zabbix? And if so, how? 

is the version of snmp the community the output options By default, snmpwalk return the result of the system MIB. 

You could install nrpe server on your server and send snmp requests from your server to yours printers. Nrpd will receive the response of yours printers and send it to your supervisor. 

With this configuration, your server will not reboot after an update. Moreover, if you want to reboot your only after an update and at a time of your choice, you can create a scheduled task at the hour of your choice with a script will verifiy a needed reboot. The script: 

And you will have to install a soft which will treat your perf datas. It's not check_snmp_int.pl which will save your perfdatas. It only send his results like this : result of the check|graph1=... graph2=... example : 

1. Testing NRPE connection You can test your connection between your windows and Nagios via NRPE like this : 

You can use directly the command snmpget instead check_snmp because check_snmp will use snmpget (or other tool of netsnmp tools) and works on the result stored in a variable. I paste here the skeleton of a script I use for that : 

Moreover, you can test locally your command if you write directly in this file with the following syntax : 

To delete the oldest logs, you can go the Task tab and create a job for that. It's the default paramters of Windows : After all, you mus restart yours counters to apply yours modifications. good luck! 

Maybe you can use the GPMC, (Group Policy Management Console) opened with the domain admin rights. Or with powershell, you can use these commands always with a console opened with domain admin rights: 

If you want to have an idea of what happening on your server, you can use the Performance Analyser of Windows 2012. You can launch a record during 24h of all counters and with that, you will be able to see where come from your performance problem. It could be the processsors, the memory, the disks or one process. Be carefull, the report files generated by the analyser performances can be very big, think to split them during the analyse. 

The box dialog seems to be the acceptation of the hostkey of the remote server. Putty asks to confirm the hostkey to store this key in the registry of the user who wants to connect to him. If you want to bypass this dialog, you can force the use of a specified hostkey with the option. Moreover, you can explain to putty to use a serie of commands stored in a text file with the option. All these options are explained here : putty 

Ok, a little back story first, We have a Tomcat instance that connects to multiple service providers as a sort of "gateway." This Tomcat instance will generate errors if it cannot connect to a given provider. These errors are stored in a log file. The problem is that we need to monitor the file for more than just a given string, we need to use several regular expressions to filter through all the meaningless stuff so that we aren't waking up at 3am because a user forgot his password. ;) I already tried creating a python script that would sit between Zabbix and Tomcat, but with log files (that are rotated daily) that are in excess of 200MB, it's too CPU intensive (100% for 15+ seconds). I tried adding a "sleep(0.000005)" to slow it down a bit, but now it takes to long (> 1min) and still uses 25% CPU... All in all, the solution is overshadowing the problem and I wanted to reach out to you guys and see if you know of a better solution, or anything else that might help. 

With some work, would it be possible to end up with a single 900mbps pipe between the two building using this method? Theoretically, the APs should simply forward the packets across and reassemble them on the other side in such a way that the switches shouldn't even know that there was an AP there to begin with. 

You mention "rsync," so I assume you are using Linux: Why don't you create a tar or tar.gz file? Network transfer time of one big file is faster than many small ones. You could even compress it if you wish... Tar with no compression: On the source server: 

I'm new to VLANs, so take that into consideration... Lets say that I had a server set up to create a virtual interface that is set to be tagged as VLAN 3. For example, the following Debian config: 

I quickly through this together, so the quality may not be up to par. This Python script reads each line returned from the "lsof" command and checks to make sure that the "TYPE" column specifically does not include "IPv4" or "IPv6". 

This will search through the process name for . ETA: You can also test what processes will be grabbed by using . is the sister command to and accepts most of the same CLI flags, but instead of killing the command, it just prints info about the match. In your case you would run 

In your position, i would launch performances measurements with the windows tool performances monitor You will be able to see what process use yours disks and/or use your network ressources. You can launch a test just after a reboot and during a long time. I always record performances measures during several weeks. EDIT : If you can, you would launch the perfmon during the high latencies events. Because, if you launch before and if the responsible process is not yet started, it will not be loggued in the counters. others questions : 

On your VM, you could have a text file which contains the declaration of yours hosts. This file is in the configuration directory of nagios, or you can do a search with (host declaration) When you will find this file, you will be able to delete all the text in the brackets 

Are you sure your initial replication is finished ? To be sure, you can check in your event journal the event id 2214 which must indicate your initiale replication is correctly finished. Moreover, to verify the status of your replication, you can lanch this command : 

Until your initial replication will not finished, you won't be able to have a operational DFS. You can use before the initiale replication to accelerate the process. To verify the state of your replication, you can look at the backlogs, it's the files wich are waiting to be replicated, normally, you would not have more than 100 files in staying state : 

You can use the nagios plugins which contain the script check_netint. This script will calculate the bandwith of an interface from the datas stored in the MIB of your router with SNMP. 

The append of your volume can be one day or one job, and the used 20 days. This example is only available if you want to have one job/volume/day. 

The thresholds can be passed by arguments or can be fixed directly in the script on your client. Nagios doesnt store any of these values. Nagios reads these values from the perfdatas sent in the results of the command. If the thresolds are passed by arguments you can modify them in the concerned service in your nagios conf. 

It maybe related with the profile of the user which execute the script. When you execute it from ise, you implicitly use the profile of the current user and you do the screenshot of the current screen. But when your script is executed from task scheduler, it uses the profile mentioned in the conf of the task and may not have a opened session with a desktop. It for that you have a white image, there is not any desktop with this session. You can try to change the user who will executes with a user who have an opened session and see the result.the task can be launch manually for test.