I work part time two days a week. I've been invited to a staff photoshoot taking place tomorrow, on a day I don't normally work. In most cases I'd go, but I've got another job lined up for January, so I'll probably be leaving soon. While the interview went great, I'll only be getting salary details and potentially signing the contract later this week, so it's not a done deal yet. I don't think it would be right to go to the photoshoot and then put in my notice almost immediately after - those photos will be used on the website for the next year. And I don't want to reveal that I'm getting a new job before I've even signed a contract. Should I just make up an excuse not to go even though I'll risk my boss being upset with me? 

I'm a computer engineering student (3rd year) and I've been working with my company as a software developer for almost a year now. I work 16h a week. Since it was my first job in IT and I was a student I undervalued myself a lot; I agreed to $15/h (USD) and casual status, so I get no benefits. I've made a reasonable contribution to the company, and now that I have some experience, I'm working a lot more efficiently than I was before. I'm looking for part time status and something closer to $18-20/h. This is such a steep increase that I'm considering just finding a new job, but finding part-time work in software is a whole different matter. I'm worried that if I ask for this, I'd just be painting a big target on my back. From what I've learned, the software dev turnover rate at this company is large: no one before me stayed longer than a year. How can I frame this discussion to my boss (also the CEO, small company) without raising "fire me" flags? 

Should you not get any information on this person (even the information allowing you doing some research), be honest about it and ask them to tell something about themselves. You can do the same. 

Copy-paste it in the answer to the recruiter. Or ignore the offer. Let's face it - you've became (semi)automatically targeted by the recruiter, respond in the same manner. 

This way you won't mix irrelevant activities into your professional resume while keeping company A on your resume. 

You seem to have pretty normal questions concerning the meeting - why not ask them to your boss? Try to arrange a short (quarter to half an hour) meeting with your boss where you clarify your doubts. Or send them by email if the availability of your boss is scarce. 

Perhaps this is the reason for the meeting - to see whether this consultant is suitable for your problem? Do you have the name of this person? Can you Google/LinkedIn them? 

Our office assistant has a lot going on personally with a sick family member and stress. She is openly verbal about her personal issues. I offer a confirming ear sometimes daily. At the same time, everything at work is negative. She complains about all the little stuff to anyone who will listen. She is constantly speaking ill of other employees to other employees. Her communication had lessened regarding missing deadlines on important tasks which directly affects other departments. She makes snide remarks and slams doors and has become hostile. When I confronted her regarding the unnecessary comments stating its not acceptable to open my office door, make a snide remark and slam my door while I was on a customer call she started crying. I asked if she was ok? She said she feels like she can't do anything right and she isn't going to make it here. She can't get projects done and it's too much work. My boss spoke to her as well and she cried. We both tried to be rational asking for the same things to make sure we were on the same page. For example, we said if you have a task that isn't completed you need to communicate it so we can assign another team member or re-prioritize for the following week. Her response with us both was an emotional "I feel"... The last person in the position doing the exact same task worked 15-20 hours. She does far less and is at 32 plus overtime. I would like to look for another assistant because I don't think this one will stay/ or we can make her productive and happy. Any tips? Update- she was hired by my boss to complete admin duties. The previous position did data entry projects and errands. I did not hire her but am expected to provide her with work and manage those projects. My boss gives her other projects to complete. My question is should I look for another assistant? How can I repair this relationship? How can I speak to someone who is not rational and only cries and talks about their feelings when I present issues with completing her work. 

you want to work for company A (starting date unknown, salary acceptable, location excellent) but use contract from company B to improve the salary you want to start working ASAP and company B comes in handy (known starting date, excellent salary, acceptable location) you want to work for company A at all costs (you don't mind waiting, you accept the salary) 

If you're not willing to talk to the management, ear protection (with some note on your desk explaining why) is the solution. I know about the following: 

It is your first job in the industry, but you're already aware that you don't want to be pushy - that's positive. Communication is the key - a reasonable employer will work this situation out. Good luck! 

I believe there is nothing wrong in asking "what do you mean by..." if the topic is really unclear. Also concluding their ideas by "if I understood you correctly, you mean..." or "just for my understanding, ...". To avoid fuss refrain from making statements like "I don't understand what you mean", rather ask open questions instead giving the other party the possibility to share their thoughts. In the beginning it may seem as it is you, who has problems with understanding your colleague, but as the times go, they will develop the ways of communication leading to the situation that you don't need to ask additional questions. Anyway, it is not something that will happen immediately, it will be a process. Have patience, act proactively. Good luck! 

A few months ago I made a LinkedIn profile and filled it in with my skills and work experience. I didn't, however, get around to adding all my coworkers and currently only have one connection. There was a career's expo at my uni a couple weeks ago, which I attended and sent my resume in to a company I was interested in. The resume did not contain a link to my LinkedIn profile. I checked my LinkedIn today and saw that about a week ago, the HR manager from the company found and viewed my profile. For context, I'm a computer engineering student and most of my classmates don't have a LI presence either. I feel like the fact that HR manager decided to check my profile is a good sign considering that the company probably got hundreds of resumes sent in, but I'm concerned that she might have been turned off by me having pretty much no connections. Somehow I feel like having no profile at all would have made me look less antisocial. Am I overthinking this? 

Why don't you have some sections on your resume, like "occupational experience" where you state company B, and later on something like "other activities / voluntary work" where you state company A, giving the time frames of the activities you performed. For someone doing an extensive background check this would seem as: 

I clearly understand your problem. You can start with kindly but firmly reminding your boss that officially you are not allowed to use the product any longer and surely you won't be legally allowed to release your product without obtaining the licence from ABC. Happy flow is that your boss buys the licence or appoints you to purchase one. Sad flow - your boss will say "dobra, dobra" [all right, all right] meaning that you should carry on without a licence. It would be, (as far as I know the software agreements), breach of trial agreement. Whether you might have problems depends on your employment form (employee or contractor). To be 100% sure you should ask a lawyer. And yes, you should remind your boss to purchase the licence.