That question would be similar to, what when we cannot place any more gears to the crank? How would we compute stuff? Or this building will not fit anymore radio tubes or this board cannot hold any more transistors or this board cannot hold any more IC's - By now you should know where i'm going. If you take a quick look at the following image you will discover the lack of a CPU, central processing unit. This is an IBM computer from 81, it is carrying a lot of IC chips but not the architecture a person from the 90's is used to. Just because more's law is about to fail does not mean the technological development is about to slow down. Right now we are looking at 2 huge prospects in the technological terms. 

Depending on your definition of screens it would be possible to make a wearable (electronic cloth piece). With tiny components weaved in to it to make a diode, this diode can be made of materials that makes it glow (Light emitting diode) and then very small, like millions beside each other - this is possible with today's technology. The problems here is that someone decided to make screens the same way, many of you are properly watching this page on an LED screen. Either on the phone or a computer. So depending on your definition, this is a viable option, the problem here is the size of the GPRS network and GPS antenna tends to be quite large. And batteries also seems to take a bit of space, but a li-ion pack can be made thin and the size of a paper, and also li-ion is foldable. 

Well, this civilization (if it's still around, the gathering could be done by an automatic probe relaying data to a decaying control center filled only with dust and probably plant life in a ruined astronomy research complex on an uninhabited mud ball circling closer and closer to a dying sun...) obviously passed the great filter. But perhaps they do not understand how they did that. They want to find out, by examination, what stopped the other civilizations to understand the phenomenon better. They could be altruistic, trying to provide methods for other civilizations to pass. Or they could be trying to learn how to reproduce the circumstances needed for other worlds to be weeded out in order to secure their place as rightful owners of the universe. Or, tying into my first though about the civilization doing the cataloguing not being around anymore, perhaps they failed themselves but before transforming their homeworld into a ball of molten glass they launced this initiative so that other civilizations hopefully may learn from the failed examples of others. 

Make it possible only to teleport organic materials. This way humans couldn't transport weapons and clothes would need to be wool or cotton. Living beings would get sick from the transport, sometimes throw up upon arrival (equivalent to summoning sickness used in some games) making surprise attacks from untrained people close to impossible. Of cause nothing is foolproof, organic materials could be sent through mixed up and go boom. But as far as i know few WMD's exists that contains only organic materials. I guess biological warfare would get a step up. But as in most weapons race, so would the protection, antidotes, gas masks and so on. 

Tanks are designed with a limited amount of different screws, the purpose of that is in case of a breakdown one can take screws from a less important part of the tank and make a more important part working. This is really effective to make the tank move on even when it is almost totally destroyed. Diesel tanks are able to run on different types of oil based fuels. Many trucks are running on bio-diesel and i think that MC. Donald's transport trucks runs of filtered deep-frying oil. Though it is sparse, oil is available for a long while back mostly from whales, used to fuel lamps - it could be possible to filter that oil to make it run though it would be terrible expensive none the less possible. In the defense category, the tank is built to hold against an estimated of 50-100 times as powerful shot as a 12 pounder cannon, meaning The Monitors cannon (30lbs) would barely leave a dent, the most dangerous situation that would leave the tank in was if the belts was broken and the tank was siege'd waiting for the crew to get hungry or ambushed trying to get out to repair the track - though the crew might be a bit shaken and get some bruises from the shaking upon impact. So the most "dangerous" variable in this case is ammo and money. If you got plenty of both, the tank can run for a good while. 

It should be noted that iron is the heaviest element that can be produced by ordinary nuclear fusion in stars. Fusion that creates heavier elements does not release energy and therefore stars are not likely to produce them. Therefore likely core materials for a planet are probably below iron on the periodic table. Also that elements with odd numbered atomic masses are typically much less abundant in the universe. Based on their abundance in the universe C, Si, S are the most likely to form the bulk of a planet, but none of them are magnetic. Nickel is another possible choice for a core and it is magnetic, but much less abundant than Iron. Most materials will not retain any magnetism once they pass their curie temperature. For iron the curie temperature is 1043 Kelvin For Nickel the curie temperature is 627 Kelvin If there is magnetic field generated in a molten metal core it is most likely due to circulating electric currents in the metal rather than permanent magnetism. In that case, any conductive metal would probably do. Aluminum is the third most abundant element on Earth, and it is very conductive, so it is a reasonable choice. 

Having different classes of zombie with some being viable for civilized trade and diplomacy has been done, Fallout would be the obvious example. The best motivation would probably be trade, humans will have to provide some incentive for the Z's to cooperate and trade is the most obvious. There can also be the greater threat from the outside, perhaps there is something out there which the zombies would need human help to keep at bay? The sentient zombies would probably want to keep their mindless brethren out of the city or restricted to special zones where they can be used as labor but not threaten the status quo. The humans will be uneasy enough as they can't really tell the two kinds apart visually. (I mean, once you strike up conversation it'll be easy enough but people tend to be antsy around animated corpses, it's in our genes.) Basically, if you ask me, as long as there is a reason to cooperate the division and non-aggression will take care of itself. Sure, there will be fringe groups on either side which prosper from conflict, which in itself lends to interesting story leads. (Use modern conflicts like Northern Ireland or Israel/Palestine or basically anywhere you've got armed separatists as a reference point.) But there will be an uneasy truce as long as it's necessary and basically there's you story. No real need for walls, just a very paranoid police state in which parts that ultimately don't really trust each other have to cooperate to survive. 

So the answer is yes, I could go out tomorrow and sew a stainless steel shirt if I wanted and was willing to spend a few hundred dollars. And I could do it without having to invent any new technology. But I'm not sure I would ever want to because it would be pretty itchy and uncomfortable. 

It should be noted that a product like a nanobot would typically be regulated by the FDA or a similar agency. Most likely laws would prohibit anyone from selling apps for the nanobots unless they had gone through a lengthy approval process. Therefore the idea of allowing non-professionals to develop nanobot apps would probably require major changes in regulatory law. Only the most visionary medical companies would consider publicizing the hardware architecture and programming interfaces for their nanobots. Commercial cell phones became available in the 80s, but it wasn't until 2007 (when the first iphone was released) and 2008 (when the android was released) that phones with public APIs and free development environments were widely available to the public. 

In order to produce the gas for the Charles/Robert balloon trip, Almqvist tells us, 500 kilograms of iron and 250 kilograms of sulfuric acid was used. Suggesting, once more, that industrial production of Hydrogen was well within the limits of late 18th century chemical science. A more effective and ultimately cheaper way of producing hydrogen is the electrolysis method where you use electricity to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. This is also well within the capacity of most steampunk type civilizations (although it takes us into the 19th century. 

Even without nuclear power a civilization dependent on rivers for energy and travel could easily be wiped out if nobody maintains the river dams. (Or dikes if your civilization is the Netherlands. Imagine a world were all the land that's left is below sea level due to polar ice cap melting and then nobody knows how to keep the walls water proof...) It may, or may not fall withing the premise Luna wishes, but I will claim that the best way to come about this scenario would be for the right segment of society giving up with the right circumstances to make that surrender fatal for the rest of the world. What happens to us if all farmers burn their farms, animals and themselves due to some horrific insight? Can we survive if all doctors check out early to avoid the rush of the next pandemic?