One could argue that "nothing", which would be the absence of all things, would be permanent in this world. 

Assume that doubt is meaningfully defined. Or let's say we define doubt as , both the statement under doubt, and it's complement can be true or false, we do not know, the uncertainty exists. Imagine an ultimate doubter. In this scenario, the doubter can doubt everything, including him being in doubt. The doubter can make the sentence “I doubt that I am doubting”. This sentence does not break reasoning. Let me explain how. I doubt (A), that I am doubting(B). These are two different levels of doubt. This is a self referential doubt. Doubting that “I am doubting”, does not mean that the doubter is not doubting. Doubting entails both the possibilities, “I am doubting”, can be true, or “I am doubting” can be false. So the chain of recursion goes something like this: 

First, Objectivist principles are intended to be rational guidelines for maximizing long-term happiness. Accidents and emergencies are, by definition, exceptional events, and behavioral principles aren't always applicable. Secondly, Objectivism is against altruism in the sense of an obligation to sacrifice to others. It isn't globally opposed to acts of kindness or charity. The traditional objectivist answer to the question is that an Objectivist bystander should make as well-informed assessment of the risk of providing aid, compared to the value the other's life holds in relation to the objectivist, and act accordingly. This judgement can't be made by anybody other than the individual, because only they know their values. An objectivist who is drowning would call for help, in the hope that others would save him (i.e., believe that the drowner's value is worth the risk). It would be wrong for the drowner to believe that the bystanders had a moral duty to risk death to save him, but not wrong at all for him to appeal for freely given assistance. Personally, I think that a practical objectivist incorporates a little bit of game theory into their behavior, and knows that a some minor assistance to others as a general rule can grease the spokes of society... again, as long as it's freely given and reciprocal. 

But, in (2), (B) is true under doubt or statement (A), and since (B), is in doubt, it is not as True as (1). Again, the order of statements matter quite a lot. Consider the sentence, 

$URL$ Both these arguments look sound to me. You only have to argue that "nothingness", can exist. From there it's a short step to saying that it always exists. In the second case particularly, linking nothingness to the empty set, say that the empty set exists, then it is always a member of all sets that exist, due to it's simplicity. Of course, one would never be able to detect nothing, since one can only detect physical objects which exists, so actually proving the argument is impossible. 

This(C) is false, since we have already established in (A) that we are doubting, so it’s complement in a sense, that “I doubt, that I am doubting”, has to be True. Or, am I wrong somewhere in logic? ( I get my obvious current mistake, but trying to reword it meaningfully) 

"He seems to believe that a man has something more than just a brain, he thinks that there is something more in there and not just experiences" It's odd, isn't it, that otherwise rational men believe that sort of thing? I think the reason they do is twofold: One is that the brain (and mind) is a chaotic system; while it is deterministic, there is no way to predict what its future state will be. You have to wait and see. So, it is unpredictable, but not random... which gives a fairly rough description of what free will FEELS like. It seems self-evident that we aren't making RANDOM decisions, but also self-evident that we are MAKING decisions, not following a predetermined script. The solution in the past has been to say that we do not behave in a way either random or predetermined, but some ill-defined third option, generally due to the influence of some preternatural force (soul, essence, or some other evasive concept.) Secondly, there are huge but inevitable problems with perspective. When we start to reason or do science about ourselves, particularly our own consciousness or perceptions, it sometimes gets very tricky. We see this in philosophical problems of free will, solipsism, idealism, etc., and in scientific problems dealing with quantum mechanics, the anthropic principle, biological definitions of life, and so on. It's harder to reason about a problem when you are, yourself, a fundamental component of the equation. 

I understand the value of falsifiable beliefs. Often they make predictions, and are classified as scientific ideas, useful in churning out predictions. But do unfalsifiable beliefs have any value? Philosophically or mathematically or otherwise? I know value is a little vague, but consider for example the concept of eternal return. If true it would have a large impact. But, then it's unfalsifiable. Can't be verified at all. So a sentence A, if true would have a large impact, but it's unfalsifiable at the same moment, would you assume any importance to such sentences? 

We don't really know. However since we can observe that there is something, rather than nothing, we can guess that it must have been harder for nothing to exist rather than something. It's a guess and it need not be perfect, but I am afraid this might be as close we get to the answer of this question. There is something rather than nothing, because it was easier for something to be. 

The idea that it exists to strengthen the patriarchy is silly; the concept of fatherhood directly benefits the female vastly more than the male. According to evolution, it likely came about as a consequence of human's extended childhood. Because of the immense amount of resources that a human child requires, and the fact that a human woman is very limited in the number of children she can have in her lifetime, her mating strategy necessarily becomes primarily about picking a male who can share that burden...providing and protecting the child. Both males and females 'want' (in the Darwinian sense) to continue their bloodline. Males can become a father with very little investment, but children who have a father who invested in them are far more likely to survive and prosper, and are more likely to have children who do the same. Mothers who select fathers that do so are also more likely to have surviving descendants. This doesn't really address the purely ethical considerations of fatherhood; that's a philosophical question that depends on what ethical structure you have adopted. I'd say that most ethical frameworks have a conception of responsibility, though, which describes half of fatherhood... and of maximizing happiness, which is the other half. Men who haven't raised children are missing a fundamental joy in life, like men who haven't fallen in love or never appreciated art. 

Let's define logic as: A statement and it's opposite, obtained by applying the "not" operator, both cannot be true. The not operator is applied to the part of the sentence describing action or attribute. Example: a) The apple is red. The apple is not red. b) Swamy crossed over the fence. Swamy did not cross over the fence. If in a set of statements, there exist two statements which are both true, and are opposites, then the set is inconsistent. Do all paradoxes fall under the set of inconsistent statements or set of statements? (Assuming of course that I have reasonably and objectively defined "logic", and other terms). 

Are there any current modern mathematical or scientific arguments in favor of eternal return? I have read several against it here on this site. One which I could think of is that the Universe might not be entirely governed by mathematical rules. There could be a different kind of logic at the base of it all, making time circular. Causality might not be an entirely correct assumption. But these are too presumptive and bold. Does QM suggest finite number of states for matter under causal laws? And if so, does it follow that these finite states can only have a finite configuration under infinite space and time?