blurred vision in the affected eye poor, dim, or double vision in the affected eye oblong shape of one or all additional pupils issues with glare a bridge of iris tissue between the pupils 

You always win!: Your speedster can play almost any skill game and either be amazing (playing FPS/ any traditional sport/martial arts) or cheat to victory (playing poker and peeking at opponents hands/move an opponents darts midair if playing darts/get the answers to test by running around a room) etc... This might contribute to confidence in many social events such as bars, carnivals, street pickup games allowing your speedster to shine in many areas while putting in a lot less effort than normal folk. Ring of Gyges: There is an argument to be made that your speedster might have to deal with a lot of moral issues. Assuming your speedster is the only one she can steal, kill, commit petty acts such as putting individuals in awkward position (trip/draw on someone's face/undress a coworker at work until they are fired) without impunity. She couldn't even be perceived. Having the speed ability is a burden or a vice. Dealing with the cost of time: Your speedster can interact with many people face to face with basically no lag time in terms of getting to an individual. Your speedster has also had a life where most of the time she can ask herself "Oh if I want X task to be done, I'll just do it really quickly and I still have my whole day ahead of me". Cleaning/traveling/maintenance/possibly her job can all be optimized by going faster. It might be frustrating that hanging out with people consumes so much of her time when she can be doing other things. Consider going out on a date to the movies. She is probably accustomed to speeding up all movies and then perceives everything normally at relative speed so she can watch an entire movie in seconds. NOW when she goes on a date to the movies it's a huge time sink. In this way the power makes her very selective of the people/places/events she interacts with and perhaps even a bit impatient. Even hanging out with someone that speaks to slow can be a huge burden of time on the speedster. Anxiety/Guilt: Just because she can think faster does not make her think better. There may be some circumstances where she sees a problem, but is helpless to solve it. Panicking while the world is in slow motion. Worse yet, a circumstance where she could have solved the problem but only thought of the way in hindsight. For instance, if in the speedster's past a helicopter fell nearby her and only after it fell to the ground exploding she realizes she could have spun her hands real fast and lowered the helicopter to the ground slowly. Or perhaps some sort of Gwen Stacy situation Food: OK so here's how she should eat. She will typically eat a cheeseburger when she is hungry 3 * a day (cheeseburger is example, substitute for meals). So that is 1 cheeseburger every 28800 seconds. Every day she goes into super speed mode, run the following calculation (keep adding while doing it per day)=> **(relative seconds spent in speed * power level (0%-100%) * 86400) ** Whenever she breaks 28800 that's another cheeseburger she needs to eat. example 60 seconds * 100% power * 86400 = 5184000 => 5184000/28800 = 180 cheeseburgers consumed that day. She may need to eat a lot depending on power usage. There could be some social pressure to not eat around others. Your speedster could be seen to pig out all the time yet never gain any weight. Might cause suspicion rumors or contempt to arise. Self taught: Literally no one can keep up with your speedster. Even if the person knows a wealth of knowledge, the best thing a teacher can do is to just throw books at your speedster. Your speedster probably knows an insane amount of information at subjects she is interested in. The rate of speed that she can acquire info will quickly allow her to become a specialist in any field she desires. 

The soil is bad, it won't sustain the sorts of crops your settlers grow. The soil is too rocky/sandy/salty/clayey/marshy/whatever. The details will depend on what crops are popular. Alternately, grasslands don't have to be 100% flat. Maybe there's lots of broken terrain, sinkholes, gulleys, etc. Alternately, your settlers don't value farming. They make their living from the sea, aren't very good at growing crops, don't keep cattle. They would consider grasslands to be uninteresting. 

Objects in mirror are closer than they appear. Disclaimer: This post consists predominantly of statements that sound cool, but have only the thinnest relationship with reality. This will not work in real life. Gravitational lensing is a phenomonon by which a huge mass bends light, thereby distorting the apparent location of an object. Astronomers in real life have used this effect as a space magnifying glass to see distant galaxies. If your aliens could create micro black holes, or maybe they actually ARE micro black holes, they could theoretically use this light bending trick as a side view mirror. By bending light towards themselves, and calculating the amount of distortion in the image, they could plausibly have some degree of vision. Note there would still be some lag time - They could see where an object WAS and then make an educated guess as where it IS, but I don't think you could pull off real-time sight with this trick. You would have to accelerate/bend the light to go faster than the speed of light, which would be tough. Although...this post is describing FTL aliens using portable dark matter as a sensor array. So if you want to make the effect real-time, I don't think that's much more of a stretch. They also wouldn't be able to see directly behind themselves. Their blind spot cone would widen in relation to how much beyone lightspeed they were traveling. At least, that sounds right to me...I am not a scientist. Bibliography: I used the Gravity's Lens article from One Minute Astronomer as research for this post. $URL$ I also used a lifetime of listening to quasi-scientific Star Trek tech explanations to make it sound good. 

Magical Silk Harvest the silk from Glarnakian spiders. By placing the spiders upon your wings before battle, the spiders will weave an intricate netting of silk to block all arrows from piercing through. Due to the lightweight materials, you shouldn't have a problem maintaining flight while also blocking projectiles. 

use glass arrowhead to contain the liquid and have them shatter on contact spraying the liquid nitrogen on the enemy use a hollow metal arrowhead that contains the liquid and have a small explosion on contact that will spread the liquid nitrogen onto the enemy. 

First Question:Yes, as Samuel and RonJon points out, Io is a moon orbiting a gas giant that is tidally locked to a gas giant Jupiter. Second Question: As for the effects to the moon that is tidally locked (like Io is to Jupiter). As far as I can tell, heat! Neil Degrasse Tyson wrote a piece about Tidal Forces which are responsible for Tidal Locking and should shed some light on what we can expect as side effects. 

You place one flying humanoid that acts as a guard and enforcer. Then put a money funnel on the top of the bus. The funnel drops the coins into the proper receptacle. Alternatively, you could have the driver sit on the top rear of the bus much like how a firetruck is driven. Your driver is here 

Plasma Breath If you're looking for something quick, hot, and with pinpoint accuracy, look no further than good old plasma my friend. Instead of using weak dragon lungs to propel breath weapon, the illustrious Marksmen Dragon uses naturally evolved magnets (birds have magnets so why not dragons right?) to propel the burning plasma at the weaker dragons. How hot can you get? As long as the Marksman Dragon can get the energy, your dragon could breathe (is shoot more appropriate?) plasma at temperatures hotter than the sun. Even fulfills the cohesive beam requirement, here's a simple google image search for plasma jet 

Are you familiar with the history of the Ford Pinto? It was a car sold in the 70s. If the vehicle was rear-ended, the gas tank tended to explode. Getting to your question - Space travel is a complicated engineering challenge. Engineers struggled for millenia on how to get an economically efficient engine able to power a spaceship at a reasonable rate of speed. It was eventually accomplished, but are still some design problems that haven’t been worked out yet. Those spaceship engines don’t like to be jostled. And when they are jostled, as they would be if someone was foolish enough to shoot at them, the results are...bad. When those engines go, it isn’t just bad news for that ship’s crew. Other nearby ships tend to suffer as well. It’s rumored that, hypothetically, a bad enough reaction could create a new black hole. So DON’T SHOOT THE SHIPS!!! addendum to address some of the excellent points raised below: I think a catastrophic failure could affect ships even if they were a million miles away. Ships won’t be sitting still while they’re being shot. They will be moving around. So all that mass is moving in one direction. The power core has enough juice to move all that mass at faster-than-light speeds. Perhaps, if an enemy laser knocks out the regulators on the power core BEFORE doing enough damage to the engines to render them inoperable, all that energy spikes through the engines. The ship (already damaged) suddenly gets pushed into an uncontrolled FTL speed. Catastrophic structure failure is likely. Then you have less of a ship and more of an FTL shotgun. That could plausibly have negative consequences to an enemy ship no matter how far away they were. Also, regarding the comments on the Ford Pinto being more of a hysteria problem, that’s a good point. Humans can get fixated on dramatic, spectacular negative outcomes even if they are extremely unlikely. Which adds to my point. It doesn’t matter if it is LIKELY that a catastrophic engine failure can wipe out another ship a million miles away. All that matters is it’s POSSIBLE. It will be on every crew’s mind every single time someone gives the order to fire. Which, in turn, makes boarding actions much more attractive. 

As your speedster is activating powers 0(human)-100%(86400x), just slow down time by that much. You don't need to slam your fingers as hard as you possibly can while typing. I don't see any reason why this power would be treated any differently than using a muscle. Now that is not to say that using the speed muscle exerts effort (my heart is pumping blood and that costs me no effort). With that being said, some psychological effects of such a power would be... 

You want to sling spells like Glarnak and the rest of em cowboy? Well this lifestyle... it really ages you... You definitely want to drain the life force of the caster on this one. If you do heat or luck, you can run into the problem of always prolonging the cost ad infinitum(cold + luck spells). The cost to perform magic should be based on the strength of the life force of a caster. The more magic used, the more the caster is aged. Incredibly strong magic users would age slower per spell cast. You could even have it so that a spellcaster could burn through all his/her life force to increase the power of another spellcaster . Like a form of magic inheritance from parent to child. How the choice would reflect resistance as more energy or power is drawn for a spell. Energy required (whether kinetic, heat, whatever) * spell caster level (golf rules apply here the lower the value the better you are at casting ) = seconds/minutes/years/decades of your VERY LIFE. How the choice would create a measurable or predictable consequence turning people against magic. Obviously you don't want to turn to dust and turbo age yourself via spamming fireballs every 5 seconds. This system should make magic cost you and stop you from needlessly casting spells. You aren't going to use magic to pull weeds when you can literally SAVE yourself the time by not casting. How the choice would be deterministic, meaning the aforementioned consequence could be traced back to a specific action. Your magic can't rob UNWILLING life. when your magic caster is casting a spell, he/she needs to draw from there own years OR have someone use magic to transfer lifetime/magic capability. Also you can't dip into years you don't have access to. In the same way your muscles give out, if you start to lift a building of osmium, there will come a point where you age away and drop the building.