If some first-order statement is true in every domain larger than a domain D, then it is true in D. But this is only true if D is not the empty set. Philosophically, we want our statements to be true of all sufficiently large domains of discourse, but this theorem says that including finite ("small") domains of discourse does not change things. However, including the empty domain of discourse would change things. It's easy to tell anyway whether a first-order statement is true for the empty domain. So it seems unnecessary to include this in our theory when we can just handle it as a special case. 

I would summarize this to say that there are clearly practical reasons to exclude the empty domain; this isn't to say that these reasons are natural, but I would guess Quine is more concerned about what is practical than about what is natural. In R. M. Martin's 1965 Of Time and the Null Individual, it is actually proposed that we introduce a "null individual" to our logic. As best I can tell, the effect of this is that the empty domain can be discussed, and that essentially the same logical theorems hold true for the empty domain as held in classical first-order logic. Whether you consider this to be justification for leaving the empty domain out in the first place is another matter. Perhaps the "null individual" is little more than an artificial way of making the empty set behave as if it were nonempty. But perhaps it makes sense philosophically to say there must always be a null individual x for which statements such as Px and Qxx can be written, even if we do not assume that this null individual actually exists; in this way we avoid the problems the empty domain could pose for logic, but at the same time we avoid assuming a priori that at least one thing exists (for the whole point of the null individual is that it is not considered to exist). There is some other discussion in A Note on Truth, Satisfaction and the Empty Domain, Timothy Williamson, 1999. 

One of the most fundamental debates in the philosophy of mathematics is a debate about what mathematics is. Your question ("What makes an object mathematical?") might be understood directly from understanding, "What is mathematics?" I would therefore suggest you begin by reading the SEP's list of the four main schools of thought. Each school answers the question differently. For example, to a logicist, an object is mathematical if it is simply a statement in some logical system. Thus, the first and third of your examples are certainly mathematics, and the second might be also if "socrates", "mortal", and "man" were axiomatically defined. A statement is mathematical if its content (meaning) can be defined in purely logical terms. Bertrand Russell defined mathematics thus: 

I am confused about the distinction in everyday language and in propositional logic. I even understand what is logical implication in a complete argument. But in a propositional logic, I do not understand. I developed a way of thinking, I'd like help to identify gaps and clarify the definitions. Conditional I usually apply a causal relationship. 

It is invalid. But it's still syllogism? (I know that may seem obvious, but I see many people just considering the valid syllogisms as syllogism) 

I'm reading the book A Concise Introduction to Logic (12th edition), and they say that this is a deduction: 

I'm studying logic, but honestly I'm pretty confused. Each book gives a different name or addresses different logics. What are the types of logic? Types I've seen in books (and I can not make links between them): 

I know that there are many excellent topics of philosophy book indications. But I'm looking for a specific type of book: • A Beginner's Guide • A well-structured book with pedagogical resources (such as comparative tables). Example: 

I'm having a hard time to distinguish "necessary and sufficient" in this case. I think it's necessary. For bread to exist, all the above elements are necessary. I also think that is sufficient. Just have these elements that bread comes up. Am I right? 

Is that correct? It is not only probable that Gabriel's tail is a wolf's tail? He may can have a cat's tail because of a transplant. This conclusion necessarily follows? 

Create a causal relationship to the conditional (like I did), is it correct? How to create a way to understand the logical implication in everyday language? 

• The Big Questions. It's an excellent book, I would like books in that style on epistemology, metaphysics, and ethics. But I feel that it does not go so deep. • Theory and Reality, a introduction to philosophy of science. I freaking love this book. It is explanatory, critical and well structured. I would love books in this style on topics mentioned above. That's it. I hope I have made a case to justify one more topic of indications. I would like to know the best book in this style to improve my studies and not waste time with material that does not appeal to me. I hope it will be useful to someone as well. 

According to my knowledge, a main criticism to dualistic theories is that they give the mind a special characteristic in contrast to matter. But is this true, since matter is also split up in several basic (physical) families of different components, like e.g. fermions, bosons, space-time, ... So the mind and stuff related to it could also just be another family. Who else worked on this? 

Think of yourself, after an accident. You're totally senseless, so you can't see, hear, feel,... Further you lost all your memories and with that, all your emotions. You can only think, but you think in a certain language, which was created by others, so it is dependant. So we take away language. Let's say there is only logical operations, like a computer. These operations follow some rules, which might be dependant, so let's take them away. When there is no operations on a computer we can switch it off as well. 

How can the noble get the common to be noble? He can't, because putting the demand to be noble on the common, would make him common as well, a dilemma! So the noble can only sit and wait? 

But is this really the end of the story? Isn't a brain not just another vat in which I "swim"? It reminds me on Popper's and Eccles' Dualistic Interaction Theory, that broke down the interface to certain quantum meta stable neurotransmitter quasi crystal in your brain (a little spooky to be honest and I hope he doesn't mind that I condensed his work), but I think the final version of a brain in a vat should look like this... How did dualists respond to brains in vats? 

Evil demons exist next to me I have brain swimming in a vat connected to external interfaces that feel like eyes, ears and son one. 

Is it possible to deny the existence of infinities in the real world, by philosophical means only? If it makes it easier, I'm mainly interested to deny that we can know an infinite amount of things (even if we would live forever), since (and that's what I assume) there are only finitely many? I don't want to make use of the physical finiteness of the universe. Is it then still possible? 

Both are true. On conditional, this would be true. But it is not a logical implication. So, my doubts are: 

• One who is not so beginner, and is not afraid to go deeper, knowing how to explain pedagogically. • DO NOT be about the history of philosophy. I have a perfect collection in this style, written by giovanni reale. I would like a book like Reale's, but for topics such as epistemology, ethics, metaphysics and general problems of philosophy. • It is not MUST, but it would help to have a impartial style, but also opinative (Bertrand Russell and the History of Western Philosophy is an example of this: he is quite critical, but tries to pass on the idea of philosophers impartially). Reference books: • I do not know if Reale's books were translated into English, but he wrote a giant collection of History of Philosophy. For me is the best reference, I would like a book like his for themes of philosophy, not history. 

So if I clap (TRUE) and there is a clapping noise (TRUE), then I have a TRUE conditional. If I clap (TRUE) and I do not hear a clapping noise (FALSE), then the conditional is FALSE (there is no possibility, in normal conditions, that I clap and the noise does not come out) If I do not clap (FALSE) and hear clapping, the condition is TRUE (I may have just played an audio on my cell phone). If I do not clap (FALSE) and there is no clapping (FALSE), I have a TRUE condition. No cause, no effect. Summing up: 

Sorry for the stupid question. But could anyone organize all these names into a logical and concatenated thinking? 

I know that between scientists they make a distinction between hypothesis and theory. They usually say that hypothesis is something unconfirmed, and theory is something more confirmed (or falsified). Is there a philosophical basis for this definition? Or is it just a useful simplification for everyday life? I think a theory simply means something more complex, having evidence or not. I may have a completely false theory, but it would still be a theory, because it involves a set of hypotheses and propositions. 

What is the relation between free will and intelligence. I'll identify free will with conscious mind and wonder what their relation is. Obviously there is free will without intelligence. Just have a look in the news and join in with Albert Einstein saying 

Thoughts, memories, information, all are stored in some kind of physical representation. You might get down to a single quantum state of a electron to store one (quantum) bit. Sir Popper tells us that products of the brain, like speech, music, math,... live in World 3, which is on top World 1, the material one. Can information be thought without a physical realisation? Or is it always connected to a certain kind of materialism? 

The higher energies we use the deeper we look into the mysteries of the universe. We started to find molecules, atoms, protons, quarks, ... All at different energy scales. Each new stage forced and forces scientists, to come up with new theories and models to describe the newly found phenomena. What would it mean if we come to the stage, when the whole energy of the entire universe is not enough the reveal the next stage? By "revealing the next stage", I mean that we find new results at higher energies that give rise to new models for the underlying physics. Doesn't this constrain the amount of information we can get out of the universe and put a final end to the depth we can investigate reality? 

I finally passed the first chapters of my pretty old (1961) Philosophy Overview book and found a nice compilation of what happened around the time 600 BC in different parts of the world: 

A tautology, is a universal truth in formal logic. I found something similar in the following question: 

The chances that all this happened at the same time are pretty small. Are there any new developments since 1961 why this all happened back then? 

Back to the question in the title "Why is there an asymmetry in QM?", I'd like to add the following: Observing a quantum system (made up of a superposition of eigenstates), collapses the wave function to a single eigenstate of your observation operator and by that destroys superposition. More important: the observer A gathers information about the system B*. The (asymmetric) information flow from B to A drives change in the world... *: This can be shown, because the information can be erased (by so called quantum erasers) while traveling to the observer A. By that, the superposition state is not affected.