For protection, a clay encased wooden shield covered in vinegar and alum can be resistant to fire ($URL$ Leather armor treated with alum could help protect the troops as well and give the mobility that is crucial in fighting dragons whether close or far. This is just for the fire attacks though. Long barbed spears and spiked nets can hinder the dragon's movement a bit, where specialist troops can use containers filled with gunpowder to lob it at the beast. Basically bombs/grenades, since the tech does allow for it. The spears can also be used to entangle or rip at the wing membrane of the dragon if it has it. 

In the far future, cities are spreading across continents, some cities are as large as france (~1000 km across) after smaller cities have grown together - Into Super Cities. Now Marchettis Constant states that a city's limit in size is estimated one hour commuting. 

Take a look at the Mayan People they had warfare to get slaves to sacrifice, even in peace time. They didn't consider their raids as an act of war but as a religious gesture. 

Sheep reproduces fairly quick compared to other livestock. It produces wearable cloth without slaughter the animal. It can also produce milk. If you have a population you need to feed and an easy way to do it, sheep is your go to animal. Sheep's are also able to live in most environments, the wool keeps them cold in warm areas, and warm in cold areas. As an added bonus, sheeps eats almost anything, but if there is too little area for the sheeps to feed they will leave the soil barren and muddy. 

Go ranged. The ol' slingshot and rocks would be a decent weapon, capable of injuring any part of the body from afar without having to burden the user with too much weight and entangling their own wings and limbs with longer or unwieldy weapons. If the opponent is lightly armored (can't be very heavy since the winged human would not even be able to fly", then you would need to just need to hit their wings to make them fall or "stagger" them. You can even use short bows if this makes more sense in your world, then you can have poisoned tipped arrows and such. For the occasional melee fighting, use a "tari" or what they call "chicken knives" used on illegal cockfights. Basically a sharp hooked blade attached at the back of the ankles to to slashing attacks and since its on the legs, you can also use your arms to punch, slash, stab or any use other martial art or weapon you can think of. Makes for an interesting fighting style. 

Temperatures, computers does not run well under extreme temperatures, or extreme weather conditions. 

Roaches are also known to be able to live in radiation but it does not fill the requirement to be without atmosphere. 

A single group of people would have a hard time rebuilding something. There is two things you need to take in to consideration. One is the economics guy who are performing archery in his spare-time, or the carpenter who does live reenactment in the weekends and are sewing his own clothes from leather. Or the Truck driver who grew up on a farm learning to take care of cattle and maybe even treat the leather after a visit to the butcher. People rarely only posses one or two skills. The second is that in a "world reboot" the primary concern is rarely your skills, because in our modern day we are really dependable on machines and technology, and it is few farmers who don't take care of his field with computer aids and pesticides. Few carpenters who can make his own wood but picks it from the sawmill. Few teamsters who makes their own wagons. So the main skill needed is the ability to adapt in to your new environment. This is what made roaches so extreme resilient, the ability to adapt in to new environments. 

This will only work on a cloudless, sun intensive world (maybe a desert environment). Might give you some other ideas so here it goes. Build a long corridor with collapsed hinged floors. Rig a way for light from the sun to close the floors up so people can walk through them, but near the middle or end of the corridor before a closed and locked door, a pressure plate or a sensor, however you wish to rig it, will trigger some mechanics to align mirrors and concentrate the sun rays into that long corridor. Effectively burning anyone in it. You'd have to make sure the concentration is high enough to actually burn people in seconds, as well as make sure the mechanism specially the mirrors are well protected so thieves or archaeologists can't just break them. During the night, the floors drop so nobody can go near and its a long and wide enough corridor that its very hard to spider climb the walls. Still there may be ways to circumvent the trap such as putting up artificial lights at night or slowly building a makeshift floor at night. 

Blackdamp is the condition where the breathable oxygen is removed from the air underground. Causing asphyxiation in humans and humanoids. Normally seen in modern day mines. The base area of the dwarven fortress is almost mined out and the dwarves are looking to other places to expand their empire, the idea is to go down, but they started to struggle with breathing so the dwarves goes to the drawing board. 

The most outstanding example is the Space Marine armor form Warhammer, it is not made from ordinary metals but from ceramic plates, that is reinforced with an exoskeleton, meaning the servos and actuators are taking the punch, not the human flesh, that would be the biggest problem with metal armors. I don't know much about storm troopers or halos armor system. But i would assume it is somewhat similar constructions. 

You could have underwater trains. Think hyperloop and such. Since your world is covered in water you cna have underwater dome stations and maybe cities as well that juts out to the ocean surface. Makes for an interesting social hierarchy as well but that's outside of your question so yeah maybe toy around with the idea for underwater trains. 

Quad or more legged mechs could be used to climb up terrain that is difficult for normal or heavy off road vehicles, specially if carrying a large artillery gun or cannon. Weakness is that once a leg is shot off, speed and mobility will be reduced increasingly by the number of legs destroyed. As another option, you could have wheels attached to the legs so they gain the same speed and mobility as wheeled tanks and these can switch out to climbing legs so that they can embed themselves much better in mountain or cliff-sides. Think along the lines of climbing axes or spikes. Also if say a quad legged mech gets one or two legs destroyed, they can theoretically still move about with the wheels attached to their legs and if you are up to it, maybe put in some wheels on the under-carriage. This way you get the best of both worlds? 

The M4 Dozer (aka Sherman Tank) There has been many variants to the M4 Sherman tank, the large dozer blade in front with it's massive motor should be able to plow through any mass of zombies. If you get bored with that the T2 Sherman can provide with some fun and carnage, originally designed to trigger mines, but i assume it could be a blast against zombies! 

If the fauna would allow it, dire waterstriders as pack animals would be a possible solution. A mechanical machine that mimmic the waterstrider, maybe pedal, clockwork or steampowered. 

Why would a space faring nation fly at lower than max-cruise speed It is often seen in sci-fi that captains, order speeds lower than max-cruise speed when flying. Not considered propulsion engines that could be used to leave orbit, planetary systems or other obstacles but Warp, FTL engines that could move the ship safe from A to B. Would there be any logical reasons for flying slower than capacity except from the obvious "we have to arrive in 5 days and the travel takes 3"?