From Korea Institute for National Unification's White Paper on Human Rights in North Korea 2012 It is possible that a reporter has accidentally transformed "can't retune" to "can't turn off". This might not apply to whatever report included the photo of a wall-mounted "radio" that lacks any obvious off-switch. 

Should we make an average by volume?, by mass? Should it be a weighted average? Should we measure and monitor the pH of hundreds or thousands of different tissues, fluids and other materials in our bodies? Cancer and pH Cancer is essentially uncontrolled excessive cell division and growth. Therefore we might reasonably interpret the question in terms of intracellular fluid pH and ignore the pH of other materials/fluids in the body. Cellular pH is regulated. The body has mechanisms that maintain the pH of cells independently of other internal and external factors. However Cellular pH does play a role in tumor cell survival [4] pH Control 

Speculation: A soldier defending his homeland against foreign invaders might take a different view if the invaders are using flamethrowers and white phosphorus grenades against him or her. Perhaps, literally in the fog of war, the unpleasant and potentially harmful smoke from white phosphorus grenades was described by Japanese soldiers as "poison gas". 

Note: "hysterical blindness" is an old term for what is now called "conversion disorder". A typical description is 

Other possible factors According to a CNN report - "The family told @Stewardess network that she had left a bath to answer a call." 

If you read the full text, there was clearly an exchange of views on a large number of regional issues but no mention (that I can see) of any new strong alliance between the USA and Iraq. Conclusion (re image 1) This faked photograph does not represent the forging of a strong alliance between Rumsfeld and Hussein or between the USA and Iraq. In 1983 there was a slight thawing in diplomatic relations due to shared national interests in opposing Syrian and Israeli invasion of Lebanon, Iranian expansion etc. 

Safety Devices Elevators do have many safety devices, however maintenance workers will sometimes disable them to facilitate their work. Suzanne Hart's Midtown Elevator Death Due To Disabled Safety Device - Huff Post, New York, October 30, 2012 Elevator Work Blamed in Death of Suzanne Hart - New York Times January 23, 2012 It seems possible that, in recent decades, being crushed or decapitated in an elevator doorway by unexpected elevator motion is more likely than dying in a falling elevator car. 

Toilets on two levels over the river Skell at Fountains Abbey, a Cistercian monastery founded in 1132. 

Brown rats (R. norvegicus) raised in captivity can reach 800g but it seems unlikely that large numbers of wild rats do so. 

He would have gotten a True rating for essentially the same point. Fact checks frequently turn on small semantic differences like this. Note that I found this one by picking the first national claim on Trump's Mostly False page (at this moment; likely to change in the future). That's why Mostly True, Half True, and Mostly False exist: to measure small semantic differences between claims. Bias US News and World Report says Politifact is biased against Republicans. As do others. And others. Or see an analysis of Democrats and Republicans with different ratings for similar statements. 

Efficiency gap analysis doesn't measure that. In fact, it does the exact opposite. It says that if one side is benefiting more than the other side, that we should transfer some of that benefit to the other side. This doesn't change the amount of disenfranchisement. It just moves it from one side to the other. Because that eliminates the gap in the efficiency. I.e. it is all about making the wrongs even. It makes no attempt whatsoever to remove the wrongs. Worse, efficiency gap analysis encourages the introduction of wrongs. Normal redistricting might put an entire county in the same district while efficiency gap analysis encourages breaking up cities and counties to produce "fairer" districts. From a comment: 

This may be the source of McCain's claim. Another possibility: the Cato Institute quotes the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as saying in 2012 (PDF): 

Geographic compactness. A district should have as small a ratio between its border length and its area as possible. Political compactness. A given political region should be all in one district. E.g. a city smaller than a district should be all in one district. Proportionality. The districts should be divided in a ratio as close to that of the voters. So if 40% of the voters are Democrats, then 40% of the seats should be. This can be problematic in that votes change every election while the seats often change only once every ten years. 

I doubt that Thomas Jefferson ever used the words that Alexander Stephens used. Despite the quotes, Stephens appeared to be paraphrasing. That said, Jefferson certainly expressed the sentiment. From a letter from Thomas Jefferson to John Holmes, 22 April 1820: 

Trende writes in another article, How Mich. Rebuts Redistricting/Polarization Claims that despite the overwhelming success of Republicans in that state, the district lines changed very little from 2010 to 2012. In fact, the Republican success came in 2010, before the lines changed. They just held on in 2012, despite no district crossing the 50% boundary in the Republicans' favor (i.e. no Democratic district became Republican). The only district that crossed the 50% barrier went from a small Republican majority to a small Democratic majority. 

EDIT: Another study supporting the above is Overwriting Hard Drive Data: The Great Wiping Controversy (sadly behind a paywall), which concludes (emphasis mine): 

Summary: there seems to be strong evidence that IQ is both highly hereditary (in simple terms, "nature"), but is also extremely negatively affected by bad socioeconomic status ("nurture"). If we allow the assumption that the latter effect takes place over a relatively long period of time (as opposed to say, a special few weeks of neglect early on), then we have to admit that IQ can indeed change, depending on the level of "nurture" that takes place over time. The heritability of IQ article on wikipedia gives a good summary, with decent references. Specifically, in their article: The heritability of IQ, Devlin et al. found the heritability to be around 0.5, while in Variability and stability in cognitive abilities are largely genetic later in life, Plomin et al. found it be even higher, at 0.8. This means that the IQ of closely related individuals is highly correlated. On the other hand, in Socioeconomic Status Modifies Heritability of IQ in Young Children Turkheimer et al. find that the correlation goes down to almost 0 (even for "identical" twins), for extremely impoverished families. From the article's abstract: 

TL;DR: It seems that data densities on HDs have increased to the point where it's not feasible to recover data from zeroed drives. The process of recovering data from a "zeroed" hard drive revolves around the concept of residual magnetism. Essentially, the idea is that if you examine the drive using a magnetic force microscope, there is some tiny difference between bits that were '1' before being overwritten, and bits that were '0'. ArchLinux's wiki has some interesting background info for those interested. Having said this, this process requires a clean-room disassembly of the drive, and expensive equipment to even attempt. The situation is actually even worse, consider the NIST Guidelines for Media Sanitization [PDF], which states (emphasis mine): 

So, here we see strong evidence that the environment greatly affects IQ. Assuming that this effect occurs over most of childhood (unfortunately I'm unable to find any articles along these lines at the moment), there is no reason to believe that IQ cannot change. Indeed, an improvement in the children's condition (special treatment, extra tuition, or simply encouragement / placebo effect), as we see in the study you cite, should lead to some kind of improvement. 

EDIT 2: It's actually not clear whether the above summary was referring to a "pristrine drive and 1 wipe", or a "pristine drive and 3 wipes". I'd lean towards "it doesn't matter", since they give the chance of recovering a single 32-bit number at around 1.16%, even with a single pass. The authors also assert that no meaningful amount of data can be recovered with confidence levels with are "beyond reasonable doubt", normally a legal requirement in the U.S. To summarise, it seems that a single pass is sufficient to sanitise the drive to a point where it cannot be recovered with today's technology. 

TL;DR: There is no evidence that Obamacare reduces mortality; if anything, it increases it. Raw data 

Source: The Federalist, which gets its data from the Center for Disease Control's WONDER database. To summarize, the mean death rate had been 310.4 and should drop to around 300 if Obamacare had prevented 21,000 annual deaths (much less 36,000). Actual result was an increase to 320.4. So the Patient Protection & Affordable Care Act (PPACA; colloquially known as Obamacare) cannot be shown to have reduced mortality. In raw numbers, it has increased. Excluding external causes The same source then speculates that this might be caused by an external cause. So it runs the numbers again, excluding external causes. 

The normal problem with urban vs. rural districts for gerrymandering is that urban districts are more Democrat (have a higher efficiency loss for one party) than rural districts are Republican. This is why efficiency gap analysis is promoted by Democrats as a measure of gerrymandering. It promotes their goals of more Democratic districts with very little loss of districts to the Republicans. Look at states like Massachusetts and Connecticut for example. In both states, the congressional delegation is entirely Democratic. But in both states there is a large enough Republican minority that they occasionally win the governorship. In Massachusetts, the breakdown is roughly 50% Democrat, 25% Republican, and 25% other. So in a proportional system, the Democrats should have four to five seats while the Republicans and other each have two to three seats. As is, Republicans and other have zero seats. In fact, nationally, other has zero seats in the House of Representatives. Efficiency gap analysis doesn't help with that. In fact, in a state with 75% or more of voters in one party, efficiency gap analysis says that the majority party should get 100% of the seats. The disenfranchised 25%? Not their problem. Same thing with those not in the two major parties. Source: Partisan Gerrymandering and the Efficiency Gap (PDF), Nicholas 0. Stephanopoulos & Eric M. McGhee Gerrymandering Election analyst Sean Trende of Real Clear Politics did an analysis of gerrymandering where he measured the increase in partisanship. He found 

First problem, that only gets him to $3 billion. Second problem, to get to $8 billion, we have to take Donald Trump's wealth in 1982 and put it in a mutual fund. Not his father's. Third problem, he'd have to sit on the money. He wouldn't have been able to spend any of it. Even modest withdrawals, starting in 1982, would have left him further and further off this pace. He certainly couldn't have funded the Trump lifestyle. Fourth problem, this completely ignores taxes. The bare argument of 1974 is based on Trump taking over managing the business in 1974. But that is not the same thing as transferring wealth. His father still owned the business from 1974 to 1999. The National Journal is suggesting that when he took over management of the company, he could have liquidated and put the money into a mutual fund. If we assume that his share of the company was worth $40 million in 1974, then his share would have been worth $3 billion in 2015 (when the article was written). Of course, that neglects taxes and spending. Neither he nor his father could have taken an income from that money. Taxes I'm not going to do the math but here's a glance at taxes. The privileged capital gains rate of 15% doesn't date back continuously to 1974 and is the lowest rate during that time. The rate was more typically 20%, 28%, or 35%. The estate tax in 1999 was 55% of amounts over $650,000. A glance at the numbers The same kind of estimates that put Donald Trump's wealth in the $3-5 billion range now put his father between $100 million and $300 million at the time of his death. The S&P 500 only grew from $1,248.77 on January 1st, 1999 to $2,316.10 now.