okay here's what I would suggest, create a calendar for your first area Day 1 of month 1 is the first day that the flames should be hitting the area Last day of month 1 is the day that the storm has moves on So the days in which the flames are coming back will be the end of the year. Divide up the rest of the year into months of the same size as the first, or smaller units if you need. For the sake of simplicity, I'll use a 30 day month, with 12 months. So "January" would be the fire days. Then you can map out what should happen in that area each month. Trees start growing back in month 3, should be a foot tall in month 4, 6 feet in month 10 etc. This can also be translated into distance and movement. At 3 months, the fire is 1/4 away around the world. For the purposes of travel, characters who travel 1/4 of the way around the world, would have their calendars turned back 3 months. If you keep track of how much time passes, and where they are, you should always be able to determine where the fire is and what is happening where they are right now. 

Well in some mythologies dragon blood is a super acid, but in some mythologies eating a dragons heart can grant immortality, in Norse stories consuming dragon blood gives you magic powers. As for cooking and preparation consider directions for alligator and crocodile.They are big armored and widely eaten.They are also archosaurs like dinosaurs and birds so you can cover lots of hypothetica dragon orgins at the same time. $URL$ Crocodile is actually quite good, it is a bit bland but it absorbs seasoning quite well and is naturally very tender. the most meat in crocs is the tail but in a dragon I image the flight muscles would be huge. 

The cams could easily be made of metal, and that's the only thing made of modern materials. They will not be common however, they would cost a fortune and they don't offer any real advantage over a crossbow and can't be made super compact like the modern ones. 

Not a terrestrial one no, a wheel is the basics for axles, gears, sprockets, a massive number of manufacturing techniques are based on it. It is just too simple basic and essential a tool. It is like asking for a such a civilization without the lever. 

Saltstraumen and Moskstraumen can both be up to 8km wide. I know of no reason why they could not be bigger. The terrain needs to be correct, such that water is trying to move very fast through an opening which is relatively small. In the case of some whirlpools, the constraining passage can be underwater. I do not believe that a landmass could be engulfed in a maelstrom though. The existence of an island inside of it would make the vortex more difficult to form. Try it at home... If you take a pan full of water and start swirling around the edges, a little whirlpool will form. Now try it with a bundt pan. Moving the water around is much more difficult, and the water will slow down faster. FYI - Whirlpools can be caused by non-natural events as well. Lake Peigneur in Louisiana was the site of a maelstrom resulting from aberrant drilling. I'm surprised no Bond villain has tried this... 

I can see several reasons. 1.Creativity Species X doesn't sound any smarter than humans, if anything better physical abilities, magic, and longer lifespan may make less intelligent. humans have to solve problems the hard way, that makes us clever. "I never would have thought of using magic to do that" more observant X would realize the benefit of a more flexible thinker. Heck just having an additional perspective may be a huge advantage. 2.Faster growth If long lifespan also means slower maturation they may learn slower as well. Fusing with a human may take a while but you progress much faster after that, after a while the benefit far outweighs the penalty. This could work for power as well, sure it costs power but your power grows faster afterwards. 3.Versatility Maybe having two minds to focus on magic at the same time make your magic much more powerful or versatile, two minds focusing on the same thing could make it more powerful or alternatively each mind focusing on different things could allow you to do many more things with magic than X could do alone, magic goes from blunt instrument to precision machinery. Use music as an analogy no matter how good a person is they can't play the same music two people playing together can. X may end up weaker but it doesn't matter because it is the difference between gunpowder in a pile on the ground vs gunpowder in a gun, power focused and controlled gives far more bang for your buck. 4.Addiction Maybe human emotions are addictive, like caffeine or tobacco, or maybe it is like spicy food where giving it up makes everything taste like cardboard. Life just is not as exciting without being fused to one of those live fast/die young monkeys. 

Take inspiration in modern worldwide political setting (Cold war with less tension). Nations are not at war with each other, don't attack each other directly. but lead proxy "wars" in minor nations. Your world nations could be cool with each other, trade, their leaders hugging each other, and in meanwhile their soldiers kill each other somewhere far away for any non-relevant reason. 

Communist can not became a strong alternative to capitalism. Opposite is true (to dislike for many people) for numerous reasons: 

Effects concerned (ability to communicate) would be very low. HOW IT COULD NOT SUCCEED: 1) It would not affect people. Professionals all around the world are keeping up with their respective fields more o less. Technology concerning, only latest research (5 years, 15 max) could be lost. Also keep in mind that research papers are usually literary kept as papers in university libraries. 2) if it would not affect turned off computers, technological impact would be even less. In all filed you have thousands of students caring their laptops filed with latest knowledge. chances that some of them would have their laptops turned off at time of attack are close to certainty. HOW IT COULD SUCCEED: 1) however, it would greatly impact out 'organization'. Databases of people, logistic databases etc. You would lose all kinds of data from lent books in library to who has access to security facilities. Everybody would know who is president without Wikipedia, but let's take Universities, you know don't know who are students, what marks they had, You would also lose most digital contracts, etc.. Minor a occasionally major social chaos would occur, and that could escalate into conflicts. 2) it would stop us for a while. Top scientist could not continue their researches further, but would need to focus on restoring our knowledge bases from their memories and fragments of surviving data. Put together with 1) it would mean we would be stuck for a while. SUMMARY: It has little to no chance to make us unable to communicate technologically, but it could realistically succeed by enduring chaos a making us unable to cooperate on answer. 

There are a variety of weapons that are designed to be non-lethal for riot control. Rubber and plastic bullets (which need to be fired from special guns) don't penetrate people, so I would tend to think the spacecraft should be okay. There are specialized versions of rubber and plastic bullets called pepper rounds which are used for home defense. In addition to the non-lethal stopping power, they also leave a trail of pepper dust which can irritate eyes, skin etc... Of course, there are a whole host of agents both lethal and non which can be used in its place. Sponge grenades and bean bag rounds are larger rounds, but also could be effective. There are also varieties of lower powered bullets like .22 shorts. These are largely used for target practice and hunting little creatures. They do not penetrate as deeply. Occasionally they are made of compressed metal dust, common at target ranges, which essentially disintegrate on impact. But the holy grail in this case is probably a bullet like the Glaser Safety Slug which is the ammo of choice for Sky Marshals in the US. The Glaser is a hollow bullet filled with bird shot which disintegrates on impact with any surface that is harder than it. They theoretically cannot pierce an aircraft's hull, they don't ricochet, but they'll still take down those space pirates. 

if its post-apocalyptic you can just be truthful and have making the bullets difficult. Making modern propellants is not something you can do at home, especially the primer. reloading bullets is based on being able to buy these materials. Using black powder (which you can make) in modern firearms, will gum them up rather quickly. preventing the making of explosives is much more tricky. basically you might want to look at a different way to disable firearms than changing the atmo, since life still basically runs off of really slow combustion of carbon, so any change that prevents one will prevent the other. 

If you humans colonized a slightly higher gravity world they would likely get shorter, especially after a few generations they would also get wider more stocky as bones get thicker and muscles get larger. not due to weight but due to selective pressure caused by high blood pressure and fluids pooling in the feet. They would also end up with larger hearts as it fights to move blood into the brain. they would also end up with a lot of vascular problems, more hemorrhoids, and die early. At 3X earth gravity humans would not survive on the surface for long. A humanoid that evolved on the planet would not have these problems as it would already have adaptations to deal with it.