Math is a word. As such, it is subject to the limits of linguistics. One such limit: its nigh impossible to get everyone to agree on its meaning. If I may quote the opening line of Wikipedia's page on "Definitions of Mathematics," 

The butterfly effect is formally captured mathematically. Consider a chaotic system (such as a mathematical equation of the weather) and an initial state. If we use those equations, we can calculate what the state will be at some future time (say, 1 month in the future). For this deterministic system, that is the only possible state we can be at in 1 month. Now perturb the initial state slightly. Pick a "nearby" state, such as a state where the butterfly is about to flap its wings instead of staying still. Now use the same equations to calculate the state 1 month in the future. For this deterministic system, there will be one and only one possible state that we can be at in 1 month. However, because the system is chaotic, this state may be drastically different from the start in the first scenario. Now this mathematical result points out two interesting physical outcomes. The first is to note that the state of the weather in 1 month is incredibly hard to predict. In theory, it's future state depends on how polarized or depolarized a few neurons within a butterfly's brain are -- the neurons which control wing flapping. The idea that the future state of a system as large as the globe is highly sensitive to such a small detail is I, in my opinion, a pretty significant philosophical statement. The other major result of this has us noting that we never measure anything perfectly. There's always some error in our measurements. This means we cannot predict the future state of such chaotic systems accurately. It is a practical limitation to the capabilities of science. It also implies that if we got the laws of the universe slightly wrong, we could measure everything perfectly and still not be able to predict the future state of chaotic things like the weather. Or, as you suggest, if the consistency of the world's laws were suspended for a brief moment in a tiny place, the effects could still change very large systems. As a final thought, the butterfly theory does indicate that if you were able to suspend the rules of physics in a deterministic chaotic universe and change one thing to a state that it wasn't, you would indeed cause widespread changes in the overall state of the universe. God "changing a beetle" may indeed result in a tornado. One might say "the beetle caused the tornado," or maybe one might just say "God caused the tornado, and used a beetle to do it." As for cause and effect, I think mathematicians generally agree that it is an ineffective concept in chaotic systems. It's not impossible to use, as you noted with the beetle causing a tornado, but it becomes less meaningful. I find the more meaningful use of cause and effect is in situations which are stable in the presence of perturbations, where identifying a "cause" permits you to mostly ignore large numbers of other details which won't have a large change on the effect. In chaotic systems, you can't ignore the other effects (because they could cause huge changes as well), so the benefit of identifying a "cause" is limited. 

from this perspective, Winston chooses to join big brother, and thus his moral will is not broken, but rather he has made the conscious choice to realign himself. I find this one to be the most useful connection between Hegel and Orwell because it doesn't involve breaking anything at all. Another approach might be to argue that he has ceased to be a man at that point, because his inner conviction has been broken, and by the rules of logic this means we can prove that he is no longer a man. Given the herd-mentality of 1984, this might be a very valid approach. He is no longer a man, he is a sheeple (to use a colloquialism). Still another might be that he was never fully a man in the first place, caught in the machine from birth and never truly born a man. He was merely permitted to believe he was a man while it suited the machine. 

Because of the use of the word "should," we are engaging in a moral or ethical issue. For purposes of communication, I like to rely on a utilitarian ethical approach. Most people can at least recognize utilitarianism as having some value, even if they elect to declare that their personal moral system supersedes it. Thus, utilitarianism provides a decent common ground to at least begin the discussion from. Of course, utilitarianism is built on the concept that acts have utility, a quantifiable sense of value. Any discussion of utilitarianism would be remiss if it did not include a discussion as to how to arrive at the value of a given act. A key question in such a discussion is whether we know everything we need to correctly assign a utility. Very often there is some element of the unknown involved in the process, and it is markedly difficult, if not impossible, to arrive at an agreement as to how to handle this unknown. This is doubly true in the case where multiple individuals have experienced different sets of events in their life, leading to different unknowns. Thus it should be clear that utilitarianism offers us little reason to believe our beliefs have any more utility than another's beliefs unless you account for selfish utilitarian arguments (I should protect my own beliefs and destroy others' beliefs because they may try to destroy mine). One would need to supersede this argument with a different moral code to arrive at a different outcome. The debate between whether one's utilitarian system of values should be "selfish" is a much more nuanced debate, which has fewer clear cut answers. If one is not interested in exploring that side of the debate, the remaining solution is to coexist with other religions. The concept behind the English word "respect" has been found to be an effective one for generating peaceful coexistence between disparate groups, so it is a recommended course of action. It also has an added benefit of being a useful concept as one explores the "selfish" side of the arguments, helping to identify potential win-win scenarios that can otherwise be quite difficult to discover. So in the end, you should do whatever should be done by a moral code. However, utilitarianism offers a least-common-denominator reason to suggest that respecting others' religions may have utility, so that can at least form a departure point for more in depth analysis. 

With all the linguistic arguments you put forth, you should be able to accept an argument that what you have actually done is define "number" in a way which defines something which is distinctly different from what others use the word "number" to describe. As a result, the acceptance of your argument will be heavily based on how useful it is for handling linguistic situations others may come across. In my opinion, there are some interesting challenges it faces for example: 

This person has the free will to do what they will. They obviously are not willing to move, because they have been taught that doing so is bad, and they are choosing freely to not do bad. Now the mindcontrol/hypnosis/brainwashing thing is interesting. First, I'd point out that the current prevailing opinion is that hypnosis cannot cause you to do anything you did not want to do. What it does to the mind is more nuanced than that. However, if we consider the wider concepts of mindcontrol and brainwashing, those are things a compatabalist would argue are things which affect the mind. They decrease the number of options the mind can choose to do or not do. The case of a complete brainwashing would be viewed as a mind which has exactly one option presented to itself. This can be seen as a degenerate case of freewill. Obviously the choice to choose 1 thing from 1 option is not quite the same as choosing from many options, but I feel the phrase "degenerate case" is a correct application here. Interestingly enough, one of the ways people are rescued from brainwashing is when another individual finally teaches them that there is indeed another option to choose from, by exploring the problems at a finer level of detail. Now if I were to be arguing these positions as a compatabalist, I would want to know the opinion of the person I am talking to, and I would tailor it to them. If the person I am talking to is a dualist that believes in true freewill, the first question I would ask is "how would you explain this occurrence," and then map my compatabalist answer to that. If I was talking to a physicalist, then they should not mind me redefining "free will" to include the degenerate case as my explanation. I would then go on to try to help them see that there's little to no evidence that this degenerate case ever occurs, arguing that there's always a second option. 

Is the number of pairs in this grid countably infinite? A quick intuition may say "no, there's more than there were before," but this is where the math of infinities starts to diverge slightly from intuition. Consider this diagonal meandering path, which keeps going back and forth along diagonal paths, getting further out each time (start at (0,0), and follow the lines): 

Tarski, in his non-definability theorem, proved that all systems defined by formal languages which can prove the laws of arithmetic cannot prove their own validity, thus there must be some semantic content in the argument which cannot be captured by the language. This only applies for formal languages, and only those formal languages that try to prove the laws of [Peano] arithmetic, but many arguments which seek to have no dependencies on external terms rapidly approach formality and rapidly begin needing to describe arithmetic as a side effect of trying to describe their own semantics. Not all arguments fall down this path. I have reason to suspect that many arguments involving the Chinese concept of "Dao" do not -- they have their own interesting peculiarities instead. But you'll find many Western arguments which try to describe their own semantics do fall into these formal language patterns, and provably can never complete their quest for self-sufficiency. 

The issue you describe is one which is thousands of years old, and still unresolved. It's known either as the Aggripan Trilemma or the Münchhausen Trilemma, depending on who you want to credit it to. 

Empirical truth's great strength stems from the assumption that all that matters is empirical. This assumption, itself not an empirical statement, is typically so well buried in people's psyche that only a small portion of the population is even aware that this assumption exists. Empirical truths have a special position in today's society because they can be tested by science, and science is currently a very popular process. Any philosopher which makes a statement in the form of an empirical truth should expect people to run their statement through the gauntlet of scientific inquiry to see if the idea falls short. In modern society, that is pretty unique. Not many disciplines in modern life are quite so harsh as the scientific method. Case in point, WorldBuilding recently fielded a question about one second in eternity. The parable, clearly intended to be imagery, contained phrasings which could be construed as empirical. The question asks to treat them as such. The resulting numbers are quite startling, even if they do not all agree in their final magnitude. Science's nature is such that we can take such imagery and assign numbers to it that push the limits of the lifespan of the universe. Not many other disciplines can do that! I also find empirical truth to be important to people because they don't know another key phrasing: sufficient empirical truth. As it turns out, you can't make any meaningful scientific hypothesis without it being phrased in some sort of non-empirical way. By the nature of scientific hypotheses, their purpose is to explain what will happen in future scenarios, and by necessity the future is never empirical -- only the present (and maybe the past). On top of that, the inference tools, such as abduction, are inherently non-empirical in their nature. If you dig far enough into someone's usage of empirical truth, you will eventually find the point where they throw their hands up and tell you that you're being a ninny in this line of reasoning. That's the point where they draw the line, and you can choose to label that "sufficiently empirically true," reserving "empirically true" for a deeper truth which is never truly attained. 

Interestingly enough we have an answer: The Blue Gene/Q has a 5D torus interconnect, meaning any software or logic developed for it would STRONGLY resemble the structure you are looking for. Developers are encouraged to think in terms which leverage this 5D structure. This is efficient in 3D space because much of the propagation time between nodes is in the computer, not the fiber optic cables. If the latencies were simply from the fiber optics, it would be more effective to think of it as a 3D network, but the reality of hardware means they found it more optimal to have a 5D interconnect and treat all dimensions the same (even though some dimensions may have longer length fiberoptic cables) 

If I dare flip that on its head, "formal" proofs are not entirely as objective as one thinks, they're just objective enough that very very few people in the world have the mathematical background to identify the holes (unless you choose to define the word "objective" around them, of course). Tarski was one such individual. He tackled issues such as attempting to provide a formal definition for "true" and identifying limits of formal language. There are actually many variants of "proofs" out there. One I find is a statistical proof known as a "zero information proof." The example most often given is that you see two openings to cave systems. You haven't found a connection between them. Someone claims they are connected, and offers to show you how for $1000. However, they don't trust you with the secret - they want to be paid up front. You declare you wont trust them until they've at least proven such a path exists. What a conundrum! The zero information proof is a proof that is designed to give no information while it is being undertaken, a very useful thing for cryptography. In this example, you turn around, and they randomly enter one cave entrance (left or right). They go out of sight, and then you shout at them either "left" or "right" randomly. They are expected to be able to come out of the requested entrance. If they know the way, they can do it 100% of the time. If they are lying, then they can only do it 50% of the time. One can repeat this process multiple times to be arbitrarily sure they know their stuff before forking over cash! It's worth noting that the zero information proof doesn't proves something is true, it proves something is statistically likely to be true. A proof which proves something is true is much more difficult, and is what "formal proofs" went after. However, even they run into limitations with their language, because formal proofs are traditionally provided in a formal language with a given interpretation (such as First Order Logic with Tarski's interpretation)