I'm not going to plagiarise his work, but the articles on his website, and his books, are a very solid place to start. Another option would be the work by Alwyn Cosgrove and Lou Schuler, such as The New Rules of Lifting for Life (disclaimer: I haven't read that one, but I have read most of their other books, and they're very good). None of this is very specific, but that's because it's not a very specific question. I doubt there is a workout routine out there that will guarantee adding an extra 5 years to your life (if there is, they're probably lying), but there are things you can do to help your chances of living longer, and to improve the quality of the years you do have ahead of you. 

You could try a variation of Pavel's greasing the groove technique. The idea is that multiple times throughout the day, do a set of half you maximum reps, so if your current maximum is 22, then several times a day, drop and knock out 11 reps. At the end of a couple of weeks, test your max and see if you've improved. This works very well for strength, and is usually used for things like pull ups. I'll admit, I don't know how well it'll work with higher rep (above 10) stuff, but it's probably worth a go. 

There are various ways of splitting these up, you could do a push / pull split, push / pull / legs split, upper / lower split, full body every day, it's entirely up to you. The most important things are consistency and progress (progress with dumbbells can be tough with the larger weight jumps, instead of trying to jump between bells to progress, you could also consider adding reps or sets to slowly increase the volume before jumping in weight, or decreasing your rest between sets). Push This is when you extend your arms to push something, e.g. 

This is probably where you're doing to see the greatest variation from traditional barbell exercises. Most people thing of deadlifts as being bar bending, massive weight pulling exercises. But try doing a few sets of high rep stiff leg deadlifts with the 50's and see how your glutes and hamstrings feel the next day. Squat As the name suggests, this is when you squat (think, the resting position quite commonly seen in parts of Asia and Africa), e.g. 

Congratulations, you found the secret muscle group, technically known as the "everything". Being slightly more serious, loaded carries are one of the best exercises you can do to improve strength, muscle mass and general athleticism (according to Dan John) You're right in that your core will be worked, but probably a lot more than you'd imagine. If you think about waiters walks (walking with a weight held overhead in one hand) with every step the muscles of your body, from your feet right up to your hand, are having to fire to keep the weight from coming crashing down on your head. You're having to keep everything tight to keep going. The benefit of training tightness is, in my opinion, overlooked quite frequently by casual lifters. Even if you get tight on sets of an exercise, walking for a prolonged period while having to keep your body tight is probably something your body is unfamiliar with. So, the reason you felt so wrecked afterwards is it's probably an unfamiliar exercise (or a series of unfamiliar exercises), so you'll have CNS fatigue and attempted adaptation, as well as a serious whole body workout. 

Stress is an interesting one, too little stress and we don't build up a tolerance to it so struggle to cope when it does hit; too much stress and we want to fold, run for a place to hide, curl up and rock slowly backwards and forwards hugging our knees to our chest, we become ill, anxious and physically suffer; but the right amount of stress, the Goldilocks zone, and we can thrive and achieve great things. The kind of stress that you're talking about would fall firmly into the camp of too much / bad stress. When stress levels are high, your mood is down and dark, you don't sleep, don't have a drive to eat properly or look after yourself. Different people have different coping strategies for times like these, some find comfort in destroying themselves in the gym, pushing themselves to the point of collapse, throwing heavy weights on the bar and squatting until the only thought going through their head is one of surviving the next rep. I've seen people turn to training as the one things that they can control when everything else seems to be falling apart, and make great progress because of it. I'm not saying it's the healthiest option, replacing emotional stress with physical, but it is an option, and can have a kind of purify-by-fire approach. The way I've always handled stressful times in my life is with a calmer approach. Back when I used to climb regularly, I'd find that traversing (moving sideways along a climbing wall, instead of up) in a slow and controlled manner a great way to calm me down and help me gain focus and insight into whatever was causing the stress. I've previously heard about this type of thing referred to as mindful movement. The idea is that you lose yourself so completely in what you're doing, by focusing on the movement, that you kind of lose focus on the cause of the stress and enter a flow state. Traversing, climbing, certain types of Yoga, Tai-chi, Turkish get-ups, basically anything that forces you to focus on something causing a flow state, can be massively beneficial when dealing with stress. 

The best thing you can do is probably give it a couple of weeks and see how you get on. When I used to train in the morning (0600 - 0700), I'd typically get up, have a cup of black coffee and a banana, then head out the door. I'd train for about an hour, then have a decent breakfast that I'd previously prepared once I got into the office (breakfast was usually potatoes with smoked mackerel). There are a couple of things to bear in mind when training in the morning. First, depending on the intensity of your training, you may find that eating before training makes you feel a bit sick (it's due to your body moving blood from your digestive tract into your muscles to fuel your training, meaning it can't digest the food in your stomach, so it tries to get rid of it). If this happens, either leave more time between breakfast and training (eat earlier) or eat less / eat more easily digestible food. Second is dehydration. You tend to lose a lot of water from your body overnight through breathing, so make sure you drink enough before and during training (just not so much that it's slopping around in your stomach). Whatever you do, you should understand that it may take a little time for your body to adapt to training at a different time of day, so give it a few sessions before you dramatically change anything. 

I always thought it had more to do with breathing than balance. I used to follow Matt Furey's teachings, and remember him saying that if you could do them flat footed, then that was ok, they didn't have to be done on your toes (but most people can't get flat footed). For breathing, when you're standing up, you swing your arms in front of you and breath in. It does help with balance somewhat, but it also makes it easier to take a lungful. Breathing in while squatting down and swinging your arms behind you just doesn't feel right (to me anyway). Compare the breathing to a standard, weighted squat, where you'd generally use the valsalva maneuver to brace yourself then exhale on the way up (more or less). 

It's been a number of years since I've studied any form of striking art, but from what I remember, it's mainly technique followed by a surprising amount of the core / trunk and lower body. 

Look up Dan John's goblet squats, they're pretty good for improving squat technique, and can be loaded very easily once you're ready. I would also recommend squatting every day to improve technique and get more comfortable with the squatting motion. Also, sit in the bottom position of the squat, using an external object for balance if you need to, and try to move around a bit, it helps to loosen up the hips some. I'm 6 foot 6 inches tall, and used to really struggle with squats. I manage to dramatically improve my squat technique by 

No. Although there may be some improvement, HIT isn't designed to improve upon cardiovascular fitness in any way, shape or form. HIT (High Intensity Training), as popularised by Arthur Jones in the 1970's, is designed to improve strength and muscular hypertrophy by performing weighted exercises, usually on machines (such as the Nautilus ones created by Jones) for one set to absolute failure, followed by a prolonged period of rest to allow those muscles to recover. My understanding is prolonged can mean anywhere up to a week of rest. As cbll explained in his answer HIIT (High Intensity Interval Training) would be an idea way to train up for sparring in pretty much any martial art. Given your limited equipment, you could perform HIIT with some bodyweight exercises (hindu squats could work), sprints, rope jumping (skipping ropes are pretty cheap and you don't need much room) or, if appropriate, just work a heavy bag. If you have access to them, kettlebell swings are pretty good as well. The idea is to get to the point where your training either matches or exceeds your sparring, though probably with standard interval training, not high intensity interval training (so, if you spar for 4, 3 minute rounds with 30 seconds rest between rounds, then build up to the same with something like rope jumping). 

A few years back Mike Boyle famously (infamously?) stopped his athletes squatting and instead concentrated on Bulgarian split squats (aka rear foot elevated split squats). Dan John has written extensively about the benefits of goblet squats, if you think they're easy, grab a 50kg dumbbell and knock out a few sets of 20 reps. Lunges, although occasionally given a bad rap as something 80's lycra clad aerobics class attendees would do, are an amazing strengthening exercise. Again, if you think they're easy, grab a couple of 30kg dumbbells and do walking lunges the length of your gym. Then turn round and do the same back. Pistol squats, overhead squats and step ups I'd put more as accessory work / assistance lifts, but they're still very useful and valid squat alternatives (pistols can be difficult to load, overhead squats can be quite technically complex and step ups require something sturdy to step up onto). Front squats from a clean (because you don't have a squat rack) are a possibility, but there is a significant learning curve to the clean movement, meaning that other options may be better for basic strength training. 

On the next. Hopefully that'll give you some ideas, if all else fails and you're completely lost, look up a bodyweight workout routine, such as on $URL$ and go with that. 

Honestly, just boulder more and the strength will come. A lot of the usual grip based exercises don't really have a good carry over into rock climbing / bouldering because of the nature of the holds you use. Something like crushing strength (the type of strength you use when you close a hand gripper or shake someone's hand) isn't much use when you're using your finger tips to pull on a half inch hold. Since you stated you've only recently got into it, I'm going to address a few different things. 1) Adaption - Depending on what you mean by recently, chances are your forearms are still adapting from not doing much to having to support you handing your bodyweight from your fingertips. Unfortunately, there's not really a fast way to get over this, just trust me, it'll come with time (though you will climb harder as you get stronger, which will put more stress on your forearms, so you'll probably never completely lose the pump / ache, you'll just learn to handle it better). 2) Technique - As a guy (assumption based on your username there) and someone who's only recently discovered the joys of climbing / bouldering, I'm going to assume that you're doing what most guys do until someone points it out to them and relying on your upper body / pulling strength a fair bit. Most guys, without really realising it, take the "see hold - pull on hold" approach, which will get you through easier problems, but if you want to progress to harder stuff (and save your grip burning out too soon), you really need to look at your footwork and position. I can't write a detailed explaination without seeing you in action on a particular route, but watch what other people are doing (more experienced ones) and how they're moving their body and placing their feet. Particularly women as they usually don't have the upper body strength to rely solely on aping up routes using their arms. More feet and better body positioning = less pulling with your arms = less forearm pump / burn out. 3) Tendon / ligament strength - One of the main injuries seen in boulderers, particularly newer ones, is pully injuries (tendon / ligament pulls). This is because your fingers aren't used to holding your entire bodyweight, and your muscles strengthen faster than your tendons / ligaments do. Unfortunately the only real way to strengthen them is time. You can do fingerboard work (go easy though) which will help, but don't do it at the expense of actually bouldering and working on your technique. This is also one of the reasons I wouldn't go nuts training your forearms with a whole host of different exercises... it's perfectly possible you'll get your forearms stronger without your tendons / ligaments keeping up, and pull something. 4) Core strength - For a lot of bouldering problems, particularly when you get into overhanging ones, you need some crazy core strength to maintain a good body position. When you're climbing on the underside of a roof, it's much more efficient to brace yourself between holds with your feet and heel / toe hook where you can, than it is to treat the problem like a kid on money bars; for that, you need a really strong core. 5) Stretch (gently) and work your extensor muscles - given all the above points, to help with recovery, you can do some gentle forearm stretches (watch some yoga videos, but seriously, take it gently, I've watched a friend of mine seriously pull a tendon through stretching his forearms too aggressively). You can also get an elastic band, wrap it around your finger tips with your hand in a duck bill type position, and open your hand so your fingers are spread. It should work the muscles on the outside of your forearm, which will help maintain a decent balance of strength, and assist with recovery. Getting the blood flowing to your forearms is also a good idea, pretty easy to do, just go from a fingers spread position to a fist several times, like when you warm up before a session (you are warming up first, right?). You can also get a squash ball and roll it between your forearm and a desk / the floor for a bit of self myofascial release, be warned, it hurts.