Then my simple answer is "No". You want graduated software engineers (I think?), not people who could be like them in some years. And, the fact that they are applying in a field so different from what they learned, could mean: They were not hired anywhere in they're branche because they suck (even in their own field), and now their so desperate that they apply to all jobs with a nice salary. Not a good sign for the employer. That you suddenly have not just one, but multiple persons from Material Eng. is another possibly bad sign for this. I've seen this often enough in real life: Groups that did as much as possible together in university etc. (and only barely passed the other things), because 

Option 2: Don't get a headache about this and keep up the good work. Telling the client "you can trust me, you can trust me" like in some sect (just not that directly) has a high chance of backfiring if the client is suspicious right from the start. Another point: Why is it so important to make him believe the result will be satisfying before he/she can see the result? It shouldn't be. As soon as the product is done, if it is satisfying and not overpriced, the client has no reason anymore to believe you want to rip him off. And before that point ... you work, the client pays, and the client has at least enough trust to give the job to you. If there are problems about secret informations or anything like that, and the client hesitates to give it to you to do you work, just ask how you could do it without having it. If it's really necessary, either you get it or there won't be a finished product. The client will understand that (or give you an feasible alternative). 

The problem is not that your colleague discussed some aspect of the project with your client but that he had "no idea about something in the project". This should never happen, especially using Pair Programming methodologies. Your next step, in my opinion, is to acknowledge your failure to provide adequate training to your junior colleague and, more importantly, demonstrating that you have taken steps to ensure that a similar problem does not arise in the future. 

What is the best way to determine if cultural barriers are preventing communication? In my specific case, I rarely, if ever, get a response to a question I ask of international (from India) coworkers. Obviously, I could be coming across as an "ugly American", but I honestly do not think this to be the case. I try as best as I am able to frame questions neutrally, and they are all technical in nature (e.g. how does 'x' work?, how did you fix 'y', etc.) Could it be because I normally send questions of this sort to a group (a team in India) rather than to an individual? Usually, I get much better response when I ask an individual, but often I do not know who that individual might be, I only know what team should know the answer. I speculate about possible cultural differences that could cause the behavior I see, but have no way of knowing if they are true or false. Any Ideas? 

This sounds very much like you seek someone to blame for your disappointment for not being hired. This few sentences do not mean that this manager and every other company on the world are 100% liars. 

Such groups often stuck together even after passing, because of this very reason: They can't meet the expectations people have if they are alone. 

And keep in mind that (depending on the jurisdiction), even an actual offer doesn't mean the have to hire you. ... 

Don't say anything. Because, a) the raise is not a "thank you for all the hard work you'll be doing next year". You earned the raise already. And b) 

First, as the other answer said too, be "very" careful if this is allowed. Probably it isn't - if a client is so important that the companies existance depends it, it is a good hint that you're really being an employee, not a consultant. And other than fines, it might happen that the company must retrospectively pay taxes etc. for you without you getting back the same taxes (meaning, paid two times). This can hurt much more than the fine. Anyways, some stuff about taxes etc. (very rough estimation, and many small things not mentioned at all): Currently, you have 52000 per year on your payslip as "gross" (not really) salary, which makes about 3700 14 times. After insurance and Lst tax, this might be eg. 34000, ie. 2350 14 times (nice - there are more and more web developers getting maybe half of it). However, because many people are just not aware of it, this "gross" isn't really gross - the employer has additional costs which are hidden to you, namely your insurance again (about half, while you see just the other half), and some other taxes and fees. Including this, your gross salary is more like 68000. If you are self-employed, you've to care about this previously hidden part too. Since you want "significantly" more, how about 2700 instead of 2350 - this would be instead 81000 instead of 68000 gross-gross per year. Then ... while Lst and insurance calculation are not that different between self-employed and not, there is also the Umsatzsteuer, 20%. Makes 97000. Since this is yearly, the missing 13+14 month are already in there. Not in there are the missing 25 vacation days, and average 13 (?) sick days. Since without weekends, national holidays, etc., there are about 245 days per year, this 38 days are about 15% which you get not paid anymore as self-employer person. This added makes 112000. Some random small fees collectively considered with 6% (house number, may vary), 119000. (Already more than double, compared to your payslip gross value). To this, add tax consultant, legal expense insurance, costs for computer stuff (hardware, software, server rent, redundant backups, etc.etc.), and of course office space (including rent, cleaning, furniture, electrity, garbage fee, etc.etc. - all of this is also relevant for home office, just not directly on an separate invoice. Also multiply this part with ca. 1.1 because tax details). What you have now would be what you need/want per year - however, you're not earning money for 8 hours a day over the whole year. The last big point is, enough overhead on your hourly rate to live through times without work as well as non-billable work. 

And the results are great. Everyone got in touch with other teams' members that, beyond these activities, wouldn't have an opportunity or reason to talk to each other. Besides these two, there are much more that could be done (even for small groups): 

The list is huge, but I believe we have here a good start. Reading on the internet about some recruitment processes (like THIS JoelOnSoftware article) is also very interesting. One last thing: Remember that there are two different things to be taken into account: one is the company itself, other is the interviewer(s). In most of the cases, one will be the reflex of the other, but don't take it for granted. 

I know it's not an option to 'replace the coffee break' but still considered important to share as it gave, at some level, similar expected results... So, have you tried some out-of-office activities? Thinking of integration, I've started a similar wave in my company. We've done so far, two: 

It may not help to solve the question (replace the coffee breaks and smalltalks) but may solve the underlying problem (create opportunities to get everyone to better know each other). Cheers 

I'm still searching for some definitive law, but when in doubt, it's a contract, and you never should've signed such nonsense. (I've seen it too, and walked away ... I don't regret it :)). If you want to be on the safe side, quit now. 

The exact wording etc. matters in determining if it is valid, but basically it's allowed (HGB ยง60). Unless something else is specifically stated in the contract, it ends immediately when you quit. If is is extended, there are some requirements, notably it's max for two years after quitting and your (former) employer has to pay you at least half of the (former) salary (HGB ยง74 and ยง74a). As for the other point... 

exactly. Until you know you have another job, continue everything of your previous one like before. Working, getting raises, etc.etc. And to start with, what will your boss think if you decline a raise? Whatever reason he/she guesses, it won't be positive. 

That's easy: a) Calculate how much was overpaid b) Be sure to have that money available to be able to pay it back quickly c) Contact you old employer, explain the situation and ask what to do.