I'd like to introduce another axis: Tire material. Soft grippy material vs. Hard less grippy material. The Soft grippy material has the advantages on grippiness, smoother riding, less rolling resistance, but has the disadvantages of getting more flats (for the same thickness of material) and of wearing out faster. The reason for getting more flats for the same thickness of material is that the less grippy tire is more likely to deflect a sharp object, and is harder to penetrate. Generally speaking, racing tires tend to use soft grippy material, and not much of it, to keep the tires light. Conversely, training tires tend to use the harder less grippy material, and lay it on thicker. Racing tires therefore grip better, are lighter, and ride smoother. The only problem is they wear out faster. If your are a light body weight short distance rider (going hard for an hour, say) riding on smoother roads that may be acceptable as you wear them out in 6 months. But if you are a heavy body weight rider doing a lot of long distance riding on rough roads, you may be wearing out those tires every month or two, and that gets expensive. An alternative is a grippy softer tire with thicker material. Maybe 100 grams heavier than a racing tire, but just as grippy and smooth and lasts twice as long. There are two very popular road tires which together I see on over half of all bikes around where in live in California where the roads are not smooth. One is the thicker soft grippy tire, one is the harder less-grippy tire. Both are made by the same company. (I won't mention the company or the tire names as I think that violates rules). I've used both, and harder tire lasts about twice as long. But I prefer the softer tire for comfort, and I believe it is faster as well. The only (semi-)competitive riding I do is long distance (generally over 100 miles). Yet another axis is the presence of a puncture resistant band built into the tire. There is a huge variation in effectiveness of these bands, but the really effective bands tend to make the ride very hard and increase rolling resistance. I've used a pair such "puncture-proof" tires for mixed terrain riding - only one puncture where a goats head came in from the side bypassing the band. Apart from that months without puncture, even though the rubber on the tires looked as though it had been attacked by a mountain lion - cuts and deep scratches everywhere. Nowadays there are also tubeless tires. But that's beyond the scope of my comment. 

The first is that it doesn't appear the tubeless schrader valves are readily available ($URL$ The Stans conversion kit comes with tape with a valve already attached ($URL$ 

Spokes break for the same reason any other material does: they are subject to stresses they are unable to withstand. In the case of a wheel, it can be overloaded by rider weight, cargo, or forceful impacts. Additionally, the presence of loose spokes results in other, properly tensioned spokes bearing more of the wheel's load. Spokes are under tension, so loose spokes are subject to larger swings in stress as they are loaded and unloaded as the wheel rotates. This cycling fatigues the spoke material and can lead to failure. All of these can be compounded when the spokes are materially compromised from corrosion or other forms of damage. 

If you're not seeing the first problem and visually the cassette looks fine, then you're probably ok to keep using it. Best case, everything works fine and you've delayed the cost of using your new cassette. Worst case, your new chain won't last as long and at that point you'll have to change both. Since chains cost much less than cassettes, I'd suggest running with the old cassette if it's not skipping and shifts smoothly. 

Brake pad type can sometimes make a difference. Kool-stop "salmon" pads are widely recommended to reduce problematic squeals. Some bike setups are more prone to squealing, even with clean rims, new salmon pads and perfectly aligned brakes. It's very unusual but I had this problem on a previous bike (V-brakes on a carbon fork). 

The seals will age over time, and air will leak in. Surprised (but not so much) that your LBS didn't suggest you have the seals replaced the second time you showed up. Undoubtedly available on Amazon. 

Probably your bike, as an entry level bike, allows you to sit in a -relatively- upright position. This is probably a good thing! It takes a lot of training and practice to build up the muscles to ride in lower position - and as one ages (ex-pros included) it gets increasingly hard to maintain a low position. If you try to maintain a lower position than you are capable of - you will go slower not faster. You will feel tired and uncomfortable, suffer neck, back, arm, and hand pains. You may end up riding less because it is so painful. The more pain you feel, the less power you will output, which will result in more weight and pain on your hands, in a kind vicious circle. Is your stem currently in the upside down position? If not, try putting it upside down (e.g. -6 instead of 6) and see how it feels. You might try putting it at -6 and doing HIT (high intensity training) for as long as you can, then change back to +6 for a more leisurely ride. Of course if your fit is not right to begin with now - then you benefit from a better fit. But that is not a bike quality/expense issue, it is a fit issue. And again I emphasize, the correct fit changes depending on power output / length of ride. (I have two bikes, a carbon fiber with with a low position for power rides less than 3 hours long, and a steel cross bike for everything else. I guess its an older cyclists version of reading glasses and driving glasses!) 

Is this common? Assuming your brakes are rim brakes: no, it's not common. It's also something that's known to happen. But it's a pretty bonehead spec, IMO. 

Situtation I have an old hardtail collecting dust. I occurred to me that a rigid fork, and some wide (i.e. >50 mm), slick tires would make it a pretty ideal commuter for me. Then I thought it'd be great the setup those wide, slick tires tubeless. Unfortunately, I just recalled that the rims on that bike are drilled for schrader valves. I had forgotten because when I bought the bike I immediately purchased the grommets necessary to use presta valves on the rim. I notice two things 

Since the RAW is long term goal, you are talking about a long term training plan. You must enjoy it, and you must not burn out - in other words you need to incorporate training as part of a sustainable lifestyle. During the weekdays you will need to some training but probably don't have much time, it is an opportunity to do high intensity training, core training, etc., which offer great benefits without draining all your stored resources. Such training is very satisfying and enjoyable, you will be amazed to feel your strength increase so easily. On weekends is where you can concentrate on the long distance aspect, which is absolutely required, but only to the extent it does not burn you out. If you feel bonked, in pain, or sick, then call it quits for the day. To make it more fun, I recommend participating in brevets (Randonneurs USA: $URL$ which have events of various distances 200K, 300K, 400K, 600K, 1000K, and 1200K. These events are basically self supported, with some volunteer assistance, so they are very economical (low entry fees). The cutoff times are always lenient, so you have plenty of room to develop your ability at your own pace. Always a very friendly atmosphere. There are also centuries and double centuries, which are supported events with higher entry fees. Good luck! 

Question: Will leaving those grommets in place allow me to set up the rims tubeless, or am I stuck running tubes since the are rims drilled for schrader valves? 

Deep-sectioned rims -- particularly Velocity Deep Vs -- became popular among fixed gear riders because they came in a variety of colors (bling) and the larger section made that bling all the more prominent. However, deep-sectioned rims have many applications beyond urban fixed gear bikes. They're typically heavier and don't do well in cross winds, but in straight-ahead road riding, they are thought to be more aerodynamic. As long as the rims come with machined sidewalls, they'll work fine for your purposes. The machining greatly improves braking by making the contact point for the brake pads more consistent. All that said, if you're riding around town or even doing more recreational road riding, I think you'll be better served by a smaller sectioned rim like the Velocity Aerohead. 

Would v-brakes with the normal v-brake long pads (as opposed to shorter brake pads) on road rims exhibit any problematic behavior going downhill at speeds of 50 mph? I am concerned that the longer brake pad may be more susceptible to shudder and/or grabbiness than shorter pads. Background: The bike in question is a Surly Cross Check which is set up with brake posts for cantilever or v-brake. Caliper is not an option. The brakes I have ready to put on are Deore XT br-t780 (with long brake pads) , front and back. Other v-brakes with shorter pads are available, e.g., Shimano BR-M422. (But these M422 are much lower quality than the T780 - and the question is about long vs short pads, not quality of the brakes they come with). The cable travel in the lever is not an issue as I have the problem solver travel device ready. 

51cm sounds too small for you; 58cm might be ok or it could be too big. But there is no substitute for actually trying out the bike, or at least something similar to it. Your leg, arm and torso lengths all have an effect on how well any bike will fit you and it's based on more than just the seat tube length. Remember that a bike that's comfortable and fits you well will be more fun to ride. Good fit is more important than weight or colour -- or even price -- so choose wisely. 

You can do this in a pinch if you're careful, but I don't recommend it. Your tires need to have Schraeder valves (similar to car tires) or you'll need an adapter for a Presta valve. Fill the tire in very short bursts, checking the pressure in between. Err on the side of underfilling your tires -- put too much air in and you may blow the tire off the rim, which is worse than having a flat in the first place! I used to do this 20 years ago before I realized that there were small pumps you can take with you. In addition to the risks, the problem with gas station pumps is that they're never there when you need them. The one repair kit you should have with you at all times is a pump + patch kit (or spare tube). Trust me, it can be a long, long walk home without them! 

In term of safety, I think signaling intention to turn would be a higher priority than signaling braking - the benefits of signaling braking are questionable as many have pointed out above, but turning left (in a right side driving country) or right (in a left side driving country) is an accident prone maneuver even when bicycles signal and move over to the left (right) in advance of turning. Because cars do not expect turn lights, turn lights are probably not a safe alternative to hand signaling. But because hand signaling requires a hand, it affects stability of riding - hence a good solution would be a third arm which popped out and had a light on the end. However, in my experience and in the area where I currently live, signaling often leads to cars accelerating dangerously to get around the bicycle before it turns, hence somewhat negating the safety benefits of turn signaling. 

Don't make your frame water tight. That will only make your problem worse. It's unfortunate to see a frame go bad due to internal rust, but it needs to remain unsealed. The reason for this is that moisture will find its way in and needs a way out. Even if you never ride in the rain, condensation of water vapor alone will allow liquid water to accumulate inside the frame. Most frames (I believe) have small drain holes near the bottom bracket for this reason alone. Here's a nice little post from Gunnar about why their frames have drain holes: $URL$