If you look at some of the body transformations on Fitocracy, you will find a number of women who actually added weight while their clothes fit better and looked thinner. Naturally, if you have a lot of fat to loose, you will lose weight before you are done. Revised Goals 

As you mature as a lifter, it gets increasingly more difficult to focus on both size and strength. There's several general programs out there that will give you general results, and many of them focus more on the strength side than the hypertrophy side. If you are intermediate to advanced, then the bad news is: 

I left out muscular density because at the end of the day, you can either lift something or you can't. The size of the muscle that produced the result is irrelevant to absolute strength, and only comes to play when you are talking about relative strength. I listed skill/technique first because the ability to apply your strength into moving a heavy object requires correct technique. The heavier you can lift, the better your technique has to be to do it. This can mean the difference between first and second place if you are comparing otherwise equal people. It can also explain why someone who is technically stronger can be beaten in a fight or arm wrestling match. Work capacity is the ability to do more work. It's hard to measure, but is probably a better representation of overall strength than an all out one rep max. It's one thing to be able to squat 315lbs for a set of 5. It's quite another to do that 10 times. When you look at how elite strength athletes train, they stay away from their maxes and focus on increasing their work capacity. Neuromuscular adaptation is the ability to call more of your muscle into doing work at once. When you are untrained, your body only uses a small portion of your muscles to do work. This limits the all out max you can do, but saves your muscle for endurance. As you progressively get stronger, you can make increases in strength even when you are not increasing muscle size or hypertrophy simply by getting more of your muscle to work together. It's a natural byproduct of increasing weight over time. Force is the purely physics related portion and is simply weight x acceleration. In short, the faster you move the bar the more force you produce. Similarly, the more weight on the bar the more force you have to produce to move it. Kinetic vs. Potential energy describes whether the weight being moved is in motion or is stationary. A 315lb barbell sitting on the ground has more potential energy than a 225lb barbell. It requires more force to turn that potential energy into kinetic energy. A weight already in motion is easier to move than one that is stationary. Fatigue vs. Adrenaline describes the effect of your endocrine system on your ability to lift on any given day. Heavy lifting and high volume lifting increase fatigue. Fatigue is like running with an open parachute into high winds. It severely limits your ability to demonstrate strength, but it is a normal and necessary part of getting stronger. In contrast, with a proper peaking cycle, you can ensure fatigue is at a minimum when you go to test your numbers in contest. Combine that with the adrenaline rush of performing that lift on stage, and you can perform well above your normal every day level of strength. That's a big reason why someone with a 1000lb deadlift can do it on competition day, but a couple days later wouldn't be able to come close. Bottom Line The best measure of strength is your every day max. This will be far below a test day or competition max. It's what you can do even when you are very fatigued, and your technique is less than stellar. Increasing that every day max will have a direct result on increasing your competition max. If you can curl 40lbs today, and someone you are challenging can only do 35lbs it might be just because they did 50lbs the day before. Or it might be because of life's stresses getting to them. When you get into a competition like arm wrestling, they may be able to best you because they can call on more of their reserves or adrenaline has a bigger effect on them. Or they simply know how to bring an arm down better than you. There's a lot that goes on with getting stronger. Demonstrating strength is its own discipline. Olympic weightlifting, strong man events, and power lifting all have different requirements. You might be really good at one, and really bad at another. But that is likely due to technique more than just being weak. 

This is going to be a lot more sensible than going all the way down to 1500 calories. By a rough guestimate using 5'10" (average for the US) as your height I came up with 2608 calories to maintain, and 2108 Calories to lose a pound a week. Using that you would see a dietary plan that looks like this: 

However, almost everyone thinks they are working harder than they really are. For me, weight lifting 3x a week should be using "Lightly active". It's only when I'm doing conditioning and lifting that I should even consider "Moderately active". Most people don't have the heart to approach "extremely active" levels. If you train like Michael Phelps you might consider it. With the level of exercise you described in your question, I would use "Sedentary" for your TDEE calculations. Estimates only get you close Your body is a complex system, and when it is operating properly the old "calories in vs. calories out" model works amazingly well. However, if your body isn't working properly, then you need more drastic changes to the way you eat or get those issues fixed. Common hormonal causes of weight gain include: 

Basically anything that involves pulling will involve the biceps, and more so if you do it with a suppinated grip. 

Start slow. If your hamstrings truly are out of balance, you will have a really bad case of DOMS until you get used to it. You might want to start out on the first day just doing 1 each of those two exercises. The next time you do them, do one more. And one more. Until you get to around 150 for the week (that's the equivalent of doing them 75 times a day for two days. 75 reps can be 5 sets of 15). How you divide up the work is up to you. In the beginning you might start out with the squats and lunges every time you exercise. After a while you will probably get too tired to do them every day. That's when you can alternate your running/stairs exercise with the body weight exercise. 

I recommend focusing primarily on calories in vs. calories out, and just make sure you have the recommended amount of protein and staying out of ketosis. The rest will take care of itself. The amount of extra fat you are carrying does impact how much lean mass you might loose: 

The process of building muscle (either strength or size) requires disrupting homeostasis. Since you have put your body under a certain amount of stress to achieve this level of adaptation, changing that stress will cause your body to make other adaptations. For example, the 16+ rep range has to do with anaerobic endurance more than sarcoplasmic hypertrophy (8-12 rep range) which you used to achieve this level of homeostasis. That said, the adaptations you are doing may be beneficial in the long run. 

The bottom line is that if you don't rely on your water for minerals, and you take care of your electrolyte needs outside the water consumption then it doesn't really matter. Regarding the acidity claim in the second article, with few exceptions distilled water has a PH of 6.8 to 7--which is essentially neutral.