The mind now fully knows all the experiences & things are not-self. It gives up holding anything as self. The above is the fulfillment of stream-entry on the level of neighbourhood concentration. It is not jhana. It might take a few continuous meditation retreats to achieve this if the mind has no hindrances because reaching stage 9 in a very clear way can be difficult. However, one meditation retreat should be enough to reach stage 8 (if there are no hindrances). Reading here: Buddhadasa: Mindfulness With Breathing Secrets of Life 

As for 'rebirth', the Buddha did not deceive or lie. Again, this is a long established principle. The Buddha used certain well-defined words & it is not the Buddha deceiving people but people interpreting the Buddha's words in different ways that generate various ideas about 'rebirth'. The commentaries state: 

Meditation is a substitute activity however if transitioning to meditation is too extreme then, yes, replacement/substitute activities are beneficial & important. What is important is the wholesomeness of the activities. For example, doing a good charitable deed can bring happiness & inner contentment that lasts. Deeply knowing we do not harm ourself or others also brings a happiness that lasts. Or visiting Dhamma centres & meeting Dhamma people can bring happiness. 

For example, most soldiers & people believe WW2 was "the good war" therefore Allied soldiers adversely affected psychologically by their participation in WW2 were probably less than soldiers adversely affected psychologically by WW1, the Vietnam War or the Iraq War because many soldiers eventually realised these 3 wars had little if any moral justification. This is why government & media propaganda is such an important weapon of war, such as with WW2 or the 9/11 propaganda, which makes many Buddhists, including monks, direct or indirect supporters of the post 9/11 wars, which are actually unrelated to 9/11, such as Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Iran, etc. Anti-Islam propaganda makes most people uncaring towards & ignore these unjustified wars against Islamic societies. Recently, the media was saturated with stories about a chemical-attack in Syria, which resulted in many people supporting a war against Syria (even though there was no evidence supporting these unlikely & absurd allegations). Thus not only intention but also truth is aspect of kamma & result. 

'Anapanasati' means 'mindfulness with/when breathing'. It refers to the breathing becoming the 'sign' or 'mark' of right concentration, namely, the natural automatic arising of awareness (anupassi) of breathing when the mind is without craving & is quiet & silent. 'Anapanasati' does not mean 'mindfulness of breathing' because it is impossible to be mindful of breathing since the word 'sati' ('mindfulness') means 'to remember'. Breathing is not something that can be remembered. This is why the suttas state the meditator 'observes' or 'contemplates' ('anupassi) the breathing rather than is 'mindful' ('sati') of the breathing. As already quoted, the meditator is mindful to abandon greed & distress, as follows: 

A summary of the advice from the suttas for laypeople can be found in the book: Constitution for Living by P.A. Payutto. Most of the advice remains relevant and effective. Again, monks should give relationship advice from these teachings of the Buddha in the suttas. 

There is no such thing as the "five clinging aggregates" because the five aggregates do not cling. Only one of the aggregates, when under the influence of ignorance, clings. The proper translation is: "clinging to the five aggregates is dukkha". The entire problem of suffering is summarised as clinging. Birth, death, etc, are only dukkha when they are mixed with clinging. Suttas such as SN 22.1, SN 22.48 & MN 140 make it very clear the sole problem is clinging. . 

Ignorance does not cause consciousness. In your studies of Buddhism, please avoid this materialistic error many Buddhists have. As a beginning student, it is important to learn the right way, from the beginning. The suttas (SN 22.82) say consciousness is caused (hetu) by the mind-body (nama-rupa). In reality, dependent origination is describing how ignorance pollutes consciousness, similar to how dirt pollutes pure water or how dust covers a mirror. SN 46.55 provides some good analogies. This is why there are many suttas that describe how a Buddha has no ignorance but remains conscious, such as SN 22.53, Iti 44 and the end of MN 38. When ignorance ceases, what occurs to consciousness is it become pure. In other words, what ceases is 'ignorant-consciousness' or ignorant-sense-contact (called avijjā­samphas­sa­jena). 

Please respect the Pali suttas, study Dhamma in the right way and take refuge in the Buddha rather than take refuge in teachers and worldly scholars that teach contrary to the Buddha. 

Therefore, if a person or group of people ask a monk or dhamma teacher about a political or social issue, it is appropriate for the monk or dhamma teacher to provide a Buddhist perspective because the monk or dhamma teacher has been asked. However, to attempt to promote & impose Buddhism principles socially or politically, against the will of some people, appears to be against the Buddha-Dhamma. 

The Pali suttas provided relationship advice, which is basically the same as modern professional relationship advice of sociologists & psychologists. Monks should give relationship advice from the teachings of the Buddha in the suttas. For example: 

In my opinion, you are not misunderstanding something. You are being true. Many teachers & gurus say thoughts can be observed. I personally disagree here (unless the thoughts are very subtle and very infrequent). In my experience, thinking & observing are antagonistic. When the mind thinks, it is not particularly observant. When the mind is truly observant, it rarely thinks. To genuinely observe anxiety, attention should be drawn to the tremblings or vibrations of the body (the nervous system) and shortness of the breathing. Try to feel the emotion, mood or feeling of anxiety; the pressure in the head (brain) & body, etc. That said, it is not easy to do this. If you try, you may need to regularly let go of observing & do some breathing out. The important thing is to trust it is impermanent or a passing mood; like a storm temporarily clouding a clear sky. 

Obviously, there appear to many contradictions between SN 22.82 and Dependant Origination, which include: 

Morality; non-harming Concentration; unified non-judgmental awareness; unconditional love; unworldly 'heavenly' states of mind called 'jhana'. Wisdom of four noble truths; three characteristics; not-self; emptiness of self; natural elements. 

Metta is not the fastest way to jhana because it is based in thinking. MN 19 states wholesome thinking is an obstacle to jhana. 

Since the Pali suttas describe the destruction of craving or passion as liberation & Nibbana, is it necessary to view consciousness as 'no consciousness' or 'not a real thing' for liberation? 

A difference between modern atomic theory & Buddhist atomic theory is their respective purposes. Modern atomic theory culminated in atomic bombs used to kill thousands of people. Where as the Buddhist atomic theory has the purpose of realizing 'not-self' (anatta) & bringing the peace & love of selflessness. 

Yes. The kamma will be forgiven because there is the recognition the kamma was wrong. Just as there is really no god, there is also no magical cosmic kamma. All that exists is: (i) the feeling of internal pain & stress due to performing bad kamma; and (ii) the feeling of relief & pleasantness when the bad kamma is purified. Therefore, if you ask god for forgiveness, ask buddha for forgiveness, ask yourself for forgiveness or ask a mouse for forgiveness, as long as you see your former bad kamma was wrong & realise you should not do that kamma (action) again, there will be forgiveness & relief. 

No. But we can have a 'taste' of Nirvana, i.e., develop the conviction that complete Nirvana exists. 

If we ignore the dozen or so suttas (from 1000s) about literal reincarnation, the language of the Pali can give to two different views because words used in the teachings, such as kaya ('body'; 'collection'), birth (jati) & death (marana) have dual meanings, i.e., a physical meaning & a mental meaning. Thus we can only do our best to investigate the suttas because most words are officially defined in the suttas (such as 'jati'). 

In the Tanhavagga, the Buddha taught craving, particularly when developed, leads to woe and suffering: 

Without quoting any suttas, appamada is carefulness, namely, guarding the mind to avoid things that cause suffering or hinder development (bhavana). 

Ignorance &, alternately, wisdom drive life. For example, when the hand is accidentally placed into burning fire, wisdom quickly withdraws the hand from the fire rather than any "self". When anatta is realised, wisdom drives life, as it has always done when life has been driven in the right direction. Its like when women have children. The instinctual wisdom in the women know how to look after the children. 'Self' is not required here to draw the child to the breast for feeding. In summary, whatever moral or social wisdom is developed prior to realising anatta remains. Also, after anatta is realised, more social wisdom can be developed however it is the mind rather than self that develops this wisdom of how to live skilfully in the world. 

Earth device Water device Fire device Air or wind device Blue device Yellow device Red device White device Space device Consciousness device A corpse that is bloated A corpse that is livid (has patchy discoloration) A corpse that is festering (trickling with pus in broken places) A corpse that is cut up A corpse that is gnawed A corpse that is scattered A corpse that is hacked and scattered A corpse that is bleeding A corpse that is worm-infested A corpse that is a skeleton Contemplation of the Buddha Contemplation of the Dhamma Contemplation of the Sangha Contemplation of Virtue Contemplation of Charity Contemplation of the Devas Mindfulness of Death Mindfulness of the Physical Body Mindfulness with Breathing Contemplation of Calmness Loving-kindness Compassion Sympathy Equanimity Sphere of Infinity of Space Sphere of Infinite Consciousness Sphere of No-thingness Sphere of Neither Perception nor Non-Perception Contemplation of the loathsomeness of food Analysis of the four physical elements 

The original Buddhist teachings do not include a doctrine of non-duality. The Buddha's enlightenment came from ending craving & attachment rather than from ending dualistic perceptions & thoughts. Understanding good & bad for moral/social purposes is one kind of knowledge. Seeing & understanding the true nature of reality for liberation is another kind of knowledge. The Buddha taught: (1) avoid evil; (2) do good; & (3) purify the mind. Purifying the mind means ending egotistic attachment towards good & bad rather than giving up the understanding of good & bad. 

Anatta is unrelated to dependent origination, which is why the Buddha did not teach dependent origination in SN 22.59, which resulted in the first five arahants. All things are anatta, regardless of dependent origination. 

An analogy is required here to prevent misunderstanding. Imagine there is a bathroom with six mirrors, electric power points (wall sockets) & a bathroom cabinet to store soap, shampoo, razors, etc. 

Anger certainly exists in lower beings such birds, goats, dogs, etc. That is why, in Buddhism, anger does not represent the 'human state' ('manussa-dhamma'). Instead, in represents 'birth' ('jati') in the 'animal world' (tiracchā­na­yoni). 

Another explanation of this phenomena is the minds of these monks are polluted by the five hindrances, which causes them to misinterpret what they read in scripture, as follows: 

No; unless you are a complete beginner who must develop conviction in the truth of the teachings or unless you are dealing with a difficult to manage hindrance or distracting thought. If you label every experience, your meditation will become very busy & convoluted. Please refer to MN 19, where the Buddha-To-Be labelled things for the purpose of preliminary understanding but later made the mind quiet for the purpose of developing concentration. 

The scriptures describe 'death' as the death of 'beings' ('satta'). 'Beings' is a mental state or idea. 

The above said, it is probably wrong to say Jesus was sacrificed in line with the Jewish tradition because there is actually no tradition of human blood sacrifice in Judaism (see link). When God asked Abraham to blood sacrifice Issac, this was only a test. Therefore, when Jesus blood sacrificed himself, calling himself: 'The Lamb of God', & exhorted his disciples to "drink his blood", this sounds like the own idea of Jesus rather than a Jewish idea because Jews are forbidden from eating animal meat with blood in it, let alone human blood. To most religious Jews, the idea of 'drinking blood' is alien & repulsive, which is at least one reason the vast majority of Jews for 2,000 years have rejected & even despised Jesus. 

I am happy to see this quiz or riddle being attempted. For many years I used to wonder about this teaching of nutriments, was never satisfied with Ven. Nyanaponika's explanation & could not work out a satisfactory explanation for myself. My personal interpretation is as follows: 

I am trying to understand what the different forms of becoming are. This sutta does not explain how they are different. The different forms of 'becoming' are 'sensual', 'material' & 'immaterial' becoming. Sensual becoming is when there is 'self-identity' in relation to sensuality. For example, the mind thinks: "I love this delicious food, this is now my favourite good, I am going to visit this restaurant every week". Or: "I love this (sexy & beautiful) woman, she is my wife, I am her husband". Material becoming is 'self-identity' in relation to a material object or in relation to one of the four rupa jhanas. For example: "I am rich, I have lots of money, this is my big house (which make me feel materially secure rather than give me sensual pleasure); I am now a meditation master because I have attained the 1st jhana". Immaterial becoming is 'self-identity' in relation to an immaterial object or in relation to one of the four arupa jhanas. For example: "I am famous, I am loved; I have a good reputation; I am important; I am now a meditation master because I have attained arupa jhana". The scriptures explain: 

Does 'kaya-sankhara' have the same meaning in both contexts, i.e., in & out breathing? If not, is there another alternative definition apart from in MN 44? If not, is it possible for both contexts to have the same meaning? 

Often, high degrees in academical stuff create suffering things, such as weapons of war. If fact, some high degrees in academical stuff have mental illness. Not one living being has survived in this world without the unselfishness of its parents. This shows firstly, to live, you need to receive & reciprocate unselfishness as an individual. Thus Buddhism explains about wrong or deluded view: 

In the old Pali Buddhism, the word 'sunnata' ('emptiness'/'voidness') does not mean 'nothingness' (ākiñcaññā) or 'empty space' (ākāsā). It refers to the state ('ta') of being 'empty (sunna) of self' & 'anything belonging/pertaining to self'. 'Sunnata' was also used to refer to a state empty of greed, hatred & delusion. Thus, everything in the universe without exception, including Dharmakaya, Buddha Nature, etc, are inherently empty of self & anything pertaining to self. In other words, the term "our Buddha nature" is wrong relationship with 'Emptiness' & Dharmakaya since, in view of emptiness & Dharmakaya, Buddha nature is not "ours". 

Also, the realisations of anicca & dukkha were used to support the realisation of anatta. Also, the realisation of 'anatta' brings liberation rather than 'dukkha'. Therefore, the idea of anicca→anatta→dukkha has no basis in the teachings. To be free from doubt here, the following suttas which mentioned dukkha with anicca, alone: