This is an effort to deliver more in depth understanding to our audience with far more sophisticated understanding about the world compared to the innocent people in Lord Buddha's time.... I would also like to add that these are results of years of experiments by many groups and a commonly shared perspective among huge groups who try to draw better understanding of complex teachings of Buddhism through science. But none of below statements include any conclusions from Suttas,Teachings from monks or any other source.These are purely facts based on scientific experiments and logical reasoning. 

And went on to say these... There is only one help to beings who roam in Samsara/Sansara,That is the good karma they have done.No good karma is small. "Like a pot getting filled with small drops of water any good karma is an aid for one's path!" Let me tell you a strange story.... One day people in a certain area planned a beautiful festival.A festival to worship a "Stupa" with flowers. 

I live in Sri Lanka and many good Buddhist ceremonies take place all year long. And more often than not in almost all of these major functions something extraordinary happens that leave the whole country speechless. These events take place not once or twice but annually as these big functions happen every year. None of these events happen in broad daylight and no one has been able to explain how they occur and that includes all the well renowned Professors and other science related organizations and universities. These events have broken the once accepted idea that they are some kind of weather or other anomaly as they have happened annually in perfectly equal circumstances that includes a major Buddhist event,a whopping number of pilgrims,a very pleasant environment & etc.The Somawathi Stupa is a fine example.... The best part is none of these events took place when this place is vacant, all of this happened when it was full of Buddhists and everyone there (at least few thousand people every time) witness the events. 

Joining of parents A suitable mother The coming of gandhabba* (*The materials for a new viññāṇa (consciousness) to be born {not the misunderstood inter-birth being}) 

I have heard something called "Mangala Sakwala" (The special universe or galaxy where lord Buddhas are born) This is a real puzzle for me because does it mean that there are many other worlds like this where the words of lord Buddha will never reach? If such places exist what causes a being to be born there instead of here? For example if i die now and get a birth as a human what would cause me to be born here (This galaxy/universe) or there (the unknown galaxy/universe)? The exact word ( "parallel universes" ) hasn't being used in Buddhism but if you search you will find stories about Human like or Humanoid creatures who are just like us (Beings in the human realm) but not with the chance to reach Dhamma because Lord Buddhas never born there. I am referring to some Theravada teachings i heard many years ago. Hope someone can help! 

As you can see for a true Buddhist monk the real suffering is not hunger,slavery or poverty. It is "Samsara" and he only care to help a being's Karmic circle to end so he would be closer to Nirvana. 

According to this description on the banner this is supposedly a image of a group of Devas visiting the Stupa... 

The person who asked this question is wrong,as Buddhists we completely dump the theory "Karma is the last decider" We believe in "Five niyamas" Click this to learn "Five niyamas" Karma is just a one variable in this not the final decider. I guess this breaks the question and no further explaining is needed.Click the link given above and you will understand that Unlike many other beliefs Buddhism does not take away the right of free will because if it did there is no point of a Lord Buddha. The very core of Buddhism is defying the tide and going against it with ones own free will and courage.So clearly Buddhism is not a fatalism because fate has no power over the will of a "One who is in the path". Because no matter what he or she will reach nirvana and karma no matter how powerful it is can't change that. 

So what is good and what is bad? It is very simple... If some attachment is driving you towards bad things you should try your best to get rid of that attachment. It some attachment is driving towards the path or your personal practice you should keep that need and feed it, because it is your only true friend to push you towards the path and away from other distractions. 

1:- Some are born into the womb without any awareness of anything, stays in the womb without any awareness and are born to the world without any awareness. 2:- Some are born into the womb with awareness, stays in the womb without any awareness and are born to the world without any awareness. 3:- Some are born into the womb with awareness, stays in the womb with awareness and are born to the world without any awareness. 4:- Some are born into the womb with awareness, stays in the womb with awareness and are born to the world with. 

I am not asking for an explanation on the whole "What is a Mara?" question. What i'm asking about is the being mentioned in Buddhism who has the command over all normal beings, the one who came personally to challenge,frighten lord Buddha. Is there an explanation to why or how a person become's a "Mara"? 

Lord Buddha has advised his follower to use suttas.Because suttas are nothing but the word of lord Buddha. But there are some suttas that has more uses for someone who chants them. For example suttas like 

So here's what is happening to you... Now that you have started to see the world in the correct way you might feel these things like anyone who traveled the path before you, 

What i see as the solution to your question depending on my experience is people must do what they want to with their lives. Some are born with more compassion,some with more wisdom,some with more shruddha. Each must find their own path, There is no telling what it is. I guess it must be found within. Personally i think you are more of a wisdom kind of a person so chase that, help others but do not bother walking together on a mutual path. After all of all the couples only "Nakula matha & Nakula pitha" made it through to the end together... 

This is what you should take from this story... Lord Buddha clearly said "Mind is the thing that comes first,that it is on top of the order". Lord Buddha also said "thoughts are Karma" ("Chethanahan Bhikkave kamman wadami") It is the mind that matters not the body... 

Like i mentioned before... "Karma is how your future is influenced by your past choices & how your choices are going to influence your future.*" It is bound to you, not a part of a universal thing. When you reach nirvana Karmic effects will cease to exist. No matter what happens to the universe or to you Karma will always be there for the living ones who hasn't reached "Nirvana". Because Karma is not new or old it is simply the eons old outcomes of choices, Strictly bound to individuals who committed the acts. 

What is the teaching has to say about these kind of things? If these things actually happen what can a person do? 

So what about Karma? Karma is not of physical nature and it is a given law of reality. Karma is a mechanism that has no doer. It is completely independent. 

First you need to find some good pictures and print it into your mind (Looking at it with calmness in mind would help). Then practice with the audio that i link to the answer and once you are ready do it without the Audio. Here are some Images that i use... 

Here is the thing about Sexual activities.... We do not admire it like the western culture,But the eight fold path is not a hammer on your marriage life.You can still have sex but with her only. And if you are single there is a set of guidelines established din Buddhism in finding the correct type for sex (Please refer a good source about Five precepts). You can very well feel anything without getting attached to it, How do i know it? well arahants still felt the heat,coldness,soft touch of clothes,the comfort of a breezing wind,the beauty of a jungle.But still they had no disturbance from it they even admired the beauty of nature. But in the examples you are presenting in your question we can't agree that it can be felt without the addiction to it. Basically the main reason for sex is the attachment that you have for it. Sex is not a huge deal for a beginner but alcohol is an addiction with no virtual benefit,it is that simple and under n o circumstances can be justified as something a Buddhist would do. You can have some help from meditation to fight the urge to drink and some therapy or rehab would also help.that is something you will have to fight on your own. Remember what Lord Buddha said This is an individual's fight against himself,in it he will need good friends,Knowledge of dharma and courage.But he must fight alone. Well we are here to help so start with one day without alcohol and let's see what happens from there. 

As we know there are lower realms mentioned in Buddhism, like the animal realm. If you have heard the story of the "Alavaka yaksha/yakkha" (He was an evil being by birth) You might also think "If beings like "Alavaka" can reach goals in the path are they considered lower because they are evil by birth?" After all he is not the only one of his kind to reach goals of the path on the spot where they learned Buddhism.As to Suttas/Sutras these beings serve as soldiers in armies of Gods/Devas, so they clearly aren't some primitive things like our animals.These beings also have ridiculous strength and amazing abilities like shape shifting. 

As to Buddhism there is a kind of beings who are much like Gods that you mention they were given the name "Deva". As to Lord Buddha there are 2 Devas with the power and authority over moon and the sun. The one with power and authority over sun is called - Soorya/Surya divya putta. If you are referring to the One upon the elephant please know that "Indra" is not the only one on a elephant.There is another called "Sumana saman" (Praised to this day in Sri Lanka) who met lord Buddha personally and made a temple himself. And you have got one this wrong.Lord Buddha was not against all gods! Lord Buddha was against the belief that a being created the world/universe.So Lord Buddha was only against "Creationism & its Gods and Almighty". I like to remind you that many of the suttas (Teachings) in Buddhism begins with a mentioning of a god who visited Lord Buddha and asked the question which resulted the teaching. And i would like to point out that god called "Vishnu" who is very famous in India is a name found in Theravada Buddhism.As to Buddhism these are somewhat alien beings to earth who accepted certain beliefs and resided in certain areas of the earth.Buddha even said it directly and went on to mention their society,planet,body structure and so on.Lord Buddha even visited them in their own planet.And they used to visit Lord Buddha every morning. I do not know your religion so if i offended something you believe i am sorry.But for us Buddhists all the Hindu gods are either fake or beings from another planet. The picture of your's does not contain any solid evidence to back up the theory that it is actually "Indra",as to my knowledge an elephant is a sort of a highly regarded animal in Buddhism and that person on top of the elephant could be anyone from a Kind to a Deva or Sakra (the king of Devas) 

Here are some links.... Mindfulness of breathing. four foundations of mindfulness clear comprehension direct understanding Satipatthana Sutta - Full teaching on Mindfulness 

And after that you could work your way from there. What is missing in your practice is "Not knowing what you really need". Being a buddhist is all about understanding who you are what you are after. Until you have answers to those two questions you are obviously lost. So ask yourself what you need and choose which type of Buddhist you want to be. There are two kinds of practices to Lay people... 

so my question is.... If we take Sutta+Abhidhamma point of view and focus on a human being,what we see is the same kind of species with two different Bone,Muscle,Brain,etc structures. As to Buddhism Humans do not have an essential need of sex for births to happen (spontaneous birth - Ambapali). So sex is an alternative for a human birth. Human body,culture,way of life are all based on what gender that person belongs to (This may not be the reality where you live but travel the world enough and you will see the sad truth). But once you use something like Vipassana meditation to see a human being you see that there is no such thing called gender in this bag of flesh and bones.After all Lord Buddha said that if someone can come above Temptation he/she is free. 

There was no knocking on doors tradition.It was an era of wisdom and everyone was so exited to see who is right.So when a sage comes to a village people will go to see him as a habit.If they accept what has been said they continue to be followers or they look away. This excitement was not very far from what we see today.I am sure that you have seen how people wait in line to buy the new "Apple iPhone" or how they wait to see the next "James Bond" movie. You might say it was diferent but it was actually quite a happening time. For the first time they saw human defy gravity,walk in water,levitate,teleport. They were exited to see who is right / who will win this battle of beliefs. A good example can be found in "Maha mangala sutta".In it a being from another realm (a Deva) says that there is a certain struggle among humans that even found its way to their realm. The question was "What is mangala / what is good or fortunate" This was the best time for religions because it wasn't a time like this in which people are too busy for spiritual things.People were actually waiting to see what will happen next.There was a cultural and spiritual awakening in the society of India. And Lord Buddha had no trouble introducing himself after all he was a prince once with a huge and powerful kingdom.Lord Buddha gave up all of that to find the path.Even before the enlightenment Prince siddhartha (The prince who became lord Buddha) was quite like a celebrity among the people. But there was a special method to Lord Buddha. Once lord Buddha saw a future of a farmer.That man was about to loose everything to a flood.But lord Buddha did not said anything,instead Lord Buddha visited him in his paddy field daily and talk to him.It was only after the flood Lord Buddha taught him dhamma. Almost all of other religions came to debate with lord Buddha to ensure their survival against this new path.All of them were lost,and the major supporters of these beliefs became Lord Buddha's followers.This was a huge advantage.Not to mention all the sages who lost and became followers themselves like the "3 Jatila sage leaders Gaya kashyapa,Nadee kashyapa and their brother" 

We all belong to some gender and if we write a paragraph and ask someone to read it and guess the gender obviously that person can identify the gender that is represented in that particular paragraph. For example Men would like Bikes and women would like luxury cruse ships, Men would not give any attention to lighting when women would work hard to decorate with candle light because they think it is romantic... And the list goes on and on proving that we Humans who differ from each other in almost every way tend to be so much alike in some things. But how does this happen? Clearly no one would know the answer because if you ask some guy why did you started liking Bikes he would give many reasons but he would not be choosing a single answer to be the best fit as the answer, If you ask a girl why do you like Pink she would go trough the same situation. Now we can suggest that all of these can be influences from the environment,Good marketing,Social factors and etc. 

Good attachments vs Bad attachments As you are afraid of bad attachments i assume you already know what they are so i will move on to good attachments.....