I'm a little confused as to what is supposed to be happening in this scene. What was she busy with? What does the rough voice imply? Why does Coldmoon become fidgety? 

When Sophie is taking her religion studies test, she writes this: (page 124 in my edition; chapter "Hellenism") 

He appears to be using it in a sarcastic manner. He is saying that they are so stupid, that he'll call them geniuses. It's like when someone says: "Washington DC is the capital of the United States?" "Yes, you genius!" You don't mean that they are actually super smart. In this case, 

What does this line about the atmosphere mean? I'm assuming it'd meant to be metaphorical, but I'm not sure what it's meant to be a metaphor for. 

In The War Between the Classes, the class sets up four levels of classes: Blue, the highest class; Dark Green, the lower high class; Light Green, the higher low class; and Orange, the lowest of the low. Is there a direct parallel to actual social prejudices for each color? E.g., Orange representing African Americans? Or Blue representing the white population? Can we draw a parallel for each color? 

This phenomenon is brief and sudden, and obviously important to the story, but I do not understand it. What does it mean? Where are they being pulled? And why is it some people, and not others? This feels like it might tie in the protagonist's arriving in the first place, from another world. And as for explaining that, the hint we have is Yestril's conjecture: 

But L, throughout the story and backstory both, is removed from the action. She's often mentioned as a quiet voice of reason, and a twist near the end has her hand in it -- but it seems we never really learn who L is, what her relationship to Cosey was, and why it is that she alone has such insight. What do we actually know about L? Is any justification for her uniqueness given -- do we get any sense of why she is a reliable guide and narrator, when all the other characters are wrapped up in their flaws and histories? What structural or thematic role does her character fulfill in the book? 

Notice how his hair has grown "half over his ears". This recalls an image of Karenin that we encounter early on. 

First, the Ghost breaks the earth-shattering news that Hamlet's uncle killed his father. Then, he tells him not to be rash, nor let this taint his mind. But it clearly does taint his mind. After all, Christian values teach us to forgive, not to take revenge. The Ghost is advocating revenge. And that is the chief ambition of the Devil. So, if the Ghost is Hamlet's father, then he is certainly not purifying himself by coming back as a spirit and enticing his son into revenge. That's called temptation. It's fair to question whether this really is Hamlet's father. But I think the play rightfully does not focus on this question. Instead, it focuses on Hamlet's agency, given what he has heard. In summary, the Ghost speaks truthfully about the murder of Hamlet's father, but it's ambiguous whether the Ghost actually is Hamlet's father. It could be some demon, or the Devil himself. I think it's worth asking why the Ghost says what he does, and advocates what he does. But ultimately, the play is about Hamlet's struggle to find his way out of the maze he ends up in. To revenge himself seems wrong, but not to revenge himself seems equally wrong. He has a hard predicament, and it's enlightening to see how he finally achieves peace. 

A connection to Romeo and Juliet would never have occurred to me -- they aren't forbidden lovers; they don't seem to be breaking social or cultural barriers; they don't seem to share any of Romeo and Juliets iconic traits or contrast with them (in anything but youthful, sexual passion). But the character names seem heavily suggestive, and Showalter clearly found a link. Is there a significant comparison to be drawn here? 

The Grace of Kings is deeply concerned with the mechanics of power - who has it; how to get it; how to keep it; what price you pay for it. Through its course, the book surveys a great many rulers and would-be rulers. In each case, the book portrays power as a corrupting force, that turns rulers to paths of indulgence and self-preservation -- which sooner or later devastate the society being ruled, destroying the ruler as well. The book also points out that those most drawn to power are often the ones who will wield it least wisely. To all this, Kuni is an exception. His wisdom in ruling seems smooth and unquestioned. This is apparent at every point - from the complete lack of repercussions for the looting of Pan, under his command (compare to the harsh judgement of Mata's character we're supposed to accept, when he is forced to make human sacrifice to Tazu); all the way to the utopian portrayal of the kingdoms united under his rule: 

The oath didn't mean anything, but it made him more keen anyway. The way I'm understanding it, it's saying that it won't be kept. As Rand said, I'm not explaining why it won't be kept, because I'd need to actually have the book with me ;). But from what you quoted, it appears that the text - whoever the narrator is - is saying that the oath won't be kept. Perhaps it wasn't a strong enough oath; perhaps the person making it doesn't have the power to carry it out. But whoever the narrator is doesn't think that the oath will carry any weight. But, despite this, it makes whoever it was directed to more confident in what they are doing. 

Some of them serve to say that this is a bizarre case that is going to be detailed in the story. But why does Watson/Doyle go into detail about the other cases in the beginning? 

Why does O-san have a 'vacant look on her face, as though she had been roughly wakened from some peculiarly delicious dream'? What does this imply? 

I think there is indeed symbolism in Vronsky's bald spot. One of Karenin's chief characteristics is his ears, which is often the first thing people notice of him. Ears are meant for hearing—hearing rumors, gossips, scandalous affairs. Whereas a bald spot is something that people often conceal. It could easily symbolize an adulterous relationship. Consider this scene at the military camp, in which an officer calls to Vronsky as he leaves his Finnish hut. 

One of Vronsky's comrades, probably an officer, admonishes him to pay attention to his grooming. Wise advice! But does Vronsky really mind this advice? I don't think so. Because later on we learn that Vronsky never got that hair cut. 

What do you think the Ghost might be lying about? Claudius definitely murdered his brother, which we find confirmed in the play-within-a-play (act 3 scene 2), and by Claudius's own confession (act 3 scene 3). However, it's true that the Ghost might not be Hamlet's father. In that case, it would still have to know the details of his father's death, and the details of his father's life. Perhaps it is some infernal spirit who has this knowledge. This is actually a very interesting question. I think there is no definite answer to this question. It's ambiguous. But it is worth asking questions about the Ghost's intent. Consider these words from the Ghost. 

The portrait, unquestionably, is of Bill Cosey. But the leap that Junior makes -- from tough-as-nails, look-out-for-number-one survivor, to imagining a dead man as her personal protector -- seems to me surprising, out of character, and pretty arbitrary. Why does Junior "adopt" Cosey and cast him into the role of her "Good Man"? What does this signify about her character? Are we meant to understand her as being insane, unstable -- or is this part of her character more thematic? What theme is being expressed here - and how does such an instant, intense, intimate imaginary connection to Cosey fit in with the rest of the book, thematically? 

Note that the realization that the characters are their own tormentors is made clear quite early in the play: 

Toni Morrison's Love is narrated by L, who lives on the beach, and seems to be the only person around who truly understood Bill Cosey. 

Though David Mitchell's novels differ wildly in style and substance, all occur within the same universe, with links between them - some subtle, some very central. I don't think the books are meant to be read as a series, in one particular sequence. But, are there any books which will spoil other books, or books which won't make sense without something that's been established in a previous book? Can I read the books in any order I like, or are there combinations or sequences that I should avoid? 

The serpent metaphor invokes the Devil. It also makes you wonder whether it could be the Devil speaking to Hamlet. In the same way that Claudius pours poison into his brother's ear, the Ghost might be pouring poison into Hamlet's. And now this last speech is a little unfair. 

($URL$ I'm only interested in the first stanza for now. I have mixed feelings about the first stanza. I like the image of decrepit age being something tied to a dog's tail. It really serves to show how foreign age is to the poet's soul; it is simply not a part of him, but something he tows along. I like the idea that age excites his imagination more, but when its song is dormant he must content himself with an old friend — Plato or Plotinus, interesting reading choices. He seems to be saying that Plato and Plotinus come in handy until the imagination is ready to soar. But then, when the poet is ready to sing, when the imagination is ready to soar, there is no song, no beauty. Only this alternate possibility that things will go wrong, and the poet will be derided by a "battered kettle at the heel". What does this phrase even mean? I can only think of a tea kettle. Why would it be battered? What image is he trying to show? What point is he trying to make? 

What is going on in this scene? Why is it important that the girl is taking the initiative? Why does everyone go watch? What is Alberto talking about - what's happening here? 

Now, I may be interpreting this incorrectly, but in my experience a 'gown' is usually a type of dress, with the exception of a 'dressing-gown', which is more like a bathrobe. This could be incorrect, as I'm a modern American and the book is rather old and British. More telling is this quote: 

(I found this by Googling , finding this British Library page, looking at the scan, seeing the quote I mentioned above, then Googling and finding a link to the Project Gutenburg page.) 

The first 4 books in TombQuest all have an amulet featured on the cover: (Images from Scholastic.) And then... the fifth book: 

Yep. Stevenson writes in his A Chapter on Dreams, which you can see a book scan at that link, and a text version at Project Gutenburg: 

What they are saying here, is that this character is making the other people do his work for him - and that these people are doing the same thing, pushing their work onto other people. (FWIW, they are commonly referred to as help vampires across the Stack Exchange network.) Since Tom Sawyer tricked the other people into doing the work that he was supposed to do, they are comparing these people to him. 

Fathers often tell their sons or daughters what to do, and the Ghost is acting no differently. The Ghost puts quite a lot of pressure on Hamlet when he says this. In case you don't know, Lethe is a river in Greek mythology that, when drunk from, eases one of all their memories and sufferings. By making this comparison, the Ghost is goading Hamlet into action. Now, consider the rest of the speech. 

I think this repetition is not by accident. Early on, Anna wonders whether Karenin's ears stick out because of a hair cut. Later on, the narrator observes that Vronsky's hair has grown "half over his ears". I think this attention to ears and hair cuts is a little symbolic. Perhaps Karenin's ears stick out because he hears everything, and listens to everything he hears. His hair is short (which we may infer from the above passage) because he cares about appearances. On the other hand, Vronsky lets his hair grow out, and toward the end it is reaching his ears. Vronsky is aware of the chatter about his affair, but he chooses not to listen. He cares less about appearances. Vronsky's hair serves to conceal, whereas Karenin's serves to uncover. Vronsky conceals his bald spot by brushing back his hair (pt. 5, ch. 7). Karenin's short hair uncovers the awkwardness of his ears, and the awkwardness of the whole affair. The idea of a bald spot as a blemish in his life of which Vronsky thinks too lightly, makes it the perfect symbol for his affair. Although it might cause other men insecurity, it doesn't make Vronsky insecure. He is far too confident for that. He is careless and cheerful about what other people notice and attend to. It's also worth pointing out, in the passage from pt. 2 ch. 20, the juxtaposition of the bald spot and the mare.