If every state produces exactly the same sub-structure, then no matter how fast or slow these sub-structures are being produced, my conscience would still be "experiencing" the same as before. Now imagine the following: 

Because the last point can be confusing, let me give an example... Suppose that a sub-structure of my consciousness has the following sequence of states: 

Most of the arguments against this kind of rationale base themselves on the impossibility of asserting claims in a kind-of-MUH [Stoeger et al.]: 

Birth {... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ...} {... 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 ...} {... 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 ...} {... 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ...} Death 

Despite epistemological concerns, the most plausible argument against the dust theory is given by Greg himself: 

Birth {... 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ...} {... 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 ...} {... 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 ...} {... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ...} Death 

Your question relates heavily to physics. I suggest you give Stephen Hawkings' "A Brief History of Time" a read. Meanwhile, though, to explore your question, consider this: nothing can move faster than the speed of light. Therefore, whatever distance of time there is between t and t + 1, anything can move in any direction only as quickly as just below (or at) the speed of light in the worst case. As a result of that, every possible instance of the universe can be collected finitely. (It is also important to note that by the Isolation Principle, no two particles can ever occupy the same space while moving at very nearly the same velocity and direction) Where you run into a problem is in your assumption that all things with the same history must conclude at the same result. Something I'd highly recommend you take a look at when considering this is the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. It essentially states that we can never exactly predict the state of the universe, even if we know exactly how it is or was at one point in time. This has a lot of profound implications, but exploring those is beyond the scope of this question. Another important thing to keep in mind is that the universe is not infinite. Not at all. The universe is what we describe as finite without boundaries. It consists of a collectively finite amount of matter and energy, and exists within a finite space, but is not technically confined. 

One should note that Descartes had no qualms about admitting "degrees of reality" and, as most of his contemporaries, thought 'the real' to be somehow superior to 'the possible'. (Leibniz said that god gives reality to the best of possible worlds.) It was only after the discovery of non-Euclidean geometries that people came to accept 'the real' as a particular case of 'the possible'. Eschewing ontology early in the XX.c. was called "ifthenism" 

During Descartes' times there were enough books with advices and theory on how to write (good) poetry, known generally as 'Art poétique' (e.g. by Boileau, Horace or Aristotle). Rhetoric had gained a new popularity with the Renaissance, medieval uses of Latin were treated disparagingly and books on Rhetoric, old and new, were marketed with promises to make you successful. Descartes would have none of this and apparently he looks at all of them just as today we look at books of this kind. He was somewhat of an enthusiast for promoting new science and thought that reading and writing such texts is a waste of time, so he argues that natural gifts for thinking or feeling are more important that techniques: 

You commit one of the most common fallacies I've come across in such questions here. But first, let's establish the actual meaning belonging to the term "atheist". An atheist is not one who has an active belief that there is no god, but rather one who does not believe in a god. The difference is subtle, but significant. It is not an actively held belief requiring evidence to say that you do not believe in a god. Not doing something is most assuredly not the same as doing something in a way which is contradictory to the typical way in which the action is performed. That being said, your argument quickly places the burden of proof on the atheist, who does not believe there is a god. In doing so, you are essentially saying that an atheist should be able to prove that a god does not exist. This, however, is impossible and not the responsibility of the atheist. You are making the assertion that something does exist, and thus it is your job to prove that that thing exists. Placing the burden of proof on the atheist to conclusively prove that something doesn't exist simply doesn't make sense; it is instead your responsibility to prove that your god does exist. Let's now move on to your argument, as it is one of the most interesting I've seen. You make the argument that lack of proof in something is not proof, which is very much true. However, the argument that lack of proof is proof is the exact one that you rely on. By forcing the atheist to prove that there is no god and keeping your assertion that there is one when the atheist cannot provide evidence that there is no god, you are saying that a lack of evidence constitutes evidence for your position. 

Premise: I would argue that any universe that produces (either by computation or by chance) the above sub-structure would be producing my own conscience. At point 3, I would be remembering my childhood. At point 5, I would be dead. Now imagine that a specific universe produces the following: 

In order for a system to be observable, it needs to be "expressive" enough to represent a conscious observer with its own symbols. A conscious observer is thus the mere arrangement of the symbols inside the system he/she/it exists. Consciousness requires a "sequence" of arrangements. The sequence of arrangements may be due to the rules of the system (e.g., it is being computed), but it's not required (e.g., may happen by chance). From the point of view of the observer, the specific order of a sequence of arrangements do not matter, as long as a consistent interpretation of any "specific" arrangement is enough to provide a self-consistent history. 

I hope this response answers your question, because I'm not certain I've understood it. The existence or nonexistence of a thing is a purely scientific question. To assert that it is impossible to prove or disprove the existence of something is absurd with proper reasoning. Take the example of a teapot which orbits Earth but cannot be detected by any means. I can make the conjecture that it is there, and use the flawed reasoning of saying that the teapot absolutely must be real because you cannot prove that it is not real, and one of the main facets of its existence is its property to be undetectable by any means at any time. This does not mean, however, that you cannot prove that it does not exist. While you cannot get concrete and absolute evidence that my teapot is not real, you can say that there is absolutely no reasoning or evidence for such a teapot because of its property to be undetectable. What I have taken a long-winded approach to saying is that you do not have to use this method to disprove the existence of a god, because the burden of proof does not lie with you. Just as you cannot say that my teapot does not exist, you cannot say that a god which is "mysterious" and undetectable does not exist. You never had to. It was the responsibility of whoever presented the conjecture that the teapot or god existed to prove it to be so. 

Which is a kind of distorted anthropomorphic principle; since we are observers, it would be much more probable that the laws of physics would be less strict than those we observe, just to support us as conscious observers. Suppose the dust theory is testable (Egan may already be drafting something along this line, by arguing that a kind of statistical reasoning may point to its own improbability). What would one expect to see in a dust-theory consistent (multi-)verse that we don't observe in our own, and thus render it invalid? 

Birth LONG PAUSE {... 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ...} LONG PAUSE {... 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 ...} LONG PAUSE {... 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 ...} LONG PAUSE {... 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 ...} Death 

Despite the reversed order, if my conscience only relies in any particular "state", I would still remember my childhood at point 3. Now, I can even mix all these states, and produce them out-of-order, but I would still be experiencing the same, from my point of view. Therefore, we have just excluded "time" as a requirement for an universe that sustains consciousness. We may still require "time" to explain the "computation" of states (i.e., why a state follows from a previous one), but, from the point of view of the observer, it doesn't matter. A similar exercise can be applied to space... 

If a model turns out to be undecidable, people will know to avoid models of this kind. It remains to be seen how large is the class of such models (the longer version of the paper in the arxiv is over 150 pages). But it would be premature to announce the death of reductionism just because cases illustrating Goedel's finding have been constructed. 

Zizek seems to be reiterating a criticism made against the adoption of mostly subjective attitudes. Here the historical source of the polemic seems to point back to Sartre's existentialism and an early comment made by Lacan in 1946. Sartre's elaborated views are difficult to sumarise and when he attempted to present them to a large public most often a kind a caricature replaced them. As he sought to present a Kantian self sustaining morality without external support and constraints, sincerity (as opposed to bad faith) and dedication became central for it. A popular exposition was given in his lecture L'existentialisme est un humanisme in 1945 and published the following year). In 1946 Lacan published a Propos sur la causalite psychique which pointed to an obvious weakness in Sartre's position: a madman is sincere and dedicated in his existence. Lacan's text begins with mentioning that