The latest publicly available moon map has a resolution of roughly 328 feet. Any object smaller than that would be a single pixel, and would be difficult to pick out from the background jumble. You could probably get away with covering four full pixels (so 656 feet or nearly 200 m) before people started looking askance at your structure. Note that smaller objects could well still be identified by more detailed surveys of specific sites; the 328 feet is the standard at which we have mapped the entire moon. Individual smaller locations have been examined at higher resolutions, but they're normally associated with human activity or other interesting phenomena. If your alien construct is keeping nice and quiet and not drawing attention to itself, it could well be just glossed over. 

Their creativity A common trait of deities and demons is that they are immortal. A downside to immortality - there's nothing to push you to develop new ideas, art, or technology. While a demon may not need such ideas, they may crave novelty but be unable to generate it themselves. Thus they set themselves up as patrons of arts and science, drinking in the new ideas of these brief and changeable mortals like wine. Their service Being immortal, these beings would have no problem setting in motion plans and schemes that play out over generations of human lives. They might value a mortal doing some apparently insignificant service for them, which will contribute to some grand scheme that has been building for generations. Their perspective This is more or less an expansion on their ideas, but a supernatural immortal entity might well find that conversation with a mortal shows them new ways of looking at things that they would never have come up with by themselves. Their belief It's a common trope in fantasy that some supernatural beings only exist and only have power if they're believed in. A demon or deity could well chose to grant boons to mortals simply as evidence of their existence and their power, to sway belief in their direction and grant them greater power and prestige. Their slood This is the great power source of creation, slightly easier to discover than fire, only slightly harder to discover than water. The Ds of course know about it, and mortals are just full of it, but the Ds can't drain it if the mortals find out about it and start using it themselves. Thus, they keep us busy and distracted with baubles like kingdoms and empires and antibiotics and stardrives to keep us from discovering slood. 

Mostly, no. Under special circumstances, maybe. After all, it's been tried before - well, not simplifying the language, precisely, but people have been trying to control and prescribe language throughout human history. We have documents from ancient Rome where writers complained about young'uns today mangling the language. France has the French Academy which attempts to provide an Official and Authoritative record of the French language, but whose decisions are widely ignored. Centralising language appears to be generally ineffective. When humans need to communicate, they will create language that suits their needs. It happens automatically, whether a central authority wants it to or not. So, what are these 'special circumstances'? Basically, humans can't control language. We can use it, but we can't control it. That doesn't mean that something more than human can't do it. In the Culture series by Iain Banks, the Culture mostly speaks a language called Marain. It was created from scratch by, and this is important, the super-intelligent Minds, AIs, that effectively run and maintain the Culture, and was designed to be "phonetically and philosophically as expressive as the pan-human speech apparatus and the pan-human brain would allow". It may also have been designed specifically to mold the minds of those who spoke it, to help shape the thoughts of those who spoke it, and enable them to fit better into the Culture's peaceful lifestyle. This is what it would take to produce a widely-used artificial language - a way-more-than-human intellect. 

If anything, I would expect the tech gradient to go in the opposite direction. Unless you're using the colonies to dump your undesireables, the people going out to each new colony are likely to be the Best and the Brightest. They're also going to be facing potentially life-threatening challenges on a daily basis, so there's a lot of impetus to develop technological solutions to problems. On Earth, the only impetus for that is economic. Earth may well be suffering from 'brain drain', with the best researchers and scientists going out into the wild blue yonder and coming up with their own technology once they're there. Lack of distribution of this tech could easily be explained by provincialism or political or economic competition between the different worlds. 

As always, the answer is "Lots of reasons" For storytelling purposes, having a clear visual difference between cultures or species is very important. It provides an immediate, intuitive way to identify different groups at a glance. We're limited in our interaction with most media - we can't smell, taste, or touch the aliens, only see and hear them, so storytellers need to use design to show these differences. In-universe, it's not entirely certain to what extent our own designs are independent of our psychology. While humans may make a clear distinction between "Inside" and "Outside", another species might not see the world the same way, weaving inside and outside together. If they think more three-dimensionally than we do, they may have structures built that blend what we would see as different floors together much more completely. A collectivist species would probably not understand the concept of having different buildings for different activities at all, or having 'personal space'. Then there are physical differences. Design can be an excellent way to show physical differences between species, even when they're played by the same human actors in different rubber forehead prosthetics. Compare these weapons from Star Trek: 

Immediate Effects The first thing the new military will have to deal with is the enormous loss of military experience at all levels. Going by US numbers, you've just lost around 85% of your people. The balance between enlisted personnel and officer ranks is roughly equal, but the loss is worst at the highest levels of the officer corps, where you've lost 93% of your institutional experience, as well as nearly ALL of your front-line combat experience. The people who've been out there, making mistakes and learning from them for years, are suddenly gone, and unable to pass those lessons on to the next generation. The effect is going to be a lot like the infamous Red Army Purge conducted by Stalin; exactly how that affected Soviet performance in the early part of the Great Patriotic War is still being debated, but it's generally agreed that the inexperience of the commanders and officers contributed a lot to their early defeats by the Germans. To cope with this, one can imagine a need to recruit very aggressively, and promote rapidly, as well as a focus on education for high-ranked officers. Sun-Tzu, Vegetius, and other classics are going to become bestsellers, as are other war memoirs. With any luck, the all-female force will have a chance to get some combat experience in skirmishes or peacekeeping missions before they need to fight for their lives. Compensation Biologically speaking, women on average are not as strong as men. This is just a fact. Training and exercise can overcome a woman's naturally lower strength, but she'll need to train longer and harder than a man to get the same results. In any kind of physical fight, the female force is going to be at an overall disadvantage, whether it's fought with rifles or bayonets. The army should therefore institute very strict daily PT requirements for their infantry, and weed out anyone who can't meet them. They're basically going to be the British Army on steroids - a small infantry force, but all dedicated, highly trained professionals. Since it's going to be harder to maintain infantry, a greater emphasis on battlefield mobility, infantry fighting vehicles, armoured transports, and armour is very likely. That in turn is going to lead to a very strong emphasis on logistics. You're going to end up with a relatively small, highly trained, highly disciplined, professional force. They'll use a lot of armoured vehicles, but they'll be inexperienced at first, and will need to be constantly training and learning. An environment where a soldier can speak frankly to her superiors will be essential, as will promotion by merit. Tactics So, you've got a small army. Not the end of the world. Your best bet will be short, sharp action, bringing concentrated force to bear on individual enemy elements. Most of the heavy fighting should be conducted by armoured vehicles like main battle tanks, light tanks/armoured fighting vehicles, air power, etc. Your infantry forces would be a reactive force, able to move quickly to trouble spots as needed with less difficulty than the main armoured units, and able to perform the many tasks needed of the infantry in a modern war, like building clearance. Each infantry squad would have its own attached Infantry Fighting Vehicle to transport them quickly to trouble spots and provide fire support. The soldiers would deploy from the IFV, use it as cover, and return to it when they were needed elsewhere. 

As a rule of thumb, it takes about one acre of land to feed one person for one year. That's a little over 1.5 square miles, but you'd need that land to be very reliably productive. I'd suggest adding more for a safety margin, and then double or quadruple that to allow for crop rotation and/or fallowing. As an island settlement, your population would certainly be fishing for a good chunk of their diet as well. Fish are an excellent source of protein and nutrition, but a reliable fishing fleet needs sources of wood, fibre, and metals. Metal would probably be acquired through trade, but you'll want a field of hemp for the fibre, and some managed woodland for timber. A potentially useful resource you could add would be a nearby island with a regular population of sea birds. Bird guano makes a fantastic fertiliser, so it would both make their own fields more productive and be an excellent trading resource.