In the present we are very far from this on several fronts. However, the future is hard to predict. I tend to be optimistic and claim: Humans are biological machines. Anything a biological machine can do, a mechanical machine will also be able do at some point in the future. Present difficulties are: Preserving the genome Outer space is a harsh environment, hard radiation will gradually destroy everything that is static. The space ship and AI itself can continuously repair and rebuild itself to avoid the problem. Frozen biological material is not so lucky and will be destroyed before the ship reaches its destination. This is true even behind heavy shielding. The obvious solution is to not send actual frozen cells but rather just the sequenced genome in digital format. At the destination, just recreate the cells from the genome. We currently don't know how to do this! Not even close! But hey, future tech can solve this, right? Gestation So, you have a cell. You want a fetus and later an infant. In nature this is an enormously complicated process that involves many phases of complex interactions between mother and child-to-be. We currently don't know how to do this! Not even close! But hey, future tech can solve this, right? Rising the children Actually, this part I think is the easiest one. The AI will have fake adult bodies that can be pretend parents for a while. The children will quickly recognize them as different from themselves, but will have no reason to think that this is "unnatural" or "wrong". The main social interactions will be with other children. The "adults" will monitor and reward "nice" behaviour and punish "nasty" behaviour but otherwise let the children sort out most things between themselves. Like a boarding school in many ways. Starting a civilization Modern civilization is incredibly complex. We have taken a long time and a lot of people getting where we are. We don't know how to do it again with a few people and faster. That should be solvable problem except for one little detail. Humans are impatient. The now adult crowd of humans want their fun today, they don't want to make plans for future generations. At some point, they will revolt against the AI, and possibly destroy it in the process. One can only hope that civilization has be established at that point. As you say, results may vary. 

A smart archaeologist (or rather: a team of different specialists) would thus not only be able to figure out that a nuclear war had taken place, but also roughly when it had. This will even be possible as long as there is geological strata generated during the war around to analyse. 

We can ignore the last category for our purposes here: the other two will provide clearer evidence. Unspent fissile material The unspent fissile material will be either uranium-235 or plutonium-239. Uranium-235 has a half-life of over 700 million years. Thus, virtually all of it will still be around after the two million years in the question. This will be an excellent clue for the archaeologist: not only will it show that someone spread a lot of expensive, highly enriched uranium over the planet, it will also give them a good estimate of when, as you can analyse the amount of decay products from the decay chain to see how long since this took place. Plutonium-239 has a much shorter half-life, only 24000 years. This means that after two million years, it will be gone. However, it will not have disappeared entirely, but have also turned into uranium-235. This will mess with the time-span analysis of above somewhat, and introduce an uncertainty of about 100 000 years. Fission products Nuclear fission creates a range of different nuclides. In general, these are short-lived and unstable, but they will also generate daughter nuclides that are stable. The archaeologist will thus find a mixture of different isotopes, in proportions that does not occur naturally, in the same layers as the above uranium. This will clearly show that not only has someone spread a lot of uranium-235, but also a lot of fission products. The theory that would best explain this is an all-out nuclear war: 

Having a large group with good communications generally makes language change slower. In a low-tech setting this means nomadic tribes with friendly relations and trade with each other. Trading spouses helps too. Class differences breed class accents, which becomes language change when the lower classes imitate the upper and the upper avoid lower-class speech. So, avoid social classes. A strong singing tradition preserves language. 

Mages need to sleep. Scouts from the capitol have been keeping watch over the zombie army several days walk away from the capitol. They notice that at night the zombies seems to be extra stupid, and correctly deduce that the mage is sleeping. The last night before the army would have reached the capitol, a group of trained night fighters sneak into the army camp and (re)kill everybody. (Let us not use the ugly word assassin, shall we?) Now, the zombies themselves won't be sleeping, but they might as well be since they are so stupid. They will have some standing orders like "attack anybody who is alive." but they will not be smart enough to coordinate those attacks. And uncoordinated attacks are easily dodgeable. When the mage wakes up, the battle is already over. 

The world is not static. Right "now", there is only 1 in 10000 Force Sensitive (FS), but it wasn't always so. And it will not always stay so. One possibility is that FS is a recent development, and ten thousand years ago there were none. Then somebody got lucky in the genetic/environmental lottery and the first Jedi was. They had more children than average, and those children had more children than average and so on, but it still a rare trait. In the future it will be more common. The other possibility is that they used to be more common, but for some reason most of them died. Maybe they were killed as witches, maybe they lost a civil war. Again, they will be more common in the future... unless there is a new witch hunt. (The above is my unique contribution, below I repeat points made by others to make this a complete answer) Weak inheritance You said that FS parents had an increased but still low probability of getting FS children. This can be achieved in two ways. The first is making the genetic basis very complex. Maybe you need one of two genes from group A, one of three from group B as well as one particular gene C. All of these genes are somewhat rare. Parents are likely to not carry more genes than needed, and can fail to pass them along in several ways. People having more than the minimum number of genes can be stronger FS, but not dramatically so. The other way is to make the genes only part of the equation. Having the right genes only gives you a chance, in addition you must get some boost from the environment. Maybe during pregnancy, maybe early childhood. E.g. a near death experience can "wake you up". Note that either way, weak inheritance will make evolution move even slower, making my first point more valid. Who cares anyway. The world is as it is, and the people in the story doesn't know why. The readers doesn't need to know why either. Nor does the writer. 

Imagine a future in which biological entities have developed self-repairing autonomous weapons of war that are each equipped with their own AI, that are faster, stronger, smarter, more durable, more reliable, more loyal, more obedient, cheaper and quicker to produce than the biological entities which produced them. These autonomous weapons range in size from the microsocopic to the size of the largest ships, and where required, can be superficially indistinguishable to a member of the species that created them. No single biological soldier, no matter how well trained, can face any of these autonomous weapons in combat and expect to win, and while victory for the biological entity is possible, it is unlikely and is usually more a matter of good luck than judgement or skill. In such an environment, where a war may be fought between armies of opposing machines and where no biological combatant could expect to survive being present on the battlefield, what place do the biological entities have? EDIT While the biological entities need not be human, this question doesn't preclude them from being human. The biologicals are in charge. They dictate the military objectives and terms of engagement, and the AIs do the rest. We can assume that the biologicals are divided into multiple polities, each with their own ethical stance, but the majority disapproving of things like wholesale slaughter of civilians, causing massive environmental damage, or polities that break these rules. The weapons are made, maintained and operated by highly intelligent nanotechnology. They can be made anywhere that the raw materials are available, in as little as a day. Nanotechnology is ubiquitous, but the quality of the weapons it can produce depends on the availability and quality of the software. Even civilians can produce third-rate weapons at fairly short notice, but actively doing this would mark them as being legitimate military targets, akin to militia. Technologically enhanced biologicals are still less capable than third-rate weapons - or are so far from their original form as to be able to be considered a different species. EDIT #2 Yes, the biologicals are the manufacturers and commanders of the AI weapons, however the question is "What place would biologicals have on the battlefield?", not "What is the role of biologicals in warfare?" - that is already obvious, as has been pointed out in comments. In the event of an armed conflict involving AI weapons, would non-combatant biologicals in the battle zone be able to plod obliviously through the battlefield, confident that the AI weapons would avoid harming them, or would the biologicals be scrambling to build their own AI automaton bodyguards, or would some other situation occur? Could biologicals - enhanced or unenhanced - have an active military role, or would they all remain aloof from the conflict to avoid being targeted and killed? 

Unspent fissile material Decay products from fission processes Activated material from surroundings (e.g. bomb casing, air, soil) 

Large-scale nuclear disasters are unlikely. They would also release a lot of uranium-238, which would also be detectable. One could postulate a civilization which has reactors that only runs on highly enriched uranium, but that would be an extreme expense without any clear benefit. Large-scale deployment of dirty bombs is even less likely, for similar reasons: they would tend to leave a lot of fission products, but there is no reason for there to be a lot of uranium-235 and no uranium-238. 

The requirements for developed theorium reactors are not that tough: easy access to thorium, limited access to uranium and other sources of power and no incentive to develop a nuclear arsenal (and this last point is perhaps not even true; there are some that claim that the uranium 233 that is the actual fuel in a thorium-based cycle is viable as bomb material). Thorium is today seen as a less viable choice because it would need different reactor technology than what is used in most of the world to be most effective. However, this is not in itself a major problem. The Soviet union, Canada and the UK uses or has used reactor designs that significantly differ from the US-designed LWRs. I will give you one possible scenario: Sweden had it's own program for building heavy water reactors, with uranium mined in Sweden (Sweden has a lot of uranium, but not very concentrated). Had the large thorium deposits found in Norway been on the other side of the border, it is possible it would have choosen designs based on thorium instead, and gotten so far before the non-proliferation treaty that it would have decided to not buy american LWR designs but instead continue with the domestic design. At the peak, Sweden's reactors produced slightly less than half of the electricity used, so that requirement is not much of a stretch. 

The Dr Watson AI's goals do not go nearly far enough. A goal-oriented AI without the appropriate constraints can go to any lengths in order to maximise its goal-reward criteria. Consider the first goal: Maximize insurance enrolee pool. Fortunately, this will stop the AI from killing us all (dead people don't buy health insurance), however it can be problematic. I can envision that this would lead to problems: 

This is fairly simple. The free fae put the guards to sleep during the hours of darkness, and find a rope with a hook. They then hook the rope to the cage by the rope and use their telekinesis to help them lift the cage and fly away with it under the cover of darkness to some place where there are more fae who can use their telekinesis on a non-ferrous lever to pry open the cage. 

Ok, to do this, you're going to need to do some major-league planetary redesign work. In order to get lots of life, you need lots of water. Deserts are the areas with the least diversity and biomass, so they have got to go. Where mountains are causing rain shadows, knock them down to size. Where rain is falling but the clouds are not being replenished fast enough to water the downwind areas enough, build intermediary seas. It would take quite a bit of digging, but you have that zero-point drive after all, and it shouldn't take too long. Another step you'll need to take along the way is to increase the atmospheric carbon content a little, without causing an excessive greenhouse effect - the global temperature is just fine as it is, thank you very much. Again, it is fortunate that you have the Zero Point Drive, so that as you un-sequester all that geo-sequestered carbon, you can move the world further away from the sun so that the increased greenhouse effect is countered by reduced solar influx. Take it easy with this step, you don't want too much more carbon dioxide suffocating your animals, nor do you want to reduce solar influx too much. As the plants that you're growing sequester the carbon you've been digging up, you'll need to gradually dig up some more carbon. That's right, get it all out of the ground and into nice, living plants. Keep the atmospheric CO2 within bounds though. Another issue is Oxygen - you'll want more of it. Fortunately, as you're increasing the biomass of photosynthetic organisms, producing a bit more shouldn't be too hard, and you can help it along if you want. Increasing Oxygen from 20% to 30% or so would do wonders for producing megafauna. Make sure that you aerate the seas nicely too. With that extra oxygen, bushfires will be a bit more frequent, but that will serve to help the carbon cycle keep going without too much getting sequestered again. It will keep your animals on their toes or other locomotory appendages too. Now you have water everywhere you need it, more oxygen and extra carbon going into plants and animals, the next step is biodiversity. Fortunately, you have Deirdre Skye, who the OP's previous questions have established as an expert genetic engineer. Having performed the first steps, you'll actually have set yourself up to lose some biodiversity, so just genetically engineer the desert organisms so that they can tolerate more water. Once that's done, start in on other species, and make a few variations of each. Mix and match traits and set the critters loose to fight it out amongst themselves to see who gets to survive. Inject enough genetic variation within a species, and you'll probably find the species splitting all by itself as the widely divergent members begin to evolve in different directions. Megafauna are easy to achieve if you have an expert genetic engineer on hand, though they aren't usually the fastest-breeding critters - at least if they are mammals. How about a few species of Giant Land Crab instead, you know, engineered to weigh in at around the one-ton range and eat pretty much whatever they can get their claws on? They breed in water, so they can have thousands of larvae out at sea, growing on a diet of plankton to a size sufficient to climb out onto land and begin eating everything. You might have to change their oxygen carrier and their circulation, but that's just a little thing, really. I don't know about accelerated growth, some life-forms grow pretty fast already, and biological process are only so fast, you know, you can't make them much faster without chucking the whole lot out and starting again from scratch, and I'm sure that you don't want to spend that amount of time repopulating your biosphere. The extra oxygen should pep things up a little, anyway. 

Is the reactor itself important to your story? Is it important that it was an accident with the operation of the reactor itself? If not, go for spent nuclear fuel instead. Spent nuclear fuel need to be stored before being moved to final deposition. This storage can be at the nuclear power plants, or at a central repository. In any matter, at one point, sooner or later, it has to be transported. While there can't be a nuclear explosion, there can still be terrorist attacks, or some other grand explosion that breaches the containment of the transport, destroys the canisters the fuel is handled in, and spreads the material. However, to really create a big exclusion zone, you will want to have some way to spread nuclear material as ash from a fire - this was part of the reason you got so much nuclear material from Chernobyl to spread over such a large area. The initial explosion made a hole, and spread large chunks of radioactive stuff over the surrounding area, and then radioactive ash was spread into the atmosphere from the burning graphite. 

Nuclear fallout will be around for an long, long time Nuclear fallout (note: "nuclear fallout" usually refers to radioactive fallout. I will be using a slightly different meaning due to the context of the question). will be detectable until earth is destroyed - if geology allows. I am no expert in formation of rock sediments or the spread of nuclear fallout, so I will assume that nuclear fallout will be preserved in relatively clear strata in e.g. sandstone. If so, any civilization with a relatively basic understanding of nuclear physics will be able to see that there was a big release of fissile material (uranium-235 and plutonium-239), along with products from fission processes. An atomic bomb works through a chain reaction in which a lot of either uranium-235 or plutonium-239 fusions (there are a few other choices of isotopes which might be technically possible to use, but they seldom are) . However, not all of the bomb material will be spent; a significant fraction will be released as fallout. This means that a bomb will spread isotopes from three different groups: