I don't think it's an outright joke. I'd certainly say it's mildly ironized, but a long introduction is still a 'clause' compared to a much longer body. The phrase is worthy of a 'heh' rather than a 'hahaha', you could say. The way I take the phrase "soothly in a clause" is as a prefatory assertion of truth value. The 'clause' or prologue itself is akin to, say, the Argument at the front of Shakespeare's "The Rape of Lucrece"; it is, literally, the first clause of the document. It is sort of setting up a contract between the speaker and reader, saying "What I have told you so far is true and you can reliably take it as the basis of what is to come in the stor(y/ies)." This is pretty well substantiated by sources cited in the answer by Rand al'Thor to the question you linked above, where he quotes H.S. Toshack writing that "'Soothly' (truly, accurately) fits the context better: in the next few lines Chaucer justifies that claim by laying out the framework within which he has offered his information. We have also seen Chaucer the Pilgrim, previously, taking great care to distinguish between what he has recorded as fact and what is just a judgement on his part." 

Specifically I'm trying to reconstruct in words what goes on with/in the Scar itself, as in between Hedrigall's departure and then his return on the airship. It's something to do with the whole possibility trope (like with Doul's sword), but I'm not quite sure I understand what actually goes down. Does Hedrigall just freak the Armadans out so much that they decide it's not worth it and to turn around? Also I'm sure it intersects with the decline/death of the avanc somehow? Hopefully that's not too much of a mess. I don't need a play-by-play, I think, but if someone could reconstruct basically the impetus, the action, the crisis, and the outcome, I should be able to make sense of it. At least, as much sense as Mieville allows. I'm sure the answer to "what happened" is fundamentally uncertain, but I'm not sure that I even know what exactly to be uncertain about. Thanks, and I'm happy to clarify if needed. 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter XIII In short, the letter started as a badge of sin, but due to Hester's actions later it became something, if not to be proud of, not to be ashamed of. 

It's well known that Silverberg wrote novels based on some of Asimov's stories. For example, The Child of Time was based off of The Ugly Little Boy, and Nightfall was based off the Asimov story of the same name. How many other (if any) novels/books/other works did Silverberg base off of Asimov stories? 

Rose doesn't recognize him, and when questioned about how to leave (to get to the Keep of Time), he abruptly tells them to try the trump again, and walks away. However, before they leave, he tells Rose: 

The poem appears to glorify war with its talk of bravery and talk of honouring the light brigade. However, the second to last stanza appears to contradict this: 

Here is also a list of place names and their equivalents, taken from the book linked above: (warning - really long) Wessex - Name - Region of Wessex Actual Name 

It's unknown, but it appears that although The Epic of Gilgamesh was written first, the Pentateuch (part of the Bible containing the creation stories) has the first description of the flood story. From the Idaho University page on The Epic of Gilgamesh: 

Hyperion and Endymion are poems by the famous poet John Keats, both based on Greek mythology. Hyperion talks about the Titan's despairing after their defeat by the Olympians, and was written in 1818-1819. Endymion is based on the myth of Endymion, where the moon goddess Selene falls in love with him, a king and son of Zeus. Are these poems supposed to be related to each other? They both cover Greek mythology, which prompted my question. 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter II As time passes, the letter changes in meaning. Some people "refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification". The A comes to mean "able" in their minds. (Chapter XII) Eventually, the letter becomes somewhat sacred: 

From these, I can find most of what the text at Greek Wikisource (very end of page) has. However, there is a bit that is not in these images. From what I see on Grenfell and Hunt's book on the Oxyrhynchus Papyri (HUGE DOCUMENT, Firefox crashed while I tried to find the page of the below image), P.Oxy.1232 is supposed to have a couple other fragments, one of which they transcribe as: 

Wharton seems to not even have the fragment, and then safopoemas. This weird doc full of horrid typos, which is no longer available at the link it was at, which is now broken, but can be found as a pdf here, with the same garbage typos as the doc version, and is based on a Spanish edition of Sappho, has this semi-garbage: 

This tells us that is probably a typo/mojibake for , given by LSJ as quoted by Perseus's Greek Word Study Tool as various things including , and that the incomprehensible must somehow mean . I looked for all possible combinations of vowels substituted for the 6 and endings, and found nothing on Perseus, but found , , on the Rocci dictionary. Not too fitting, but maybe. Back in the days when I translated Sappho, I had temporarily settled for , but now I guess a better way to do this would be , both meaning and keeping the initial consonant and possibly a vowel. Analysing other fragments in that safopoemas, 6 is almost certainly an omicron, and the chi could be a kappa, so we could have or , neither of which yields anything interesting on Perseus. I looked around for another source for this completion (possibly Reinach, which this document claims to be following in the quote below), but was unable to find any. So my question is: what was this reconstruction supposed to look like, and who proposed it, and of course, how supported is this amongst critics? Quote from safopoemas.doc's introduction 

Not really private islands, and they don't really retire either. When a star is old enough and has lost enough power, it can go to one of the islands on the Eastern Ocean. While there, it recovers its strength and becomes young again by eating "fire-berries". 

Therefore she focuses on her weaving intently, but gets captivated by the reflections of the outside world in her mirror. And of course she eventually looks out and becomes cursed. TL;DR: She started looking at Camelot, she's cursed if she doesn't stop that 

He also wrote more stories after LOTR, in addition to a couple (non-fiction) research papers before that. So he wasn't entirely new to writing in general. 

Yes. The poem was written in response to seeing his cousin, Lady Wilmot Horton, at a ball. She is his cousin by marriage, through a man named John Wilmot, governor of Ceylon.. 

In 1984, O'Brien expects Winston to know what Room 101 is. I know that Room 101 is more torture, but why would O'Brien expect Winston to know that? 

(I don't remember the main character's name) The book opened with the main character (an old man) living on a mostly abandoned world. I don't remember the exact setting, but it was barren of sapient life. There were animals that were like a cross between a racoon, komodo dragon, and velociraptor. They were sentient and hostile to humans, but the main character had somehow tamed them so they didn't attack him. A woman visits the man, asking for his help with something. I'm fairly certain it's not explicitly stated in the story yet, but the man understands what she wants. He refuses. It turns out there are two rival factions warring for control of pretty much everything, and he doesn't want to participate in the war. Furthermore, he doesn't trust the woman to be who she claims to be (she says she's from faction A, but she might be from B) At some point in here another man appears, heavily injured and unconscious. I don't remember much about this, except I'm fairly certain the woman kills the unconscious man. The story culminates with the reveal of the a piece of technology. This is some sort of wristband that allows the wearer to warp between parallel Earths. The old man's version of the device was older and in the form of a belt. There was an asteroid. In different versions of the Earths, the asteroid went from overshooting it on the right, to hitting the edge, to full-on collision, then hitting the left edge, to missing, etc. The old man was living on a planet where the asteroid had come close enough to obliterate life, but not actually hit and destroy the planet. The woman turned out to be evil (shocker amirite) and stole something (I think) from the old man. He chased her, and she kept running and warping from world to world. At some point they even warped to a place where the asteroid had completely destroyed the planet and there wasn't even an atmosphere. At the end, it turns out the old man was the creator of this technology. He couldn't live in a world with that tech being constantly used, so he left to live like a hermit on an Earth far away. He had created the device, and another person had refined it into a lightweight wrist device. He spared the woman and told her to leave, but she still tried to kill him. She failed, and I'm fairly certain the old man just left her for the komodo-racoon-raptor beasts to kill. He packed up camp and left for a more distant world, possibly using up the rest of his device's battery. At the end, the leader of the pack of the komodoraptors was implied to have gained human-like intelligence, implying that it would start a dog-eat-dog style civilization. Lastly, I'm fairly certain the reason the old man didn't like the technology was because he thought it would lead (spoiler: it did) to humanity exterminating other versions of humanity and pretty much any other animals they came across, cutting off their future and preventing them from evolving further. The ending possibly implied that he realized what the komodo lizards would become, but maybe not. I'm fairly certain I read this story in a collection of short stories from assorted authors, again in the US about 6 months to a year ago.