Its very unlikely. As you mentioned, the person has joined just couple of months before. It is much more likely that senior person would be asked for feedback on his reports rather than other way round in hiring decisions. Any new person takes time in settling down and creating a network. The only way this may have an impact if the your ex direct report happens to know someone influential in the recruitment process and that person respects the opinion of your direct report. Chances are pretty slim plus, any good org will still go through interview process and judge for themselves. If your former direct report bad mouths you, it is much more likely that he will spoil his terms there rather than your job prospects.If he is really skillful and puts it decently, it may come up in the interview. Handle it tactfully. And don't give his name as reference in the during the job application process so that no one goes to him during the recruitment process. 

The price of rent in the area of a potential employer has increased dramatically without regard to the rest of the state and surrounding areas outside reasonable driving distance. In fact, it appears the trend will continue and I will be looking at an entirely different situation in as little as 1-2 years. Is it appropriate to mention this noticeable trend during salary negotiations, and how they dealt with this situation in order to continue competing for talent? Surely, they want to keep a happy employee that is focused on their work instead of rent. *From my initial research, there has not been an increase in salaries for this area when compared to others outside. **Assume that relocation to the area will be necessary, and commuting is not an option. UPDATE: In response to the answers bearing similarities to the answers in this question, I am not asking a company to accommodate my personal needs regardless of the market rate for the local area. I am well aware that my value is the basis for their salary offer. What I am asking about is referencing an anomalous situation which has been reported by local newspapers. 

First, you need to take steps to ensure the Office Manager knows that it is a poor practice to make remarks such as this if the phone is still live. Even the entire phrase was way out of bounds for Andy to hear. Not only that the Office manager owes you an apology for possibly making your relationship with a difficult person even more strained. Next, you will likely hear from Andy officially if he was insulted or your next interaction will appear strained. In the first case, then you need to make sure the Office Manager is the one to explain what was said and apologize. If things appear strained the next time you have a contact, you can ask directly if he has a problem with you that he would like to discuss. If he mentions this, point out that you did not say it and that the person who did was immediately talked to about the inappropriateness of what he or she said. Then apologize for your organization and ask if he would like an apology from the person who made the statement. What you can't do is directly bring up the subject unless he brings it up first because he may not have heard any of the statement and you don't want to turn him form not insulted to insulted. 

I have read numerous questions that do not address this specifically. In any case, I have received an invitation to interview but not interviewed yet, attempted reasonable contact and have waited a reasonable amount of time. See comments below where I refute claims of duplication. BACKGROUND: I received a request from an internal recruiter for a phone interview and a time to do so. I responded the next day, suggesting that day was not good and opened up my availability for the next several days as well as offred up a suggested set time the day after the next. I received no response. As the suggested time approached without response, I called the recruiter and wanted to make sure I had not missed something so I could be available. He was unclear, but implied he hadn't heard from the person doing the interview, who is a technical supervisor not a hiring manager. I waited a week or so and received no response. I sent one more followup politely requesting more information either way. THE QUESTIONS ARE: In the above scenario, 1.) do I only continue to try and contact the unresponsive recruiter and 2.) should I only use email or go to phone calls with them? 3.) How long should I wait to escalate and contact the supervisor? 4.) Should I contact the supervisor by email, phone or a message with the receptionist? CLOSING NOTES: Yes, I already know to continue on in the meantime. Yes, I would still work for them after not receiving a reply. Yes, I know they hired a recruiter to schedule interviews as part of their duties so that the supervisor wouldn't have to deal with candidates. Also, the position is still listed and there is no closing date. The original invitation implied a desire to schedule the interview as soon as possible (but not urgently). I am not sure if the recent elections here in the U.S. have affected the process or not. 

No, its not a norm to spam employees linked-in contacts. Feel free to refuse to share linked-in contacts if you are not comfortable doing so. Its your linked-in, not your company's. If you feel pressured, a simpler way would be to ask the recruiter to post the position on linked-in where you can like it, there by sending a notification to all your contacts. That is also if you feel like it. Don't do it if you don't want to. Some people do tend to post vacancies on linked in to get referral bonus. Also, you should consider if any of your friends might be looking for a job change. If the place is a great place to work for and you would want to get some of your friends here, think about it. Else just tell them that you don't feel like sharing your linked contacts. They are your personal contacts for professional development. Tell your recruitment team politely that they would be better off posting the vacancies on job portals. A simple no would be far better than putting any excuse. 

Well I really messed up: A small batch of custom resumes were perfect and typo free, however, they were not converted to PDF correctly and as a result there was additional personal information from another document included at the bottom of the resume. The mistake is obvious and will most likely result in receiving no call backs from these employers; this field is unforgiving of these types of errors that scream incompetence. My question is that while there is nothing I can do to correct the mistake and become a "serious candidate", I would like to at least get the sloppy resume updated in their database, so as to remove the personal information as well as hopefully prevent it from being seen in the future, in case I have later dealings with these companies. Is a short letter saying "I made a mistake and would appreciate it if they could replace the faulty resume with the correct one" appropriate or understandbale? Please note that these resumes were emailed, not uploaded into a web-based database (otherwise I would just update it myself). Will an HR Manager even do this? Anything else to add in order to soften the blow... like a note taking responsibility for the mistake and an apology for the inconvenience? 

Have you heard any body in the company being given a counter offer ( which is what you are looking for, a counter offer from the employer to prevent an employee from leaving who has got another offer) Do you have some critical business knowledge or any such skill which will take the organization significant cost to replace? 

The answer from @motosubatsu sums up what you could do to get work from your supervisor. I will talk about handling this from the other aspect. There are two ways to handle this situation. One way is to keep chasing your lead till he gives you what you want. Second way, a little more difficult, is to create opportunities yourself. Do you know any upcoming initiative in the organization where you can contribute? You need to build a strong network to be able to get that kind of information. There is always work which is in pipeline. Can you do a quick Proof of concept and show it to senior management? Then there is always upcoming stuff in the field you are working.It may be purely technical, like this new framework which has come in market. Can you do an analysis and list its benefits , where to use it? Technical organizations often have places like blogs where you can publish your findings. If not, can you start one blog site on a server in the organization? Or on cloud which is not open to rest of the world? Few years ago we formed what we called Center of excellences. It was essentially a technical group of like minded people in the organization who were considered experts in technology. You could start that. You could also look at the latest in the business side. Is there anything upcoming in your industry where you can work and contribute as a tech expert ? See how technology/ product will get impacted by regulation? Can you suggest a new product / tool which can cut down time for developers/ any other improvement with numbers and proof of concept ( meaning something which you have tried and works, not just theory). And lastly, in technology , lot of work happens on open source projects. If you are so bored, can you join a few and become active collaborator? It may not help you in your job directly, but will certainly help you in honing your skill. The purpose of all these suggestions is to make you think that there are a lot of things you can do on your own which does not need your lead to assign work to you. You can make decision on what you want to do and just complete it. Not every thing you try will be successful. But if you persist, eventually people will notice. And someone higher up will be more comfortable assigning you extra work because you have proven yourself. Please do keep in mind to keep your assigned work complete. It should not happen that you are chasing some extra things at the cost of your current assignment. If you do that and are able to contribute to 2-3 areas on your own without management allocating work, sooner or later it should get noticed. Even if it doesn't, you will grow and get out of boredom. Personally, I appreciate people who can find work for themselves when they have less on their plate. If you keep your focus on finding work which suits you without messing up the work assigned to you, people will start looking at you as the go to person and growth in terms of role, complex projects etc will start coming to you. People get picked up based on what they have done, not what they think they can do :). Work first, and then demand. Create a value for yourself, management will run after you to keep you happy. 

Is it appropriate to bring a copy of the APIs for languages listed on your resume, in anticipation of technical / coding / whiteboard questions? This could be perceived as either ignorance or preparedness (and an awareness for the situation). This would be difficult with with a hardcopy, but feasible with a phone or small tablet, especially if they are made available offline. Obviously, if the interviewer wants to test memorized knowledge, they can ask (or you can offer) to perform the task without it. For Non-Programmers: API stands for Application Programming Interface and is used by programmers to interact with common functions made available by a programming language. 

Finances/Tuition/Living Expenses aside, for the reasons stated above, would it be wise to delay graduating in order to work for an extra semester? Will this experience allow one to apply after graduation as a "Level I" candidate instead of "Entry Level", thereby significantly raising their salary? 

I had always planned on focusing on my studies until senior year and obtaining at least one year of work experience in my field before graduating to set me apart. Due to a number of factors, I am now ready to graduate but have not yet had employment in my field; this is due to outside matters and not inability to find work. I believe it is in my best interest to begin working before graduation, because companies may more readily hire cheaper workers and I may be allowed a more pleasant learning curve as I start out. I do not want to enter the workforce full time and be let go because I didn't judge my capabilities correctly. As a graduate I will also be competing for larger salary numbers against others who will most likely have this industry experience. 

And where is your boss is all this? Is the final decision his? Have you made a business case for why your way is better or are you just whining about it? It appears as if your collegue has won the other team members over, so you will probably have to go with the format the team wants. You can't have everything your way at work and fighting something like this makes you appear childish and petty and that is bad for your career. In your professional career you will lose professional disagreements at times, sometimes often and sometimes things that are genuinely critical. To win more, you need to learn about how office politics works and to play the game effectively. But even then, there are times when the decision does not go your way. You need to graciously accept decisions that you don't agree with and stop pushing the issue once the decision has been made. You also need to consider the relative importance of choosing to fight for what you want before the decison has been made. I wouldn't waste my political capital on how to do documentation unless I was a technical writer. Save your disagreements for things of far more importance. By graciously giving in when the issue is of little importance, you gain political capital and allies for when the issue is genuinely important. This is not a loss for you in the long run, it is a way to get people on your side later when it is something bigger than dovcumentation. The world works on compromise, learn to use it so that by giving some here, you get more later when it is more critical.