As I stated above in the comments, I do think the amount has bearing. Why? Simply put, because the description of what happens is at least as I take it as follows: Case in Question 

I'd say there's two or three main streams of thought about God in philosophy (narrowing for the purposes of this question our definition to Western philosophy): 

First, I want to mention an important rule (which of course has caveats), but the accuracy with which a philosopher writes about the history of philosophy is in general inversely proportional to their own fame (and infamy). There's several different dimensions on which we can trace Heidegger's beliefs about Greek and German being the only languages for philosophy. It's worth mentioning that Heidegger was a Nazi and based on writings that we've found one who was pretty committed to at least some of their theses. But I don't think this means his preference for Germany and Greece arose because he was a Nazi. Instead, I think the more likely case is that he joined up with the Nazis because he already thought for his own reasons that German language / culture was superior. While joining the Nazis provided him with near instantaneous benefits (being a rector, etc), the relationship between him and a lot of what they thought seems to be a matter of debate (I'm not saying here he's not a Nazi nor that his views deserve a pass -- just that we can't attribute every nazi view to Heidegger -- even if we can say he deserves guilt and blame for being in their party and the atrocities it committed). So then the question would be why does Heidegger believe philosophy can only be done in Greek and German? (or perhaps why do I think the causal arrow for Heidegger goes Germany is great → join Nazis and not the other way around). Part of it is that Heidegger's view on the history of philosophy goes something like this (caveat lector - this is a gross oversimplification): 

The Kantian picture of the state is a Republic guided by reason with the power of the state. Such an image depends on a type of federating where the size of the particular state is less important than the unity of the rational whole of humanity. Hegel is similar to Kant in seeing the state as ultimately a product of reason and similar to Aristotle in seeing the state as an organic whole larger and prior to the individual humans and families that make it up. At the same time, the Hegelian picture depends on internal conflicts and their modifications. The net result of that is that Hegel would find such dissolution where states break apart to be a temporary resolution until their inevitable reunion in something larger and more complete as an integration between the individuals, families, the community, and Absolute spirit. (long story ...). 

There are several different views (or parts of views at work here). First, there's an aspect of moral non-cognitivism (see SEP metaethics, a further article, and the article on cognitivism vs. non-cognitivism ) in the claim that moral claims are psychological statement. There's also a dash of moral relativist if the main point is that ethical questions are decided by majorities in cultures. In some later parts of that paragraph, you are specifying a more broad claim that the ethical values have a social foundation. This claim is not identical with moral relativism in that the value itself might be a value not merely from the social. For social foundations of ethics, Hegel is a big fan (see Philosophy of Right). Moving to your first paragraph, I will quote it its entirety: 

Several recent discussions at the dailynous: $URL$ An argument about how/whether Chinese philosophy fits in the canon. I'm familiar with HUANG Yong having written a piece for the APA newsletter. Bryan van Norden and Jay L Garfield wrote something in the NY Times. Tampio (who I'd never heard of when I was at Fordham) defends the current balance in terms of teaching. Some responses: Brian Leiter Brian Leiter again. Twitter world: $URL$ 

Kant's moral psychology (i.e. his ideas about how feelings, thoughts, morality, and actions) does not allow for sentiments and feelings to simultaneously motivate an action. His moral psychology is not especially clear on this point, but I would recommend looking at Marcia Barons' Kantian Ethics almost without Apology if you want a long version of how one Kantian tries to handle this. The basic problem is that bifurcates "subjective" and "objective" grounds for action. (Before jumping ahead, be careful of the following definitions of terms). For Kant, "objective" grounds means only those grounds that arise through the use of your capacity for pure reason. And these would be bases that are found in reason rather than in your animality. Conversely, "subjective" for Kant refers to those grounds that arise through our feelings, desires, and wants. It's not perfectly clear, but it looks like for Kant objective reasons arise noumenally whereas subjective reasons arise in phenomenologically with bases in the world of experience. This means the latter would be things that happen according to the known laws of physics whereas the former happen in according with our free wills. Again, Kant does not make perfectly clear that overloading is impossible, but he does express that any action motivated by these subjective grounds cannot qualify as good even if it is the same action. In other words, Kant's moral theory is not just about our actions but also about our grounds for acting (we might say "motive" but this word is foreign to Kant's description and generally refers to those things that cause us to respond to them, cf. "emote") 

For Hegel, philosophy is "dialectical movement." For him, the entire process of human thought is our attempt to understand our world. In the process, we are dialectically related to the world. In other words, let's say we start with "Sense Certainty" -- which occurs near the beginning of his text Phenomenology of Spirit. Sense Certainty is the belief that what I see right in front of me is true. Dialectically, this turns out to be inadequate, because as you turn your gaze to different places, you see different things. This would mean that the other things are no longer true, but they are. Thus, definitions, on Hegel's picture, dialectical in nature (there is push and give in coming up with better ones). Long story short, it turns out that what we are really facing for Hegel is a problem of self-definition where we are Spirit seeking to define the Absolute. There's a dialectical relationship between these two because we are conscious and then we realize self-conscious. And this means for us to be us, we need a dialectical other that interacts with us. 

In other words, am I doing right if I do what I think produces the most happiness or am I doing right if I do what produces the most happiness? Both horns are problematic. If I pick the think horn, then Mao killing the sparrows occurs. And Mao is a great guy there for wanting to supply enough food. Conversely, if I pick the produces horn, then it's not clear that my choices matter for ethics. My accidental choice to not buy the cake on discount may lead to great happiness for a poor family even though I never thought about it. Or my dropping change on the floor might lead to a horrific accident. Here, we'd have a very strong form of moral luck. The rule utilitarian hedges the question a bit better by coming up with rules that are designed to optimize said goal but that don't depend on the individual agent arriving at the epistemic best path under the stress of the moment. It doesn't completely eliminate the horns, but it dilutes their painfulness, because it can suggest that our duty is to follow rules that seem optimized to produce the ends we want even if in particular cases they don't. Thus, we can return to your reduction. The rule utilitarian rejects it because it doesn't sufficiently grapple with the agent's epistemic realities. A major point of transitioning from act to rule is to get away from the vagaries and gambling that arise from making judgments at each particular juncture for each particular act. Thus, for the above reasons, I don't think your reduction truly captures the position of the rule utilitarian. Instead, it just makes him an act utilitarian who doesn't think rules add anything. 

There are some other moral considerations that could be brought up, but I will leave off with these. 

I don't know the answer to the internal question about whether it is possible -- but I do know the literature on it. You want to look at: (1) late WVO Quine (2) Donald Davidson (3) Richard Rorty - specifically Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature (4) Hans Georg Gadamer All four are discussing the meat of what you are asking by wondering whether it is possible to understand something at a distance. For some other supporting reading, I suggest: (1) Some later Wittgenstein and his considerations about language (specifically the private language argument -- and the large body of interpretive literature that asks what it means). (2) Greg Lynch (3) There's also the Chinese room problem. and Searle looking at whether this is possible 

The interpretive problem is how to (1), (2), and (3) to play nicely. The usual answer is not far from the wikipedia entry you quote though it elides the mechanics. A maxim is understood as I [as a rational being] chose to do X for reason Y. This maxim is the universalized to all rational beings choose to do X for reason Y, and this is tested for whether it is internally incoherent or compatible with a world. The missing piece is how to universalize maxims (i.e. what stays and goes from a maxim like "I will play tennis on Sunday mornings while my neighbors are at church and the courts are full OR I will tell a lie to a woman named Herbert on February 2nd at 3pm" (both examples from Allen Wood -- though I may have the details wrong on the second one) 

Doctor Whom's answer above gives an extended treatment of why one might accept this argument. But I can think of several other questions that one could ask: 

For an absolute negative 1st order right, the government is always wrong to inhibit this right. For any mitigable right (negative or positive / 1st or 2nd order), the government could for a sufficiently good reason abrogate its responsibility to its citizens. 

Three considerations, First, "compatibalist" and "incompatibalist" are generally labels we apply -- based on the properties you describe rather than being themselves the features that cause claims that "freedom" under some definition is either compatible or incompatible with some other feature of the universe. (if memory serves, you can be an incompatibalist about freedom and determinism and a determinist at the same time; alternately, you can be a compatibalist but think that freedom doesn't exist). Second, I was reading something interesting and relevant to your question earlier this week in Hegel (he's not exactly a libertarian on free will, but his point is quite good). What Hegel notes in the "Ethics" section (after "Abstract Right") of Philosophy of Right is that the insanity defense or claims about acts of passion are insulting to rational nature (page 160 in the more recent translation by Knesbit). I was thinking about this point, because it's really right on a certain level. Hegel's solution is that except for what he calls "imbeciles, infants, and the insane" he maintains that we should hold people responsible for their actions in Recht and Unrecht rather than imagining people float in and out of rationality. For Hegel, this is in specific contrast to Kant who would say that we are either acting rationally or not depending on whether our maxim has its origin in reason. Interestingly, Hegel punts on the point of defining madness as an empirical question (though in his case that has some legitimacy since for him rationality is shared and its a social judgment whether someone is sane or not). How then do these two points relate back to your question? I take it that you're right but it's complex. First off, I take it that your question is accepting the premise that a free action is also a rational action. There's two problematic ways to go in relating insanity and action. First off, if you go too far in requiring rationality, then no one has enough rationality to have responsibility. (This is often stated as an objection to Kant) Conversely, if rationality is seen as robustly withstanding all sorts of behaviors and mindsets, then it's not really clear what the term means. Hegel, being a sort of compatibilist, does not bother defining the term. I would guess this is the most common approach, but the motive behind it is that there's some question as to what "free will" means and what "rational" (vs. insane) means. I'm less familiar with how self-declared contemporary compatibalists handle it, but one option is to, following, Marcia Baron, be much less concerned with the idea that our actions are motivated by either reason or emotion and to accept that actions are generally motivated by a mixture of things, some animal, some rational... I don't know if this addresses your question well or not.