Add a front hand brake is the easiest way. But otherwise, you have to get used to it. You should have 2 independent braking systems anyway in case one fails (and your face doesn't count as one). But you are prone to skidding and ineffective stopping with a coaster brake in general (which is why they're pretty much only on kids bikes now a days, or in some other special cases, e.g. certain tricks). 

You could add a suspension fork (this bike seems to come with a very low quality one) or suspension seatpost or suspension stem. On such a low end bike though, only the suspension seatpost would make sense -- for the other options, you're more likely better off getting a new bike. Another option is to get the biggest tires that fit and run them at a low pressure, which should provide some shock absorption. But this bike wasn't intended for use off-road really -- just to be ridden a few miles on road. 

If a derailleur breaks on the road, you can try to find a gear combination such that the chain can be stably placed on a given chainring and cog and shortening the chain to fit on this combination. This question gives some guidelines on how to select that cog and chainring. Note that you should also check the wheel for damage -- depending on how the derailleur goes, you may de-tension some spokes or do other wheel damage. You basically need a chain tool and ideally a quick link/special rivet to shorten the chain. In Video form: 

Its not just the material that affects frame longevity, but the design of frames - different tubing thicknesses and geometries will last longer than others given the same materials. That being said, a lot of touring bikes (often made of steel such as Reynolds 521 or the Tange equivalent or something, since in a pinch, you can repair steel in pretty much any country and its "ride quality") are essentially bomb-proof if you take care of them [the material is a neglectable factor relative to this, especially since you won't build identical bikes with different materials due to different material strengths and properties]. Some people have hundreds of thousands of miles on them with little degradation. Examples of touring bikes are things like Surly Long Haul Trucker, Trek 520, etc. That being said, a lot of 70s Schwinns and 80s road bikes and what not are still running perfectly fine after replacing consumable parts (chainrings, chains cassettes, hub repackings, bottom brackets, etc.) when they were maintained reasonably. Part of the reason why titanium lasts so long is that the people who buy titanium bikes are already extremely invested in their bicycles and take extremely good care of them. They aren't left outside, they get the top level of care, they don't abuse it, etc. so they see a very nice environment. Also, very few if any decent bikes are going to survive taking a significant hit from a car. 

Sure, there have been cases of hitting an animal in the day or night. Here is an article of a cyclist being attacked by a moose, for example. In addition, you need to worry about road hazards since you won't see them as early. Obviously, the amount of hazard depends on the particular location, but you should have good lighting and reflective gear at night as well as be prepared to slow down and stop if necessary. If the area is known to have hazards, it may be advisable to go a little slower so you can stop quicker if needed. 

First, I'd trouble shoot why the chain is skipping. Does it only happen under heavy load? Does it always happen in the same place (maybe a stiff link)? Does the derailleur do something funny? If the BCD and bolt pattern matches, stick whatever chainrings you want in there (subject to front derailleur constraints on chainring size + tooth gap). As for if your chainrings are worn or not, the picture isn't there, but there are plenty of other questions (see sidebar or search) on this SE to check if your chainrings or cogs are worn beyond. While using a 9 speed chain on a 7 speed cassette should work, it will likely be a bit sloppier than using a 7 speed or 8 speed chain (they are narrower than the chains that the 7 speed cogs were designed for). They're also pricier. So, I'd also go back to a 7/8 speed chain in the future. The change from Suntour freewheel to Shimano freewheel shouldn't really have caused any problems other than maybe some minor adjustments (unless you're running a microdrive drivetrain). 

This is a matter of some debate. The New York Times article "Does Hot Weather Cause More Bike-Tire Problems?" by J. David Goodman (July 22, 2010) may be of interest. The claims in support for hot weather causing problems are that the tubes may be running higher pressure than designed, or the rubber softening making it more permeable. I, like many others, don't believe these claims hold water (however, I don't have appropriate test rigs or the will to verify this). The biggest flaw with hot weather causing problems is that tires, tubes and rims are tested at pressures way past whats on the label (and for almost all riders, they should be using pressures way lower than the label). So, you're likely quite far from the limit of failure. 100 F isn't an unreasonable summer temperature for a large number of people (the Southwest, particularly), and it would be ridiculous to engineer a tire that couldn't reliably last at 110 F air temp riding conditions, since that would give a very small margin of reliability. However, I wouldn't necessarily call it a coincidence. In summer, your mileage increases versus winter, and you're likely to see more road debris (from drivers, liter, etc.). Compounding the increased mileage with tubes and tires that may not be in great condition could see an increase in flats. 

Switching bars affects bike fit. So, you may not fit well to a bike when switching handle bar types, since the way you hold onto the bars changes - you may need a different stem length (and height) or more saddle adjustment than on your current seat post than is possible to get a good fit (if its even possible - it isn't always). Note that well adjusted drop bars actually let you use the drops, not just the hoods or the middle of the bar or whatever. Also, drop bars have a different diameter where the brakes what not clamp on, so you need new brake levers. Drop bars give you multiple hand positions (which can convert to more aggressive riding positions), which is useful on longer rides (20 km is a pretty short ride), so you won't really see much gain and you will have to buy new brake levers. So, I wouldn't recommend getting drop bars. With a flat/riser bar, there exist bar ends to provide a few more hand positions (Ergon GP3 is the set I use on my commuter, but primarly for the sweet grips rather than the ends). Here is some good reading on setting handle bar height and types of handlebars. Totally unrelated, but wow that saddle is tilted downwards. Want more fitness? Ride longer and harder. Multiple speeds may help with hills (esp if you have knee issues).