Could all philosophical arguments have an anthropocentric bias, in the same way as a rational argument refers to the beliefs held by that person. One could say that philosophy either is biased, or is not, only acording to some phylosophical argument. Is this like the Heisenber's uncertainty principle? In wich case, we can't avoid interfering with what we try to observe, just by performing the observation. 

Carlo M. Cipolla wrote about stupidity from the point of view of the benefits or losses that an individual causes to him or herself and to others, in his book The Basic Laws of Human Stupidity. 

Nobody can tell what Kant would say. With regard of integer numbers being forms that the intuition take, I have to say that they aren't. Neither space or time. They are only physical properties, or mathematical entities. Both physics and mathematics, are universal fields of study. If some day we make contact with an extraterestrial civilization, I'm sure they will have physics and mathematics as fields of study. We need integers to say how many instances there are of an idea within a given context, what ever that idea is. Many interactions between physical entities, can only be described using integers. A cell replicates itself an integer number of times. 

Yes. This is the core of the currently accepted paradigm in cosmology: Conformal Cyclical Cosmology, or CCC. $URL$ The anthropic principle is, in fact, meaningless without the assumption that an observer must always exist. This is proven axiomatically in CCC. CCC also has empirical predictions, which have been confirmed, but those are just in addition to its formal proof. The mathematics behind the proof are too lengthy to post here. However, CCC can be understood simply as the idea that the universe must always exist and contain information, except at the instant before and after heat death, when the universe's information content approaches that of a singularity and the cycle restarts. Only the portions of time containing life will be observed, per the anthropic principle, they will repeat endlessly. This seems to have been taken as self evident by premodern civilizations, while the formal proof of it is fairly recent (2007). 

The anthropic principle states that universes must be observed to be compatible with the sapient life that observes it. Thus, only universes containing sapient life will be observed. Is this equivalent to the theory of immortality? 

From an instrumental point of view, in democracy, when we exercise the right to vote, we are “selling” our votes to the highest bidder in a “free market” where we choose to vote by the candidate or proposal that better serves our goals. In a democratic system where the government tries to impose a non-market socialism where its citizens can’t sell anything at the price of the free market, but only at the “right” price that the state has decided is the appropriate for that good or service, would such a government try eventually to remove from their citizens their right to vote too, or coerce them to vote in the “right” way anyway. 

Democracy is scalable an applicable at many levels, what varies is its connotation regarding cultural differences, or even semantic. Take for instance, a Plutocracy ruled by the wealthy, or a Monarchy. In every case that government is posible only because majority chose democratically in one way or another, by action or omission, to allow those governments to exist. Even pirates were democrats - not pun intended regarding some political party. Pirate communities were some of the first with a system of checks and balances. So democracy can be scaled (I prefer... could be found with different connotations) at many levels, even in some degenerate, or amoral, forms of government - again no particular allusion here. 

Obviously yes because 0.999... = 1, and geometry can be used to show that this extends to shapes. However, you seem to be asking about eternalism, which is a different question. Furthermore, you seem to imply that time can have a shape. I think modern physics makes it quite clear that the universe is cyclical, conformal, and eternally recurring but for your question it depends on what you mean by the shape of time. 

It's a matter of amount and quality of conscious experience. The simulation may have some degree of sentience, but it may be many orders of magnitude lower than what humans are able to achieve. Fundamentally, any claim about consciousness is untestable, and it is a moot point. But it is theoretically possible to imitate human qualia so exactly in a computer that an outside observer cannot tell the difference. The example you gave is just a very minor step in this direction. 

It's called a social construct or social script. It's something that people do to show their conformity to other people. 

In my undergraduate days, I remember reading someone occupying roughly a mental and historical space as David Hume (originally my thought was between Hume and Kuhn), and have a vaguely recalled passage that I would like to source. Though on first asking this question I thought it may even be Hume or Kuhn, I am fairly convinced after more searching that the topic and metaphor came from the Hume end of the spectrum (if not he himself); 

The above passage exhorts the will to "cultivate true metaphysics with some care, in order to destroy the false and adulterate." 

Insofar as any of these relationships are defined and scoped by the human mind, so are they contingent upon the human mind. Dependency/independency of some mind begs all the wrong questions and results in meaningful and senseless statements like "equality exists outside of space and time" and "laws of physics, equally, are part of the universe, regardless of human observation." These, in turn, result in all kinds of sloppy language. 

Postmodernism is a response to modernism with less optimism about human progress. Both modernism and postmodernism hold that the previous philosophies are obsolete, and they rebel against classical culture through abstract and postmodern art. The difference is that modernism is optimistic about humans' ability to achieve progress while postmodernists hold all value as relative and do not necessarily believe in progress. 

Is there a reason why death could be final? Is there some law that prevents something from ever existing again after it is dead? Why are there supposedly entities that are able to cease existing and never exist again? 

Can Fascism be derived from first principles? Satya Devi speculated that this was possible. I can define Fascism per the Oxford Encyclopedia. 

He is contrasting axiomatic, positivist thinking with empiricist, scientific thinking. Science is anti-rational in the sense that it rejects pure reason as a means of understanding the world. Science uses empirical evidence based on unprovable assumptions such as the accuracy of the measuring apparatus. Furthermore, climatology, evolutionary biology, and most of what is called "science" today completely rejects axiomatic reasoning and instead substitutes graphs of vector auto regression models developed by grad students at 2 in the morning using Matlab as the fundamental means of understanding natural phenomena. 

Religious people practice compassion, generosity, and altruism to save themself of eternal suffering in the afterlife. Isn't that behaviour motivated by pure self-interest?. Also most religions condemn in one way or another self-indulgent and egotistical behaviours, but encourage their followers to practice altruism when it comes to their own salvation. Aren't they being egotistical and egocentric behaving in that way? 

Self-reliance doesn't come naturally to many people, but one could argue that self-reliance is an important factor in both natural and sexual selection. Also many religious people achieve self-reliance because of the dogmas in their faith. Thus, one could say that religious belief is a consequence of evolution. So, my question is whether there are any arguments for religious belief favoring self-reliance rather than God's existence. 

An anthill can be described as a superorganism, with behaviours and interactions much more complex than those of an individual ant. We could find analogies between the superorganism and other living organisms, as memory for instance. Chemicals that ants use to mark paths, could work as a gigant memory for the superorganism. Multicellular organisms can be seen as superorganisms compounds of many individual cells too. Among cells, they recognise certain patterns in their surrounding and behave accordingly to play specific roles, that is why most of us have all our body's parts in their place. Humans, are multicelular organisms that recognise patterns with a different level of complexity and change their behaviour to fit within specific roles in a group of individuals or society. I'm sure that cells lack the level of comprehension that humans have, which brings me to the question... Are we part of a more complex superorganism, that we lack the level of conprehencion to identify or even understand?