Its viewed by the organisations in charge that the spirit of the game is an important part of history and what makes Cricket different and so players, officials and organisers are encouraged to support the spirit of the game to keep crickets special place in society. 

There is no difference in the method of application of Duckworth-Lewis, between matches. The only potential difference could be in the tables or equivalent that are used to generate the targets, which should reflect different scoring rates and potentials between the two match types. However as suggested by $URL$ the 50 over curves are used by the 20 over version. 

They are balls used in previous matches and kept to be used as spares. They will be the same type of ball as being used. The umpires then look for a ball of similar wear and tear. 

When the match has lunch and tea, Lunch is usually a warm meal, with Tea being sandwiches, cakes etc. Lunch would typically be something like pasta or perhaps chicken and rice. The last all day game I umpired in we had a chicken currey with Rice. 

Law 19 covers when a quick throw can be taken as opposed to a lineout. The touch judge or assistant referee should not put his arm up until a quick throw cannot be allowed because of a different ball or the line out is formed. In the description you give above its play on. Also bear in mind that as soon as the line out is formed, the throw in can take place regardless of whether both sides are ready. 

In the laws of cricket a wide is defined as a ball that a batsmen cannot play a normal cricket shot too. See Law 25 Wide Ball. That is the basis for judging whether a ball is wide in cricket where there are not playing conditions relating to the wide ball. Most limited overs cricket will have some variation of leg side wides, where balls passing to the leg side of the batsmen and stumps are liable to be called wide. However the exact wording will depend on the competition. One day international Playing Conditions and T20 playing conditions are examples of this as are the ECB generic conditions So to answer the question, under the laws of cricket the ball is probably not a wide, under the playing conditions of one day cricket it is likely to be a wide. 

Law 39 Stumped states that a batsmen may be out stumped from a delivery that is not a no ball. Hence from a free hit he can not be out stumped. The key section in that law is 1(iv) and 1(iv) b which say if without the intervention of another fielder the batsmen would be given out stumped even if he would have been run out. So if he is not attempting a run he would always be ruled out stumped unless the keeper passes the ball to a fielder, so the batsmen would be not out stumped off a no ball. However if the ball had been passed to say 1st slip and then the wicket broken the batsmen would be out run out. 

As the offside line is only the goal line in this case, any player on or behind the goal line may tackle the player who has taken the penalty and stop a score. 

Rugby union is now played at the national and international level on grass and also 3G artificial pitches. 

To answer the question in its simplest form as asked, a batsman may stand in any position he/she likes and will be treated as right/left handed based on how he was stood at the instant of the delivery. He need not tell anyone and may change as many times as he likes. Bowlers may also change the type of bowling and mode of delivery as often as they like. The only restriction being that if a bowler changes the mode of delivery he must first tell the umpire. Who will tell the batsman. The mode is whether he is bowling right/left hand over or around the wicket. Whether he is bowling spin, pace or any other type is up to him. I know of spinners who bowl both off and leg spin as well as genuine quick balls too. 

It is definitely possible to do so, we have plenty of umpires here in the UK standing in cricket up to and including men's league games. Your best course of action is to speak to your local cricket association who would be able to tell you when and where the next umpires course is. If you are in the UK you can also go to $URL$ Good luck. 

In test cricket the laws of cricket definition of a wide ball is used. law 25 wide ball. In that a ball is a wide if it is not possible to play a normal cricket shot from his normal stance. In ODI and T20 cricket this is modified by an instruction to be very strict on wides, if the batsment can not play a scoring shot it shall be called wide. They also place guidance marks on the pitch to help judge wides. Also generally deliveries down the legside will be wided. 

Hi as an umpire its got to be no 1, deliberately padding the ball. You would allow play to continue and then as soon as the ball becomes dead or the batsmen have completed a single run call and signal dead ball disallowing any runs. If he was doing so to avoid injury he would be allowed the runs. Law 26 covers the situations around leg byes. Law 34 covers the situation you describe about stopping the ball from hitting the wicket. He is allowed to do so, however he may not score any runs. 

It very definitely happens in a number of sports. I can immediately think of bob-sleigh, where it is very common in both Olympic and World Championship competition to have multiple teams from the same country. In the most recent 4 man bob world championships Germany finished 1,2 and 4 [1] 

As per the answer to the LBW to spinners full toss the ball is assumed to have carried on upon its trajectory without change. So no spin is to be included. As Ball tracking relies on the ball continuing to do what it was doing then the predicted path would be as per the law what the ball would have continued to do. So it would be fine to use for line. There is an argument for saying that the bounce of the ball could not be predicted where the path of the ball show it pitching before the stumps. 

It is not in the laws as that in such words. It is covered by unfairly altering the condition of the ball. The idea being that you can soften and dirty the ball making it harder for the batsmen. This can be achieved by deliberately bouncing the ball in from the field and umpires have been told to stop the practice. 

It is considered to be ungentelmaly conduct and sharp practice which is against the spirit of cricket. There are different types of mankad in my opinion as an umpire. The one in the u19 world Cup the bowler was never going to deliver the ball and no warning was given. Also the batsmen was not stealing a run. There have been other cases including Jos Butler over the summer where the batsmen was 3 or 4 ft down and could be argued to be stealing run. He was also warned. As an umpire what I have discussed with my colleagues is that if the batsmen is approaching the 4ft marker he is stealing a run and I will warn him and should be be run out I will have no issue with the dismissal. However in the situation in the u19 world Cup I would be with my colleague having a chat with the fielding captain as to the appeal and whether he wants it to stand. I believe there may be changes coming in the next law rewrite to deal with this. Ben 

The ICC do specify boundary sizes as do many competitons. I would suggest the reason that the laws remain silent on this is the wide variety of sizes of ground from small chocolate box grounds to massive international fields. 

Cricket balls when they have been used in matches are generally kept by teams to be used as spare balls should the ball need to be changed as it has been damaged or lost. If they are not suitable for this or if enough spares are around players and coaches will keep them for practice use. Once they are no good at all even for practice, I have seen a number of uses from knocking in bats, dogs toys etc. They would normally be thrown in the ordinary rubbish as I am not aware of anyone that could recycle a ball. Having said that I've never thrown a ball away and I have played for 5 years and umpired for 20.