What do we know about early history of Judaism? Do we know the timeline when these modern traits of modern Judaism developed: 1 Lifestyle restriction that we now find in Torah, such as the prohibition of pork, etc. 2 Written Torah. 3 The rest of the Old Testament. 4 Fairly common literacy that included the study of Torah. 5 Rejection of polytheism, that is, worshipping only one God. 6 Monotheism, that is, there is only one God. 

I recently came across of "Pushkin's daguerreotype", and was naturally awed by that. The daguerreotype bares strong resemblance to known portraits of Pushkin, but is it real or a hoax? The first thing one would look into is whether the timeframe of daguerreotype invention make it possible. It "sort of" does: daguerreotypes we invented no later than 1835, and Pushkin died in 1837. However, the quality of earliest daguerreotypes, and the demands on exposure times, make the reality of this one highly doubtful. For example, "the earliest daguerreotype of a person" according to Wikipedia, the bottom picture here, is dated 1838, a year after Pushkin's death. Also, the existence of a photograph of a person as famous as Pushkin would've been famous as well. Thus, with the deepest sigh of regret, I have to assume that this one is a hoax. Which brings me to the question I'd like to ask here: is there a publicly available catalog of known early 19th century daguerreotypes? In case of Pushkin it didn't take me too long to conclude it was a hoax because the timeframe didn't quite match the quality, but what would one do with a daguerreotype allegedly taken in, say, 1845? There couldn't have been too many of those. [] ] 

First of all, US was not a belligerent party throughout most of 1941. Second, the premise is wrong: US did "take significant defensive action in 1941," and arguably offensive ones as well. Although US was not officially at war with Germany, Roosevelt signed an executive order that precluded German warships, including U-Boats, from operating within 1200 miles off US shores, lest US Navy would engage them. This is 100 times further into Atlantic than territorial waters, and contrary to international maritime laws; in fact, Roosevelt wrote to Churchill: "I cannot declare a war, but I can wage a war," referring to US Constitution that precluded him from declaring the war that US Navy was ready to engage in on the West side of the North Atlantic. Because of that German U-Boats had to retreat 1200 miles off US shores and formed a straight line in the middle of North Atlantic. 

Enest Duchesne wasn't a scientist, and he made only a single discovery that went unnoticed for decades due to snobbish attitudes of French academia of the times, so I'm not sure whether he fits your criteria. Briefly, Duchesne discovered penicillin 32 years before Fleming, and used it to cure a case of typhoid. Unfortunately, he was deemed too young and unknown for anybody to pay any attention to his report. 

East Roman Empire (later named "Byzantine" by the West) inherited languages and enormous scientific and cultural achievements of Greeks and Romans. And yet hardly anything new came from Byzantine Empire after 6th century or so, apart from architecture. Byzantines even managed to forget much of the scientific achievements of Antiquity: even though ancient Greeks knew that the Earth was round and had a decent estimate of its size, centuries later Byzantine depictions of Earth were flat. I can understand why Dark Ages penetrated the West in the times contemporary to the Byzantine empire. But the Empire itself, with all the access to its Greek and Roman heritage - why did it fail to produce scientific progress, or even to maintain the knowledge it had? 

I am telling my daughter nighttime stories, mostly from History, and recently talked about Athens and Sparta. In my tales Athenian turned out to be well-rounded people, great at many things, ranging from arts, philosophy, and sciences to physical fitness and war. Spartans, on the other hand, turned out to be vicious bullies and murderers, slightly better than Athenians at war, but completely inept in anything cultural. And then I thought that perhaps I was unfair in that cartoonish depiction of Spartans. Were they really mindless bullies and nothing else? After all, they were quite good in speaking succinctly and vividly... Perhaps they did create something great that I'm not aware of? Thus the question: what did Spartans leave to posterity, if anything, other than legends of their military aptitude and "laconic" speeches? 

Well, people from the generation that grew up right after the war told their kids (including me) of the treasure trove of unexploded ammunition they came across as the kids. The stories included numerous kids loosing finger or getting burned by powder, as well as occasional fatal explosions. Some schools even invited explosives experts to tell the kids how to handle them safely, based on the assumption that boys will be boys and won't leave ammunition alone, and the knowledge of how to handle it safely may save their lives. The dangers of unexploded ammo didn't end with that generation though. A elementary school classmate of mine brought to school a mine he found somewhere so that he and his friends could take it apart and see what's inside. The three second graders lost their lives that day. So-called "black archaeology" persists to this day in parts of Eastern Europe: people are digging up 70-year-old battlefields to find something valuable for sale, usually helmets and daggers, sometimes guns. As for recycling casings, they were usually made of brass, a valuable metal, and there were plenty of location where one could sell them by weight. 

There's a well-known story about Andrey Kolmogorov. As a student his first choice of major was not Mathematics but History, and he wrote a serious paper on taxation of Russian serfs. He notices that the amount of taxes gathered from each village was always a whole number of roubles, but each individual household paid a fractional number. So Kolmogorov concluded that the taxes were levied by the landlord on the entire village as a unit, and then the villages would divide among themselves how much each household would pay. The landlord wouldn't bother himself with fractions, therefore each village's payment was always a whole number, but the individual households' contributions weren't. When Kolmogorov showed his calculations the advisor was not convinced about the conclusions replied: "In History we need five different proofs for every assertion." After that Kolmogorov changed his major to Mathematics "because in Mathematics you only need one proof" and went on to develop modern Probability Theory and many other contributions to the subject. Therefore the question: How many proofs are required for an assertion about a historic fact or trend would become generally accepted? What are the modern criteria for veracity of a historic fact? 

The question seems to assume a few things: first, a certain time frame, and second, causation. I don't think these assumptions are quite accurate. First, early Renaissance started before the Black Plague. For example, Dante Alighieri wrote decades before the plague. There were some advances in architecture even before that, circa 12th century. Given that technological and artistic advances often seem to snowball, one should look at the timing of the first changes that started the movement rather than the timing when the highest momentum was achieved. Second, even though Black Plague influenced Renaissance, it wasn't the cause that started the snowball rolling. There were several important events that planted the seeds before that: bits and pieces of knowledge acquired by osmosis from Arabs during the Crusades in 12th century and plunder of Constantinople in the 13th century that brought into the West pieces of art and wealth and a few surviving scholars. Black Plague obviously had tremendous influence on the development of Renaissance, even though it didn't trigger it. Too many influences to discuss on this site. I think the biggest influences were the realization that the Church doesn't have all the answers and the renewed appreciation of preciousness human life. There were many more of course, but these seem to be most important for setting the right mind frame, IMHO. 

A Roman soldier stumbled into a stranger's house and saw a bunch of people drinking red wine. "What are you drinking there?" - asked the soldier, licking his lips. "Blood of Jesus" - replied one of the parishioners. "Who is that Jesus you are talking about?" - the soldier was taken aback. "Here he is" - said the parishioner and pointed to the icon of baby Jesus. After stumbling out and wiping vomit off his lips the soldier told everyone he knew that Christians are stealing babies and drinking their blood. 

Lithuanian resistance was very determined, well-organized, and violent, and it persisted for almost a decade after re-occupation by Soviet Union in 1944. The "forest people" were hiding in the forests, gather info from largely pro-resistance population, and assassinate pro-Soviet functionaries of any level up to 1953. Some of the assassinations were based solely on the victim's ethnicity. That made Lithuania less than welcoming place to settle. 

Not sure this is a proper historical question, more like geographic, but since I'm asking about both current and historical cities, here it is. Preamble: In the industry I work in we deal with certain geometrical shapes. Many designs have this nice feature that all shapes are rectangles and they always meet at 90-degree angles. The whole industry calls such designs "Manhattan" because much of Manhattan consists of rectangular blocks and streets/avenues there meet at 90 degree angles. Recently a different kinds of designs become increasingly important. They consist besides rectangles of triangles and trapezoids with 45 degree angles that meet at 45, 90, or 135 degree angles. These designs naturally should be named somehow, analogously to Manhattan. The question: are there / were there any well-known cities with corners forming only 45, 90, and 135 degree angles? The blocks may include octagons or 45-degree trapezoids, etc. The only candidate that we have is Barcelona: the new part of that city consists of octagons and squares, and the streets in that part of the city often form the prescribed angles. Unfortunately, this applies only to a relatively small part of Barcelona... 

In the last 20 or so years of USSR Communism was the mandatory official propaganda that not many people believed in, but many people had to publicly affirm the belief, and nobody could openly express a doubt in, lest be subjected to severe repressions, up to commitment to a mental institution. The affirmation of the belief in Communism was the mandatory mantra aimed at affirming loyalty to all-powerful regime. This method of demanding loyalty via proclaiming validity of obvious falsehood is not unique to USSR. To some extent this is present in affirmation mantras of some religions. 

This is not political, this is nostalgic. I am an immigrant from Russia, and I've seen many, many times older immigrants singing or playing Soviet era songs, including Katyusha. One can hate the regime one and still love the country. Many songs, especially with mild or none political content, are being loved for the music and the music of the language many immigrants miss. One can reject the politics of the country one left behind, but still have a piece in one's hard for the culture of that country. In fact, I occasionally saw Russian immigrants with very strong anti-communist opinion listening, with a nostalgic air, to far more pro-communist songs than Katyusha. This was about remembering their youth, recalling the music of the native language. There is nothing political in that. 

Churchill mentioned in his "World War II" that British were very concerned that Germans could invade Syria and move eastward to get to oil rich regions, perhaps as far as Iran. Because of that British kept substantial forces there that were idle while the war right around the corner in North Africa were going back-and-forth like a pendulum. British even kept an entire division in Cyprus to prevent Germans from invading it much as they invaded Crete and making Cyprus one of the stepping stones toward Syria. These concerned have never materialized. Churchill mentioned several possible reasons. One reason was the German Pyrrhic victory in Crete, where their best parachute division got mauled to such extent that it couldn't be used again with the same vigor; Churchill speculates that if not for Crete Goering division could have been dropped directly on Damascus where British didn't have sufficient troops for any kind of defense. Another reason was British naval control over Eastern Mediterranean, which already almost led to capture of a German mountain division that got scattered on its way to invade Crete by sea, which caused Germans to rely solely on Goering parachute division for that purpose. With the naval invasion proven impossible against British Mediterranean navy and parachute invasion resources spent almost completely on Crete and strong British army presence all along Levant coast from Cyprus to Egypt Germans just didn't have enough resource to strike though toward Middle Eastern oil production. Finally, Churchill mentions German shift of focus toward Russia as the third reason why the invasion why the German invasion of Levant never materialized. Perhaps Hitler was more confident in his army getting to the oil of Caucasus than in his marines getting to the oil of the Middle East. 

Is it possible to estimate the distribution of Jews in the variety of cities they settled in the aftermath of expulsion from Palestine by Adrian in 135 AD and in the following few centuries of the late antiquity? In particular, are there any source on what were the numbers of Jewish communities in Alexandria, Carthage, Rome, and other large cities of the Empire? I would like to learn how the numbers in these communities changed between 2nd and 5th centuries AD, including their percentage within population, were there any large scale migrations not immediately after 135 AD, etc.