As the others have said, it's the "jockey wheel" from a rear derailer. If you look at the derailer there will be another, nearly-identical wheel. If you can find a replacement which fits in terms of the bolt holding it in place then you're probably fine -- it's ideal if it's the same diameter, but that's not absolutely necessary, and it's certainly not necessary to find the same brand. Likely something can be scavenged off an old bike, and often bike shops will have a stock of the wheels. However, if the jockey wheel is in that condition the derailer itself may have been damaged and need replacement. 

If you ever drove a farm tractor you'd understand. Some tires have a "directional" tread -- effectively >>>>> or <<<<<<. Now, you might expect that a tread of <<<<< would have better traction if you were attempting to pull it to the right (and it were resisting the pull by trying to go left), but that's not the case. The <<<<< tread will "load up" with mud/gravel/whatever when pulled to the right (and traction will be reduced to near zero), but if pulled to the left it will be "self cleaning" and traction will be an order of magnitude better. On the rear tire, obviously, you want the best traction when pedaling -- to move the bike forward. On the front tire, on the other hand, you want the best traction when braking. Thus the tires would be installed in opposite directions. 

As Alex suggests, it's cheaper to just buy a new (or "lightly used") bike than to buy all new parts for an old bike. As to the practicality (cost aside), the main question is what parts will fit. If the bike is designed for caliper brakes or has odd threading on the BB or some such then it will be frustrating trying to find new parts and your choices will be exceedingly limited. (This is partly why the big bike parts makers like to change schemes regularly -- to obsolete old bikes and force you to buy new. Lots of the supposed "improvements" aren't.) 

There are probably some "sports medicine" sites around, but they can only take you so far. There are many conditions that can cause joint/muscle pain, and there is no comprehensive site. If you suspect that you have some "unique" condition that is causing your pain (vs simple exercise soreness) then this site can be helpful, if you can figure out how to navigate it. 

There are several reasons for muscle spasms/cramps, but they basically boil down to one of two causes: 

You should always install a new chain (or have one that's pretty new already) when you install a new cassette. But you can go through 5 or so chains on a single cassette. 

One minor point: In the US you hardly ever find 5/10/15 speed bikes, except perhaps at WalMart. Generally there will be from seven to 10 cogs on the rear. Re the "right" gearing, it depends on the terrain, but if it's at all hilly where you live and you'll be pulling a trailer, and you're not a gorilla, you need some low gearing to get the trailer up hills, so two or three front rings would be advised. Maintenance is essentially identical for any derailleur-style bike. There's a little less maintenance if you have only one front ring, but the difference is negligible. Mainly you want to buy a decent quality bike from a reputable bike shop, then take it back once or twice in the first few months (at least the first visit should be free) to have it tuned up (since shift and brake cables stretch when the bike is new). (You may be tempted to buy a fancy internal gear hub bike or some such. Don't. They're more expensive to buy and maintain, and generally less reliable. Re disk brakes, there are some arguments in favor of them, but no compelling reason for you to go with disks unless you like to spend money.) Otherwise, wipe the chain with a rag and squirt a little chain oil (from the bike shop) on it every few months. (No need for this when it's new -- wait a few months.) Every year or two haul it back to the shop for a tuneup (or learn to do it yourself). 

I once worked through the math, and in order to reduce the pressure on your hands to where you can maintain blood circulation in an average drop bar situation you need bar pads that are about 5" in diameter (which is, obviously, somewhere between impractical and impossible). And standard padded gloves have no different effect from padded bars in this sense. What you need is to move the hands around enough that blood flow is not cut off from any one area for more than a minute or two, and over-padded bars/gloves make it harder to do this. I once had some Sorbothane-padded gloves that solved the problem by having ribs in the Sorbothane elastomer -- these were excellent and totally banished hand pain (which is no doubt why they are no longer made). I also experimented with a longitudinally ribbed bar pad which worked very well, only the rubber I used (bathtub caulk) was not sufficiently durable, and only lasted about a month. 

Well, first you'd have to install (relatively permanently (*)) some sort of rack, and that bike doesn't have any fender or rack eyelets. So you need either a clamp-on rack or one of the mini-racks that attach to the seatpost. If you get a decent quality clamp-on rack and get it securely mounted then you should be able to use any standard (three-point mount) pannier. With the mini-racks you're a bit limited in terms of weight and size (and disadvantaged in terms of stability), but they still take standard panniers, to my knowledge. (But keep in mind that a few panniers have a proprietary mounting system and will work only with their brand of rack.) (*) "Relatively permanently" means that the rack could be removed in 10-15 minutes if you wanted to use the bike in a road race or some such, but it's not something you'd want to do regularly. Though the mini-racks that clamp to the seatpost go on/off much more rapidly. 

What the other Dan said, plus if you drop the stuff into your seat tube it will end up in the bottom bracket housing and muck up your BB bearings. It is quite unusual for frames to rust through anyway (I've only seen it on frames that have been left in the weather for years, if not decades), and if you're that concerned you can remove the BB and headset bearings and give the whole inside of the frame a good blast with WD-40 once or twice a year. Someone who's really a fanatic could figure out how to coat the inside of the frame with auto undercoating, but that would add considerable weight. 

On the shaft where the lever pivots is an adjustment knob of some sort. Simply tighten that knob until the lever is "stiff" operating but can still be moved with reasonable ease. If, on the other hand, you have an indexed shifter then the procedure to correct this problem depends on the specific type you have (and how repairable that particular type is). A picture of your shifter would be most helpful if it is not the standard friction style. 

In most states people are prohibited from texting or using hand-held cellphones while driving. I see no reason why the same prohibitions shouldn't apply to cyclists. I'd consider it the height of folly to text while cycling, and, while I can sort of conceive of using a cellphone while cycling (though I'd never do so myself), I see no reason why cyclists should be accorded privileges that are denied motorists. (I also consider it unwise to use any sort of in-the-ear music player while cycling, since cyclists depend so much on their sense of hearing to keep them aware of traffic. The in-your-helmet or on-your-shoulders types are probably OK, though.) If we want to be treated like "vehicles" we need to behave like vehicles. 

The radii describe right angles to the two chain lines. I'm pretty sure the two wrap angles on the two sprockets will add to 360 degrees. The upper quadrilateral has been divided into a rectangle (if my lines were square) and a right triangle. The hypotenuse of the triangle is the chain stay length. The short side is the large sprocket radius minus the small sprocket radius. From the chain stay length and the sprocket radii you can compute the straight chain length and (with a bit of trig) the two wrap angles. Given a wrap angle and a sprocket radius you can compute the amount of chain on the sprocket. 

If it were a steel frame and fork there would be no question -- steel lasts nearly forever, even when moderately rusty, and can take all sorts of abuse. Aluminum is a bit less robust, but if it only has "a few thousand" miles on it (and not 30,000) and has not been abused (or hit by a car) then it should be good. The problem with aluminum is that it can develop hidden cracks, but you've given us no reason to suspect that of this bike. The carbon fork is also less robust than steel, and can develop hidden cracks. But again, unless there's something in its history to make it suspect then it should be fine. Certainly age is not a problem. Nothing really "ages" on a bike beyond the tires (and, to a slight extent, the lubes). (It could be true that the carbon fiber will deteriorate after 50 years or so, but that's something for your grandchildren to worry about.) Frankly, I'm a little curious as to why you're concerned.