By the way, I'd consider this kind of asserting of status by managers and senior team members fairly unusual - and somewhat dysfunctional - in a software engineering setting. For me it would be a red flag for an organisation that's maybe more bureaucratic and status-conscious and less delivery-focussed and meritocratic than it should be. That does vary by culture (around the world) though, and anyway it's essentially the CEO's problem rather than yours. 

At that point, if the Chair and the rest of the meeting don't do anything then you really have a dysfunctional board... in normal circumstances the steps above would work quite reliably, here in the UK (other cultures of course may differ). 

Understanding your pay: 5. Deductions from your pay, UK Government (emphasis mine) Legally, he absolutely cannot unilaterally (i.e. without your consent) declare that you must repay the cost of training already undertaken a year ago. If it came to court/tribunal, you would win. 

First discuss it (in private) with the Chair. It should be part of their role to ensure that 'airtime' in the meetings isn't dominated by one person. If there's a discriminatory aspect to this - if person X is dominating the meeting because they perceive themselves to be superior to the other participants or more entitled to speak because of their gender, race, etc versus that of the other participants - then this applies even more. On the other hand, it is possible for people to do this - dominate the 'airtime' of a meeting - without really intending to, particularly if they're very enthusiastic about their contribution. They might (perhaps) not realise that they're denying other people the opportunity to speak - so a good first option might be for the Chair to have a quiet word with them in private (outside of the meetings). 

A friend of mine was recently laid off from a contracting gig. It was made clear from the beginning when he was first offered the role that it was a "high risk" position in the sense that both the role and the project itself were on shaky ground and there was a high chance that the engagement might not last for more than a few months. He weighed his options and decided to give the role a try anyway (The long term rewards if the project did work out were worth it). Last week (after 4 months) it was decided that they would not continue with him (which he was sort of expecting since the project hadn't been doing well), but they didn't give him a few days notice or even a few hours notice. Instead the person he reported to and an HR rep just walked up to his desk and asked him to leave on the spot, the didn't even let him touch his laptop. They did say that his dismissal had nothing to do with his performance or anything, he was doing his job well, but the company had changed strategy. So why couldn't they be nice about it? Even when people are laid off or dismissed for performance reasons, they are at least given to the end of the day to leave. Being asked to get out there and then and being escorted out like that made look like he had done something wrong when in fact the dismissal had nothing to do with his performance. To make things worse, he works in a highly specialized field with only a small number of companies in his city. People would have noticed the abrupt departure and rumors are bound to spread that something bad had occurred, thus negatively effecting his future career prospects. Is there anything he do about this? How can he repair the damage to his reputation? Is there anything he can ask for from his ex-employer to mitigate this? 

"Hi - any decision yet from last month's interview? Or any idea when you'll be letting me know? Thanks!" 

Short answer: carry a notebook and pen - it'll give your hands something to do. You can switch both items to a single hand for handshaking purposes. You can also use them to make notes, so you'll seem (and possibly be) well-organised. Long answer: 

It's definitely not normal practice here in London for an employer to require an employee to pay anything at all before starting a new job. This is so unusual that you have either come across a remarkably stingy employer, or (more likely) this is a scam. Also, the thing they're asking you to pay for sounds like a load of nonsense: ISO 9001 is an accreditation which applies to organisations, not individual employees: 

Simple: explain the problem to your manager. Say that you'd like to share an office for a while with someone more experienced, so that you can pick up insights into the organisation's culture and the way that everyone communicates and gets things done together. It's a perfectly reasonable request - in fact I think it's more than reasonable, it shows that you've been putting some thought into how you can settle in and do the best work you can, which is great. So I suggest that you shouldn't be all afraid to simply bring up the topic with your manager and more experienced colleagues, and ask for help / advice. 

Depends on what country/culture you and the person you're talking to are in. In an international business context where you don't know what festival the person you're talking to might be celebrating, "Happy Holidays" is a pretty safe bet. Or if you want to be less formulaic, something like "Enjoy the holidays, speak to you in the New Year!" It's generally safest to avoid the assumption that the person you're talking to is or ought to be a member of any specific religion - and certainly avoid giving the impression that you think their religious festivals are inferior or invalid compared to yours - and for those reasons I'd generally avoid the mention of a specific religious festival until I know which one they celebrate (or until I know they're just not bothered about that kind of thing). 

I have worked in the web development industry for three years as a PHP developer. I've gone through three different companies in that time. The first company worked people so hard that most people ended up quitting while I was there, and the rest were fired, so the company imploded and I had to find another job. My second job was equally bad, except I had to work with overseas developers who had their own way of doing things, and the communication barrier led to me not being able to work with them, which resulted in me getting fired because I couldn't get stuff done in time. The company I am at now is better than the first two, but it's still wildly hectic. I am currently multitasking between six different projects, all with extremely tight deadlines (all mildly complex web applications I'm doing in PHP) while being constantly distracted by the design team who needs help with random Javascript or PHP tasks they are doing for websites. And the owner fires people who miss more than 3 deadlines in a year. He has fired two people this month already for missing deadlines (even though one of them had to miss work due to his father's funeral - he was only three days late getting his project done). I have no breathing room on anything, I am constantly stressed out and working 60 hours a week just to get everything done (I was told in the interview I'd never have to work more than 40), and I have to cut corners constantly just to meet the ridiculous deadlines. We had a meeting yesterday where he told everyone that if they can't handle the pressure, they better leave now, because we just got more work and he can't afford to hire more people. Another thing is that we do not get holidays or paid days off (well he technically have them, but the owner never approves anyone to use them), ever. We have so much work to do that people even had to work through Christmas Day a month ago. One employee literally had a heart attack at his desk a few months ago, but the owner made him keep working from home as soon as he was able to. He quit a little after that, realizing he would die if he kept having to work under this severe stress. I'm already beyond burned out working in this industry for three years, but the people I talk to say the entire industry is like this now. My marriage is in the shambles after three years of this, because I never see my wife, and when I do, I'm so irritable due to stress and lack of sleep. What should I do? Hope that there really is a sanity friendly job out there in this industry, or just change careers? Maybe Java or C++ development jobs wouldn't be as stressful, but I have three years experience in PHP already, and almost no experience in Java or C++ past what I did in college. I am not someone who handles stress or tight deadlines well. I like to take my time and make sure my code is perfect, but this industry seems to force people to cut corners just to get things shoved out the door as soon as possible. 

They have been unresponsive in my attempts to communicate with them. And from the way they talk to us, and from rumors circulating around the company grapevine, I get the impression that we are looked down on as mere technicians supporting an obsolete legacy app compared to the cutting edge development work they are doing. I also feel that the company higher-ups have a similar impression of our respective teams. Questions: 

Adding to what Danny Newman said, it is not (that) hard to bring yourself up to par in terms of coding. Coding is more like a sport or a musical instrument than like theoretical skills, practice, practice, practice, practice! You are thirty and a post-doc. Unless you have a family and kids, you definitely have enough time to practice coding. You will find that it is not only beneficial for your career, but it is also fun. Finally if an up and coming professor was willing to hire you and extend your contract for 3 years, you must have some level of competence or skill, so don't sell yourself short. 

I work as part of a tech team team that handles database applications for various business statistics. Our database platform is somewhat dated, but the business application that runs on it uses sophisticated statistical methods and generates very complex models. There's a data science team at my company, who are supposed to be the "mad scientists/skunk ops" group, and are developing algorithms that perform the same business function that our teams' software performs. They are using the latest trendy development tools and languages and running their code on the cloud as opposed to on physical servers. However, the actual models they are generating are rudimentary and they are nowhere near achieving the functionality or scale that our application is capable of, despite how dated our platform is. Moreover, both myself and my team have more experience with the business area that we are working on than they do. I want to collaborate with them for two reasons: