Online bike shops like ChainReaction will give you an idea of what is available (maybe this?), and you can then decide what you can afford to buy based on where you are. 

Note that the difference between 24 and 26 tpi is small and can be subtle, meaning that if you're using a spanner to do the nut up you can wreck the nut without really noticing that anything is wrong. The symptom is often that the nut strips before ever becoming tight. To avoid this put the nut on by hand until it is right over the axle. If it still spins freely it is the right thread pitch. Less commonly you will find 12mm or 14mm axles, often on load bikes and Asian or African bikes, and some mountain bikes. But those are fairly obvious. Some older front axles were 9mm or even 8mm, and they bend easily. It's sometimes possible to replace a 9mm axle with a 10mm one, depending on the bearing cups you have available. 

Velocity definitely make 305 rims, and at least when they were in Australia would use their available extrusions to make semi-custom rims to order - most often so you can get the number of spokes/drilling pattern you want, but they would also make odd sizes if the extrusion was compatible. But they've moved to the US and I have no idea what they're like now as far as custom builds go. SJS in the USA also stock 305 rims and I found quite a lot of hits just using google so decent rims in that size seem to be fairly widely available. Schwalbe make bicycle tubes in a wide range of sizes with both Schrader and Presta valves - if you can find what you want on this page your LBS will be able to get it (although it may take a while). There are quite a few choices in 305mm presta tubes. You may have more problems getting a dynamo that's designed for a 305 wheel. The circumference is half that of a 622 (27") wheel so it spins twice as fast at the same road speed, and unlike a childs bike your trailer is going to be used at normal road speeds. SON make dynamos for folding bikes with small wheels so if the Sanyo doesn't work I suggest trying SON. I have one and like it, although I had to replace the bearings after about 50Mm. 

I'd be very tempted to make a tool roll. You'll need access to a sewing machine that can handle 2-3 layers of canvas, but even most home machines will do that if you're careful (and buy a canvas needle!) You see them mostly today with sets of ring spanners, made of cheap plastic. But in the older days people would generally make them out of canvas, often double layer with oilskin/oiled cotton on the inner layer (before chrome plating meant most tools don't rust very easily). 

This official pdf seems to have collected all the bicycle-related parts of Maryland code and there's a summary on an official website. You can only ride on a sidewalk where specifically permitted by local rules, and interestingly wheeled toys, unicycles, and mobility scooters also need special permission to use sidewalks. They don't mention prams, so I suspect "wheeled thing that you push or pull" counts as a pedestrian. 

You can't build any bike with minimal effort. Not even a toy one out of Lego. It would be faster and easier to get a minimum-wage job and save money to buy a commercially made bamboo bike. But a lot less interesting, and also less fun. Turning bamboo into something suitable for a bike frame is quite a lot of work, and if you haven't worked with structural bamboo before you will need to do quite a bit of research before you start. It would probably be easier to start by building a lugged frame from steel to get an idea of what's involved, then build a second copy of that frame using whatever bamboo you have available. See how rideable it is, and decided whether you want to continue down that path and eventually end up with a decent bike. 

I replace mine when I start getting punctures. That's normally some time after I have a strip of blue all the way round, and before there's more than just odd spots of black showing through the blue. I've done that with several of them, and it seems to be pretty consistent. But as Steve says, four or five years might also be a good time to replace them, but since I do quite a few kilometres on my bikes that hasn't been an issue for me. I think I would still be inclined to just run the tyre unless it was obviously cracking up, or I was about to start a long tour and thought the old tyre wouldn't last long enough to be worth taking. 

They're shims for adjusting the disc caliper lateral position, for disc brakes that don't have ISO-style mounting bolts. 

I use chain lube since I also prefer the solvent+grease wet chain lubes. That's exactly what you want inside cable housings. Popping the quick releases on brakes or frame attachments on gear cables, then dribbling chain lube along the inner so it runs down into the outer works well on cables that are already installed and doesn't require re-adjusting anything afterwards. Many outers are pre-greased these days, and the way to fake that if you get cheaper outers is a grease gun. A syringe will work at a pinch, but it needs to be a small one or the force needed to squirt grease into the tiny hole in the outer will be extremely high. Trying to manipulate grease into a cable outer any other way is frustrating and I find it ineffective (I have tried!) Using oil kind of works, but I find I need to re-oil the cables way too often. Grease works better. Teflon coated cables work even better, and the combo of teflon cables and pre-greased outers (or plastic-lined outers) is amazing. But not worth the $80 a set unless you're running 10 speed gears or something expensive (I use a Rohloff, and that doesn't care about fine adjustment, only cable friction). 

You need to be very careful with the weight limit on that rack, it will flop about if overloaded a little, or break if overloaded too much. But you're riding short distances in heavily populated areas, so presumably you're staying in buildings and buying prepared food, so you don't need to carry much. If you can afford to spend a little extra money on buses etc, there's very little risk so the best bet is to try it and see. As Renesis pointed out in comments, while google maps is pretty good at navigation, you do need to select the "bicycle" option rather than the default car one. Otherwise you'll be stuck at the first autobahn you come to when you get to the "no bicycles past this point" sign :) But your route is likely to be somewhat longer than 500km, but significantly more scenic. I would take a windbreaker, long pants and a shirt, underwear, toiletries, phone charger, phone and wallet. That's about it. Wash your cycling knicks every night and dry them on the end of your bed if there's no other facilities. If you have light cotton pants and shirt they crumple up to very little space. The main thing with your first tour is that you get out and ride. If something goes wrong jump on a bus and either continue your tour as a bus-traveller, or go home. It's no big deal, the idea is to learn what works. The big planning exercise is probably going to be booking accommodation :) I suggest reading random cycle touring sites and travelogues to get an idea of what people do and how they travel, in the area where you're likely to be riding. You have everything from the Paris-Best-Paris style randonneur "carry nothing" tourists to four wheel "bicycle campervan"travellers in the low countries of Europe, so there's a lot of different options you can choose. But the easy one is definitely how you're starting - get a bike, pack a change of clothes, and ride. 

There are three parts: a threaded tube, a spring and the plastic barrel. The tube fits into the barrel and the spring goes over the threads, then the cable goes up the middle of all of them. You screw the adjuster in while pushing the tube with a fingertip. You might screw the tube in first to check if the threading in the derailleur is ok, but usually that's not necessary. 

Starting from the hub you have now is likely to be very difficult. It sounds as though you don't even have disk rotor mounts on the hub, so there's not a lot of structure there for you to attach to. Rather than getting caught up with how to weld extra metal on so you can machine threads onto it, it might be easier just to machine up a hub from scratch. The actual solid part of the hub is not at all complex, and since you will need a lathe anyway it would probably be easier to work that way than get into welding onto a hub that's not designed for the extra stresses you want to apply. If you don't have access to a lathe you're going to find this project quite difficult. At some point, probably quite early on, you're going to need either a lathe or a large, expensive pair of dies to cut freewheel threads (a taper and square pair, since you need to cut right up to to end of the surface). Possibly two pairs of dies, because you might end up wanting a locknut on your freewheel thread. More commonly people bolt a fixed sprocket to the disk brake mounts and drive that chain via a freewheel. It's not quite as efficient as putting a freewheel on the rear hub, but much simpler. Some "put a petrol motor on your bicycle" kits attach a sprocket directly to the spokes, but it would be hard to overstate my dislike of that method. It is hard on the spokes, and hard to fix the wheel when those spokes bend. The other easy-ish approach would be to flip-flop hub and re-cut one side to take a left hand freewheel. I haven't ever played with those, so I can't help you work out what thread is used. 

They support the bottom bracket rather than the top tube/seatpost, so there's less stand to flex. It's slightly more twiddly to get the bike in and out, but they're easier to work with in my experience. At least for upright bikes - it's unlikely that a recumbent or load bike will fit into them at all. edit to add: Finally, many "bike storage systems" actually work ok as workstands. The ones that suspend the bike from the roof using pulleys are very close to the power hoist that my LBS uses. Many of the "arms poking out from the wall" style have arms long enough that you can pull the bike out a bit and spin the pedals while the bike is on the storage unit. This style of leaning hanger is available pretty cheap if you can put up with less decorative versions: 

Now, at 100psi with a 200lb rider the flattened area is 2 square inches, or 1290 mm². So we want the volume of a toroidal section having that flat area. Conveniently the section is an ellipse, so the area is π (major radius)(minor radius) (and a circle is πr² because both radii are the same). As a first approximation let's say that the minor axis is half the width of the tyre (so 10mm) and see what happens: 

So it sounds as though the EP additives shouldn't be used on a bicycle that will be out in the rain or otherwise exposed to water. If you do use grease with those additives, it would be best to find a grease that is designed for water exposure. 

Generally quality costs money. Especially with CF, where it's not easy to tell once the product is finished. What counts is the care and attention to detail during manufacture, and the quality of the materials. You will only know whether the epoxy was properly cured when it breaks (or doesn't), and whether it was stored properly and so on. The design is also important, it's really easy to skimp on materials or get the layup wrong in key places, and if you don't destructively test a bunch of them you'll never know. What you really hope is that you have bought an unbranded off-market handlebar made in the same factory as the real thing, and that yours is one of the ones where they used excess/leftover proper materials at the end of a run. If you're really lucky they did well on QC one day and you have an actual genuine, made-to-spec name brand handlebar, just without the branding because the order was for 100, they made 110, and all of them passed QC... so they quietly sold the extras on eBay. If you're not lucky, of course, what you have is where someone bought the real thing, made a mould from it, bought some cheap "carbon fibre" and epoxy, taught themselves to lay it up so it looks like the real thing, and is selling them for not much more than the cost of materials. If you're extra unlucky someone saw the idea, made a mould that looks similar, lays it up so it looks about right where the customer can see it, and will have vanished by the time you discover that it's junk.