Chomsky defended his notion of a universal grammar in the human subject on two grounds; first that linguistic analysis tends to show structural affinities across widely separated languages; secondly that children learnt language from a minute number of fragmentary sentences (think of the massive case training by typical neural networks for natural language learning. This theory of an inate potentia of language in a subject attacked the then prevalent theory by Skinner, which was an aspect of his behaviouralist paradigm (he denied the subject in the human subject), and determined language acquisition purely environmentally. In Platos Meno, Socrates expounds on his theory of anamnesis: 

One does not suppose in both of these situations that there is a lack of free will in the protagonist, but perhaps an excess of it. One is wilful. Of course you have brought God into it, and maybe this complicates this rather simple situation I've drawn out. Is it an Abrahamic god such as Jehovah, God or Allah? Or Spinozas God? Or one of the many gods in the Hindu pantheon? Or the inscrutable Brahman in Hindu Upanishadic Philosophy/monotheism? 

Lets take the simple example of a molecule to query what fundamental might mean in such a situation; molecules are made up of atoms, and for this reason we say that atoms are more fundamental than molecules; and this is the usual, conventional sense. However, suppose in some speculative world there are atoms but for some reason it's not possible to organise them into molecules; this would be a poor kind of atom; it's fundamentally important that atoms can be so arranged in our world. This in a way has a primitive sense of telos, that atoms are such in a way in our world that molecules can be formed; either way, we see that there is more than one sense of fundamental in the notion of a fundamental particle. 

which appears to allude to, whilst overturning, Kants notion how space and time are the forms by which objects can be experienced; he is affirming - instead, via Spinoza, that objects themselves have 'extension' in time and in space; and that objects have 'colour'. Husserls phenomenological project was to overcome the Kantian distinction as explained by his famous quote 

If one says A implies B, and that B implies A then, at least formally we can say that this is a circular argument. If one alternatively has A implies B to a certain degree, ie it's plausible; and also the reverse, B implies A to a certain degree; then one may not, even formally say that we have circular logic - for the degree of plausibility may tend more in one direction than another. 

The sociologist Wright Mills wrote The Power Elite where he examines the interwoven interests of the military, corporate & political elements of American society. Chomsky has a number of books on the Manufacture of consent via the medium of the media. You might find Galbraiths books on the Great Crash useful where he examines the behaviour of the economic/business elite in relation to the great crash of 1929. Shock doctrine by Naomi Klien can be seen as a useful update of that thesis. You may also find Propaganda by Bernays (a nephew of Freud) also useful - he wrote: 

One might suggest, that if anything has freedom, it is God/Nature (as the Stoics concieved it); and we - humans - partaking in God/Nature, also partake in freedom, more limited than that of God/Natura, and more than matter. In contemporary terms, this position might be called Panpsychism This should be taken as speculation, but Bobiez in her book Determinism & Freedom in Stoic Philosophy discusses this question in much more depth - but note it is a scholarly work. 

Deterministic is a philosophic and scientific term. One could compare usefully it to the idea of fate in religous imagery or theology. However the term fatalistic is pejorative. It describes a certain attitude like resignation (towards fate perhaps). For example "he's fatalistic". Its not really a philosophical term. However, it has been used to describe cultures in East (not present day). One could say it is an orientalist term (as in Edward Saids analysis). It displayed a difference of philosophy - the imperial West versus the renunciate culture of India & China (ie Buddhism & India). Except of course Christianity is a renunciate culture so what it really described was not on the philosophical, or religous level - but on the practical, commercial, political & military level. 

Not quite an answer, but it might be found useful: In Aristotles Physics he distinguishes between causes; there are four types, amongst them is the formal and material. The formal cause is what causes the shape or form of something: the formal cause of the pot is the potter. The material cause is what the pot is made of - the clay. Of course there can be no pot if the potter is not there to shape the clay; nor can there be any pot, if the potter has no clay. Both causes are necessary in this situation. Causes are consequences; and what is a consequence can be understood as an implication. This links up with two types of logic in Aristotle, the formal and material. The formal logic are propositions true by form - the syllogism - for instance; the first proposition of the famous example being: 

I don't know about Nietzsche, but the following might help prompt a better answer: Aristotle wrote in his Metaphysics (ie First Philosophy) that all philosophers affirm that principle of change in nature are contraries - ie opposing forces; recalling that the semantic range for nature in Aristotle is wider than is usual in English (consider human nature) then it might be suggestive to see that opposing forces in the mind or soul (anima) aren't states of madness - but are forces with a rational basis; and this force might propel from normality to extremity (ie madness); I don't know however, whether this reading is itself confirmed in Aristotles theory of mind. 

I'd suggest that the fear is related to the fear in contemporary discourse where the internet is seen as a threat & atomisation of reasoning & discourse. In fact there is a short story by E M Forster written in 1909, The Machine Stops which is a previsioning of the internet, people copying & pasting knowledge etc. It presents a dystopian vision, but eventually the community awakes from the mirage, when the machine stops. They reassert the sovereignty of the human community. I'd suggest that part of this fear is correct, that it exerts a centrifugal & separating force, even if its also a democratising force. The Brahminic class in ancient India passed on its understanding via a guru-student relationship (similar to that of the relationship between that of a Phd supervisor & that of his student). Books were seen as an aide de memoire, presumably. Its one of the reasons as to why, for example Nagarjuna Madyamika is so cryptic. It requires a mentor to help tease out the real understanding. The Brahminic class was against writing their classics down, for many centuries it was done purely orally. Also, there speech was in verse. So it was sung, or perhaps more akin to the performed spoken-word poetry today; and that needs a Guru (I'm speculating here). Tagore, complained about the european seminar; which to him was against the spirit of communication. It represented to him a kind of master-slave relationship. (And having been in maths classes, where the lecturer is furiously writing on the board, the students furiously copying it down; and very few raising real questions - presumably no-one wanted to look stupid - it reminded me more of the description of how scribes would make copies of books, more than a dialogue. :) ) knowledge & understanding, should have a genealogy. One should become the master of books; and not become mastered by them. One should also note that the great religous leaders, did not write books. Mohammed is commonly taken to be illiterate (whether in fact he was or not, theologically speaking, he was to have been directly inspired by Allah; although that is not quite right either).