Inform your co-worker that in order to be productive, he's going to need to clean up his mess. Tell him that you'd like to do things the easy way, which is why you came to him first; but that you're not going to hesitate to inform your boss if the behavior continues. Set a deadline and give it to him (make sure it's reasonable). Do not bargain or argue if he balks, it's a waste of time. If the material that needs fixing isn't done by the deadline, escalate. That's all you can do. 

Don't take this one personally. I read a statistic recently that MOST software projects fail. If you're turning over any work, you're doing great. Agile isn't a magic bullet. I've been in places where I've heard analysts say, "Oh, we'll just agile it", which meant that requirements weren't done so they intended to do them after the developers got assigned the work. I think it takes a great leadership to apply agile correctly but it probably turns out no better than waterfall in most cases. As to your question, I'd say, "WHATEVER!" and just make sure my paychecks are still coming. 

Oh, I see it. The fact that you have no contract with this other party is the reason why things are lingering. You're not communicating the value of your efforts to your client effectively and are basically allowing the client to control how you run your business. A written contract says, "For a certain valuable consideration that the client agrees to give me on xx/yy/zzzz, I agree to provide a valuable service or product ABCDEF." One of the valuable products in your case is that you give up your time so that the client can communicate their needs with you, but right now you're getting nothing in return for that. It also seem that you took on a fixed price project but made no provision in your oral agreement for the client to incur extra costs for desired changes. You are probably feeling like you've gotten screwed by your client, but in fact you have had the power all along to control the situation (or get out much sooner if you couldn't). I wouldn't DARE start a second project with a client that hadn't paid me for the first one. It tells the client (with all due respect to you) that you're a sucker! It also means that whatever agreement you believe you have isn't truly an accord between the parties. Stop being a nice guy and run your BUSINESS. Your services are VALUABLE. Stop giving them away for nothing. 

Plainly, your supervisor's out of the loop. You are salaried, because that's the offer that they've asked you to accept. The supervisor doesn't approve or generate the offer letter, and has probably never seen it. 

I think you are WAY overthinking this. Whatever you put into the database for the primary key is going to have to have a unique value. Numbers, characters. The computer is a calculator. It deals with numbers. Accordingly, having unique numeric values implies that each value will have different properties. Some will be less than others. Some will be greater. Some will be primes. Some will not. Some will have one digit, others will have two. We can go on with this ad infinitum, and if we take the OP's approach then it sorta says it's sane for us to mince how the qualities (as described) of these values somehow "ding" the worth of the genders they're associated with in the data. It's like the old saying of how some people say "tomaTOE", vs "toMAHto". Remarkable, brow-raising?? Slightly. High in value, in the long term? Hmm, probably not. Epic, long-term, cataclysmic effects with the globe spinning off its axis?? SMH. 

Last time I checked, there's no space on a $1, $5, $10 bill that says "this money came from _________ (person's name)". Why can't well-wishing be just that? You're not obligated to sign the card, nor contribute. It's all about the intention. If others end up looking at you as cheap, that's their problem!!! Don't allow others to impose their values upon you. 

It's probably disheartening or annoying, but there's really nothing you can do. He doesn't work for you, and it's not your job to police after him to make sure he does what he says he's going to do. It does affect the team, but it's not YOUR team to try and defend against outside criticism. If your manager is paying attention, the behavior of this co-worker is already a known issue. Unless the behavior stops you from meeting your personal deadlines, you need to allow it to continue to cause the least amount of stress for yourself. At the end of the day, go home and forget about it. 

When it gets to the desk of the IT professionals in the organization, the words "programming" and "Excel" are mutually exclusive. Excel is okay for a workgroup-sized solution, but if the discussion starts including entire departments or an organization, Excel worksheets are not a tool that scale up very well for enterprise-level use. But - it's there. IT departments have to tolerate it because it's on everyone's desktop. Same for Microsoft Access, or VBA solutions with Word or Powerpoint. So you have this thing, but you also have to understand the vision of the highest supervisor who's seen it and been agreeable to it. How will it grow? Who will maintain it? How will you coordinate distributing changed versions of it to others? Where will different versions be stored (so you can go back to old ones, if needed)? Who's responsible, with each release, for making sure it's working correctly? Is is user-proofed? (in other words, can someone else mess up your code?) If you don't have these answers, then just be prepared to hand it off to someone in IT who can. I'm not expressing this here to be mean or with ill intent. This is just how things work in a corporate situation. If it's not apparent, I'm a developer. I remember getting hired for some contract work for Wells Fargo's mortgage division before the 2008 real estate bubble. Some of their clerks came up with a super-fast way of automating data entry into their mortgage application running on an old-fashioned green screen. But they lacked the expertise to make it happen right for the entire mortgage division, so it got handed off to me and about 10 other guys to modify and implement all over California. The clerks probably got a few bucks and a pat-on-the-back. 

You could tape up an anonymous note by the microwave: "Dear friends. In American culture, slurping your food while eating is considered a rude behavior. Please be considerate of your neighbors while in the office. Thanks!" 

Speak up if there are technical impossibilities, unclear functional specifications, or things beyond your level of skill. Negotiate alternatives. Speak up if tasks won't meet a deadline, or if you don't have availability (going on vacation) Report your progress at assigned intervals. Let the PM know that your deliverables are ready for next steps once you've done with them. 

I would pass on doing this because basically you turn into a de facto secretary by getting involved. Defer reporting on any status to the team lead or project manager if it's for projects that you're not involved in, because these people will start coming to you for answers and the next thing you know, they'll be asking you to collect answers on projects you're not even involved in. It's like feeding pigeons. As long as you're throwing popcorn, they'll keep coming back... with their cousins, and their cousins' cousins, and so forth. Nip this status reporting thing in the bud. 

Take care of YOU. "Giving notice" is a old-fashioned custom from the days when companies were supposed to offer the same courtesy to their employees if there was a pending layoff. Nowadays, we have at-will employment where a business can lay you off at any time, without reason, but people who haven't caught up with the times are still following the old way as if it still matters. There is no legal requirement to give notice. Anything in the neighborhood of a "bad recommendation" as a result of you ending your employment -- with notice, or not -- may constitute grounds for you to sue your former employer for defamation. (I am not an attorney). If you are concerned about message delivery, you can (a) send a certified letter - they'll get it, and you can prove that it was received; or (b) send a registered e-mail through a service like RPost.com. In both cases, absolutely no one can say you didn't give proper notice -- if that's still a concern -- because both services offer proof of delivery. 

Stop jumping to conclusions. Don't assume what the recruiter "should" know, because your assumption falling short is the actual source of your frustration. This has nothing to do with cultural norms. It has everything to do with you being willing to work the situation exactly as it is -- or not, if you choose. Do you realize that your question uses the word "proper", or variants, three times?? (Read it again.) Your approach might be perceived as a little rigid, and it's going to turn people off. I don't get the idea that you're one to just go with the flow. If I were you, I'd decline to fill out the lengthy form before the recruiter sends you a written job description to review. This way, you can determine whether completing the form is worthy of your time; this is fair. But don't turn away the opportunity just yet. And lighten up! Recruiters provide a valuable service, they don't all work in exactly the same way, and you must leave your high expectations behind if you're going to succeed. 

Just say, in a firm but non-threatening voice: "I'd like to talk to you, but let's chat outside when I'm done." That's all. 

I'd say that ultimately, helping your client understand the complete technical scope of the desired change is not your problem. This actually sounds more like you haven't instituted a very good change-control process in your past interactions with the client, i.e: 

Video chat really fills up the space it's being done in. Don't know if coworking is the best option for you. 

This means that if you go, you accept the risk that the client doesn't pay ANYTHING. The client might choose another vendor altogether! Accepting this condition would be very unwise on your part. Whoever wrote this to you is full of it. Travel should be prepaid. You might negotiate a per diem rate, to be prepaid, for your housing and food. You could base it on the GSA's per diem rate calculator, which is the standard for government employees and contractors who travel on gov't business. Whatever you do, don't be the guy who forks out big money on travelling and who has to come back home and beg your client to reimburse you. Please! 

Try this: "Please understand that this is no offense to you. But my policy is to keep a boundary between my personal life and work. This just works better for me. You DO understand, right?" If you get any other response than "yes", don't explain and whatever you hear, just keep saying, "That's my policy." Stand your ground. 

So they didn't have their ducks in a row before hiring you. Not only was the expenditure not approved, but they determined that they don't need you. If I were you, I wouldn't take this job unless you're not working now and just need the money. If you're working now and take the job, you'd be entering a situation where its reputation with you is already less than good, and maybe leaving a situation that's more stable than where you're going. In either case if you take it, it may hinder you from having the time to get the job you do want. Whatever the case, don't fool yourself into relying too heavily on this opportunity. If you can't get a written offer, don't bother!! 

Listen to your boss Junior developers often fail to see the maintainability aspect of proposed solutions. Yes, you might have a whiz bang open source approach to solving the problem, but it doesn't help your boss (or the company) in the long term if you're the only person on the team who knows how to support it. Think about what happens if you go on vacation or get sick or leave. What happens then? It's not your issue, but your boss may catch hell over it. This is not to kill your innovative spirit, but there's a bigger reality to consider whenever you introduce something new. 

"Seldom asks for added responsibilities" in a performance review??? That's bull. If you're busy, then you don't need more responsibilities. What this means is they're trying to squeeze more work out of you for the same level of pay, and they feel you should be begging for such a situation. Get the heck out of there ASAP. 

"No reasonable person is coming to work with the expectation to be fed." By that token, anything that is given as a freebie would be appreciated by a reasonable person. If providing goodies for just your cubicle-mates makes you happy, then do that. If anyone balks, then you're probably not dealing with a reasonable person, and you can't spend your days worrying about them. You could bring cookies, and someone will be on a gluten-free diet. You could bring banana pudding, and someone else is allergic to bananas. You can't satisfy everyone; satisfy yourself.