How can a population or civilization develop empathy to the point where they feel another beings emotion if they are only a few feet away regardless of species and even if they are familiar with the emotion or not. The only limitation is that they cannot broadcast emotions, just receive them. The level of empathy ability I am looking at is above what humans have today. More in line with strong telekinesis or telepathic abilities. 

You could use sub-atomic particles or maybe neutrinos and tachyons as alternatives to light. There are a couple of studies that's how they travel at the speed of light and you may want to check if this is a bit more reliable or easier to implement than beaming light from one system to another. Or if you want to really bend it out of current scientific abilities, you can have tiny space/time wormholes that are stable enough for your data packets to go through from one solar system to another. That would be fast. 

1) This one is the easiest. Just kill him. I don't think I really need to go into detail with this. 2) Shame him. Depending on your world's social structure, honor could be used as a powerful weapon. 3) Make him work. This one is rather simple. Why have a captive that just sits there and eats your food? Get some usefulness out of him! 4) Gladiators. Only use this one if you don't necessarily need your captive to survive. The mortality rate is a bit high, but the entertainment value tends to boost patriotism for your cause/country. These are just a few i came up with off the top of my head. I my add some more later. 

You can also explore the possibility of increased gravity. Creatures from a world with a high gravity would be either become smaller or larger. See this Reddit ($URL$ It really depends on how you want the outcome to be. If the stronger/higher gravity was not sudden then life would evolve to fit the environment and that would include denser bones, probably larger lungs and multiple hearts to support the body, muscle density becomes higher and would make creatures larger. I've read a few books I think it was Pip and Flynx by Alan Dean Foster (don't quote me on this) where one of his species was large and strong due to living in a higher gravity world. 

The concept of the eldritch abomination by its nature is impossible to pin down. It is generally regarded as something that is so far outside of normal human experience as to be incomprehensible, whether it's because the thing follows motivations and desires that no human has ever pondered, or it takes a shape that have never existed either in nature or the mortal mind, or it simply exists on a scale so mindbogglingly vast that the mind cannot cope with the scale of it. Exactly what about your abomination is so alien as to confound the viewer on a fundamental level is entirely up to the story you want to tell. The abomination itself however is secondary to the theme that drives the cosmic horror genre, which is that man's place in the universe is so utterly insignificant next to the beings and forces that exist outside of the relative safety of planet Earth. So really, what an eldritch abomination is, is whatever is most likely to make somebody acutely aware of just how much there is out there that they do not understand. If you've never read some of Lovecraft's stories, you should take a look at The Colour Out of Space or At the Mountains of Madness to get a feel for what kind of themes this concept is used for. 

While intelligent detrivores are not impossible, it may be improbable. One way I can think of to support your idea is to have the plant life or the fauna or both, excrete waste products that are actually highly beneficial to your detrivores and chemically alters their intelligence and consciousness over time to improve and expand it. Like magic mushrooms but increases your IQ, EQ etc. Hope this gives you a germ of an idea on how to proceed. 

This will only work on a cloudless, sun intensive world (maybe a desert environment). Might give you some other ideas so here it goes. Build a long corridor with collapsed hinged floors. Rig a way for light from the sun to close the floors up so people can walk through them, but near the middle or end of the corridor before a closed and locked door, a pressure plate or a sensor, however you wish to rig it, will trigger some mechanics to align mirrors and concentrate the sun rays into that long corridor. Effectively burning anyone in it. You'd have to make sure the concentration is high enough to actually burn people in seconds, as well as make sure the mechanism specially the mirrors are well protected so thieves or archaeologists can't just break them. During the night, the floors drop so nobody can go near and its a long and wide enough corridor that its very hard to spider climb the walls. Still there may be ways to circumvent the trap such as putting up artificial lights at night or slowly building a makeshift floor at night. 

When you said games in 3D space the first thing I thought of is the book/movie Ender's Game. In the movie (haven't read the book so I will only be referring to the movie) they play a kind of training game where they float around in a zero gravity room, hiding behind big metal pyramids, shooting at each other with zapper-guns that cause opponent's suits to constrict on contact. Your game could be played in a similar way. Paintball and airsoft would be rather dangerous and very messy in zero gravity because nothing pulls the ammo to the ground which leaves big globs of paint floating around or dangerous ricochet with airsoft (which could be fun and could add a whole other level to your game) Just a few ideas. Hope you like them! 

Quad or more legged mechs could be used to climb up terrain that is difficult for normal or heavy off road vehicles, specially if carrying a large artillery gun or cannon. Weakness is that once a leg is shot off, speed and mobility will be reduced increasingly by the number of legs destroyed. As another option, you could have wheels attached to the legs so they gain the same speed and mobility as wheeled tanks and these can switch out to climbing legs so that they can embed themselves much better in mountain or cliff-sides. Think along the lines of climbing axes or spikes. Also if say a quad legged mech gets one or two legs destroyed, they can theoretically still move about with the wheels attached to their legs and if you are up to it, maybe put in some wheels on the under-carriage. This way you get the best of both worlds? 

Being a higher order of being, Jimmy the Abomination has an important advantage over the creatures he is interested in: He exists in more dimensions than they are capable of perceiving without outside help. All Jimmy really has to do is orient himself so that only a small part of his multidimensional form intersects the 3D habitat of his playmate. He will likely not appear truly human, but with enough practice he can surely find a form to present that is nonthreatening enough for mere humans to tolerate. Of course, Jimmy has to be cautious of how he interacts physically with his playmate, lest he accidentally jaunt the poor soul along an unfamiliar axis and expose him to the true shape of the universe. 

Maybe a big seasonal change occurring that is quite drastic and lasts for a year or a couple of months more than 3 (harsh winter / summer drought / galeforce winds etc.) that your people would have to migrate elsewhere. they can still come back but others may not want to so that should spread them out. 

Since you are in a fantasy setting anyway, why not make the material strong but light like elven chainmail? You can make a sword like Clouds (FF7) and it would still be light and strong. 

Ok maybe not mechs, but exosuits. Powered limbs, pressurized suit, armored protection, comms, manueveraibility via jets placed on the feet and back. The suit would have to be large though so a 1.8 meter person would probably bulk to about 2.5 to 3 meters or so (rough estimate based on eyeballing existing spacesuits). They'd be armed with grappling hooks they can throw, mini-rockets (careful of that recoil) and maybe a knife or two for close combat. Not sure how much damage they can do to a medium to heavy armored station, base or craft though since arming themselves with heavy missiles might be too cumbersome and problematic given space's physics. Mines and explosives though may be feasible. Anyway, point is, you can use exosuits and they can look more mecha if you want and if they have specialized roles then you can alter their look and feel too. 

Let's say we are on earth and trying to keep IT from watching us. If they are using optical sensors (aka cameras), all you have to do is point an industrial strength laser pointer at it and it's blind. But if ET is using radar or something similar, like the other answer said, chaff would be one of the easiest ways to go. The main problem with the chaff is that it would be rather hard to achieve in a short amount of time and would make a bit of a mess. 

One thing I would like to point out is that we have spent decades domesticating dogs, cats, cows, and other such animals. So why would we want to give up all that progress? We have even trained dogs genetically to respond to humans the way we want. So why not engineer them down to a more appropriate size, a more relaxed demeanor, and possibly a more religiously neutral shape (though I do agree with the other person who said that you probably won't want people with those kind of volatility in such a tight space anyway). My point here is dogs have been conditioned to like with humans from the beginning, so why throw that all away? 

A glider light enough to be launched a good distance in the air, yet rigid and resilient enough to bear its own siege weapon, seems a bit infeasible. I suggest altering the plan in a couple key areas. For one, using a trebuchet or similar design to launch the initial payload would likely be more practical. These are by far the best distance launchers available to the low-fantasy medieval theme. Instead of the glider, let the payload tumble freely, but have an exceedingly clever mechanism built into it that will disengage once its airspeed falls low enough, at the apogee of the launch. Said mechanism will release one or more parachutes to unfurl and slow the secondary stage further. This accomplishes two goals. The first, the drag from the parachute as it start to fall will help assure the dangerous end of your payload is pointed upward. And secondly, the tension from the connecting lines will pull on the attachment points to trigger the secondary weapon to fire upward into your target, or over the wall, depending on whether you trust your low-tech rocket scientists to get the orientation close enough to launch at an angle. The descending second stage will carry the cable down to the ground, possibly on a spool to allow it to uncoil cleanly. As a bonus, if your engineers are up to it, it could double as a crude elevator with man-power ratchet mechanisms to lift your forces up to the target!