Refusal to do work is a strong indicator of them not being a team player. In John's defense, this cuts both ways; Manager decided not to respect John's wishes not to be paired with Dave and so must accept the fallout; however, this should be seen as a major fissure within the project. John is apparently too valuable to be replaced in this project, or have someone else train up to help Dave out instead. 

It has been common practice in the offices I've worked at, and even working with a widely international team (I was based in Mountain Time and they were mostly Eastern Time) to block out a period or chunk of time for you to take breaks or eat lunch. Doing this can be considered professional because it clearly communicates to any meeting planners that you are definitely not available at this time, and if they have a need for you to be available at that time, they must discuss it with you beforehand. I will say that, depending on the nature of the meeting, they may ask you to be double-booked or ask you to move your lunch, but this communication wouldn't happen if you didn't block off a time explicitly for lunch. 

Anyone you decide to recommend reflects on you, be that well or poorly. Given that, it's always in your best interests to only recommend those that you feel absolutely confident in; that is to say, you believe that they can handle the job without needing too much of a helping hand for the basics. I can understand and respect that you want to help out a friend, but the position you're referring him for and the technical skills he's been training towards potentially don't have the same match. While some QA Engineers are given direction to do automation, or would want to have a background in the language to know some of the fringe behaviors of the system, what you're describing is a friend that has some programming knowledge, but would be asked to do testing of a system. Think of questions like, "How would you test a pen?", and be sure that all of the conditions are covered satisfactorily for someone in test. If it were me, I'd talk to the person first to see if they'd be willing to go in that direction, and if they are, then I'd talk with the company to see if they'd be willing to take a chance on a rookie. Once both of those conversations go over well, then I'd ask my friend to bone up a bit on their technical skills and the skills needed for the position. 

I'm unaware of any norms surrounding the industry in regards to employment immediately after graduation; some people manage to find work immediately after, and others manage to find it a bit later. There's no tacit difference or rule to which is normal, since it largely depends on one's personal financial situation. From your perspective, you may be getting a bit antsy about not having found any work, and that's fine. However, just brushing up on your skills isn't the only thing you need to be doing. Getting your resume out on technical sites and engaging with other developers/recruiters at local meetups should also be on your to-do list. Hiring managers rarely come to a developer because they have an impressive GitHub portfolio. You'll need to really get your name out there, which would incorporate your GitHub profile. 

If your company requires that you accrue your time for X hours of work you put in, then you may not be able to take a whole week right out the gate. You'll want to ensure that this is possible by looking at your pay stub; usually PTO is mentioned there. In either scenario, giving some kind of heads-up to your manager is necessary. If you're unfamiliar with the process on how to use this time off, they will happily explain it for you if you ask. While it depends on how long you're planning on being gone, I've seen that giving notice a week in advance can cover up to two weeks of vacation. 

If you're genuinely unhappy at your position, then it's definitely time to start looking to greener pastures. Being unhappy at your job hurts both you and the company for these reasons: 

The way I've always responded to those questions has been, "I am still in the interview process with [those companies]." Asking if you have an offer is kind of a weird game; for one, if you do have an offer they could either decide to move on you very quickly if they like you, or reject you outright, knowing you have some other option lined up. Don't reveal too much information about your offers, and I would not recommend informing them (especially after the fact) that you've declined any offers. If you do have an offer you're considering, feel free to volunteer that information (but only during the interview!), but no further. You're also looking for a good fit, and that should be how you project yourself. 

It's too early for you to ask for a raise. When negotiating a raise, you should be able to justify these points: 

...which is probably the most damning assessment of John's behavior and demeanor. Even though Dave wants to get things done, the fact remains that they do not want to work with John, even if it's to the benefit of the company. From the earlier altercation with Manager, it sounds like the sentiment is mutual. From what I see, none of your approaches are going to have the lasting effect you want them to. It's important as a team lead to have people willing to follow, and to set expectations of your team. That is to say, if you have these people on the team which disagree with each other, it is your responsibility to resolve any discrepancies with these two, as they impact the wider team. Even if that resolution results in either Dave or John working on different projects, that resolution must be done sooner rather than later. The longer you delay, the less morale your team will have. Lastly, placing John with a different person in a different project would be a good exercise for him anyway. If he doesn't get along with this person, you or Manager will need to pull him aside and ask if he really wants to work there at all. Getting along with your coworkers is vital, and if you have someone that doesn't want to do that, then you're not going to be getting much real value out of them. 

This sort of thing hits home for me, since I'm a developer with only 3 years of experience, and I have thrived under the advice of a more senior developer (and have experienced first-hand what it's like to not have that advice around). With that, there are some things to keep in mind: 

I'd actually see if there's an "independent works" clause within the company such that any work you do is your own and only your own. Then, create some work with HTML/CSS - it doesn't have to be/it shouldn't be a carbon copy of what you did for them. 

"Fairness" doesn't exactly equate into this scenario. Even if you've built much of this project, and you personally enjoy working with the founders, you feel that you are worth more than what they are currently offering, and as such, you should make that clear to them. They may consider the offer you're making to be unreasonable since it's been steady pay, but this isn't just about them now - it's also about you. You should be ready to and defend your compensation asks, as well as move on if the company decides not to accept it. 

Curiously, this LinkedIn post seems to resonate a bit with you particular interviewer's opinion. In essence, the author believes: 

You're going to benefit from a paper trail on this one. If you made the request via email, you have undeniable proof that he said he'd give you the time off. I would also strongly encourage you to look around in official company handouts to find the time off policy, as that is vital to have laying around in situations like this. Look for anything official around paid vacations. If the request was a formal one for a paid vacation, then having that paperwork will also be vital in building up a stronger defense for yourself. Simply put, so long as you have a paper trail, if an issue arises, then bring it up with his colleague and your case will be much stronger. If you didn't, bring it up with them anyway since it's becoming a major interference in your own personal time. If you find that the issues really do outweigh the benefits, there's no shame in finding somewhere else where your talents can shine. Even though you're fresh out of college, you're still looking for a job that fits you the best.