A global government can be discussed and looked at from so many different perspectives (social, economic, cultural, etc). But I'm mainly asking about a military point of view! 

The case is that many native Iranians who are not familiar with English aren't able to read the second one and also the people living abroad can't read the first. So this situation totally matches your scenario. There are people in between too who are familiar with Both alphabets not necessarily fluent English. In fact to read the second form you just need to know the sounds of the English Alphabet. And I suspect this situation would also be the case for Arabic and other languages with totally different form of Alphabet compared to English making it a common issue. They can speak together but they can't read the other's writing 

They could manufacture agricultural items such as plows and digging tools. It does not need fuel to work which they need. They can do repairs as well. Basically fulfilling the roles of blacksmiths. This of course depends on the overall technological capabilities of the surrounding communities that trade with them. They can also do assembly of machinery given the specs are available or in the overseer's memory/database. Additionally they can trade information in manufacturing and calculations as well such as how deep to dig a well given certain parameters etc. This could prove more valuable than tools. 

You could use sub-atomic particles or maybe neutrinos and tachyons as alternatives to light. There are a couple of studies that's how they travel at the speed of light and you may want to check if this is a bit more reliable or easier to implement than beaming light from one system to another. Or if you want to really bend it out of current scientific abilities, you can have tiny space/time wormholes that are stable enough for your data packets to go through from one solar system to another. That would be fast. 

Seems to me, launch would be easy, either water pressure or oxygen, taken from H2O and pressurized could launch it out of the water, at which point rocket engines could take over. Much the same as present submarine based missiles work. Transmission, surface to underwater could be done the same as now. This, of course, is based on your requisite that they have already developed tools and computers, which of necessity would have conquered the barrier of electronic transmissions. And I suppose that if we can maintain an artificial oxygen and pressure for astronauts today, the same could be done for an artificial water based atmosphere in regards to space travel. The relative weight of water has been mentioned, but in that regard, would an aquatic planet have the same gravity as earth has? Weight might be irrelevant in lower g's, therefore the energy required to launch might be similar or less. 

How can a population or civilization develop empathy to the point where they feel another beings emotion if they are only a few feet away regardless of species and even if they are familiar with the emotion or not. The only limitation is that they cannot broadcast emotions, just receive them. The level of empathy ability I am looking at is above what humans have today. More in line with strong telekinesis or telepathic abilities. 

I think Thorne is right. How about Greek and Norse or even Celtic? These have been portrayed in a lot of sci-fi and fantasy stories already. If you still would want to use any of the religions you mentioned, you may want to consult subject matter experts i.e, priest, rabbi, imams etc. so that you can determine facts, what you can write about and be more accurate about it. 

Having the real world examples of our time, the different nations could race for interstellar exploration and colonization, which I guess will lead to another world war and possibly crazy leaders or terrorists will tend to use H-bombs this time and ruin the mother planet for the current civilization and the colonies without the support of earth would soon fade away. After that give it a couple of million years and the ruined earth (with nuclear clouds and so many new mutations and possible left bacteria or even bugs) might give rise again to another civilization who have no idea about what happened before them and just could give some guesses. You could also consider that the course of evolution could change this time and a new specie (or more) could rule the earth, but the same cycle would happen for them again too sooner or later. 

Since you are in a fantasy setting anyway, why not make the material strong but light like elven chainmail? You can make a sword like Clouds (FF7) and it would still be light and strong. 

While intelligent detrivores are not impossible, it may be improbable. One way I can think of to support your idea is to have the plant life or the fauna or both, excrete waste products that are actually highly beneficial to your detrivores and chemically alters their intelligence and consciousness over time to improve and expand it. Like magic mushrooms but increases your IQ, EQ etc. Hope this gives you a germ of an idea on how to proceed. 

It's kind of an interesting question for me, since I've given it some thought before and think it would be totally plausible. 

As a real world example just as you describe. Well, In Persian (Farsi) which is written using a derived version of Arabic alphabet, we have great number of Iranians living abroad in Europe and US who don't know the Persian Alphabet but have learned to speak the language from their parents. When writing, these people use English Alphabet to create a form known as (informally Fingilish = Farsi + English) which was also used on Qwerty keyboards without Persian alphabets. So for example these two sentences are read alike and are just the same. 

Just to throw this in there, maybe when you activate the magic, it creates tendrils of magic energy or use existing materials like vines (think druidic or necromantic magic) to support and make the bones move like a puppet on strings. 

I am writing a story where a species undergoes devolution. Is there any scientific or plausible way to do this? The process can be instantaneous or may take ages, I do not mind which as I need to weigh my options at this stage. To be clear, the devolution I am thinking of is like taking a human being then devolving him/her to the primate stage, so lets say about as far back as Orrorin tugenensis or Paranthropus where they are in the midst of evolving from primates to Homo erectus. Please note I used human beings as an example to give context but the species undergoing devolution may not necessarily be human. Based on the answers, "devolution" does not exist so had the word in quotes to reflect this. 

Read this after reading starrise's excellent summation. Just as a note: Immanuel Velikovsky in his books Worlds in Collision, Earth in Upheaval, and Ages in Chaos postulated cataclysmic evolution. His idea was that our planetary neighbours were at one time wanderers in the solar system and came very close to earth, creating great catastrophy. The next paragraphs are from the wiki listing of him: Planet Earth has suffered natural catastrophes on a global scale, both before and during humankind's recorded history. There is evidence for these catastrophes in the geological record (here Velikovsky was advocating Catastrophist ideas as opposed to the prevailing Uniformitarian notions) and archeological record. The extinction of many species had occurred catastrophically, not by gradual Darwinian means. The catastrophes that occurred within the memory of humankind are recorded in the myths, legends and written history of all ancient cultures and civilisations. Velikovsky pointed to alleged concordances in the accounts of many cultures, and proposed that they referred to the same real events. For instance, the memory of a flood is recorded in the Hebrew Bible, in the Greek legend of Deucalion, and in the Manu legend of India. The causes of these natural catastrophes were close encounters between the Earth and other bodies within the solar system — not least what are now the planets Saturn, Jupiter, Venus, and Mars, these bodies having moved upon different orbits within human memory. So, just suppose our hypothetical planet had a close encounter with another, it would seem that a sea of molten glass could be created. It at least would result in great volcanic upheaval, and lots of volcanic glass. 

Ok maybe not mechs, but exosuits. Powered limbs, pressurized suit, armored protection, comms, manueveraibility via jets placed on the feet and back. The suit would have to be large though so a 1.8 meter person would probably bulk to about 2.5 to 3 meters or so (rough estimate based on eyeballing existing spacesuits). They'd be armed with grappling hooks they can throw, mini-rockets (careful of that recoil) and maybe a knife or two for close combat. Not sure how much damage they can do to a medium to heavy armored station, base or craft though since arming themselves with heavy missiles might be too cumbersome and problematic given space's physics. Mines and explosives though may be feasible. Anyway, point is, you can use exosuits and they can look more mecha if you want and if they have specialized roles then you can alter their look and feel too.