Having trouble understanding your question. Define "intelligent life". Since the experts can't define what intelligence is, I'm doubting you'll have any greater success. (And I'm avoiding altogether the definition of "life"...) Intelligence isn't a "yes/no" property. Tool use dates back (in our genetic lineage) to somewhere between 2½ and 4 million years. So, sure, little green men could have come down and tinkered with our genes. Probably could still be doing it, although the vector(s) they'd be using would have to be more sophisticated. I don't understand why you think such interference/modification would necessarily leave traces? It wouldn't have to. 

Your "a priori"s are ... dubious. For the no nuclear bombs, I guess you'd need to require that they know more about the effects of radiation and fall-out, and are morally opposed to using them - even though it will cost their own son's lives. Yeah, better we send our sons to die, than risk one of those pesky enemy lives! If they have some "underwater weapons" that prevent ships from getting close, then you have to explain how the supership is going to get close - it would be an even bigger and easier target. You didn't mention air power, but clearly, control of the sea depends on whether airplanes or dirigibles exist. These "underwater weapons" would need to have their ammunition replenished. If via tunnels, then destroy the tunnels; if via submarines, then destroy the subs (using your own "underwater weapons"). Weight is proportional to volume which is the third power of length. Support for the treads is proportional to the second power of length. Meaning as you increase the size of the ship, the tread area scales at the 3/2 power. (meaning it goes exponential). You seem to be assuming your ship will be perfectly rigid. It won't. How you'd actually support the ship over its treads would be enormously difficult (although you're probably aware of how NASA does a similar thing). I find the idea that you're going to get these treads onto a sufficiently hard surface implausible - they'll get stuck in the muck. (As the shore batteries destroy the ship...). A little physics/mechanics: the hull of a ship supports its weight over a massive surface area, you'd have to support that same weight with arms (pylons?) on top of the tread dollies. This would require the entire redesign of a ship. Basically, it's not a ship, its a building. On wheels (treads) I know of no building which would survive bombardment for more than a couple of minutes. Feel free to investigate the weights of your cannons. It's easy to find it. You also need to explain why you'd need different sizes of guns.(I understand the need for protecting against small boarding parties), but not the 6 sizes you mention. They say defense is easier than offense. That is only true for a point location. When you have to defend an entire coastline (or any other type of border), then the advantage is heavily tilted to the offense, which can pick its point(s) to attack (as well as time). 

There is another issue that just adds to the "bullets are bad as money" posts. I haven't seen it listed here but how do you know if the bullet is good? The primer caps are probably the hardest part to make. So, when reloading the brass, why use a real primer cap? Just sell the bullet off to someone and you are good to go. It would be as if the only way to test to see if a $100 bill was real is to burn it. In the end, it all relies on if you trust the person. If you trust them, then you can use their signature instead. 

I was going to be flippant and say: flood the market with romance novels. However, that might be headed in the right direction if True Love is psychological rather than some mystical compatibility. You can run compatibility tests, keep a database. Build up true love in stories, TV, Movies, etc. In the early years let the kids know that there are compatible matches for them but keep them apart (straight/gay, same methodology). However, leave holes in the separation that allow the clever and/or persistent to find their mates. The expectation raised plus the effort of overcoming the barriers to meet will make their meeting special. For those who don't pass the first test, have a big ceremony where they are introduced to their best matches. You might not get as many hits here but it gives another chance at finding matches. Also, some people are conformists and would respond well to this. Look for other methods of matching people up. After each method, you have a smaller and smaller pool of those who have not found true love yet. 

Is it possible? Well, I wrote "no" but in defending that position, I thought of a possible scenario where it was. First, how do you illuminate a sphere uniformly? Well, I can't think of any way even with 3 sources (stars). So, could you spin it fast enough so that the entire surface was over a local 'day' exposed to the same heating? Maybe, but I can't wrap my mind around that. I'm guessing you can't. My original model is the primary sun always over the equator, and two fainter suns directly above the N and S rotational axes. The amount of illumination averages to nearly the same, and with winds the weather is the same (why constant illumination (at the poles) would result in the same biome as a (fast?) day-night cycle is a different problem). So, maybe you can do something with that. A couple of easy calculations would determine the amount of insolation per day per square meter at the poles, equator, and at 45°. They'd need to be close. OK, that was a digression. If you had clouds, you could modify the insolation, but I don't think that works. Water clouds = rain, and its a dry world, sand clouds = contribution to different weather/climate. The thicker the atmosphere, the more the illumination can be averaged. So, here's my idea: why not a very thick atmosphere around a planet which is far from any star which relies on its internal heat - the star contributing virtually none of its energy. These type planets are theorized to exist, and aren't necessarily attached to a star. (wandering planet). 

Or, you could go with an alligator. Alligators are similar to sharks, and they are amphibious. Perhaps these alligators adapted to be able to swim in ocean water, instead of freshwater. Then they discovered their love for human flesh... Anyway, I think this would be a more likely prospect. 

So, if a person has no magic by the time they're an adult, it is legal to take them as a slave. If you can use your magic to grab a jug from across the room, why have a slave to go get it? How would people's limited abilities affect the influence of slavery? For example, if you can tear weeds out of the ground with magic, or influence them to die, why have slaves to cultivate your fields? Would this make it unlikely for regular people to have slaves? I think that wealthy people would definitely have household servants, but what about work? With the level of magic people have, would it be more feasible to pay people with magic or feed and house non-magic slaves? (They're not like us normal people, so they don't need as good of housing or food.) What types of areas would have more slavery? For example, would there be a lot of slaves in agricultural areas, and fewer in large cities? (I would also assume that some good people would have slaves just so that they get treated better than they otherwise would have.) This question is kind of long, and I apologize for that, let me know if there is anything I can clean up. 

There is an old saying:"You need money to make money." which suggests that making money isn't possible without either having, finding, or stealing it. This is wrong, of course. What is meant that most rich people started with much less, and built their wealth gradually. The old fable about a paperboy, earning money by delivering newspapers, saving most of that and then investing that, and continuing a slow but accelerating process of increasing his net worth is very similar to the way iron could be produced. Initial efforts would be crude and inefficient, subsequent processes would become more and more refined, more and more efficient, and on larger and larger scale. Start with ore and a campfire (bonfire), and go from there. 

Two elephants??? Bush Elephant (male) wt. = < 6,000 kg, 5000 is a good average. So, two would be 10,000 kg. This is less than the weight (mass) of a (loaded) truck. And this is going to house and transport people between stars? Riiiiiight. A blue whale's pregnancy lasts 1 year and the calf is 6 m long and weighs over 1000 kg. Here's the key point: a calf can put on 100 kg a day (when nursing). I agree completely with the other comments about the (lack of logic) behind needing increased brain size. Perhaps you should consider "neural nodes" distributed throughout the ship to do the routine stuff (air temperature, open doors, turn on lights, etc.). If the large brain is somehow magically necessary to enable FTL travel, then why not make that part out of silicon, and just connect it to the organic brain? One obvious problem is, if you change the structure of the human brain to accommodate the extra structures, then it won't be human anymore. Now, as to the question of how you'd change such a mind so that it actions would be indistinguishable from a human's, well there'd be an app for that. 

Maybe the "sun" is more like a spinning yin/yang symbol. Day/night would be if the light or dark side of the sun is facing you. You can then go two ways: 

You are talking about the implausible Star Trek Federation lack of economy. It might work out if the society was completely isolated and under strict draconian control. The assumption is that everyone must do some minimum work to get their resources. That is because if no one had to actually work to get their resources, a large number of people would choose to not work. Then there wouldn't be anyone to generate those resources. So, assuming everyone needs to do a minimum amount of work to get their allocated resources, there are two stagnation issues that I see: 

For finances, put everything in corporations in trusts. Then you can change the owner of the trust. She could probably make it to 50 years old without drawing too much attention. So, she should plan ahead. Raise a daughter, keep her in the loop and at some point switch places with her or her granddaughter. Have a big family and become the secret patriarch of that family. You can't do it without help and family can be the best help. Go around saving children. You never know when that might come in handy in the future. 

I have a race of humanoids who live on two planets in a binary system. This planet is mostly a water world, with some swamps and about three Australias. The other planet is very dry. But, I have a problem. I want it to be similar to Star Wars, with high technology level but no internet or social media. But I do want them to have space stations, spaceships, things like that. One thing I thought could help would be to make it inefficient or expensive to have these kinds of things. But I don't know how to do that. Or maybe bombard the planets with some kind of light that would fry electronics? Note - Things like it goes against their culture are off limits, because if these creatures have technology that is helpful to them they will use it. Note - Other alien's gifting them technology is also a possibility, but that means that at some point these creatures are likely to develop an Internet, and I don't want that. 

Define "conquer". This question is like one asking how long a date should last, or how long a book should be. It is obvious that you will need to: 1. Have sufficient troops to defeat any military opposition and 2. Have sufficient troops to occupy/police/administer the land you have won. If you assume your 'reign' will be just as popular as the old one was, then your military/police support will need to be identical. That is a huge number of men/people - but it clearly depends on the pre-existing governmental structure. Generally, there will always be local people willing to support you, but you'll still need to train/indoctrinate them, as well as supervise them (i.e. your new government). You apparently envision a single army - and that's ridiculous. You're not going to conquer a continent going town to town with a single army. OTOH, if the continent is ruled by a single king/queen/emperor then all you need is to take over his/her position and surround yourself with enough supporters to overcome any opposition. 10 people might do it, 10 million might not be enough. Anything else you need to know? Sure is. Lots. Trump "conquered" North America in about ~18 months. It took Europeans ~300 years to conquer N.A. from the "natives". So, somewhere in between is reasonable, Africa is 23% bigger than N.A. 

Advances in all fields would happen with greater speed, and history would be more detailed. For example, in chemistry you find the molar masses of different compounds. I would only have to find the molar mass for, let's say, glucose, one time. Then if I ever have glucose in a chemical reaction, my life just got one equation simpler. 

First, for scale, this map is about the size of the continental US. Assume that the mountains are about the size of the Rockies. These mountains are jagged on the outer edge, and more sloping on the inside. Everything North of the map is rocky wasteland, and there is an ocean to the south and west. To the east (about the distance from the mainland to the large island) is an unexplored continent. There is constant spring/summertime weather. In this case, the sun rises in the west and sets in the east. For all intents and purposes, this map has replaced the US, Canada is a rocky wasteland, and Mexico has sunk into the sea.