The majority of the time it is a better plan to draw the penalty then immediately get the 5 on three. This situation actually just came up one the Blackhawks vs Kings games for the Semi Finals of the Stanley Cup. One of the Hawks forwards drew a second penalty in the offensive zone. They pulled the goalie and tried the 4 on 6 for about 25 seconds but had nowhere to go with the puck. Unless an obvious opportunity presented itself, such as one of the King's defensemen was without a stick, it would have been better for them to get the 5 on 3. It gives the primary PP forwards a chance to rest, regroup, and decide how to proceed on the play and hopefully convert. 

That could possibly be considered interference. The initial throw to the third baseman was legal and just a bad throw, with a legal run scoring. On the second throw to home, however, play should have been stopped by the umpire. Once a player is called out they are to return to the dugout directly, but his continuation on the base path was not necessarily an interference (stated below). This means that play should have been stopped and the batter should have been at first. Section 5.02 reads: "5.02 After the umpire calls “Play” the ball is alive and in play and remains alive and in play until for legal cause, or at the umpire’s call of “Time” suspending play, the ball becomes dead. While the ball is dead no player may be put out, no bases may be run and no runs may be scored, except that runners may advance one or more bases as the result of acts which occurred while the ball was alive (such as, but not limited to a balk, an over- throw, interference, or a home run or other fair ball hit out of the playing field)." Although, section 7.09 Paragraph e states: (e) Any batter or runner who has just been put out, or any runner who has just scored, hinders or impedes any following play being made on a runner. Such runner shall be declared out for the interference of his teammate; 

They do this to prevent their shoes from getting slippery. It is the same reason they mop the floors near the hoops. It is important that the players have a good grip on the floor, and if their shoes are damp they do not have enough traction. It reduces the risk of injury and helps them to play better. 

These are indeed lead ponies or companion ponies. This horse(s) are brought along with a race horse to and on the road to keep them emotionally stable and focused on the race. These ponies help them to stay calm before races. This is a common practice for many race horses. 

First off, the strike zone is a mystical thing sometimes. While there are specific guidelines, some umpires change it a little based on the height or size of the batter. Most of the time, batters swing at these pitches because from the pitchers windup, they thing it will be a strike. They follow the ball usually as it passes the ear of the pitcher (left for a southpaw and right for a righty) Some pitches such as a slider, fake the batter out by appearing to come down the plate, but fall lower than anticipated, hence the name. A change up or off speed pitch do the same to a batter from their view. They believe that they will cross the plate in the strike zone, therefore they take a whack at it but often whiff if they don't realize the style of pitch. Most good batters can tell when an off speed pitch is coming down the pike, and plan for it, holding off or taking a swing. Hope this helps to clear things up. 

Most of the time a 'dynasty' refers to a team that has once consistently over a long period of time. Canadian hockey has indeed dominated the international ice for the past decade and become a superpower in the sport. It would be fair to say that their team is running the show when it comes to international ice time, but not necessarily a dynasty, as in competitions they have not always come out on top. It just happens that over the past six years they have built up an extremely strong team. If their streak continues into the next winter olympics, the world 'dynasty' would indeed be used to describe Canada's team. 

No, there is no agreement. You are accurate in your finding that there is no agreement. However in my experience it starts with one in the upper left and rotates clockwise down to the lower left to 4, with 5-hole added on. 

In the situation you describe, according to the MLB Official rules, the runner cannot be considered an interference on that alone. It does, however, fall to the responsibility of the Umpire to determine when play should be stopped for any reason. 

I was watching the MLS All-Star vs. Tottenham match and noticed that there were substitutions made for more than 3 players during the game. Is this standard for exhibition games, All Star games etc? 

I eventually got it down pat, but it took me about 4-6 months. Don't be discouraged if you don't get it immediately. Keep on riding and enjoy the season! 

Usually, sent-off players will argue with referees after being sent off but eventually they will leave the field. What we see more frequently is some spectators (outside agents) running onto the field and being removed by security guards. Even if the guards don't explicitly ask permission from referee for removing the outside agents, they act according to the aforementioned law of the game. The same would apply to the sent-off player, who will be removed by security guards in case if he doesn't want to leave the field, because the previously mentioned law applies not only to outside agents but also to sent-off players. So, to answer your questions: 

But rule-c doesn't help us either, as both teams have scored 7 goals each. We move to rule-d. Remember, the teams in question are Team B and Team C. rule-d states: 

Note that the counterattacking style of play was enhanced thanks to WM formation that was also created by Chapman: 

I assume as the first part of the rule considers the scenario of scoring directly against the opponents goal, the additional part was somehow needed to make the rule complete. 

So, receiving a second caution in the same match is one of the 7 main reasons to be sent off but not the only reason. There's no mention in the Laws of the Game, that a player can't be shown direct red card after being already cautioned by a yellow card. This situation is also implied in the FIFA Disciplinary Code; Article 17. Caution: 

The long answer is that the term "manager" is frequently used in the UK to distinguish between a "normal coach" and a "a coach who also has responsibilities of a sporting director (director of football)" - a "manager". In continental Europe, however, the terms "(head) coach" or "trainer" are more prevalent, and in addition, many clubs have explicit sporting director positions. The exact difference can be best understood by reading Mauricio Pochettino's explanation: 

The issue you've highlighted is addressed in the Article 5. Integrity of the Competition of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League Regulations, 5.01: 

Note that those kind of tracking devices are used on a very high level in many team sports, and not just in football. 

There was no such World Cup where the winner would qualify through play-offs. It's also worth to mention that qualification rules were constantly changing and sometimes winners played only few matches (if played at all, as they were hosts or defending champions till 2006 World Cup qualifiers) in order to qualify. During the qualification phase of the 1934 World Cup Italy played only a single match in order to qualify, which can be considered as a play-off match, but in fact was a group stage match. 

There are definitely not as many match-fixing scandals in football as conspiracy theorists might have expected. Especially on such a high level, which your original question suggested. One of the most popular match-fixing scandals that happened recently was Italian Calciopoli scandal, where many Serie A clubs were accused of rigging games by selecting favorable referees, during 2004/05 and 2005/06 seasons. As a result: 

As it's laconically stated in the FIFA Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players - Article 16: Restriction on terminating a contract during the season: 

Long answer: The settlement of the costs of 2 associations playing during qualification phase recommended by FIFA is described in 2018 FIFA World Cup Regulations - Preliminary competition - 27 Financial provisions: 

No one will probably ever see such a thing happening, but the rules are good when they are complete and consider nearly every possible scenario. Besides that, there's no rule disallowing the players to kick-off into their own half. If you look at the Details of all Law changes - Law 08 – The Start and Restart of Play - 1. Kick-off, the following part has been added recently: 

But again, the main difference is that in the UK, people use "manager" and in the rest of Europe, people prefer "(head) coach". Here are the demonstrative examples from official websites of some biggest clubs: 

Out of 3 teams in question, team A has the best goal difference , so team A is ranked first. As Team B and Team C have equal goal differences , rule-b doesn't help us in breaking the tie between these teams, hence we move to rule-c: 

In football, in case of equal goal differences, usually the goals scored are more important than the goals conceded. So, in your case the best loser will be the one who lost 3:5. For instance, here you can take a look at tiebreakers used during the World Cup. 

There were a lot of occasions when teams withdrew during qualification phase, but there are only 4 after qualification, and as one may guess those happened in the early years of the World Cup, when it still needed some advertisement: In 1938 World Cup: As a result of Anschluss, i.e. annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany, Austria had to withdraw from the tournament despite qualification. In 1950 World Cup: Scotland was granted a berth in the World Cup final phase as runners-up of British Home Championship, but their federation secretary decided that Scotland would have had to win the Home Tournament if they were to take part. Turkey also withdrew, citing financial problems and the cost of travelling to South America. India: