Many aspects of cognition lack neurobiological evidence - consciousness for instance. Now if Cartesian duality is correct (and given its formidable presence in the history of philosophy, it's not a totally insane possibility), it follows that human cognition will never be completely understood within any biological framework. The language faculty can then be one of the 'magical' aspects of cognition, in which case, biological inquiry will be useless. However, this does not preclude the notion that the language faculty employs computational mechanisms like Merge. In light of such possibilities, the computational approach to the language faculty, namely that sentences are formed via Merge, is correct to the extent that we can successfully account for natural language syntax with Merge along with the other assumptions of the minimalist program (e.g. The Strong Minimalist Thesis). I would say that Merge has been very successful in this regard. On the other hand, it's possible that neurolinguistic research will one day provide a more illuminating account of the language faculty. For instance, perhaps Merge can be localized to Broca's or Wernicke's area. Or as an extreme case, perhaps the language faculty doesn't exist at all, and by extension neither does Merge. That language is nothing more than the result of domain general cognitive processes is a view held by many (e.g. Lakoff and most functionalists). My personal view is that the current generative approach will be vindicated when generative ideas are used to solve the central problem of AI. Once we create robots that speak indistinguishably from humans, using such hated principles of Universal Grammar, generativism's detractors will be at a loss of words. 

I was originally looking for absolutely new single words that weren't slang, but I've lowered my expectation and have removed that restriction. To stress, lest people mistake, I am not focusing on English language - I used English just to give some examples. 

I am a Kannada speaker not Telugu (I can speak no Telugu at all), but due to historic sociolinguistic relations between the two languages, I think I can answer this fairly well. If you are asking do Telugu letters represent the sounds to be uttered accurately such that there is not inconsistencies as with English spelling, then yes. The consonants always retain their sounds. Unlike Tamil, 'pa' and 'ba' don't use the same letter which are uttered differently based on the context. If you are asking do Telugu speakers utter the intended sounds when they look at a letter, then no. There are a few reasons for this. Firstly, as with Kannada, some sounds, and, consequently, their corresponding letters were discarded centuries back. So people don't know how to utter the sounds and use the nearest ones if the letters are used. In Kannada such letters appear only in studying older forms of the language. I guess that's where they occur in Telugu as well. Secondly, the script is an adaptation and extension of script intended for Sanskrit and its derivatives. It is unreasonable to expect an average Telugu speaker to mimic Sanskrit specific sounds such as r in rishi which is different from r in rama, for instance. The same applies to mahapranas. Thirdly, due to colloquialism, some vowels are uttered in 'non standard' way. The one my Kannada ear picks up is the sound for long 'e', the one represented by 'a' in 'gate'. Many people utter it as if it were 'a' from 'gap'. I specifically hear this when some say the word 'lekapote'. Lastly, if you consider the usage of 'f' and 'z' sounds, which are foreign, you tilt more towards 'no'. 

Learn some formal language theory via Sipser's Intro to the Theory of Computation. Having the background will be useful when dealing with Minimalist Grammars and their parsers. 

Assuming the copy theory of movement, cyclic wh-movement is further supported by languages in which multiple wh-copies are pronounced. Consider the following Afrikaans data from du Plessis 1977 

Thus, it is possible to strand the quantifier in intermediate Spec, CP. This lends support to the cyclicity of wh-movement shown here. Angled brackets indicate lower copies. 

Successive cyclic wh-movement is motivated by theoretical principles of minimal computation, as well as empirical data. There's nothing inherently wrong with the 'one fell swoop' analysis, but cyclic wh-movement is preferable. Minimal computation: At any point in the derivation, the range of visible syntactic objects available for computations (e.g. Agreement) is restricted. Remember, SMT assumes that derivations form interface-interpretable objects as efficiently and lazily as possible. Thus, we assume visibility is restricted to phase (CP and vP) edges, which rules out one fell swoop movement. This is known as the Phase Impenetrability Condition. Data: The following data comes from McCloskey 2000. In a dialect of English spoken in Ulster, the quantifier all can attach to wh-pronouns. 

The three projections of X'-bar theory namely X, X', and XP exist to establish the Head-Complement, Specifer-Head, and Adjunct relations. If intermediate projections were also XPs, then there would be no way to distinguish adjuncts from (multiple) specifiers. 

(I know this is an old question with an accepted answer, but I am posting this as I see that an important point is missing.) As you know, this is an idiomatic usage. Idioms are usually native to a language so much that a literal translation to another language might not carry the same meaning, even sound absurd. However, funnily, idioms can diffuse across languages, even across families. Typically a dominant language lends its idioms to the subservient ones. Note that I am making a distinction between calque and idiom. For instance, the common English idiom 'never look back', as in 'She never looked back after that first exhibition' means to continue to be successful after doing something with a good result. This idiom has made its way into Indian languages due to the high status English had during colonial times. I am not sure how many languages are affected, but I can vouch its usage in Kannada. This phrase by itself doesn't have any special meaning natively as far as I can tell. Outside of the literary usage, if you ask an average Kannada speaker 'what is your dream' using the literal word for dream(kanasu), you would get a perplexed look. You would have to use one of the several words for desire, or rephrase the question by explicitly mentioning 'dream in life' or 'dream of becoming in your life' etc, to extract the intended answer. I am sure a lot of idioms were borrowed from Sanskrit which was the original prestige language in India, but they were borrowed so long back that they have been naturalized. The point I am getting at is, it would help to look at the sociolinguistics to determine the dynamics of languages to truly understand the usage of dream this way. 

An utterance is the perfect or imperfect use of a particular sentence on a particular occasion. A sentence is an ideal string of words representing a proposition. A proposition is the underlying sense. There are 5 utterances for sure. How many sentences and propositions are involved is debatable. Edit: Sentences are debatable because it depends on how many propositions you believe there are, which depends on which propositions you think each of these utterances is linked ultimately to. 

First, you have to be careful to not confuse compounds themselves with the orthography for compounds. What you're asking about is the orthographic variation in how compounds are represented. As far as orthographic variation goes, there has been very little research done in this area, most likely because there's been very little reason to think to look into it up until the internet age as, before now, written communication was limited to very few domains and so was likely to be far more influenced by standardization attempts than domains like texting or tweeting are. So, there have of course been many attempts in many societies to standardize spelling, and these almost certainly play a role in why compounds are represented in one way or another, but actual use most likely varies along social dimensions. For example, those living in one region might tend to spell compounds in one way while those living in another region might spell them a different way. You can see regional variation even in standardization attempts, whereas there are British standards (e.g. behaviour) that differ from American standards (e.g. behavior). Other examples might be people of different age groups spelling them different ways or people of different ethnic backgrounds. A good correlate to look at to better understand why a compound would be spelled one way or another is studies on phonological variation in sociolinguistics, of which there is a massive literature starting from Labov (1966) and continuing to the present day. The same approach can be taken to orthographic variation, including how compounds are spelled, and there are some signs of that happening (see Tatman (2016) or Eisenstein (2015), for example), but as of yet, the best anyone would be able to tell you are the invented rules of some prescriptivist grammarians, which are really just suggestions, not explanations of why things are the way they are. Eisenstein, J. (2015). Systematic patterning in phonologically-motivated orthographic variation. Journal of Sociolinguistics, 19(2), 161–188. $URL$ Labov, W. (2006). The Social Stratification of English in New York City (2nd ed.). Cambridge, England: Cambridge University Press. (Original work published 1966) Tatman, R. (2016). “I’m a spawts guay”: Comparing the Use of Sociophonetic Variables in Speech and Twitter. University of Pennsylvania Working Papers in Linguistics, 22(2). Retrieved from $URL$ 

Your analysis is not correct. It is well known that wh-extraction out of adjuncts is impossible. See Huang 1982. Thankfully, the derivation of your sentence involves neither wh-extraction nor adjunction. Notice that it involves the passive construction The plot was discovered by the authorities, in which case the plot and the authorities are both assigned theta roles by discovered. Ignoring the technical details of passive constructions, the derivation involves building up [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities] And in the usual manner, we merge in an interrogative C bearing a wh-feature that needs checking [C [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities]] The subject inverts with the auxiliary, and then how gets merged into the tree to yield [how [[C+was] [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities]]] 

So it would seem that after [DP where/who/what all] merges in its theta position, wh-extraction can target only the wh-pronoun. Turning to long-distance wh-extraction, the following are all grammatical. 

Merge is more useful as a structure building operation than traditional phrase structure rules or X-bar theory, because unlike the latter, it can freely intersperse with movement. If you require structure building to precede all movement processes, you're in some sense postulating at least two different levels of representation. Economy of derivation principles say that one or zero levels is always preferable to two. Furthermore, once we adopt Merge, movement does not need to be a separate, primitive operation, since any instance of movement is equivalent to copying the relevant object and Merging it. This is known as the copy theory of movement. Note that syntactic computation begins once we select items from the lexicon and form a numeration (i.e a set of ordered 2-tuples consisting of the lexical item and the number of times it was chosen (Lexical Item, n)). Since n can be as large as we wish, it follows that the copy theory of movement does not introduce a new operation into the system. Economy principles are observed. There's much more to be said about our Lord and Savior, Merge. We are humbled by His Recursiveness. 

I had both Malayalam and Tamil speaking colleagues and we often discussed languages. As a non speaker of either, they sounded exactly the same but with different accents, so I often asked a lot of questions. My answer is from what I have observed, not from a research paper of an Indologist (neither am I a linguist). They are to a large extent, having more mutual intelligibility than other (major) South Indian languages. They even have quite similar phonology that sounds odd to other South Indians(mainly usage of voiced and unvoiced consonants). Linguists believe that Malayalam evolved from Tamil fairly late, between 800 AD and 1300 AD, though not all Malayalam speakers agree with that - some claim it is much more ancient than that and some even go to the extent of claiming that Tamil Sangam literature was written in Old Malayalam, not Old Tamil. It isn't uncommon for Malayalam speakers and Tamil speakers to speak in their respective languages and have a conversation if one of them doesn't know English. However, a few factors hinder such a conversation from being smooth and flawless. Malayalam speakers are notorious for their accent - they are perceived to speak faster than others - so it is hard to decipher them. Some words are unique to each language, and a few common words have quite different meanings (e.g. 'patti' (t - retroflex, a,i -short, p - unaspirated) means dog in Malayalam but village in Tamil). Malayalam has more Sanskrit loanwords than Tamil, and has borrowed with little morphological change compared to Tamil (other language speakers who have no clue of Malayalam can easily get gist of what is being said by their knowledge of Sanskrit owing to their own borrowings, if they can decipher the accent that is). This might cause a problem in picking up words. Further, although Sanakrit loanwords are found in all Indian languages (except probably north eastern ones which aren't Indo-European or Dravidian, except Assamese and Bengali), not all borrowed words have same meanings. The change ranges from subtle variation in meaning to downright opposite or contradictory(e.g. 'garva' in Hindi means pride in a positive sense but in Kannada means pride with severe negative connotations - its one of the trigger words in Kannada). So a Sanskrit origin word needn't always mean the same, and it is often best to ask when a word seems out of place in the sentence.