Another thing to take into account is that, in the archaic age particularly, armies would often meet on the field of battle and then agree to settle the differences by having one warrior from each side meet. This form of battle would have been more akin to the gladiatorial matches of later periods. Since the Greeks, and even the Romans to some extent, had a romanticized concept of naked warriors it is quite possible some of these matches might have taken place naked. By the classical age, these one-on-one contests were not as common. Soldiers would have wanted to wear as little as possible, especially if the weather was hot, but they would also want protection. Hoplites usually wore greaves, vambraces, and a chest-plate. They would also carry a shield and spear, with some carrying a short sword as a secondary weapon. I have read accounts that the Spartans would occasionally cast aside their clothing and fight naked if they wanted to show total scorn to an enemy that they did not fear. Maybe there is something to that, but I have yet to see anything conclusive from primary sources that indicates this ever happened. On the other hand, while art is usually just art, sometimes it is a window on the society. Some ancient pottery art I have seen depicting the Spartans, while showing them with shields, helmets, and spears, shows them with nothing else on except a garment that covers about as much as the loincloths in 300, though of a different design. $URL$ I came across a reference in Plutarch's writings (Life of Lycurgus) which seemed to indicate that Spartan men wore only one garment on a regular basis, and that this garment left them bare above the waist. The only references made to their complete nudity was during their exercises and their games, during the latter of which the young women and girls would strip themselves and join the young men and boys. Plutarch also mentions that Spartan boys learned how to march barefoot and go naked during their training. Plutarch mentions that at the age of twelve their undergarment would be taken away and only one upper garment given them each year. This garment was a red cloak, which they would wear as Spartan soldiers once their training was complete, along with whatever armor was issued to them. The cloak itself, however, was not worn during battle, as it would be a hindrance to movement. Plutarch does not mention whether or not the Spartans wore any other clothing, so it is possible the Spartan soldiers may well have been naked in battle other than their armor. I have seen it pointed out that they would not have wanted to wear metal armor on their bare skin, yet we know that they would line the inside of their armor with a layer of leather. Keep in mind, also, that their shields offered a great deal of protection. 

1 In the beginning, people who followed Jesus weren't called Christians. In fact, we don't know if they were called anything in particular. During Jesus' lifetime, he and his followers were simply Jews. This was still the case for all of his followers for another couple of decades at the least, and most of them probably consider themselves exclusively Jewish as long as they lived. It was only in the second and third generations of Jesus followers that the slow but steady drift away from Judaism began. Some small sects of Jewish Jesus followers remained active until perhaps the fifth century or later. This situation cause problems for scholars, who like to have specific names for things. Therefore, the most popular term for the first followers of Jesus are now known as "The Jesus Movement". It bears repeating that these people were completely Jewish in belief, practice, and self identification. Furthermore, non-Jews also considered these people to be Jewish. It isn't clear when the Roman government began to notice the difference between regular Jews and Jesus Jews, but it is known that they had begun to single out Christians (who were by this time really Christians) by about a hundred years after Jesus died. 2 As far as modern scholarship has been able to determine, there is probably no reason to believe that the authors of the gospels were named Matthew, Mark, or Luke. There is a possibility that the author of some sections of John was actually named John, but the traditional claim that this was John the Beloved Disciple is not taken seriously by most impartial scholars. The earliest manuscripts of the gospels don't have any names attached, and there is no evidence that they were called by the names we know until a century or more after they were written. These names were attributed to them by the early leaders of the church, and some records remain of some of these leaders expressing their doubts about the issue of authorship. 3 Interestingly, the Mormon church has grown at a rate of 43% per decade for the last century. 

How democratic was the Roman republic? Slaves couldn’t vote; Women couldn’t vote; You had to own property… How democratic was the American republic? Slaves couldn’t vote; Indians couldn’t vote; Women couldn’t vote; You had to own property… Maybe a better question would be: What actually is democracy? 

Since you have changed your question I will reply directly to the question you have posed. The oldest fragments of manuscripts of parts of the New Testament are not older than the first quarter of the second century. 

At least in prescriptive religious texts, Islam rejects the practice of bowing down to anyone but God, and the canonic report about the prophet’s delegation to Ethiopia specifically states that the Muslims refused to bow down to the Negus, but none the less found favour with him. (I am citing this not as a real historic event but as a normative religious statement). I suspect therefore that Maimonides is referring not to Muslim kings of his own time, but to the assumed situation at the time of the ancient Israelite kings. 

It began near the nexus of 3 continents: Europe, Asia, and Africa. It began during the Roman Empire, while the Empire was still relatively strong and robust, and controlled much of Europe and the Mediterranean, including North Africa. It had access to an extensive network of roads, and it had never been so easy to travel great distances. In Paul's letter to the Romans, he says he is planning a trip to Spain. He traveled throughout Asia Minor, Palestine, Greece, Macedonia, etc. By our modern standards, this wouldn't be very impressive, but this was happening 2,000 years ago, when the closest thing to an airplane was a horse. People could travel more easily than ever before. After the message of Christianity was altered to make it less Jewish in nature, it became fairly inclusive; but the earliest converts were Hellenized Jews. Thus, communities with a decent number of Hellenized Jews would be most willing to convert. It was relatively unique in that it was a religion of belief rather than mere observance. This appealed to certain groups (again, Hellenized Jews), but it took some getting used to for pagans. It was also relatively unique in that it made promises of eternal rewards for the people who had been denied rewards in life. This idea was new to pagans, but familiar to Jews. It was evangelical, and some of the apostles were brilliant PR men. The first apostles were Jewish, and shunned pagans (because Jesus apparently told them to do so). Shortly after Jesus died, the new movement began to alter his message. This process has continued to this day, although at a much less drastic rate after the first couple of centuries. This is a huge benefit because it allowed the early church to become whatever its congregants needed it to be. This is when the scattered "shotgun pattern" begins to seep outwards and saturate the map. 

Dachau concentration camp was set up in 1933 to imprison political opponents of the Nazi regime, mainly communists. Non-communist Jews began to be sent there in 1938. Unlike Auschwitz, it was never a “death camp” in the strict sense of the word, but of course lots of prisoners died there. 

To qualify as “Aryan” you had to prove that none of your four grandparents was Jewish. In practice, this meant that you had to prove that they were baptised Christians. If you had a Jewish great-grandparent you would still qualify as “Aryan” if that great-grandparent had converted to Christianity and had his or her children baptised. So the Nazi “race” policy actually boils down to a question of religion. But that is because race is an essentially fictitious concept. There is a fairly detailed discussion here: $URL$ 

In a surprising number of conflicts, propagandists have accused enemy troops of very similar (and appalling) atrocities. Among the most common allegations are claims that babies had been impaled on swords, spears, pikes, or bayonets, and that fetuses had been sliced from the bellies of pregnant women. Some examples of groups being accused of these activities throughout history: Irish Catholic forces in the Rebellion of 1641: 

Conclusion: The actual numbers are unknown, but the largest study published to date identified the following: 

American influence on Nazi policy: It is also worth noting that Hitler's infamous policies based on eugenics were directly inspired by earlier eugenics programs in the United States. 

Most lower class Romans and slaves wore only a knee length tunic, if they even had that much clothing. Many in modern times have indicated that wearing an undergarment was considered being naked, yet the Greek word that was usually used in the period to refer to someone who was naked was gymnos, which means a complete lack of clothing. Those who try to say otherwise often do so because the idea of public nudity makes them uncomfortable, so they use modern cultural mores to influence one's interpretation of history. Historical studies of the culture of the time indicate that public nudity was not at all unusual for fishermen, or for those working in the fields or in mines, even in cases when there were women present. Nudity in public was also not uncommon during athletic events. The author of the book of Hebrews makes reference to this in Hebrews 12 verse 1, in which he uses the analogy of a runner laying aside the garments and running naked to represent stripping off sin that weighs down the Christian. This is not an analogy that many people in modern Christianity are comfortable with, but the early Christians would have understood the analogy just fine. I have seen many insist that the Romans couldn't have crucified people naked or that Peter couldn't have been naked on his boat because they "can't imagine" complete nudity in front of passers-by including women and children could have been acceptable. I would say that how we imagine the past to be does not determine that is how it was. Nudity has been used in punishment throughout history, and has also been common for those working in physical and dirty jobs (fishermen, miners, etc.). Defeated people throughout history had their clothing taken away to shame them. This shame was not the shame we have in modern times due to the mores that originated in the Victorian era, it was because to be denied clothing was the mark of a slave, though the same people who would have been shamed by having their clothing forcibly taken would willingly lay it aside to work or exercise if it was their choice. The shame, then, was due to forced nudity, not the state of nudity in and of itself. A modern analogy might be that a person would likely feel embarrassed and shamed if they were attacked and had their clothing stripped off of them leaving them in just their underwear, yet when they go to the beach they might be perfectly willing to wear a bathing suit that covers no more than the underwear would. The problem with many people today is that things like this in history don't make them feel all warm and fuzzy and so they dismiss it due to their FEELINGS. Well, feelings don't define the historical record, and if someone thinks they do they are dabbling in the wrong field. 

I am attaching a longish quotation from the Code of Justinian, promulgated in AD 528. As you can observe, the Code makes a clear distinction between rape and adultery. It stipulates the death penalty for men guilty of rape, regardless of whether the victim is married or unmarried, or of whether she a free woman or a slave. The only difference is that if the victim is free, the rapist, besides being executed, forfeits all his property to the victim, but if she is a slave the perpetrator loses his life, but not his property (that is: his property goes to his legal heirs). 

According to several sites - none of which offer sources or citations - the Arc De Triomphe de l'Étoile was damaged on or near the same day that the Battle of Verdun began in February 1916. These sites, including this one, claim that the Sword held by the Republic on the La Marseillais relief broke off. Some accounts go on to say that the damage was immediately concealed behind a tarp to prevent people from treating the damage as an omen portending disaster: 

Obviously, no one expected that the Hindenburg would explode during the mooring process, so it the expectation would have been that a passenger aircraft was going to arrive, the passengers would disembark, and that would be it. This wasn't the first time that a zeppelin had crossed the Atlantic; it wasn't even the first time the Hindenburg itself had crossed the Atlantic. So why was a reporter from Chicago in New Jersey to report on the Hindenburg's arrival? 

The problem was not with the “books” but with the readers. Aristotle, for example, was an extremely creative and self-critical thinker who was very willing to change his mind even on important issues. But the Christian/Muslim/Jewish writers of the middle ages turned Aristotelianism into a dry dogma. In more recent times the self-styled Marxists have done the same disservice to the writings of Marx. 

You are right, the name Hellenes means “pagans” in the New Testament, and was consequently abandoned by Greek Christians, who preferred to call themselves “Romans”. The term Hellene was revived by the Greek philosopher Giorgios Gemistos Plethon in the 15th century as part of his endeavour to replace Christianity by the “Religion of the Hellenes”. It was revived a second time by the Greek nationalist movement in the 19th century.