I find it much easier to think whether I want a lower or higher gear at each moment than to try to think which specific gear do I want. If pedaling is too hard, shift to a lower gear. If pedaling is too easy/fast, shift to a higher gear. As the others have said, you get a lower gear with large gears on the back (the right shifter) and small gears on the front. Usually the shifts at the back are smaller than the shifts at the front, so you only shift the front when you are close to the end on the back. Some shifters have indicators to show where you are. The other thing I find useful is to think about low gears as intended for low speeds, rather than up hills. They allow you to keep the pedaling cadence in your range. One reason you may be going slowly is because you are going up hill, but there are others. You could be in traffic, riding with a slower rider, starting from a stop, etc. A lower gear helps with all of these. When I come to a stop I automatically shift down at least two gears, four or more if I was going fast. That makes the start much easier. Shift back up once you get going. 

I would suggest that the range of conditions you can encounter on a mountain bike are wider than most other bicycles. That makes it easier to break a mountain bike because you hit something unexpected. I'm a roadie. Our bikes are built much lighter and you can ruin one (especially the really light ones) hitting a pothole. For us, that is outside the expected use. You can ride a mountain bike in reasonable terrain with good assurance it will survive. How do you assure that the terrain is reasonable? It's hard. You might ride a reasonable trail but miss a curve and hit a tree. As you ride you will get a better feel for the risks. You need to decide if they are reasonable for you. You don't have cars to worry about. Ride with others, learn from them, and have fun. 

I was given an old racer frame and some parts which I am converting into a single speed commuter. The front right fork has a small toothed mounting point, it looks a bit like it could have held a light or similar in a past life. Can anyone shed some light on what exactly this mount point is and what it was used for. 

I know it's a downgrade but I don't really want to pay the price of the bike again on new bearings, I've only ever seen questions and threads about people upgrading .. can I replace ceramic bearings with steel ones? For clarity, I will be looking inside the hubs to check what actually needs replacing before making purchasing decisions, however, I want to know if it is technically possible to replace ceramic for steel and or if there might be any issues with the races used for ceramics accepting steel, are they different materials etc.. I found the technical manual here 

I'm slowly upgrading things on my 26" Scott Aspect, I now need/want to get some new tyres. I think the tyres on there at the moment are 26 x 2.1 

I am hoping this means I will be able to take a 10 speed cassette, remove the smallest sprocket and end up with a 9 speed cassette that will fit my 7 speed hub. I would like to know if this is actually possible, if anyone has done this and knows it works? - and also, with this configuration, will I be able to use an indexed 9 speed shifter + chain and the spacing be okay? 

Otherwise consider carrying the lights with you! in the long run it's probably more sensible to have one set that you can keep track of battery wise and condition wise. 

I recently acquired a set of wheels that have a 7 speed freehub. the freehub is not long enough to accommodate an 8/9/10 speed cassette. After reading Sheldon Browns post on 9 of 10 on 7 .. 

Also are there any potential modern day applications for this mount point, does anyone sell any LEDs or adapters that make use of this interesting little feature. 

My local bike shop has a posted price of $80 to assemble a bike as received in a box (presumably bought over the internet) and $200 to assemble a bike from a frame and set of components. One of my friends bought a frame and groupset (quite a nice one) and they were happy to do the work. You should talk to the specific shop you are thinking of and see what they say. The same shop has free lifetime adjustments on any bike you buy from them, so you need to figure that into your calculation of the economics. 

The claim that Big/Big is more efficient depends on the fact that the links in the chain bend more when going around smaller gears so there is more loss to friction as the links bend. It ignores the fact that you move more chain when using Big/Big. The 48/16 will move 33% more chain through the gears than the 36\12. Each link will move about 3/4 of the angle. Friction on moving is often divided into breakaway and continuous friction. You have the same amount of continuous- half again as much for the 36/12 but 2/3 as often, but only 2/3 as many breakaways. Tiny compared to air resistance. But the bottom line is that in this model you want small gears, like 36/12. 

I had a case where my front brake would stick at one point of the rim. I complained at my local bike shop and they scrubbed the rim with a soap/degreaser suggesting it could be surface contamination. It fixed the problem. This is an easy and cheap thing to try. 

I would claim, without data so just thinking about my experience with the world, that most commuters are not targeting heart rate or power, they are just trying to get to work. Some want to get there as fast as they are (reasonably) capable of and some are wanting to get there at a reasonable pace that does not require a shower. Many just want to get there. There must be some who try to combine sophisticated training with commuting, but those are few. 

As for rear lights you may have to invest in 3 sets of the same light. alternatively in the past I have had to DIY mounts using elastic bands in emergency (not long term solution). 

Bought a second hand bike that needs the hubs serviced. The hubs are Campagnolo Shamal Ultra which have Ceramic bearings. I'm yet to tear them down and take a look at the insides but heres a pic from outside. 

One option for front lights would be to replace them with torches and rubber/velcro mounts such as below, these would be interchangeable and fit pretty much anything - I have even got my iPhone on to one. 

It's currently got Kenda K-180 700 x 38c / 30TPI tyres on it, which are fairly good all rounders and capable of running on clean forest paths but I don't think they would handle anything heavier. It's got disk brakes so there isn't a clearance issue there, but I have noticed the frame is generally narrower than true MTBs, here are some photos i took of it. 

Firstly, is that 2.1 Inches? - what are these things even measured in!? Secondly, I'd like to maybe go for a slightly wider tyre, say 2.25, how and what should I measure to ensure there will be clearance? Thirdly, does anyone have experience upgrading tyres on these kind of stock MTBs - whats the limit size wise, should I just go for like for like? Any tyre recommendations also welcome. 

Has anyone put larger, knobblier tyres on this kind of hybrid? whats the largest I can get away with? - I'm also slightly confused by all the tyre sizing, I'm sure someone told me this is a 27.5" tyre, but 700 seems to mean 29" on a lot of websites. Any advice is very much appreciated, Thanks. 

I have been riding my hard tail on the road for the last 3 years on some knobbly 26 x 2.1 tyres. After just starting a new job and with the need to commute further I am considering purchasing some slicks, however I do not know how best to decide on which tyre to choose. What width should I be going down to and what kind of tread? I like the look of these $URL$ but they also come in two widths, is it the thinner the better?