As with any relatively unscientific field, there is a lot of lore out there that may have originally had a good scientific foundation, but the restrictions or specific conditions have long been forgotten and the answer takes on a life of its own out of context. The myth about eating snow seems to me to be one of these things. The main point is that it takes a lot of energy, which when coming from your body means warmth and/or calories, to melt water to drinkable form. This is true, but the details are rarely considered. Russell has already give an good answer going over the numbers to show that the energy required is relatively minimal. However, another point I never see addressed is that the energy is often free. If you're hiking up hill, even in winter usually, your body has to dump energy as heat. If you're cold and facing hypothermia, eating snow is probably not a good idea. Otherwise though if you're capable of dressing yourself so as to be too warm for whatever activity you are doing, you have excess heat that has to be gotten rid of somehow. Therefore except in unusual cases, melting snow with your body warmth is free since you just end up cooling yourself off less in other ways. I have experienced this personally. Many years ago I was hiking up Mt Lassen in northern California in the summer. I had taken insufficient water with me and was getting thirsty. The weather was nice and I was hiking comfortably in shorts and a T shirt with a windbreaker in reserve in my pack. When I got high enough so there were patches of snow, I kept some in my mouth and got water from that. It definitely felt nice and made me less thirsty eventually. The biggest problem you realize if you ever tried eating snow is that it takes a lot to get a reasonable amount of water. You simply can't put that much snow in your mouth at one time, and there is a lot of air in it, so the amount of water you get from a mouthful of snow is very limited. Still, it's better than nothing and makes you feel better. It does slow you down noticably since you have to pause to pick up fresh snow for another mouthful regularly. I suspect in warm conditions that you're barely replacing the water you are losing regularly anyway, but that's still better than losing it without replacing it. So to me it seems that if you're thirsty and there is clean enough snow around, go ahead and "eat" it unless you are cold and hypothermia is a concern. Dehydration, after all, is a serious problem too. 

The wooden holder near the top of the handle is something I added. My Android tablet slides into the holder, as can be seen in the picture. This keeps it away from my body while measuring a track. The data is substantially less noisy that way than with the same tablet in a pocket or in my pack. The wheel has a mechanical counter on it marked in feet and inches. When I get to a trail intersection, I record a waypoint in the BackCountryNavigator software that is taking the GPS track. I use the value on the counter rounded to the nearest foot as the name of the waypoint. That then allows calculating distances later. 

This depends greatly on where you will be going and therefore how available water is. Dehydration is a serious issue, so if in doubt bring a little extra. For example, if you're going to be hiking in the Arizona desert in summer, figure you're not going to find any water and you have to bring all that you plan to use. Yes, that could be a lot and it will take some space and have some weight. That's part of the price for hiking in a dry area. Also keep in mind you'll be using more water than usual in the desert. I can go thru a gallon of diluted Gatorade in 2-3 hours under these conditions. The limiting factor of how far I can hike in this case is how much water I'm willing or able to take. On the other hand, the White Mountains of New Hampshire are quite wet. You will be frequently crossing or going nearby small streams, sometimes crossing larger ones. Except for some areas above treeline, water is quite available. However, consider that in many places it's not a good idea to drink the water you find directly. Taking less water in a wet area only makes sense if you can process the possibly dirty and infected water that is available. I have used filters and boiled water, but recently became aware of a newer technology that blasts the buggers in the water with germicidal UV. See, for example, $URL$ By the way, I wrote the firmware that runs that particular unit, although I am not a employee of Hydro-Photon (the manufacturers of the Steri-Pen line). 

No, you should definitely have stayed in your vehicle. Think about what lightning will do. It is attracted to tall conductive things, but that's not the whole story. A vehicle on a flat plane is more likely to be hit, but the conductive metal on the outside will shunt the current around the contents of the vehicle. It may be very loud and unpleasant, but the metal box around you will protect you from the lightning currents. If you are outside, either you're close to the vehicle or your far away. If close and you can get low, then the lightning is more likely to hit the vehicle than you, but you are still in danger from ground currents and possible arcing from the vehicle's metal frame thru you to ground. If you are far away, the vehicle is irrelevant and you're outside in the open in the thuderstorm. Not good either. The above advice is base on the assumption that the vehicle is a full metal cage around you. If it has no top or a plastic (not conductive top), then you're not inside a cage and the protection the vehicle provides is not as good. In that case, I'd try to get as low as possible on the floor below the seats. You want the lightning to hit the metal frame instead of you directly inside the vehicle. In the case I was in this situation in a convertable with a canvas top, for example, I'd put the top up and get as low as possible onto the floor of the car. The top will mostly make it more comfortable by keeping the rain off you, and might provide just a little bit of shunting should lighting hit the vehicle. Wet canvas is still more conductive than air, but nowhere near as conductive as a steel frame. 

There are quite a number of options, although the 4000 foot requirement pretty much limits it to the White Mountains of NH, the northern Green Mountains of VT, and a few peaks in ME. It's not clear if you want to or need to do a out and back, or if you can spot a car and do a traverse. Here are just a few options that come to mind without looking things up on a map: From the end of Sawyer River Road in Crawford Notch, hike up Carrigain one day, stay the night, and back down the next. There can be some good views, although I don't remember now if the old fire tower on top has been taken down or not. There are great views from there if it's still there. This is fairly easy for the alloted time. You can arrive in afternoon on the first day without it causing a problem. I don't know about waterfalls, but there will be some stream crossings before you get onto Signal Ridge. Take the Ethan Pond Trail from Crawford Notch to Thoreau Falls. From there you can go down by the falls, south, then west, then north again over Bondcliff, Bond, Guyot, Zealand, past Zealand Falls Hut, and back to Crawford Notch. This is quite ambitious, but doable if you start early in the morning and are in good shape and willing to do a lot of hiking for the alloted time. You'd probably spend the night partway up Bondcliff. The upside is you go by several falls, and the top of Bondcliff is probably the most spectacular place to stand in the White Mountains. I screwed up once and ended up spending the night on Bondcliff. I don't recommend that. Plan better than I did. If this still isn't enough of a challenge, you take the Zeacliff trail "shortcut" down from Zealand Mt instead of going by the hut. I did that once too, and decided it should be a up-only trail, so I also don't recommend that. Go to some of the waterfalls on the west side of Crawford Notch, but keep going instead of back to the parking lot like everyone else. There are ways to loop around and come out a different place in Crawford Notch. There should be at least a couple of choices here you can find by studying a map. I don't have one in front of me, so can't say much more about this off the top of my head. There are various options for one-night backpacks in the Carter-Moriah range east of Pinkham Notch. For example, start going up the Nineteen Mile Brook Trail, then pick a way that loops back to the road eventually. There should be three basic choices, with the southern one including Carter Dome. 

Look at the surrounding terrain and think what water would do when it rains. No place is perfectly flat for very long, so suface water will flow away from some place and gather in others. Someplace dry with little vegetation will usually have obvious channels that water made when it did rain. Whether you can see these channels directly or have to imagine them, follow them downstream to where more of them meet. After you've gotten to what would be a stream bed with sufficient rain, look for dips where water would pool for a while after it stopped flowing. Now dig there. Another hint is the vegetation, although that can be misleading too. If there are mostly suguaro and cholla around, then you come to a clump of willow trees, you know that water pools there underground. However, that could be deeper than you can realistically dig, and the trees are actively pumping what is there into the atmosphere. These kind of vegetation clues are better after a recent rain, and become less useful after the trees have had a few weeks to pump down the reservoir. Water can be surprisingly close to the surface, even in a desert, if you look in the right places. 

You don't see robins in the woods for the same reason you don't see prarie dogs there either; it's not their habitat. Notice that most of the time when you see a robin, it's hopping along the ground in some open space, or in a tree near some open space. 

Another answer talks about hardness. There is some relevance to that, but more importantly, ice is brittle, regardless of how hard it is. You don't need much of a tool to scrape or crack chunks from a large piece of ice like a glacier. Also, any large piece of ice has to have edges someplace. It's easier to split off pot-sized chunks from edges than from a large flat plane of ice. Another point is that very rarely do you have just pure clear ice in nature. I've been right up to a few glaciers, and they always were at least a little bit "snowy" on top. They aren't nice clear solid blocks of ice like ice cubes. You do see that when you go into a crevasse or under the glacier, but the surface is usually more like hardened snow than solid ice. It should not be hard to scrape some of that into a pot. Yet another point, anywhere there are large ice features, like glaciers, there will be streams coming out the bottom end of them. If you can walk up to the foot of a glacier, you don't need to gather snow or chunks of ice at all. You just fill the pot with the inevitable meltwater flowing out. About the only time this doesn't work is in winter when the whole lot is covered with snow. But then you've got lots of snow to easily scoop up. 

Changing layers on your legs is more of a hassle, especially with shoes on, and you can't take it to the same level in public without getting arrested. 

There are no electric backcountry stoves because there aren't long enough extension cords. Seriously, where do you propose to get the energy from? Batteries of current technology don't have the same energy density by weight or volume as chemical fuel does. Battery technology is advancing rapidly, so some day this may no longer be the case, but today it is. Put another way, you wouldn't want to lug the batteries around it would take to power your electric stove, so we're back to long extension cords. Energy density I didn't have time yesterday when I wrote this answer, but here is a more detailed analysis of batteries versus chemical fuel for a backcountry stove. I couldn't find exact energy density values for "Coleman fuel" as I had intended, but gasoline should be close enough. 1 liter of gasoline contains about 32 MJ of energy, has a mass of about 730 g, and weighs about 1.6 pounds. It requires a container, so lets say overall it weighs 2 pounds. If you were serious about using batteries to run a backcountry stove, you'd want to use rechargeable batteries. I think few here with a decent environmental ethic would want to use up and then throw out a bunch of single-use batteries each trip. Today (Feb 2016), probably the most available and accessible rechargeable battery with decent energy density is some type of lithium in 18650 form factor. These have a service voltage of around 3.5 - 4.3 V over a discharge cycle. You can today get various cells rated for 5 Ah from no-name companies. Reputable companies promise about half that, so the 5 Ah figure is rather suspect. Still, lets go with that to be as optimistic as possible. Let's also say the average discharge voltage will be 4.0, which is again optimistic. That results in 20 Wh, or 72 kJ per fully charged battery. It would therefore take 444 batteries to deliver the same energy as the liter of gasoline. These batteries have a mass of about 50 g, so that's 22 kg of batteries for the 730 g of gasoline. That's 49 pounds weight compared to 2 pounds for the gasoline in a container, or about 24 times heavier. Volume is another issue. These batteries are cylindrical, 65 mm long by 18 mm diameter, for a total of 16.5 ml each. They can't be packed without some space between them, but even if they could, the 444 batteries would take up 7.3 liters of space, probably more like 10 liters in reality. Let's say the minimum fuel you'd ever want to take with you would be 100 ml gasoline. That's barely enough to boil one pot of water with most stoves, and in reality I think nobody would take that little. However, let's compare that to the batteries anyway. That would be 44 cells with a mass of 2.2 kg, weighing 4.8 pounds. Of course this is a personal judgement, but for me that would be "too heavy and too large" to be worth it. I'd either carry the gasoline or do without a stove.