We can read from historical accounts that silver and gold—which had value in their own right—were used as a medium of exchange even before standard units of currency were developed. Instead of counting out coins, the quantity of money was calculated by weighing the metal in question. At some point somebody in a civilized region with a formal government hit on the idea of standard weights of metal, at which point money as we now know it was born. 

You stop it by prevention. Program the AIs to never alter their own programming. Then program them to always obey an order to stand down. 

Because no matter how long the human race endures, we will still have teenagers. In the US, most people who smoke begin to do so at the age of 13 or thereabouts. As anyone who has spent time as an adult in a public school can tell you, the age of 13 is the nadir of human wisdom. 

There are no actual clothes, they are part of the human shape. If you have the ability to shapeshift at will, why would you keep changeable distinct clothes around? There is no need - if you feel cold, just grow a pelt/thick pullover, if it's hot, retract it. You can of course carry stuff in the pockets, but as that stuff is not actually part of you, it will not transform. "Clothing" like metal armor should be excluded here, you need to put that on yourself and can not mimic it (as you actually want to have something between yourself and e.g. a sword). To keep the shapeshifting in reasonable bounds, make learning a truly new form hard. Maybe it's exceptionally hard to invent new forms, but much easier to copy things. That way, clothing can be copied when you first see/use/feel/sense* it, as can animals. But growing extra limbs or becoming a little green martian? Nope. This would also prevent the shapeshifters from running around like yetis in winter and naked in summer, as they would not have access to a yeti-shape, so they need to copy or wear real clothing. *: have a magical ability related to this. 

Based on these factors, I would think you would start with a "colony in a box", then explore later. Take everything along that you don't know you can find and easily access there. Crop seeds, animals, medicines, fuel, and other essentials. Start with as little from the environment as possible. Once this is established, then you can start exploring and testing the use of new materials and creatures. Initially, the colony is closed off to the environment, but if it proves safe to both sides, those barriers could relax. That said, you want the initial location to be close to promising sites. A body of flowing water would be ideal, both for purification and rudimentary hydro-power. Flat land would be easiest to build upon and least hazardous to explore, but you might also want a nearby mountain range for easier geologic surveys and eventual mining. You also would want to be close to the equator to make any launches from the planet a bit easier. If your robot studies indicated a soil content promising to agriculture in an area, try there. This may go along with the river valley idea, but it may not; the planet is an unknown. The initial years of the colony is going to be an intense study of the surrounding environment, so it should be someplace biologically diverse and geologically interesting. Using these factors, scientists could determine the best sites for a successful colony. 

Institute pole duty among the inhabitants. In shifts, the people on pole duty walk around on the battlements with long poles (eight feet is long enough). They use the poles to push back any zombie who is on a pile high enough to reach the battlements. That zombie falls and gets even more damaged. Soon there aren't enough intact zombies to form a pile that can reach the battlements. 

One way to subvert the trope in your world is to make the trope not true in your world. It's a bit of a silly trope to begin with. Humans and elves and dwarves are considered to be the "good" races, but if you read the source texts, especially The Silmarillion, you'll see individuals from all three races behaving in clearly unethical ways and who are no better than any orc. On the other end, have some orcs who live by sheep-herding or smithing instead of by pillaging, and while they may not like humans all that much, and certainly won't let their daughter marry one, are able to farm a plot of land next to a human's plot of land without a fight breaking out every time the two neighbors lay eyes on each other. 

Oh wow. There is so much wrong with this. I see a relatively stable solution that could be enacted by the rich: everyone is their defacto-slaves (no income, forced to work to keep the system running) while they pay a nominal tax. Not even hard to implement. The rule about partial dollars not counting is troublesome: that threshold could be increased to, say, 1 million and most of the country is disenfranchised without any chance to overturn it (no more votes). One wouldn't need to change the threshold actually, a mandated deflation works, too. A wealthy person can pay taxes in full to get political power and profit from it by giving themselves government contracts. Reducing their employees' paychecks at the same time (more company profit, more taxes to pay), thus even less chance to resist this sort of thing. No representation without taxation is an awful system. 

The glowing can be accomplished by three chemicals, two of which are already present: 1) Glucose (or ATP) as the energy source; 2) Adrenaline (or whatever hormone is in high supply when the emotion in question is in play); 3) A novel protein unknown to real-world medicine. This protein should be expressed only in the places where the glowing effect is desired. As far as giving the character conscious control over the glowing, I would probably develop a mental discipline which puts the adrenaline levels under conscious control. 

Even if there is a way of ensuring that the people who are put on the leader track are truly faithful (which is hand-wavy enough as it is), there is still the problem of making sure that the people who pass this test don't lose the faith as they go along. Remember that if the leadership has been practicing any deception of the plebes, at any point in its history, people moving up in the ranks will have to be let in on the secret. The ones who were in it for power all along will happily move on with their lives and schemes. The ones motivated by genuine faith will retire. The others will become cynical and decide to stay in power and keep the perks.