There's plenty of carbon and hydrogen in space. The question is what will you use to refine it to produce usable chemicals and materials for your space exploration. Not all lubricants are based on hydrocarbons. As an example, I am a big fan of high temperature lithium grease. Good luck with your space factory. 

This is a real world example using the fastest production automobile. It's not as fast as your requirements, but I think it gives some great information on the physics and power requirements to do what you want and the video link is entertaining. The Bugatti Veyron has a top speed of 408.47 km/h (253.81 mph) and can go from 0 to 408 km/h to 0 in 90 seconds. Yes, it's going to require slightly more track than your Tchou-Tchou, but if you can do this in a production car, you really could do this in your hyperloop. There are engineering challenges to consider. You don't describe your top speed of your Tchou-Tchou. I assume it will do more than 100 mph. There are some parallels you should keep in mind to improve the story. In the case of the Bugatti, it requires 250hp to achieve 100 mph. To achieve 253 mph, it needs another 750hp for a grand total of 1000hp. This means the engine powering the Tchou-Tchou needs to quadruple it's output just to make your challenge work. Much of that is the resistance caused by the air in front of the car which creates friction and slows it down. You will have the same issues in a hyperloop tube because even if it's a vacuum and lower air pressure, it's going to be really hard to make complete vacuum. The biggest challenge with pushing what becomes in essence a ram down a tube is how to displace the air in front of the vehicle. In subways or rail tunnels, they build ventilation shafts to give the air somewhere to go besides forward. If you ride a subway regularly in an underground station, you already experience this to a degree when the air in the tube blows by you when a train is coming into the station. Others covered stopping already, which is possible, tolerable, but maybe not so much fun. Video of speed test I really recommend the video. It's an engineer and television host explaining the engineering challenges of developing a car which is able to achieve significantly higher speeds than most vehicles. 

Chaos will rear it's head and do the follow-up work for you. With no power, many industries stop working. With so much emphasis on electronic currency, most countries would fail to be able to function in a normal fashion. I bet the ppeppers are the first to go. ;) Good luck with anarchy. 

Propane was first invented in 1857. I mention this because we're discussing 19th century solutions. My solution would be a propane or toulene-powered closed-loop system steam engine. William John Macquorn Rankine advanced the study of heat engines by publishing the “Manual of the Steam Engine and Other Prime Movers”. Rankine developed a complete theory of the steam engine and indeed of all heat engines back in 1859. Together with Rudolf Clausius and William Thomson (Lord Kelvin), he was a contributor to the thermodynamics, particularly focusing on the first of the three thermodynamic laws. Rankine cycle Engine The Rankine cycle is an idealized thermodynamic cycle of a heat engine that converts heat into mechanical work while undergoing phase change. The heat is supplied externally to a closed loop, which usually uses water, but can also use touline or as I suggest, liquid petroleum gas as the working fluid. 

Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo is the peace treaty signed by the United States and Mexico that ended the Mexican–American War (1846–1848). The treaty granted the United States the Mexican territory of Alta California, which eventually becomes the states of California, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Arizona and New Mexico. At the time, some people in the United States wanted the entire nation of Mexico. President Polk decided to keep Mexico as a viable Republic. The treaty could have easily included Baja California, Sonora, Chihuahua, Coahuila and what eventually became known as the Gadsden Purchase. In your alternate history, you could include the Northern States of Mexico and perhaps have the disputes that occurred in the Oregon Territory be settled, so that Washington, Oregon and Idaho remained one state. Good luck with your flag design of 51 stars. 

Pitcher Tree I think a carnivorous tree would take the shape of a giant pitcher plant. It would resemble a tree like an oak, with leaves that would give it some nutrients. I don't think moving branches are realistic. I am not sure the physiology behind a venus flytrap would scale up. The center of the Pitcher Tree would contain a sweet nectar, tastier than any peach, with an irresistible smell. It would use pheromones other species use for mating to attract prey into thinking this is a place for romance. Other plants like the titan arum do something similar to attract carrion beetles to help pollinate the flower. It's prey would try and drink the nectar, lose footing and end up in a slippery, sticky pool with no escape. Eventually, the plant would sense the prey, release digestive enzymes to break down the flesh into usable nutrients. I'm not sure how long a man-eating tree would last in the wild. One would assume nearby villagers would burn, uproot or do whatever they could to rid the area of such beasts. At the same time, I could see planting the tree around a village you did not like to be a very good way to send a signal to your enemy about how you wished for them to disappear. 

Coccidioidomycosis is better known as Valley Fever. It's a fungus that only affects mammals. Valley fever is not contagious, so it cannot be spread from human to human. In the real world, only about half those who inhale the fungus will even get sick. Sickness can range from flu-like symptoms, to severe pneumonia, to death. This fungal infection does not seem to affect children. It is more prevalent in older people and people with compromised immune systems. Notable coccidioidomycosis signs and symptoms include a profound feeling of tiredness, fever, cough, headaches, rash, muscle pain, and joint pain. Fatigue can persist for many months after initial infection. The classic triad of coccidioidomycosis known as "desert rheumatism" includes the combination of fever, joint pains, and erythema nodosum -- painful bumps under the skin. This is an example of a disease that exists in the default world that could thrive in your world. Maybe the disease effects people in cities as well, but due to efforts by cityfolk, the disease happens less in cities because they avoid growing conditions where Coccidioides fungus would thrive. Maybe Orcs, foxes and bears are immune due to differences in biology, but it causes a certain death in humans. Stay immune and good luck. $URL$ 

As far as where a hidden energy source could be kept hidden for thousands of years and now uncovered, I have a perfect answer and that is right where we found all the other radioactive elements. In pitchblende. Pitchblende (Uraninite) is a radioactive, uranium-rich mineral and ore. It has a chemical composition that is largely uranium, but also contains oxides of lead, thorium, plutonium, polonium and rare earth elements. Marie Curie processed tons of pitchblende to come up with her discoveries of radium and polonium. If you were to discover a radioactive substance beyond group 7 elements, traces of it would be found here. In the past when miners would find pitchblende ore, it was usually a disappointment. It meant the silver vein they were following had run out and now it was just lead and pitchblende, which had little commercial value, all the way up to the point it became worth a great deal to anyone interested in radioactive elements. What better material to discover has riches planted from the past than something everyone thought through the centuries was utterly useless? $URL$ 

The positive is this a pretty simple mechanical system. The drawback is that this unit will produce 130 watts of power from 1.2 kilos of plutonium-238-dioxide. To meet your power goals, you would need to run several in series, or perhaps in your world, the technical limitations were overcome and one unit will produce the required power. For more information, check out: $URL$ 

If the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo went a different way, the United States could have a lot more than 51 states. 

Yellowstone is just one of several super volcanoes found across the earth capable of ejecting so much ash and sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere that the planet would experience global cooling. Not only is an eruption likely, it's likely enough that scientists at NASA have been figuring out ways to lessen the likelihood of an eruption. Yellowstone sits on top of an enormous magma chamber which can fuel a volcanic eruption many times greater than anything we can imagine. The ash alone would bury most of North America in up to 1 foot of ash. It would cripple the ability to grow food over much of the arable land across Canada and the US. That ash would shut down aviation across the planet. Yellowstone stays dormant because it's leaking 60-70% of the heat from the magma pocket into the atmosphere. If you want to start an eruption, you only have to figure out a way to decrease the heat leakage. You don't need hundreds of nuclear bombs, you need to stop the venting of steam and water. Once the magma heat reaches a certain threshold, then a cataclysmic eruption is inevitable and unstoppable. 

It's in the stuffing The stuffing in fireworks are round balls or cubes called stars. They consist of black powder, a color or effect, a binder and slowly rolled to build a ball or pressed to look like a cube. It all depends on the effect you desire. Because of the binder and compression, they burn slower than the black powder would burn if you are looking for maximum expansion of gas, which is what causes the shell to break as a pyrotechnic device. It can take days or weeks or months to make enough stars for a full show. In that same amount of time, you could create effective devicess which are designed to create damage. As a licensed pyrotechnician, I feel mentioning the facts about pyrotechnics will improve your story. To sum it up, Roman candles will do no damage. A mortar could kill you, but chances are it would just injure someone and on impact, bounce and go a different direction and if you're looking for guns powered by fireworks, just use straight black powder, like we did for a thousand years. Good luck. 

EB White covered this topic extensively and the subject of Zuckerman's famous pig in his book Charlotte's Web. A spider hoping to save the life of a pig named Wilbur, convinces a rat named Templeton to bring words and phrases she could add to her web in hopes of sending messages to the Zuckerman family to not eat Wilbur the pig. The spider demonstrated reason by rejecting words like "crunchy". It's a series of stories for children, but it does show some forethought to what behaviors a talking orb weaver, most likely a European Garden Spider, would exhibit in their attempts to communicate with other species. $URL$ Why I am I posting a children's story? Do I want to get downvoted? No, but spiders use two forms of communication, vibration and webs. They use silk to line burrows, build trap doors, build pathways, collect insects, attract mates, fly (seriously) and they use vibrations to send signals. Charlotte's Web is a very popular series of stories and I think it would be worthy of noting when attempting to figure out how spiders communicate because it's going to be in the back of people's minds when reading stories about giant spiders and their ability to communicate. 

Honey doesn't spoil. It has a high sugar concentration which acts like a preservative. Pots have been found in Egyptian tombs containing honey which are over 3,000 years old and it's still edible. This means the Dwarves of yore could order loads of honey or mead and have it shipped to their cities and never have to worry about the honey spoiling or if the mead was over 16% alcohol by content, it would be preserved as well. Yeast can similarly be stored as a live culture or a powder. All of this is very well established and understood. Mead can be as simple or complicated as you wish to make it. No sunlight is needed. All you really need is water, honey, yeast and a sanitary container. A simple airlock will help it vent. Keeping it around 60°F produces the best results. It could be made with the funeral powders of the deceased, it could be made with crushed gems for vitality. It could be made with wine as well.