Imagination is a means to create art, but entertainment is its main purpose (together perhaps with expression). People found it entertaining to listen to music, look at paintings and watch plays. The entertainment value comes mostly from the imaginative aspects of escaping to another world, the joy of seeing somebody do something skillful, and the more intangible, abstract kind of pleasure we derive from things like music. The people in your world will probably not be able to enjoy fiction, since it requires the consumer to have some imagination as well. But they will differentiate between pleasant and unpleasant experiences. A good example is food. most likely they enjoy eating calorie-rich foods, due to their evolutionary benefit. Surplus energy would be spent on seeking out specific foods that they prefer, and people with enough food could trade these for other goods and services. Without imagination it would take a long time to discover how to bake something like a cake, but small progress could be made by random experimentation, and with enough free time, lengthy random experimentation would be rewarded, even though people would have no concept of working towards a thing that doesn't exist yet. Music might emerge in a similar way. People could not actively put sounds together to invent music, but they would find certain sounds more agreeable than others. They would surround themselves with things that naturally make pleasant sounds and might stumble across simple combinations of such objects. they would perhaps come up with something like a windchime. Finally, interesting visual patterns could emerge randomly by setting certain events in motion. Cutting the head of a chicken and letting it run around in white sand as it bleeds (sorry for the gory example) might produce a pleasant pattern. Once this is noticed, the process can be repeated to achieve the same effect. Most of their art would emerge in this kind of indirect fashion. They cannot imagine a goal and work towards it, but they would discover that when things are arranged in a certain way, the universe sometimes comes up with new things, which they can then recognize to have value. Once they have seen an example, they might be triggered to reproduce it, but they could only reproduce it by repeating the same steps. They would not think to paint the pattern in the sand themselves, but would keep slaughtering chickens in order to achieve the same pattern. 

(image source) Fortunately, cats love fish, and fish are found on beaches, where jellyfish are also found. An infection through that vector to enough cats over time, and with the affected gene being transmitted to those cats' young and so on, could give you occasional glowing cats. 

You ask how many children to allow by law, but you also say you want a "completely constant" population. These conflict; a rate set by law will get you an approximately steady population, but people die, some people don't have kids, some people live a really long time... so your population will vary. For a strict steady rate, then, you need something other than family-size laws. Hugh Howey's Silo books show a way to mandate a constant population -- though be warned that it comes at the cost of some personal liberties. In his world, what remains of humanity is living in an underground structure (the "silo"), with carefully-balanced food production, living space, waste management, air, etc. And the rule is: when somebody dies, a lottery is held to choose the next couple to produce a child. They get some amount of time in which to try, and if they don't succeed, somebody else gets a try. This is enforced by a mandatory contraceptive device that is implanted at puberty and suppressed somehow for couples that are allowed to be fertile. If you want a completely constant population, you need to regulate births directly. I don't know how large your island is or how many people will be living there, but if it's large you can subdivide the group for purposes of population control. Note that since you control who's allowed to have children at all, you can also apply whatever controls you need to prevent inbreeding, inherited diseases, etc. You get to decide who's allowed to enter the lottery, in other words. 

Tools are for big, singular organisms. The anthill has much better solutions. Want to attach one piece of wood to another? Have each ant carve a tiny indentation/extrusion into the piece so they lock together perfectly. Or have each ant collect some sugar-water or tree sap and deposit it locally. Need metal? let each ant collect a tiny bit of ore, and collect it all, and process it in tiny quantities. Imagine if our carpenters and smiths and stonemasons could disconnect each cell of their bodies and let the resultant mulch flow over the raw materials, with each cell working on a tiny piece. The only exceptions I can think of are when a large amount of focused force is required (eg. to break rocks apart to create flint), or when the raw material is too tough to carve with parts of your body. In the first case, the anthill should construct a single tool larger than itself (for instance to use gravity). In the second case, it can create little body extensions for the individual ants. These are tools on the ant scale, so they should be so easy to use that no intelligence is required. 

Since this is a reversal of the classic AI deciding to destroy humanity for its own good, the solution is a reversal as well: If the kindest thing to do for humanity is to euthanize or cull it, the cruelest thing to do is not to interfere. 

Yes it does. And there are plenty of examples in human development. A real treasure trove for this sort of thing is Jared Diamond's Guns, germs and steel. He calls it idea diffusion (as opposed to blueprint copying, where you get not just evidence of the technology, but also some idea of how it's achieved). Couple of examples: 

Hit it with a rock. A big rock. Something like Ceres might do, if you could somehow get it into an orbit that hits the moon with sufficient relative velocity. Alas, moving Ceres significantly from its current orbit is likely itself a non-trivial task. A stray Kuiper belt object might be more practical, if only because there are more sufficiently large bodies out there, and also because the long fall from the Kuiper belt to the inner system would naturally give the impactor a highly eccentric orbit that could intersect the Moon at a sharp angle and high velocity difference. You'd still have the problem of getting the object to the inner system in the first place, but I could buy a scenario where a collision (or a near-miss) with another KBO sends the would-be impactor on an unstable orbit leading to an eventual close encounter with Neptune, which, with some good (or bad, depending on how you look at it) luck, might send it towards the inner system and an eventual collision with the Moon. Of course, you could go further afield and have the object come in from the Oort cloud, or even from interstellar space. Most solar system formation models predict a large number of small planetesimals getting scattered out of the system when it forms, so it stands to reason that there must be a sizeable population of stray planets out there in interstellar space, and that they'll occasionally make a near pass to a star such as the Sun. Of course, such encounters are (fortunately) not that common, and most such bodies will just pass through the solar system without hitting anything anyway, but having one fall in and hit the Moon is still perfectly within the realm of possibility. As a bonus, a stray planetesimal could potentially fall in from any direction, even well away from the plane of the ecliptic, which could let you get some quite interesting orbital changes when it hits. In any case, a body smaller than the Moon, passing the Earth at the Moon's distance, isn't going to directly disrupt the Earth to any significant extent (unless you count making a lot of astronomers soil their underwear when they first spot it). Any tidal effects will, by definition, be smaller or comparable to the lunar and solar tides the Earth already experiences, and any gravitational effects on the Earth's orbit should be negligible. The bad news, however, is that anything massive hitting the Moon at high speed is going to scatter off lots of smaller rocks when it hits, some of which will likely hit the Earth. So Earth as a whole might be fine, but you'd likely be looking at some rather big meteor impacts as secondary effects, potentially disrupting the biosphere and any civilization down here. Worse yet, since the scattering from the lunar impact is likely to be rather chaotic and unpredictable, we won't be able to easily predict how many secondary impacts might hit the Earth, or when and where they would hit. 

This species would be at a serious risk of dying out. As others have pointed out, there's a good chance the species would slowly diversify by simple random changes, but if there's another option to consider: Genetic drift. 

The most valuable data probably comes from Operation plowshare. In one test, a 104 kt explosion, displaced 11 million tons of soil, about 100 ton of soil for a ton of TNT. Let's say for the sake of getting a lower bound, that Mount Everest is made of soil. Mt. Everest has a volume of about 1.5 million million cubic meters, and a cubic meter of soil weighs about 1.5 tonnes, so a soil Everest should weigh a little over 2 million million tonnes. So we should need at least 20 000 million tonnes of TNT for the job. If instead we used thermonuclear bombs of the highest yield, we'd only need 344 of them. In 1960 the combined yield of the US nuclear stockpile was just about 20 000 Mt, so that would be in the ballpark of what is required. Of course, Mount Everest isn't made of soil, but on the other hand, you may be able to use the weight of the mountain to crush most of the rock, by starting at the base. 

Antagonic pleiotropy Some genes benefit us in early life (ie. before we usually have children), and are detrimental afterwards. These genes proliferate because they increase the chance of the individual having children, even though they can wreak havoc afterwards. So you could find one of these genes or invent one, something we all have, and then add a condition (virus, bacteria, radiation) that massively amplifies its effects. The young would get fitter, and the old would die off. Tyrabel's hormone answer is a specific case of this, since a large amount of testosterone is apparently detrimental later in life. 

Churches are centers for their religious communities. They need to be accessible; if the people can't go, the churches can't function. Sure, religions also have isolated communities (think monasteries), but those are inward-facing. Your churches, to be successful, need to be outward- (populace-) facing. Successful churches, therefore, will be built where the people are, in the midst of where they live. Some religions' leaders will happily help this along; accessible churches mean the church has access to the people, too. And if no space for religious congregation was built into the original plans, that doesn't mean people need to go to space. Instead, they'll make space. 

Why do people who own cars and have driver's licenses take taxis? Why do restaurants offer home delivery? Why do people shop online for stuff they could get for the same price at nearby brick&mortar stores? Time, and convenience. Having slaves to do things you are capable of doing yourself is incredibly freeing to the person who can afford it. So to encourage magic-users in your world to have slaves, you'll need to make it economically and logistically viable. You don't say whether taking a slave is by mutual agreement (which would be more like hiring household staff) or involuntary; if the former you'll need to make it attractive to the would-be slaves too, and if the latter you'll need to deal with enforcement (keeping them slaves). 

You know the parents whose hostility to their kids sometimes takes the form of "I slaved away / gave up a plum job / worked three jobs and ate rice and beans / etc to raise you and this is how you treat me?!"? For some of them this class will be like that, so expect some kids to hear about it. How could people cheat? That depends; your law doesn't actually specify that they have to pass an exam, just show up, so some could tune out. If you have an exam, assume that any methods used by students to cheat on school exams could also be applied here. Resistance to the class isn't limited to those who will be terrible parents. Some parents will do fine even though they cheated their way through the class. Some will then use that as ammo to argue against the need for the law. I know you're trying to dismiss the financial aspect, but that money has to come from somewhere. Expect some resentment from those whose taxes are raised or budgets cut in order to provide this. Some will be swayed by the public-good argument (as with school taxes); others will not. Those with political power might act against the law; if they can't get the law revoked directly they'll cut the program's funding. Look to modern US social-welfare programs for examples of such political maneuvering. 

Knowing the history of humanity, I expect they'd figure out a way to capture them. If nets don't work, use chains, if the chains break make them heavier. Many people would die trying, but eventually the technological advance would catch up with the dragons. Then it's just a matter of doing it a few more times, breeding them, and raising the young amongst humans. Voila, instant military domination. Why, you could write some sort of gritty seven-book epic fantasy series about it. 

Consider a species with two traits for which there is no evolutionary pressure. Let's say they're colored blue or red, and the color has absolutely no effect on their lives in any way. In that case, the proportion of red or blue creatures in the population would be a simple random process. A simple random process like this will eventually, purely by chance, lead to a situation where the whole populatation is one color, at which point the other color will be dead. The ability to have the other trait is simply lost forever. In your world, as you have painted it, there is pretty much no evolutionary pressure on any traits. If that situation is maintained, and the plants don't manage to diversify their own environment, they would converge towards a planet-wide monoculture. At that point the smallest microbe, solar flare, climate change etc would wipe the whole population out in no time. 

"Bonobo-Head" by User:Kabir - extract of this picture (Photo taken by Kabir Bakie at the Cincinnati Zoo September 5, 2005). Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.5 via Commons - $URL$ As an aside, this is probably also the reason for large irises as a trope. It makes emotion harder to read, so it looks freaky and untrustworthy to us.