This question could be far more loaded in response than it is currently. Currently we have a society that is starting to be afraid to offend or talk about, let alone think about taboo topics. By then, things may be different. But the question is being asked now with our current societal partiality. The vote system here is a prime example of crowd think in our current society. We each have a voice with our own personal beliefs based on how we were raised and the influences of our lives. I am not trying to downplay anyone's opinions, it is just a factor in the answer I am giving. We all sit in relative comfort and are able to think it through without worrying about the next major "storm", where our next meal comes from, so on and so on. Some may be able to think outside the box here, and that is awesome. But here I go, a not very currently socially acceptable example/scenario. Take into account that it is post-apocalyptic. The nature of what caused it I think would have a very substantial outcome of society's values at this point. If it was man made and the people that survived were the lower class. This would be the class that struggled the hardest in pre times, they could have learned and become very intolerant of repeated trends. Now with that in mind, how do we treat animals we breed for food currently? For example, the chicken. If a rooster is aggressive they are killed and not allowed to breed for fear of passing along aggressive traits. If a chicken is sick and takes too many resources to "cure" or maintain a happy life, it is also killed. I could easily see a post society that has knowledge of the screwups of our modern age, and maybe some resentment towards it getting that far adopting this method to humans in crime and medical care. Survive or die is the motto in expanding from ruins. Criminals could be culled and their offspring along with them to preserve the type of society that they want to rebuild. The sick could be as well to promote the strong genes. After all, the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Our modern knowledge of the past would logically lead a post society to learn from mistakes if not bound by political correctness. Next scenario, the "elite" of our modern times survives. I have no doubt that they will adopt a cull the sick program. But I am unsure of how to approach the criminal side. It could very likely be similar to the above scenario, but under different reasons. I have no experience living in the mind of someone who has power over a mass of people. So I can't objectively fill out this scenario. Lastly, regardless of what social class survives, if it was nature caused destruction. I see man kind repeating the same mistakes of our time. As we will have nothing to reflect on thinking it was us that caused it. It would likely be something of a rebuild as was. They might start off just like our age did and was pointed out in other answers. But I am afraid nature would remove an important lesson for man kind to learn from to change anything. 

Sci-fi setting where cargo is being shipped to colony worlds. If a spaceship has to land and take off again, that costs a lot of money, so that mode of transport is reserved for people and urgent, high-value cargo; the plan is to get bulk cargo the last lousy few hundred kilometers in drop capsules, which aerobrake, parachute, splash into the ocean and get towed to shore by boat. The maximum speed at which a capsule will hit atmosphere is 5 kilometers per second. (This is very hypersonic, but still slower than standard orbital velocity.) Their size will be on the order of a few meters, and they will be made of ordinary materials like steel and composites. What shape should the capsules be? Aerodynamic considerations suggest they should be round, perhaps ideally the quasi-teardrop shape (lens with short trailing cone) of the early space capsules. On the other hand, that's a terrible shape for efficient packing aboard a freighter. Efficient packing would much prefer rectangular boxes like today's cargo containers. But sharp corners would probably melt when the capsule hits atmosphere. Would it be viable to at least compromise on something like a cylinder shape? 

Depends on what time he comes from and the technical advances of his era. This was not specified in the question. Current medical knowledge in our era not likely. Current social skills that our modern society have, he would be laughed all the way to the stocks. Who knows what tech will be like 1, 2, 10k years from now. A time traveler from then may be able to? Who knows. Again, since we are talking about a time traveler, a key piece is missing from the question, "From when he comes." I say yes because I think barring any extinction level event, if human kind is allowed to evolve themselves and technology over the span of many many thousands of years. Then I have zero doubts that eventually a genome altering vaccine with contagious properties for example could be produced. Vaccinate 1 person and it spreads like the disease but as a cure. 

Depends on the Laptop This really depends on the laptop. If it just needs a stable DC supply, that can be done, but if it requires an activation signal as a brand-lock-in annoyance, then you are in for a lot more difficulty! DC supplies How you would produce a moderately high current regulated DC supply would depend a bit on era. In the solid state one, semiconductor diode regulators and transistorized regulation yields a fairly straightforward and practical design, albeit with a much heavier power transformer than the tiny high frequency ones used in today's switching supplies. Probably you can find something suitable for borrowing in an existing product (though perhaps not a consumer one). In an earlier era you may need more complicated rectification schemes, and high power low voltage filter capacitance will have to come from a very large array of low value capacitors. You may well end up with an AC operated motor driving a DC generator. Lead Acid Cells Another option to consider would be storage batteries. For example, one and a half "12v" car batteries starts to put you into the right range, and you are mostly targeting an era when car batteries would have been a maintainable array of individual cells held in a common crate, so getting a series connection of nine of them (one full battery, and 3 of the 6 cells in another) should not be hard. You can either charge the battery before use, or possibly use it as a bit of a stabilizer/regulator while connected to a power source. Emulate the Battery Pack If you do have a laptop which requires a brand-specific activation signal from the power supply, an option might be to disassemble the battery pack and try to emulate that, probably with some different number of contemporary chemistry battery cells, rather than provide the DC input. You may need to put some thought into emulating the output of a thermistor or other sensors. If the battery has an on-board management IC, you'll have to hope you can somehow generate conditions that satisfy it. Presumably you will shut the laptop down and charge your replacement battery independently of it. The USB Tragedy Once powered your computer will be usable as a manually interfaced data processing machine. A relay team of typists could accept input and produce output, but this will limit utilization of this unique-in-the-world resource. Back in the day when hardware serial and parallel ports were present, building an interface widgit with vacuum tube technology to collect inputs from and channel output to dozens of proto-teletypes would have been possible, but with the "legacy-free" switch to USB, not really. About the best that could be done if you decide to donate your services to a larger organization would be some kind of electro-mechanical speed typer to submit input jobs, and perhaps a film camera for capturing output ones for distribution back to the submitters. Preserve it It may be a good idea to remove the lower case of the laptop and build it into a console providing more and better filtered cooling air than the tiny ordinary fan can. If the keyboard fails constructing a replacement is actually fairly possible (which gives another input idea, but one whose risk may not be justified before the need). If the hard drive goes, you are in for a lot more trouble. With a PATA interface and the lucky accident of having brought printed documentation you might get somewhere towards constructing a replacement with 1970's digital logic or 1960's research-lab capabilities, with SATA you are out of luck, unless you want to have a go at emulating the bios flash. While it will be painstaking, while the machine works you'll probably want to do a hex dump of the bios, boot sector, etc and photograph every page for preservation. Better an older laptop For many of the reasons threaded trough this, you'll be best off with a laptop from the 1990's or even the 1980's. It won't be as absolutely powerful as a modern one, but still many orders of magnitude beyond any contemporary alternative in your destination time. More importantly, it will be more maintainable and interfaceable. The battery pack will be built around simpler NiCd or NiMH cells, the power input won't require an activation signal, the disk interface will be one old technologies could emulate and there will be I/O ports within the realm of interfacing, etc. 

I'm trying to figure out whether spacecraft could see explosions occurring on the surface of a planet, or under what conditions they could. To be specific: Given a spacecraft equipped with a duplicate of the Keck telescope, using visible light only, watching a planet similar to Earth, at what distance could it see the explosion of one ton of TNT, occurring at sea level at night under a clear sky? 

I'm working on a science fiction story which includes the following premise: Tony Stark invents an unobtainium reactionless engine, and the protagonists want to build a spaceship around it, big enough to carry a nontrivial amount of cargo. They have a company similar to SpaceX, enough money, political authority to bypass red tape and a mandate to waste anything but time. The current idea is to basically take the design of the C5 Galaxy, cut the wings a lot shorter and replace the landing gear with helicopter style skis (the unobtainium engine is VTOL-capable), make a few other tweaks and that should be pretty much it. (Planned flight times are only a day or two, so no worries about extended life support.) How long would it take to build the first model? 

Yes, because of FCC test modes A lot of people are assuming that a cell phone can only talk to a cell base station. If you are constrained to the end-user interface that is true, but if you can use your 100-year-future version of today's JTAG pod to get inside the firmware, the hardware itself will have been capable of transmitting an umodulated carrier at various frequencies during regulatory testing, and you can use that to send a slow Morse Code call for help. Then it's only a question if someone happens to be listening on a frequency you can reach; with luck some of the phone's frequency range will have become a ham band in the intervening years (and maybe someone is known by that community to be a on DX-pedition to an asteroid in your general direction, causing high-gain receive antennas to be pointed your way) It's theoretically possible that test modes on this level could be accessible from the keypad, especially as an oversight (lots of products have shipped with test modes someone forgot to take out, or maybe the phone's state gets corrupted by a cosmic ray, exposing something not meant to be exposed) A downside is that you won't know your signal has been received, until the rescue arrives. It may go further than you think We're used to thinking of handheld radios as having a short range, because signals may not readily wrap around the earth's horizon, clear obstacles, etc, and when they marginally do higher transmitter power can help. But conditions of good ionospheric reflection you can communicate around the earth on a few watts. And with line-of-sight in space power is even less of an issue.