Because he provides a logical framework within which to understand what it means to say that a thing has some property necessarily. Call this view essentialism. Quine had thought that essentialism was false because necessity could only be a property of sentences. (So there could be necessary truths, but not necessary properties of objects.) Quine's reason for saying this was that there are logical paradoxes that appear to arise if we attribute necessary properties to objects. For instance: 

Often, when cranks do submit their work to top journals, they are surprised to get swift rejection notes from the editor. Usually this is because they have simply not done one or more of the seven things listed above. Everything by Ayn Rand I've read fails this test on at least (ii), (iii), (v). Rand's epistemology is just a crude kind of verificationism---better versions of which had already appeared in print, defended by figures like Rudolf Carnap, Moritz Schlick, and others, and subject to important objections from Hempel and others. Rand never responds to objections--so it's no surprise that her work wouldn't pass scrutiny at a reputable journal. Olbers, on the other hand, published in the leading venues in his time--which was somewhat before the modern journal system was fully developed, but it still had the same salubrious effect on his academic reputation and won his discoveries important academic audiences. "But doing all that looks like a ton of work! It would take me a lifetime to prove my idea is true, original, defend it, anticipate the most important criticisms and write it all up in a concise but not dumbed-down way!" Yep. And that's why the top journals have the incredible reputations they do--precisely because they are incredibly demanding and it takes a huge amount of skill, persistence, and hard-acquired knowledge to publish a paper in one of them. This is the point where most of the cranks will throw up their hands and engage the little pity party about how the bad old academics just can't recognize their brilliance/are afraid of the competition/etc. Nope, it's just plain old hard work and lots of time. So how do you get the knowledge, skills, and abilities to publish like that? 

Here you've given some great examples of when to use Ockham's Razor because you've invoked explanatory posits that unduly complicate a reasonable analysis of the applicability of Ockham's Razor. Questioning Ockham's Razor means questioning the role of theoretical simplicity and the number of proffered explanatory posits. The only problems you bring up with the razor are borne of "credence distributions." What exactly are credence distributions? No matter what your answer is, they will also be explanatory posits of your theory. By definition, more explanatory posits makes your theory more complicated. In principle there's no reason you can't bring new explanatory posits into a theory, but as the Ockham's Razor wikipedia article says, they must offer some explanatory power. Including "credence distributions" in your theory doesn't seem to explain any more than a theory without them, and in fact seems to create problems where there were none. 

This is the case because Rand offered very few philosophical arguments. I actually do not know of any particular arguments she did offer, but I will assume that she at least attempted to offer some. 

The razor hasn't been appropriately deployed here. Where you say "simpler one" you really mean that the razor would have you pick between hypotheses A and B in virtue of the number of explanatory posits they individually put forth. Specifically, if there are more explanatory posits in A than in B, and A and B both satisfactorily explain all of the relevant observations, then B is simpler than A. 

Regarding the truth of physicalism WRT the existence of Pzombies, in order to reach the conclusion that "physicalism is false" from the premises given, then it must be part of the definition of "physicalism" that all mental states are identical with and reducible to physical states. It's this necessary property implicit in the definition of the term that would make physicalism false (if you buy such arguments) because the Pzombie counts as a conceivably possible counterexample to the universal claims of the physicalist. However, if one offered a more nuanced definition for physicalism, something like "To have mental state X is to be in physical state Y" such that "physical state Y" is functionally defined, then non-physicalist arguments for and from Pzombies become significantly more difficult to maintain. One philosopher who argues for at least the possible existence of Pzombies is (famously) Chalmers. 

No, the idea of gettier cases is that knowledge can't be justified true belief, because you can have a justified true belief but lack knowledge. The reason that the beliefs really are justified, is that the procedure the knower uses would generally count as providing a good justification in ordinary circumstances. Usually the fact that your watch says 9am is good justification for the belief that it is 9 am, etc. The problem is that justification does not guarantee truth. I can have a justified belief that simply fails to be true by bad luck. But since justification is a different concept than truth, I can have a true belief that is justified, although the fact that my belief is true is not grounded in the actual justification I have for that belief. That's Gettier's insight. 

The opposite of "black" is just "non-black". If you want to think of it in terms of a test, try to imagine an object that would be a counterexample to the the claim that "everything is black". A white ball would prove the sentence false, but so would a red ball or a green one. 

G. E. Moore has a lovely little paper called A Defense of Common Sense that has important implications for your question. The basic idea is easy to grasp. There are a variety of skeptical scenarios that seem to undermine claims to possess some kind of ordinary knowledge. The dreaming case you mention is one such scenario. Descartes's Evil Genius case is another. The Brain in the Vat case is yet another. The kind of ordinary knowledge that these skeptical scenarios are meant to undermine are just basic claims that people would ordinarily take to be obviously true like ``I know that I have hands''. All of these arguments work like this: 

Because creating something is "causing" it to exist. If God is the creator of the universe, then he is the cause of the universe's existence. But a cause must always exist before its effect. Therefore God must exist before the universe if he is the cause of the universe. The issue with the idea of the universe "evolving" a deity isn't that such a thing looks metaphysically impossible. But rather that whatever that deity might be, it couldn't be the creator of the universe, but rather than opposite. 

In the analytic tradition, philosophical arguments consist of clearly stated premises and logically sound conclusions. Some (already noted) attempts to locate in Rand's work such specific premises and conclusions show that her positions on several important points (e.g. causation and free will) are self-contradictory and inconsistent. This makes her conclusions irrelevant to the philosophical discourse in which she appears to have been attempting to participate. So in this way, the answer to your above question is a resounding "YES!"; a lack of argumentation entails a lack of rigor in argumentation. Upon reflection, I realize that one could respond here by saying that Rand was engaged in a more Continental approach to philosophy. Consider her tendency to employ fiction to "make her point" – a strategy (as previously mentioned in another answer) employed by Sartre and Camus, among other Continentals. Reading her this way, Rand's work could be seen as having a place within some larger historical philosophical discourse. However, her well-documented ideological struggle against Marxism undermines her own argument again here; the Marxist dialectic underpins the Continental approach to philosophy. If we are to take Rand's conclusions seriously, which is to say that if we take her particular anti-Marxism to be the point she is making, then she is using the Marxist dialectic to completely disavow Marxism, thus ending the dialectic. There are two problems with this. First, her work would be little more than her bid to be the "the champion of all philosophical discourse", and second, there are still WAY too many questions left unanswered for us to stop doing philosophy. So frankly, she has written nothing particularly philosophically interesting or compelling. 

I'm going to try not to step on any toes here. No matter how you slice it, the content of your belief is almost undoubtedly not the "resulting distribution" of a "credence-distribution over the two hypotheses." It's easy to see why it can't be: when someone asks you if you believe A or B, your answer will never be "the resulting distribution of a credence-distribution over the two hypotheses." That may describe how you came to hold the belief you hold, but that process is not the content of that belief. 

That inference is obviously fallacious. Consider the parallel: Some plants are trees; therefore, every plant is a tree. 

I think there are real problems with the idea of developing and ethics out of existentialist philosophy. I know Kierkegaard better than Sartre, so I'll say what I think is wrong with his view. Kierkegaard thinks that Hume has shown, pace the history of philosophy before him, that morality (understood as a body of universally binding commands that hold for all people at all times and places) cannot be derived from reason. Kierkegaard also thinks that Kant has shown, pace Hume, that morality cannot be derived from the passions either, for the passions are individual, contingent and historically variable. Kierkegaard thinks that the source for the binding authority of the moral law, therefore, must come neither from reason, nor the passions, but rather the very phenomenon of choosing itself. His idea is something like: If you really have to face up to the terrifying fact that there aren't external, objectively given sources of moral authority and that you just have to take the leap of faith and make a moral choice, then you are going to choose the right thing. Kierkegaard's idea is that the idea of the leap creates anxiety, but that everyone who faces that anxiety authentically will choose to live a moral life. He doesn't mean that whatever they choose WILL be moral--he isn't a subjectivist about morality. He thinks that if you seriously consider, for instance, whether to live a life of sexual debauchery, or marital fidelity then you will realize that marriage and a family is the only choice worth making. Kierkegaard is obviously wrong about this. Just realizing that you have to make a choice in no way indicates that you are going to make the right one. I don't see the existentialist point of view here being any superior to Hume's famous dodge that even though there isn't a rational foundation for morality, that doesn't lead to skepticism, because morality is based in the passions and everyone has the same passions. It seems to me that it is shared cultural and historical baggage in the background that is doing all the pushing in the moral theories of the enlightenment. If you'd like to hear more about this, I'd recommend chapters 4, 5 and 6 of Alasdair MacIntyre's After Virtue.