In extremely high energy cases like this, the Newton penetration equation applies. The amount of energy spent accelerating the target material out of the way will greatly overshadow any contribution by strength. Newton's penetration equation is - penetration depth (s) = (density of projectile / density of target material) * length of projectile. For a 400 kg/m^3 leather baseball about 0.15 m in diameter impacting some 8000 kg/m^3 steel, the depth of the impact crater in the target material would be 0.008 meters. For a 1000 kg/m^3 ice cube also 0.15 m long, the impact crater would be about 0.02 m deep. i think the takeaway is that anything not close in size and mass to your ship will be annihalated. However, your hull will get eaten away over time by these collisions. Although its a popular device, force fields would have to be terrifically powerful, as you have already calculated, to produce the same benefit as a sheet of lead or steel. 

There may one or more (but not many) power junctions on the surface for easy routing of the solar grid power into the base. Hit those with missiles. My guess is that the fuel costs more energy to produce than it provides. You have simultaneously accomplished several things: 

If you could get into a pressure-sealed bunker that wasn't ruptured in the explosion, you might be alright initially. After the air thins out, the water will first freeze, and then begin to sublimate (boil off, converting directly from solid to mist). It might actually by pretty. 

Assuming you are on a piece of debris with a survivable acceleration, let's say a quick impulse of less than 10G, the air will start getting thinner. Assuming a very slow speed of 10 m/s after the explosion, the air will become too thin to breathe in about 5 to 10 minutes. It may be poisoned more quickly than that by toxic gasses freed during the explosion. There will be a good wind as the air thins out. Temperature will also drop towards freezing rapidly. Water likes to stick to surfaces, so it won't be going anywhere yet. There will be additional jets of magma and debris. Depending on the orientation and tumble of your fragment, the rock you are sitting on could shield you from much of that. 

I can't remember the books, but in several early 19th century novels the fear was pirates, cannibals, or disease. What the characters in these books did was send out a one, two, or three person row boat to explore the coastline, help the shipwreck victims, or deliver the supplies. Alternatively, the crew could just throw the supplies in the water and hope they wash ashore. Another alternative was for a smaller vessel to come out from the shore to the ship to take the supplies, do customs inspection, or collect taxes. In your high tech world, the crew could deliver supplies with an automated lander, or dead drop supplies, or have a few brave souls deliver the supplies. Have a space station crewed by locals to take deliveries in zero G, or send up a local ship. 

Palladium games provided an interesting definition of evil that does not defy your sadist perspective, but opens up some opportunities. Specifically, it was a "the ends justifies the means" attitude and it could be applied equally to sadists or "good" nationalists who put their country/tribe interests ahead of their word or peoples lives (maybe including their own) creating a self-sacrificing "hero" (from the very limited perspective of the tribe) who would nevertheless lie, kill, cheat, genocide, whatever it takes to advance the national interest. That opens up a lot of ground. You can have brutal, proud, but troublingly good "evil" societies. "Good" characters don't have a pass to indiscriminately walk into neighborhoods butchering everyone. Stressors have to put your brutal "evil" civilization into conflict with it's neighbors, where the "evil" culture will go for the lowest risk/surest to succeed path to solve the problem. I also recommend R. A. Salvatore's drow. Lolth (as a diety) is the ultimate top dog on the sadist pile. And she delivers to her followers, making their obedience plausible. Parents betray their children and children their parents. Lolth sometimes tests her followers with crippling misfortune to see if the rest of the community leaps to destroy them, being faithful to her teachings, and to see how tough the crippled worshipper can be in a bind. Generally families are allowed to cluster under dysfunctional (we need eachother) relationships and small communities of families are allowed to organize by Lolth. Although she will shake things up frequently, constantly brutally testing everyone's faithfulness to her teachings, brutality, strength, and skill. 

I'm not sure this is logically possible. Let's take a thought experiment: suppose you spin around - you feel something pulling at your arms and legs. You might hypothesis that some sort of force is created by the act of your spinning. Some people, not nearly as interested in the problem, may take your hypothesis on faith and use it to design gyros. Others may think your hypothesized centrifugal force is supernatural junk - and they would be right after a sound hypothesis for linear and angular momentum is proposed. To have a world in which no one has blamed things on an unseen intelligent actor, the idea must have just, somehow, not ever occurred to anyone. Any trait that makes people too suspicious to be capable of believing one idea, I think, makes them too suspicious to believe any other idea requiring an equal amount of faith. 

Ball and Chain At 20 kg (44 lbs) or more, it allows your creature to put all of it's great strength to work. Attached to a chain, it also allows the creature's whole 9 feet, plus maybe another two feet of chain length (11ft / 3.3m total) to be put into multiplying the creatures great strength $ v = \sqrt { 2 \times length \times acceleration } $ A chain also can be accelerated faster than a solid rod because you don't have to put your whole body into it. If the average strength of a human is (100kg x 1 gee acceleration = 1kN), then your creature's strength is 10kN. Then the acceleration on a 20kg ball is around 500 m/s/s. Using the velocity equation, is about 57 meters per second. Convert that into kinetic energy with $ E = {1\over2} mass \times velocity^2 $ = 60 kJ, or roughly the impacting power of a car at 20 miles per hour. And that's without a good wind-up. 

By contrast, with a solid weapon, your creature's whole body weight is put into the swing. This works against it in the velocity component, only allowing about 2 m/s on a good swing (roughly equivalent to what a human would do). On the other hand, most of the 1,000 pounds of the creature's body weight is keeping the solid weapon moving. Net is roughly 2 kJ. With the chain, you can sweep large groups of people at once. Also, since the weapon doesn't require any high degree of craftsmanship, it's cheap and easy to produce or replace. 

What Would That Look Like Imagine the film "Apollo" or "Hidden Figures" where computer equipment exists, just not in the hands of the general public. It would be something you do at work. 

I am not an expert on the subject, but as far as I can tell here, optical interferometers that resolve visual images either exist or are in prototyping. 

They wouldn't know each other existed. Based on the technology levels you described, the more advanced of the two sounds at roughly the technology level when Edgar Rice Burroughs and others looked up at the mountain ranges of Mars in the early 1900s and mistook them for canals, leaving them wondering at Martian civilization. Even modern telescopes only get a few milliarcseconds of resolution. This means that at interplanetary distances people, machines, and buildings can not be identified. For example, even modern ground telescopes can not see the lunar landing sites. Perhaps both societies have radio, it's not a very hard technology to discover, and the more advanced teaches the less advanced television. Then they could see each other. Even then, they may not realize the difference in their stature. The small world would see images of people about right-sized for their homes, clothes, and furnishings - because why would a race of 3-4M tall people build tiny, difficult to use stuff? Certain wonks between the two civilizations might work out the differences, but it could lead to alternative conclusions. Why does a meter in Planet1 not seem to stretch as far as a meter in Planet2? Could be faulty measuring equipment or technique. Could be space time being stretched by gravity. 

So, for a modern apocalypse we could imagine a world not much more modern than today where voice-activated machines makes it possible to be high functioning and illiterate. With people only getting their education from YouTube or internet videos, literacy may be almost extinct before the apocalypse starts. Also imagine a civilization maybe a little more cynical than our own - where people have become so sick of society that they are not even marching in protest anymore, the leaders aren't rebelling, and no one is motivated to heroics in order to keep a flame they detest alive. Then the apocalypse happens. In very short order no one will be left alive who can read from surviving libraries or digital text. There might be fakers arise who pretend. Or the writing of the ancestors might be considered purely religious (this was our belief about Egyptian text until the language was re-discovered). All of society's knowledge might be within reach, but it's inaccessible because no one understands it. No one cared to keep the culture alive, so all of the social advancements that were encoded in it - rights, policing, trade, sanitation - are also forgotten. This would give you a Max Max like apocalyptic setting. And it would still be on the decline. Although people might understand how to operate machines, and though some may have saved internet video (or an oral tradition) of how to repair certain things (given parts), there is still further to fall. The Maya, we believe abandoned their culture in 900 AD and by the time the Spanish arrived six hundred years later in the 1500's, other than a few cities that never totally collapsed, the society had still not bounced back.