Regarding mathematics~computation, as @rus9384 says in his comment below your question, "...mathematics is not computation, devising theories is not computation." So your premise is ab initio wrong. But it's partly right -- mathematical proofs >>are<< computation, by the Curry-Howard isomorphism, e.g., $URL$ It's conjuring up axiomatic systems from which theorems are subsequently derived that's not computational (although, as far as I know, nobody's satisfactorily formally defined what that "conjuring up" is). By the way, as per, e.g., $URL$ a "theory" is "an axiomatic system and all its derived theorems", so @rus9384 should have phrased his comment a little more precisely -- the axiomatic system isn't computational, whereas the derived theorems are. As far as philosophy~mathematics goes, your "language and symbols" remarks sound like they're coming straight from Carnap, logical positivism, Quine, analytic philosophy, etc, e.g., $URL$ So in that particular school of thought, sounds like you're pretty much barking up the right tree. 

Novel or otherwise, I think it's wrong. Since you're apparently into programming, just consider dentotational semantics, e.g., $URL$ That provides a syntax-->semantics (predicatbly called the "semantic function") from syntax into a domain (see, e.g., $URL$ of meanings. And for programs, that semantic domain's typically (continuous wrt Scott topology) functions N-->N. And these aren't physically "measurable", per se, in your sense (the measure theory meaning of "measurable" notwithstanding), and there's no notion of archetype (that I'm aware of) distinguishing one such function from another. They're just abstract meanings with no (unlike Plato's cave) physical-world manifestations that could be "measured". 

Nowadays, and for the first time ever, molecular biology and genetic engineering hold out the possibility of actually controlling the aging process, and preventing death-by-aging (accidents, bullets, etc, notwithstanding). So fearing death is a very good thing because fear encourages people to do something about what they fear. There used to be no possibility of doing anything about death, so people just rationalized away fear of death, by afterlife, religion, etc. But now that we're on the verge of actually being able to do something about it, we're better off fearing the heck out of death, to encourage funding research and hurrying up its "cure". 

So, why ditch CP 5.402? Because while it speaks on conceivable practical bearings and our conceptions, it doesn’t truly separate from solipsism, which is defined as the meaning in “the belief that the believer is the only existing person. Were anybody to adopt such a belief, it might be difficult to argue him out of it. But when a person finds himself in the society of others, he is just as sure of their existence as of his own, though he may entertain a metaphysical theory that they are all hypostatically the same ego." Moreover, CP 5.402 does not distinguish from nominalism, which says that “the nominalist is only interested in what a thinker makes of things. The subjective conception, in his opinion, exhausts the subject.” 

Is what self-evident about this pragmatic maxim? For example, is it self-evident that it has a flaw? For instance, consider the difference between these two presentations: 

Now consider this from Plato’s Cratylus: "Well, but do you not see, Cratylus, that he who follows names in the search after things, and analyses their meaning, is in great danger of being deceived?... Why clearly he who first gave names gave them according to his conception of the things which they signified — did he not?... And if his conception was erroneous, and he gave names according to his conception, in what position shall we who are his followers find ourselves? Shall we not be deceived by him?..." So, are we to be deceived by Peirce, whether intentional or not? Consider this admission from $URL$ “In January, 1878, I published a brief sketch of this subject wherein I enunciated a certain maxim of "pragmatism".... I still adhere to that doctrine; but it needs more accurate definition in order to meet certain objections and to avoid certain misapplication. Moreover, my paper of 1878 was imperfect in tacitly leaving it to appear that the maxim of pragmatism led to the last stage of clearness. I wish now to show that this is not the case and to find a series of categories of clearness. I propose in this memoir to develop these three grades with fullness and not in the sketchy manner of a magazine article. I shall give the whole theory of definition and discuss its principal forms. I shall show, I hope quite convincingly, the great harm done by that definition by abstraction of which the Germans are so fond." Instead of the oft-repeated original maxim (CP 5.402), I would instead recommend investigating closely what he intended by CP 5.189. I hope you will agree that this one, unlike all others, is divine. 

I'd suggest that a proposition like your "this man is fat" can only be a "fact" if it's operationally verifiable, as per, e.g., $URL$ and $URL$ So first you'd have to define "fat" as, say, "ratio of weight-in-pounds divided by height-in-feet greater than 35". And then you'd have to specify the construction of "experimental apparatus" like scales and rulers for your weight and height measurements. And now your statement, "this man is fat", is a true-or-false fact, at least with respect to your verifiable definition and measurement procedure. Of course, somebody else can come along and suggest that bmi (body mass index) is a better definition of "fat" to begin with, whereby your whole definition is just an opinion. But now you simply need two different words, like "bmi_fat" and "height/weight_fat", to distinguish your meanings. And those words ultimately just refer back to your different bmi and height/weight measurement procedures. So a statement can only be a fact if it's accompanied by an operational procedure that unambiguously determines whether it's true or false. And I suppose you could try introducing "good/bad" definitions and measurements for Trump, too, but you'd probably run into people suggesting lots more alternatives than for "fat". And then it becomes a matter of opinion which definition/procedure to use. Until that's specified, "good/bad"'s just an opinion; but once it's specified, "good/bad"'s an operationally verifiable fact. 

Sure. The so-called "twin paradox" in special relativity trivially answers that question "yes". In fact, I believe they've flown atomic clocks on the ISS to experimentally demonstrate that kind of thing, $URL$ (and google coughs up lots of similar links). Your phrase "altering the physical properties" might need to clarify "properties" to accommodate relativity's postulates more directly. "State of motion (inertial frame)" or "gravitational potential" (for general relativity tests) would be more direct examples, but I'm supposing you'd accept those as "physical properties". 

...I'm referring to $URL$ where Searle (who's basically a "raving materialist":) makes the following (paraphrased here) remark, which uncharacteristically moderates his materialist position: Even if a computer could be "perfectly programmed" to simulate the brain, it wouldn't actually possess consciousness; no more than a simulation of the weather can actually get you wet. Okay, so that sounds really reasonable, at least in some formal argument way. But I (also a materialist) just don't quite buy it. What I instead buy is another analogy, whose source I don't recall, to the effect that: the brain is like a lightbulb, whereas mind/consciousness is like the light. In this case, any "lightbulb" -- either wetware brain or "perfectly programmed" hardware computer -- would generate equivalent "visible light". So both arguments/analogies seem pretty reasonable to me, at least as far as reason can take you in these kinds of discussions. But each seems to invalidate the other. So what's wrong with which? Or how do you reconcile them? (And what, if any, conclusions can you draw?, although I assume those would be pretty tenuous, at best.) 

ymar raises warranted objections regarding the ambiguity of this question. Yet, if we take the topic “metaphilosophy” as a clue, then I would recommend starting with Peirce, who characterized metaphysics as both a “science of unclear thinking” but also as “- the ontology of the soul” (cf., Writings of Charles S. Peirce, Vol. 2, pg. 192). Peirce’s philosophy can be boiled down to the syllogism (Aristotle) and analogy with the tripartite soul (Plato), but an advantage is that it offers a simple heuristic that serves as immediate prescription. That is, the concrete relatedness of the elements, firstness secondness thirdness; “the whole logical form of thought is so given in its elements”. There is too much to be said here for why this demonstrates philosophical reasoning but if you’d like to explore your practical identity as a mathematician using the philosophical method, look toward the icon/index/symbol (semiosis) literature. Or start from where you are using CP 5.189; C A B; first second third. Best, J 

Consider what effects, that might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object. Consider what effects that might conceivably have practical bearings you conceive the object of your conception to have: then the general mental habit that consists in the production of these effects is the whole meaning of your concept. 

And why adopt CP 5.189 instead? Because “self-control is the character which distinguishes reasoning from the processes by which perceptual judgments are formed, and self-control of any kind is purely inhibitory.” Therefore, CP 5.189 and not CP 5.402 as the best pragmatic maxim because BUT. 

alanf: You said: “The way out of this problem is to ditch pragmatism.” An alternative would be to ditch the original maxim, CP 5.402; for the attempt to ditch pragmatism would be to throw the baby out with the bathwater. 

Note that in these three lines one finds, “conceivably,” “conceive,” “conception,” “conception,” “conception.” Now I find there are many people who detect the authorship of my unsigned screeds; and I doubt not that one of the marks of my style by which they do so is my inordinate reluctance to repeat a word. This employment five times over of derivates of concipere must then have had a purpose. $URL$ 

I'd suggest whether or not "metaphysics should care about physics" all depends on how close current physical theory actually is to the "ultimate truth" (whatever that might be, if it even exists). On the one hand, suppose current physical theory is indeed very close to the so-called "theory of everything", and that only a few more bells-and-whistles are needed to construct a completely satisfactory theory of all existence, with no loose ends remaining whatsoever. Then, yeah, metaphysics should care lots about what physics is saying, because the entire metaphysics programme would just amount to an interpretation of exactly that perfect final theory. On the other hand, ancient Greek metaphysicians would have been well-advised not to care about the epicycle theory of planetary motion, which was based on the topsy-turvy wrong idea that the Sun and planets revolve around the Earth (at least they got it right about the Moon). So grounding your metaphysics on that entirely wrong physics gets you nowhere: garbage-in, garbage-out. So is today's physics finally barking up the right metaphysical tree, or is it just an epicycles-like numbers game intricately manipulated to obtain results that agree with observations, but based on an entirely erroneous conception of reality? If forced to place a bet, I'd personally bet on erroneous simply due to the odds, i.e., "there are more things in heaven and earth...". Moreover, it's more metaphysical fun to dream up something entirely new, but then it's dangerous to take such dreams too seriously, which seems to be an under-recognized problem by some metaphysicians. Edit (reply to @YechiamWeiss comment) copy of Y.W.'s comment:   It seems to me like you're switching the metaphysics and physics in their relation - it's physics that's (supposedly) built upon metaphysics, not the other way around. Maybe metaphysicians (philosophers of science) think physics is "supposedly built" [your words] on metaphysics, but that's not what the physicists doing the actual building think. And although they (physicists) typically can't help having some metaphysical predispositions, that isn't typically the ultimate determining factor in the direction of their research. Experimental observations and then mathematical elegance more typically are. In the long run, an elegant metaphysics that's also consistent with the physics hopefully emerges, in which case you can reconstruct the entire edifice as though ground-up/ab initio based on the foundational metaphysics. And that'll be more elegant, but it won't be what historically happened. To wit, note the "shut up and calculate" school of thought $URL$ which explicitly (and maybe a little facetiously) downplays any role for metaphysics, although the "shut up and contemplate" alternative also cited there somewhat softens that position. There may be some philosophers who hold the "physics that's (supposedly) built upon metaphysics" position, but in my opinion that's pretty (and totally unjustifiably) pompous. It presupposes the intelligence/insight/whatever to more-or-less foundationally intuit the world through pure thought alone. However, for example, there's not one single philosopher nor one single physicist who anticipated any of the non-classical aspects of the world that came to light in the twentieth (and very late nineteenth) century. Everybody got dragged kicking and screaming into that new view of reality. But at least the physicists completely openly admitted their own prior stupidity (okay, eventually admitted), whereas my sense is that philosophers aren't quite so open about that (although I know next-to-nothing about it). In any case, admitted or not, it's true. And that suggests experimental evidence is a necessary crutch for human thought about the nature of the world. It happened with epicycles, it happened with phlogiston, with the atomic/molecular theory of matter/chemistry, with non-Galilean relativity, with discrete quanta, etc, etc. So are you now trying to tell me that philosophers are finally equipped with everything they need to know, whereby their pure thought alone will come up with the correct foundational picture of the world??? I don't think so!!!