I've recently been reading about leptin and leptin resistance and I have a question that has been nagging me. It seems like one of the first things that researchers tried after the discovery of leptin was leptin injections in rats to see if it would suppress hunger. Instead, the rats get hungrier and that led people to believe that large amounts of leptin could lead to leptin resistance. My question is, why do steroids (which increase testosterone) work while leptin injections do not work? From my understanding, steroid users cycle usage to avoid resistance; why can't the same be done with leptin injections? NOTE: I don't use steroids or advocate for them. I'm simply wondering why increasing a given hormone seems to work in one situation, but not in another. 

This article from the New York Times cites a consumerlabs.com report (can't link directly to report because you have to sign up) which says that large chains like Walmart/Costco store brands are typically high quality: 

I live in a major metropolitan area and I've started running home instead of taking the bus. That being said, sometimes I need to take my work laptop home with me and - if possible - I would like to not have this be an excuse to not run home. That being said, are there any good running back packs which will help keep a laptop snug and safe from sweat/water? 

So no upper, middle and lower chest for starters. Just the upper and the lower one. Now to what you should do for your home workout. The more far apart your hands are placed from each other in a push up, the more you work your chest and not your triceps/shoulders, provided that you do a full range of motion. Be careful though. Do not overdo it with the width. If at the bottom of the movement the wrists have a 90 degree angle with the ground it is probably wide enough. The wider you go the more you strain the shoulder joints so be careful with the technique and the width you have in order to stay far from injuries. So for upper chest, 

Today I was a little sick but I still went to the gym to do my workout. I had a really annoying consistent headache. A friend of mine warned me not to do all the sets because i could damage my brain from high blood pressure. Well he had no convincing argument so I didn't stop. However I am wondering if it is true and if there are other things I should consider. What are the dangers of working out with a headache apart from passing out? 

I was reading this post and I came up with a question that was not asked in it. In particular, I wondered if taller people have the ability to gain more muscle in the same amount of time than shorter people? It seems highly implausible to me that a 7ft person cannot gain more lean mass than a 5ft person in the same amount of time. A possible reason behind this could be that tall people might have more muscle fibers (not larger) to begin with due to their size so their total rate of growth will be higher. Note that I am not saying that the statement above is indeed true. I am just giving out a possible reason which if true, it could lead to taller people having a higher rate of growth. I could not find research on that however, so anyone who knows something on this matter is welcome. 

Friends have told me that I should consume whey protein shake before and after workout. They said this would be effective for building up muscles. However, I have read from a website that I should avoid taking whey protein before workout. Quoted from the article on the website: 

What exactly is a safe limit for taking whey protein? Different websites recommend different amounts of protein intake. The most common one that I see is around 0.8g of protein for every kilograms of weight. I went to an online calculator for protein requirement and given my body specifications, the calculator recommends that I take 48grams of protein per day. I think my daily usual food can reach 48g of protein easily. In fact, I don't need whey protein to reach 48g of protein, if the calculator is right. On the other hand, some websites recommend up to over 100g of protein, which is more than twice the recommended protein intake from the calculator! I weigh about 100 pounds and stand at 5'4. I am a male and have a relatively small and thin body frame. Apart from my recent venture into the gym on some of the days to spend an hour lifting weights, my activity level is pretty sedentary. I ask because I'm worry that I may either consume too much protein, which may overwork my liver and kidneys, or consume too little protein, which is not most effective for my training in building up muscle size. At this point, I am taking two scoops of whey protein on days after lifting weights. On other days that I don't lift weights, I take one scoop of whey protein. So, again, what is a safe gauge for the amount of protein intake so that my body remains healthy and does not need to work extra to flush out the unnecessary proteins? 

Pectoralis Major. This is divided into the sternal and the clavicular head. The sternal head is what we call the lower chest and the clavicular what we call the upper chest. Let me provide a source for these here and here. Pectoralis Minor. This muscle is beneath the pectoralis major muscle. In other words, you do not directly see it and thereby I do not think you care much about it but I am mentioning it nonetheless. Apparently, this is not middle chest. 

Accept that you can't have zero mass gains if you want to gain strength, especially without any equipment. Try to do your best with what you have. You should grab something heavy, put it in a bag which you can wear for extra weight, buy a pull up bar if it is possible and do push ups, pull ups, pistol squats at a rep range below 5. This seems pretty basic but so are the options you have since you have no equipment. You might be able to do more complex stuff depending on what stuff you have available at home enabling you to improvise. 

PS: All this seems pointless to me. I suggest you readjust your goals about not gaining mass. Unless by mass you also mean fat which then renders my answer useless. If by mass you also mean fat, then just pick any good bodyweight routine available and try to eat around maintenance calories. 

I've been working on squatting recently, after going through a realization that it is really important to get your hips below your knees when you squat I've been trying to attain a full range of motion, ass to grass squat. That being said, as part of my workouts, I've been squatting with no weight, stretching all of the muscles I need to get deeper (hip flexors, quads, calfs, etc). I've been doing box squats and lowering it as I get small gains in flexibility. I'm to the point where the box is ~6 in below my knee while standing upright but I'm realizing that it is going to take a while - maybe years - for me to gain that flexibility. I've been going at this for a few months and even though I have small gains I'm to the point where progress is in centimeters/millimeters. I'm pretty sure that this is a flexibility issue and not just bad form. For example, if I lay on my side with my legs in line with my torso and try to pull one foot straight back, I can't get my heel to touch my glutes. Also, many years ago, I did give myself a knee injury (damaged left meniscus) by trying to go deeper so now I'm very familiar with what a bad squat feels like and have a good sense of how my knees should feel when I'm going down. So - with all of that being said - should I continue developing range of motion with no weight, or am I at a point where I can/should begin adding weight to my squats? 

Is taking whey protein before a workout bad? What is the reason for avoiding to take whey protein before a workout? 

I seldom exercise and hardly even go for a jog. I have been living this way for over 20 years. I have high metabolism and have a body shape of an ectomorph; I am skinny. Recently, I wanted to bulk up my body. I started off with the basics, mainly home exercises like crunches and press ups. I read from somewhere that 3 reps of 12 for both crunches and press ups would be a good start. So what I do is: 12 times of crunches, rest 30 seconds, another 12 times of crunches, rest 30 seconds again, and the last set of 12 times of crunches. I do the same for press ups. Is this too much? I doubt this is even helping me to bulk up. The problem, however, is I feel slightly nauseous after doing these. If we spin ourselves in a circular motion for a couple of minutes, stop and wait after the giddiness has faded off, there is still a remaining nauseous feeling. The remaining nauseous feeling is close to how I feel when I am doing the workouts. The nausea turns me off to exercising. I have tried going to a gym, worked on some machines and walked out in 15mins because I gradually feel uncomfortable with the nausea. The nauseous feeling does not kill nor feel extremely unbearable but it makes me feel sick and a little giddy. I still feel okay when I have done only about 1 rep of crunches and press ups. Are there any particular reasons or lack of nutritions that I am feeling this way? Is this simply how I would feel when beginning to exercise after lazing for so many years? Or have I for a start overworked? 

I'm astonished that no answer mentioned that there is no such no such thing as middle chest as there is no inner or outer chest. I will not go on a rant about it but before providing some information on exercise selection, let me explain some basics about the chest muscles. There are two muscles at what we call chest. 

I highly doubt it is possible for you, given your age,weight and height to train and NOT get any mass gains. In theory you could do heavy compounds such as deadlifts, squats and bench press. To minimize muscle gains you should normally only do single reps with high weight relatively to your strength (high intensity). But even then, the muscle gains would not be zero. Doing one rep work all the time is not possible because it will lead to injury. You also do not have as you said access to equipment so all that is out of the question. Anyhow, your goal should be to minimize muscle gains not eliminate it. It is impossible to train to gain strength without gaining any muscle especially as a beginner. If you have zero equipment and you do not want to buy any I suggest that you accept that it is practically impossible to do bodyweight exercises and seriously gain strength without gaining any muscle. This is because you will do mostly do higher rep work which builds little strength (it mostly grows your muscles or builds endurance depending on the rep range you are working out with). Now that may be false because you could find something so heavy to put on you that you can do heavy triples with normally body weight exercises (but this seems impossible unless you have access to some very heavy, dense stuff such as concrete). Have in mind, since you want strength, muscle gains will highly facilitate strength gains. Strength depends on your CNS and your muscles. Thereby if you want optimal strength gains you should also grow your muscles. I do not see why you would want zero muscle gains but I will keep on answering your question as this is your goal. Nevertheless, I don't think there is any way to train your CNS without using your muscles and hence making them grow. All in all, in my opinion you should do two things: