If you find the Wikipedia article on Structural Functionalism too dense, I think the easiest links for you are going to be the Wikipedia articles on Radcliffe-Brown and Malinowski; both of these explain the relationships between (Malinowski's) functionalism, (Lévi-Strauss's) structuralism, and (Radcliffe Brown's) structural functionalism quite concisely. For example: 

This is, of course, a tautological argument. Let us take the example of some flower which appear white to us, but which actually have stripes and other patterns in infrared colors, visible to bees. To us, at least up until the last century, the flowers are white; to the bees, the flowers are striped; now that we have instruments capable of registering infrared light, the flowers are striped for us as well. With this in mind, let us ask: what assurance do we have that the universe does not possess all kinds of attributes, patterns, objects, entities, etc., that are not observable by our senses (or the instruments we have invented to extend our sense-perception)? The answer, of course, is none: to use Rumsfeld's schema, we have no way of even beginning to assess the size of the unknown unknowns. Which means, of course, that what we call "the universe" is nothing more (or less) than "the portion of the universe knowable by us". And this is necessarily always the case. So, there's no need for a rigorous definition of "consciousness" in this regard; what is relevant is the limits of our sense-perception (as extended by whatever technologies we have developed.) And, the criteria to judge whether or not a configuration of the universe has consciousness in it is: yes. Since we're talking about it, it does. If it didn't, we wouldn't be capable of raising the question. 

I think you might want to start your research here. It appears that you are confusing the philosophical notion of a "consistent system" (meaning a system devoid of contradictions) with the everyday notion of "consistency" (as in "behaving in a consistent, predictable way.") Saying that "Always lying about everything is a consistency" is either a truism or a category error, depending on which sense you are intending. Taking your premise of a person who always lies: Given a system that is consistent (let's say, a small number of undisputed facts about the world) and a person who always lies, the set of statements uttered by this person will not be a consistent system. Let's say the sky is blue. Our Liar can then say "The sky is orange" and "The sky is green", which results in a contradiction. (Note that you are incorrect in saying that you can deduce everything from the false statements, since the negation of the false statements is the truth: in the example given, you can deduce that the sky is neither green nor orange, but you do not have enough information to deduce that it is blue.) As I said in an answer to a related question of yours, I think you might want to sit down with a good introductory undergraduate logic textbook. 

First of all: anything with properties necessarily "exists." The question is a specific type of existence -- in actuality, as opposed to as an idea only. The idea behind the ontological was that, if you could conceive of God, then he existed as an idea, and one of the properties that idea would have is that it also existed in actuality. It's a cute argument, but you really should be able to tell why it doesn't make sense; "existing" is not one of the parts of an idea, it's an idea, that's just what it is. It's as though you're talking about people; and you say that this person has the property of having blonde hair, and this person has the property of having dark skin, and this person has the property of being a television. No, people can't have that property. The same way ideas can't have the property of "existing" in actuality -- although they might refer to something that does. "Existing," isn't a property. If you want to talk about it as though it's a property, it isn't a regular property, like the ones that can be added and taken away from things -- you can't take an idea and turn it into a real thing, or a real thing and turn it into an idea (although you can make physical embodiments of ideas, and break them). It could not be added to or removed from a bundle of other properties. It would describe that bundle, and whether that bundle refers to a thing in reality, or to an idea. But it wouldn't be a part of that thing. Existence is not proper to me. I exist, and then everything else about me follows that in some inferior way. Maybe you want to call that a property, but it's clearly different from all the others. It seems to me different enough, at least, that it's not something that can be ascribed to an idea, such that God, if he can be conceived, can magically transubstantiate from an idea to a real thing. Alternatively, you can say that, when you're conceiving of that greater than which nothing can be conceived, and one of the properties you think of it having is that it exists, then great, you're thinking of it existing. But it's still just a thought -- it's just, you think of it as something that has the property of existing. You can't actually give it that property by conceiving of it as having that property. I could conceive of a Maserati that had the property of being in my driveway, if you want to call that a property, but I can't actually give the Maserati that property; I can only think of it as having that property. An idea can't have "existence" just given to it the way it can have "red" given to it. (Woah, this went a lot longer than I intended, sorry).