Signing the pact with Germany by Yugoslavia didn't take an easy path. It took months of negotiations and tweaking which finally ended up on March 25th, 1941 when the treaty was signed. Only two days later, well-known March 27th took place overthrowing the regent Pavle and bringing 17 year old King Peter to reign, at least formally. British intelligence had a high level of involvement in this event as they desperately needed more enemies of their main enemy - Hitler. Only few decades before Serbs which constituted majority of Yugoslavian population at the time were fighting bloody war with Austro-Hungarians and Germany and it would have been quite unlikely for Serbs to take Hitler's side in the war. Weeks later Nazis bombed Belgrade and then penetrated into Yugoslavia with little or no resistance. While having great ovations while marching into capitals of Slovenia and Croatia, no such a treatment took place in Belgrade. Once Yugoslavia was conquered by Nazis, there were many militant movements involved in the conflict. Just to name few major ones: Yugoslav Partisans, Royal Chetniks and Croatian Ustashe. As some movements collaborated with Nazis, others were fighting them, and some did both, it is hard to talk about Yugoslavia as one entity during the war. 

People today think for some reason that the founding fathers were religious men, you know "Good-old Christians" and the sort. Of course this isn't exactly true. Sure, they did think a god of some sort existed, but if they said things like "It's made one half the world fools and the other half hypocrites", and "Lighthouses are more useful then churches", then it's safe to assume that they were for the most part deists, merely using a god to "Fill in the gaps" if you will. That said, they were also part of the upper class, a position that often buys you a chance to doubt your faith in a way the more desperate lower class folk often couldn't or didn't want to. Thus, it's safe to assume most people were more religious at the time. But I'm curious, what exactly did the poorer majority think of their dear founding fathers religious stance(s)? Did they know of their doubts and if so did they think less of them for that? Or is it like today, where most people wrongly assume the founding fathers to be faithful men of the book, oblivious to their actual alignment? 

While it is true that alcohol disinfects, it is also a poor hydration source. First beers (e.g. in Egypt) were low alcohol content, even kids could drink it, and they were mayor protein/nutrition source while being more or less germless. You can argue that this is already a hygienic use. Southern and Middle Europe wine was much more available for drinking (Greeks and Rome in Ancient times, and later all the area during middle ages), but they diluted wine with water for regular consumption. Since wine has very low nutrition value compared to beer, we can argue that diluted wine consumed in large volume in daily bases is mostly a water-substitue / refreshing drink. 

As stated by others this is not really true. Even though shorter and less bloody compared to those in Bosnia and Croatia, the 10-day war outbroke in Slovenia between Yugoslav army located in the province and Slovenian police forces. To answer your question: the reason perhaps lies in the fact that Slovenia had ethnically clear picture with majority of Slovenians living within its border, i.e. the Slovenian border encompass Slovenian people quite fairly. On the other hand, Croatia had around 20-25% Serbian population when the war escalated in 1991. Bosnia had even worse mixture of three ethnic groups: Muslims 40% (nowadays called Bosniaks to distingish them from Bosnians which might refer to all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina), Serbs 40% and Croats 20%. These numbers are out of my head and might not be as accurate but rough approximations. Of course mixed marriages and people declaring as Yugoslavians were present all around the ex-Yugoslavia and especially in Bosnia. 

One major use of artillery was against fortifications / castles etc.. Actually that was the most important role of artillery in the 15-17th century, and had little importance in open battles. Brass cannons were major investments, but they became the main tool of siege, like e.g. in the case of Constantinople in 1453. To destroy thick walls, projected stone cannon balls and similar are just more effective than the missiles/rockets. Similarly, cannons used on ships could effectively penetrate and destroy the hull of the opponent ship, while rockets are much less effective. 

Is the practice of mandating that a Muslim women wear some form of a Hijab or Burka a recent occurrence? In that, has the practice always been alive and well, or have countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran merely revived an otherwise dead practice as part of their uber-theistic method of controlling their people; with the practice then leaking into the more secular or liberal Muslim communities? I was born in '99, so I've only known the middle east for the mess it's become, and thus I'm curious if the Muslims of the 1700-1990 (or whatever), were just as into the veil as the Muslims today are. I mean, the Bible apparently says some stuff about covering your hair if you're a girl as a part of 'modest dress'; so seeing how most versions of Christianity today, even the really conservative strains, have grown to ignore these more 'annoying' parts, I'm curious if Islam did the same. 

Yes! One can argue that the differences on that matter not only existed between the different military groups (Partizans - allied 100%, Ustashe - Nazis 100%, and Chetniks - 50/50), but also between the constitutional peoples Slovenes, Croats and Serbs. In order to illustrate my point one should check videos of Nazis entering Ljubljana, Zagreb and Belgrade - the capitals of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia. While in the first two Nazis were celebrated as liberators, Belgrade didn't make Nazis such a warm welcome. 

Since the notion of nation-states is rather new, I would say that there are many candidates for this title from ancient times. 

Maybe it is a classic case of mixing up causation and correlation. First if all, correlation vs causation. It make sense that climate correlate (and limits) the geography of an empire. Romans had a certain diet and technology for agriculture, certain technology for building houses etc that was optimal to Mediterranean climate. They couldn't grow wheat and your vegetables in the north, because the soil is different, it also frozen in the winter, the climate is colder etc. Just like for grape, all the same arguments are true for basic food. You cannot build houses optimal for winter, because you use to build houses to protect yourself from hot summer. Many small nuances that makes a successful civilization far less capable when goes to far north. From that perspective, the wine-line is just the approximate border where the climate is "close enough" to the Italian one. Second, mixing up cause and result. For example: Coca-cola and pizza was much more wide spread on the western side of Iron Curtain than on the eastern side. Does it mean American influence is limited by the pizza supply? Making wine is at least a cultural phenomena as making beer. You can argue that there is wine in these territories, because Romans introduced there and it became popular. Other drinks, esp beer was already known and popular in many areas. Maybe they just stayed popular, if no one were pushing it enough, and nobody experimented enough with some super cold-resistant grape. From technology point of view, it is much more easy to make beer or whisky in UK (even in France). 

Allegedly, the king Alexander Karadjordjevic, the unifier, was offered to choose between Yugoslavia (called the kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes) or greater Serbia which would have been smaller than Yugoslavia, but definitely greater than Serbia alone at the time and nowadays. The offer was made by Allied forces, mostly Britain. He chose Yugoslavia, as he probably didn't care about the country's name but its size. IMO, had the Greater Serbia been created instead, the 20th century history of Balkans would have been quite different. $URL$ This offer is often quoted by some Serbs, but I didn't find any references. 

Did the Nazis ever cite Martin Luther's "The Jews and their lies" to justify the holocaust and their generally antisemitic ideas? I've been looking and thus far haven't found much, just wondering if there are any records of something like this happening or not. 

The nuclear family we see today is basically the smallest most regular social structure. Others exist like the company or the church, but at the end of the day most people ether live alone or within one of these family units. That said, I'd argue this is actually not the most ideal structure, as it often results in those who live in ways that differ (gays, unmarried, alone, single mothers, etc) being unfairly shunned simply for not conforming. With this, I'm just curious, Are there any examples in history of a family structure that could serve as a possible replacement for the nuclear family? ps: Apologies if my questions suck, I'm new to this part of stackexchange.