I know Derrida better than I know formal logic, but i'll do my best to incorporate that perspective. What I think this author leaves unmentioned, which is most important to understanding this configuration Derrida's thought, is the concept of a system's center, as it is called in "Structure, Sign, and Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences", or the transcendental signified as it is called in Of Grammatology. The center is not simply an important piece of a system, and it would be difficult to illustrate its relations in a diagram like the one above. The center grounds the systematicity of the system, which is to say that it is the reason the system holds together as a unified whole and is intelligible as a single entity. The paradox (Derrida would say the aporia) of the center is that it must be both inside a system (at the center, no less) and beyond it, transcending it in order to ground it. To use a topological or architectural metaphor, what grounds a structure must be outside of it or independent of it in order to offer support (think of the earth in relation to a building) yet it must have a point of contact and that force must suffuse and sustain the entire structure. There are several examples of how a center of the universal system has been imagined, and all of them reveal this same aporia. It has been common since the Enlightenment to imagine that natural causality could be the guiding force of all reality, determining everything from the motion of planets to the motion of atoms, and dictating consciousness through the activity of the brain. But such explanations leave a necessary gap in their accounting of the universal system. If everything in nature has a cause, then the universe itself, in order to be natural and subject to the absolutism of this explanation must have a cause. What could have caused it? Its cause must be outside of the universe. This aporia shows the simultaneous immanence and transcendence of the center, or the notion of a limit having an outside, as the author you mentioned described it. Many thinkers portrayed God as a solution to this aporia, by causing all natural existence, and being causa sui, or cause of Herself in turn. But this only displaces the problem, as the entire history of mysticism and theology attests in its different configurations of the immanence and transcendence of God. (Immanuel Kant in the Critique of Pure Reason showed how both scientific thought and religious thought face this same aporia in attempting to grasp universality.) With respect to logic, as your question asked, it would be necessary to ask the question of the ground of logic. That is, what makes logic a system? What makes it true? What makes it applicable universally? Universal and necessary truth is intrinsic to the idea of logical systematicity, and the Principle of Sufficient Reason (itself a fundamental logical principle) insists that everything true have a sufficient reason why it is true. As you probably know, the Empiricist tradition attempted to ground logic in experience - we learn of syllogistic reasoning and other basic logical principles through seeing that they work every time we try them. But Hume and Kant pointed out that this is faulty logic because logical truth is accompanied by the conviction of its universality and necessity, and these two traits could never be learned from finite experience. Ultimately, another aporia faces logic at its roots. If it were grounded empirically, either learned through the senses or written somehow in our psychology or the gray matter of our brains, then it would be impossible to account for its universality or necessity. If these principles are eternal, static entities or Ideas, like immobile Gods, it is unclear how they ever enter reality - how do we ever become conscious of them and how do they come to shape phenomena in the world? To fully elaborate this aporia it is necessary to consider the metaphysical notion of a first principle as it was articulated most powerfully by Aristotle and Hegel. The principle cannot be static but must both explain and be the cause of all the individual change and motion which exists. 

His intention is not to lay out a method for criminology (if anything he views the panopticon as highly oppressive) but rather to examine the genealogy of the penal system to better understand how power relates to knowledge. A major trend which emerges from the minutiae of his impressively detailed study is that public, violent displays of state power were ultimately less effective than the prison system at achieving their goal of the control of subjects. Publicly torturing or executing prisoners, as was common before the Enlightenment in Europe, created a spectacle of state power which was external, and thus just as likely to intimidate its witnesses as it was to give them a rallying point in channeling their anger against the force of the state. Foucault cites the example of public executions which were broken up when the assembled crowd became a mob driving away the executioner and other state officials. On the other hand, a prison system functions by controlling a population through observation. A person's movements are micromanaged, and if they break their routine they are punished. the possible absence of an external witness (the panopticon is set up so that a guard may be watching the prisoners at any time, but he is invisible to them), means that the authority of the state is internalized, and the subject begins to "police" his own actions. This is a logic which is not limited to prisons, but employed in schools, factories, barracks, and society at large. It is how social normativity functions in general. Part of Foucault's goal in exploring this transition is to undermine the progressivist narrative of the Enlightenment. That common story claims that the Enlightenment was driven by humanism to create a more just society where the rights and human dignity of formerly marginalized or mistreated people (and sometimes animals) were recognized. Foucault claims on the contrary that the transition which occurred was motivated by and accomplished a heightening of state power and the oppression of its subjects by causing them to internalize the state authority. 

Spinoza's treatment of cosmology and theology is unique in the philosophical tradition. It is certainly true that God plays an essential role throughout Spinoza's thought. He always appears, however, in the very strange form signaled by Spinoza's recurrent phrase, "God, or nature." For Spinoza, only what is capable of independent being and cognition counts as a substance, and only the entirety of nature in its interconnections is independent in this way. He equates this infinite substance with God - all extension is the extension of God, thus the equation signaled by the phrase, “God, or nature.” There are definitely great differences between Deleuze's thought and Spinoza's, but the affinity which is a continual source of inspiration for Deleuze is what the latter sees as a profound immanence in Spinoza's thought. God is not separate from this world and there is no separate realm to speak of. Nonetheless, I think Deleuze plays a bit fast and loose with the history of philosophy. This one aspect of Spinoza’s thought is what he refers to when he speaks of Spinoza and Nietzsche as precursors to his philosophy of radical immanence. Of course, there are enormous differences between those two philosophers and between each of them and Deleuze. Deleuze is not making a micrological analysis of either - at least where this comparison is concerned. He is interested only in this one aspect (which is certainly a far-reaching one). You raise an interesting point by suggesting that infinite modes could represent a kind of transcendence. It would not be the sort of transcendence which Deleuze is separating himself from here, however. Many things, according to Spinoza, are beyond the capacities of a finite creature like the individual human. Nonetheless, nothing is beyond God, and his reality is the same reality as that which contains all finite creatures (whether we know of them or not) - his substance is the same infinite substance we all are part of. There are many interesting differences one could find between Spinoza and Deleuze, but his focus is narrow when he declares himself an inheritor of Spinozistic thought. 

You are exactly right about Plato - he separates being and time. Plato does this because he sees philosophy as the striving of the psyche towards eternal things, and in order to achieve its goal, it must exclude everything about itself and its world which is finite and changeable. This opens the space for Aristotle's criticism, that such a realm of eternally unchanging forms could not be the reality of the temporal world, because it would have no way to produce change. But I would have to disagree with the notion that Newton and Einstein argue for the unreality of time. For Newton there is something he calls absolute time, which flows at the same rate regardless of what objects inhabit it or who perceives it. To me this seems like an argument not only for the reality of time, but for its absolute reality. Einstein criticizes this notion, drawing in part on the results of the Michelson-Morley experiment. In order for time to be absolute, the speed of light would have to be relative, but the Michelson-Morley experiment disproved this, and Einstein shows with a thought experiment that their results imply the relativity of time. Saying time is relative is much different from claiming it is unreal. If you are interested in pursuing this question, I would recommend reading Heidegger's short lecture "Time and Being" and the first chapter of Derrida's "Given Time: I. Counterfeit Money". Rather than simply saying time is unreal, these thinkers point out that it is inaccessible yet absolutely necessary as a foundation of experience. All we can experience are temporal things, yet time is nothing temporal. It does not come to be and pass away, and never presents itself as an object in our world. In this regard it is like being, which never presents itself as a being. Despite being nowhere accessible to experience, the entirety of our experience and thought is only intelligible on the basis of time. All of experience is temporal, and it is just as paradoxical to claim that it takes place without any time, as it is to claim that time, something entirely inaccessible to experience, is the ground of that experience. In this it is like God or death, something which is only possible as impossible. I'm a bit confused by your last statement. Are you saying that you recognize a contemporary trend towards atemporal physics and mathematics? 

I'll respond first to the part of your question which asks for clarification about Being-towards-Death, then say something about how it furthers the inquiry into the meaning of being. Heidegger sees existence as primarily inauthentic. Existence is characterized by a structure Heidegger calls falling. When we are falling through our given world, everything appears to us as pre-interpreted - the meaning of everything in our world, including our own being, is constituted by definitions that are extrinsic to us and extrinsic to the essence of the things they define. We cannot prevent this - the world first appears to us in this inauthentic form. The question Heidegger poses at the beginning of the second division of Being and Time is whether it is possible for Dasein to overcome this primordial inauthenticity. This would mean that we overcome the inessential, arbitrary meanings which first present themselves to us, and uncover meanings which would be essential and our own. This is why Heidegger uses the word eigentlich, which is translated as authentic. He frequently points out that it includes the word eigen, German for one's own. Being-towards-death is necessary for authenticity because it brings Dasein to a realization of its own essential finitude, and the finitude of being. Heidegger points out that in everything one does in the world, one can be represented. This may mean that a third party is actually standing in for me, but it can also mean simply that whatever I do or however I am interpreting or representing my being, I do so on the basis of these received, inauthentic meanings and values. Death supersedes these because it is the complete collapse of my world, and thus gives me nothing to be as actual. Because my death can never present or represent itself in the world, being-towards-death (being in such a way that I recognize the essential finitude of my world and of being, that I anticipate the possibility of their collapse) brings me face-to-face with possibilities which are my own (authentic). The point of articulating being-towards-death for Heidegger is to advance the project of Being and Time: the uncovering of the meaning of being. In the first division, it was established that the meaning of being is care, and thus that falling or inauthenticity belongs to Dasein primordially. The second division questions whether authentic being is possible, and leads up to the articulation of the structure of authentic temporality. Authentic being-towards-death is by its nature hard to picture - because it gives us nothing to be as actual. Rather, it draws us back from actuality (which for Heidegger is always inauthentic) and causes us to dwell with possibility. In order to understand how one can then actualize oneself while remaining authentic, it is necessary to read the following chapter on conscience.