"My question is, can I still hope to get a job in the US with this scenario?" Sure, nobody cares much about your academic degrees.1 The problem you face: There's a real "freakonomics" situation in Software at the moment (2017). In most fields of software at the moment, there is a huge shortage of very experienced people. It's so difficult to hire true seniors / true leads / true experts in many fields that many projects just give up and shut down, because senior/lead/expert talent doesn't exist at any price. (I'm thinking of a number of recent examples at large, well-known companies in California, other parts of the US, Europe and Asia.) However! Strangely, there is also a huge glut of beginner people. If you're a less experienced / beginner developer, it's hardly worth bothering trying to get a job, you're competing with a billion others. So you do face a couple problems. Note too that, you probably know this, if you're from India and want to get a job in the US complete with immigration papers, that's somewhat possible for senior highly-paid people but quite difficult for lower-salary more starting-out people - it's tricky. 

I couldn't follow the whole story (no attention span!) But you actually got, and told them about, another offer? You used it as leverage to get a better deal? If so - fantastic. An only thought would be: again, without in any way telling white lies, you can "suggest" even more. So the other offer is $700,000. But it looks like they're known to pay $6,000 of travel benefits. And then there's the healthcare for your seven kids. They're known for education allowances. Or you could just say that your offer "so far" from the other guys is X. Should you push too far? Of course not. But you're essentially asking "how to push a bit more"; some thoughts above. 

If you do that you need to quickly make more money, so as to quickly push ahead to new career positions where you will be challenged. To me it seems like everything in your career is going great, except you have the common (totally normal) problem that you have massively grown, but unfortunately your payment has not grown. In a few cases you can fix that problem by just demanding more pay. Usually you have to change jobs to get more pay. 

I would not say where you are going (i.e., back to your current employer in this specific QA). That would be really annoying and rubbing salt in the wound. It's not their business what you're doing and there is no need to get in to it. ALTERNATELY, use the standard English business language "changed circumstances". If New Company decides to drop the OP, OP will get an email 

This is completely common in software. The simple answer is don't mention "percentages" at all. They have nothing to do with anything. The language you want is simply this: 

Yes. They will never suddenly "be competent". So just "smile all the way to the bank" and have the patience of Job. Be polite, firm and repetitive. "Hmm, Steve really needs me to get the XYZ from you, do you have a minute now?" 

So, congratulations on being "today's Obvious post" :) But the great news for your career here is that if you go with the ingenious "specific..." approach you'll be one of the senior guys laughing at the new guys, in no time! Enjoy. Further tips when implementing the "specific..." approach: 

That one is wrong - they have absolutely nothing to lose other than a little time on their part. (Say you had absolutely stated - perhaps in writing "To avoid time wasting, I just wanted to be absolutely clear that I absolutely will not take a position for less than X dollar salary ,not including any benefits whatsoever" - that would be different. But all you have at the moment is "some talk" on both side. Talk means almost nothing.) So, your idea that they "wouldn't have proceeded", is, wrong. Here are four general points that may be relevant: 1 - For better or worse, almost everyone "buckles" in salary negotiation (or any price negotiation). To take a "bitter" view of the situation, they're just "laughing at" the fact that you asked so much, and, they know very well you'll "take what you're offered" when it comes down to it. 2 - There is an insane demand for software engineers in most fields at the moment, at the time of writing. As a general principal, whatever you asked is almost certainly way, way too low. (More on that. FWIW it seems to me there is a glut of low-level software engineers, but higher-level software engineers are non-existent, they can just write their own ticket. Just my experience in the particular areas I deal in, may be different for others.) 3 - You know at the moment they said "That seems a bit high." ..... If you think about it: what did you expect them to say? Whenever anyone mentions any price to me, whatsoever, in any context - even if I literally did not hear the price - I just say the words "that seems pretty high". What else would you say? (Conversely on the other end, I just instantly state "that's way too low".) So really, you can pretty much dismiss that they said "That seems a bit high..." in that early conversation. 4 - The absolutely overwhelming issue you face. In any and all negotiations, there is one, and only one, factor that entirely covers the total situation. You can only negotiate if you can walk. If they offer you X, and you have no alternative, what can you do? See point 1. The one and only way you can say No to X, is, if you have another offer (or are confident that you can get other offers in a reasonable time). Indeed, you can "poker-face" them (ie, you can pretend that you're willing/able to say no thanks and walk away), which is gutsy. But simply - in any negotiation - you need alternatives or you literally have zero negotiating power. In short at this time you should be seeking other real offers, as aggressively as humanly possible. Or else "they've got you". You know? So maybe those four points are worth something to your situation. Again the answer to you literal question (where you say "Right?") is that you're wrong on that one. A handy tip: have you considered building more and more freelance jobs/contacts in the meantime? A great way to "not care" about fulltime offers is if you are pretty confident you can whistle up a good amount of freelance anytime. If you're a bit of a "hot shot", make it happen, then you really have the, well, income behind you to have "negotiating power". Another handy tip: when companies want to underpay, and think they are dealing with a "tough negotiator", the first the place they go is ... offering "benefits". When you're paying for something, "benefits" are an ingenious negotiating tactic. "Benefits" simply cost less than "money paid out", and on the other side (almost all) people think "benefits" are worth more than they are. So be careful not to fall for the line "well we'll give you 'benefits' XYZ instead". 

(TBC note that the OP does not at all mention "reel" or "showreel" - I just added it here for clarity. The OP states twice business portfolio, simply meaning: "When I assert my body of work includes A B C, can I include X Y Z ?" ) Note that the words "portfolio" and "reel" are also used metaphorically. Eg, "Steven Spielberg's reel includes ET and Jaws." (The guy wouldn't literally bother having a physical tape somewhere with those on it - you know, so that he can show it to potential employers :) ) 

As everyone has mentioned, unrelated to your specific question, it is very possible that this choice of action will end badly. It is very likely Current Startup will simply discard you in a few months when they can again find someone cheap. Food for thought. 

If he says no, "OK, it's probably best that we wrap up today, don't you agree?" I'd urge you to leave that day. It's just a minimum wage job, and you clearly have a bright future. Believe me, every single place that hires such staff is desperate to find someone competent. You'll have a new job with more money within the day, it's a non-issue. Here's another language tip: 

I would almost say, it is de-rigeur to establish what city everyone is in. So simple "your city" conversation such as 

You may want to add mention of your project or task purely as a reminder (KEEP IT SHORT - bosses are totally uninterested in detail), so 

Any time, in any context, at all, someone offers you X for work services, just instinctively (politely, of course) say, "Hmm, that's too low." 

This shouldn't ideally come up because of point 1 above. Sometimes, without telling white lies, you can obfuscate things a bit. A good example: For programmers, you inevitably have plenty of other little bits of income coming in (from past contracts, freelance, shares, patents, bonuses, apps or whatever). So you can say something like: "as I said I took home about 900,000 the last 12 months, and while I'd love to work for you because it's the world's first VR CRM product, I'd be looking for 950,000 to commit to you. As I already said." You know? 

This is a remarkable misconception. Real programmers are incredibly good at many, in fact all, platforms, languages and APIs. The most fundamental nature of programming is that you have to pick up new languages, APIs etc on the spot. You can't be like "a java programmer" or "I know Cocoa" (except at the lowest levels, basically an assistant). Programmers get hired to do shit like, make a realtime massively multiuser synchronization geometry engine with heuristic reasoning and, uh, make the API for it. Knowing the syntax of Swift or c# is really trivial and irrelevant. Unfortunately the things you describe ("a baking app") would be like saying: you want to be the CFO of an organization, but you're qualified to do that because you know how to open a spreadsheet. Sadly, the news is just all bad here: 

With further info from the OP it would appear to be one of those annoying niche fields where you get zillions of people who "think they can do it" but it's actually a difficulty speciality. (Also I think the OP wants to administer said test by telephone. I think there is a danger in "just annoying" the few experts. My guess: if you use language like: