Yes there are some great teachings by the burmese meditation master Mahasi Sayadaw. This website offers free books by Mahasi Sayadaw dealing with vipassana meditation and how to develop insight. This is a quote from the website regarding the free books: 

You are over-thinking/analyzing this which tends to result in further thinking. This is known as mental proliferation (papanca). If you are practicing Vipassana meditation, then simply note these mental formations as "thinking, thinking" and return attention the rising and falling of the abdomen. If you are practicing Samatha Meditation, then simply acknowledge the thoughts and return to your primary object (nostrils, upper lip or abdomen). Do not dwell in in those thoughts. Do not attach to them. They are merely impersonal phenomena, arising and ceasing on their own accord, due to causes and conditions. 

The first paragraph illustrates how these powers should be used, i.e. to help other beings become free from the defilements so that they can develop their faculties. So i think that must be the some of the benefits. Being able to help other beings thereby doing wholesome actions creating wholesome effects to ripen in this life or future lives. What we also see from this text is that the Buddha placed great emphaziz on people, especially monks not abusing these powers and thereby giving the Sangha and more broadly speaking Buddhism a negative reputation. When that is said i think its of great importance that such powers should be in the hands of clear-seeing, highly developed beings and not beings who still have a gross level of the root defilements in them. If that is the case the powers might be abused. 

This is not for other people to answer. This is your own work. Only we ourselves can work and develop ourselves. It can actually be harmful for a meditator to hear what lies ahead on the path before he or she has attained those fruits. That is because the Mind can then try to search for the things one has heard or read. That is not good. They should come naturally as practice develops. Go meditate and find your answers or ask your teacher if you do not understand the practice or technique. 

This answer is based in Theravada Buddhism in the tradition of Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw. As i understand it there are 2 aspects to this. The first aspect is about the feedback from the student. The content of this feedback must have had some amount of value to the student or else it would not have been mentioned. The feedback is actually a treasure for you. It gives you an oppertunity to work on your teaching skills and improve them and to become an even better teacher. For other people to point out our flaws is great treasures for us. Sometimes we might not even be aware of a flaw we have. When getting this information it enables us to work on it and overcome it. 

The Buddha then continues to expound upon the three kinds of righteous bodily conduct, conduct not in accordance with the Dhamma. I will not refer to them here as they are opposites of the above mentioned Dhamma and can be found in the sutta. The Buddha then ends these three types of righteous conduct by saying: 

Lastly there is an audio dhamma talk called "Dependent Origination" by Ajahn Punnadhammo which can be found here. Lanka 

The first method deals with the hindrance face-to-face. Let's take the example of anger. Anger cannot be dispelled by using anger as a remedy. We must use it's opposite, i.e. non-anger. Here the meditation on loving-kindness (metta-bhavana) is the tool we want to use. Repeated practice of metta-meditation will clean out anger and traces of anger in the mind. Here one uses reflection/contemplation on the hindrance. One tries to view the hindrance as being dangerous and ignoble until there arises revulsion in one. This will drive the hindrance away. Here one uses the tactic of diversion to dispel the hindrance. Some hindrances just keep coming back in one's meditation practice. One shifts the attention away from the hindrance and onto another object. One keeps doing that until the hindrance subsides. Here one uses the opposite approach from method number 3. Instead of turning away from the hindrance one turns towards it. One confronts the object and thoroughly investigate it's features and it's source. This will drive it out in the open where it looses it's power. The last method should only be used as a last resort. Here one uses suppresion. One restrains the hindrance using the power of the will. One pins the hindrance to the ground with force. 

After that he goes a bit further into the subject although as stated above its a short section on 2 pages. 

Actions are 3-fold. They are done by body, speech and mind. All actions originate in the mind (Dhp. verse 1-2). Unwholesome actions are based in the 3 root defilements, i.e. Greed, Hatred and Delusion. All other defilements are variations of these roots. When one commits an unwholesome (akusala) action, e.g. tells a lie, then one is stiring up/giving rise to defilements and reacting to them. Defilements are one of the foundations for unwholesome actions. When commiting unwholesome actions by body, speech and mind, oneself is always the first one to be harmed. That is because one must give rise to defilements and react to them, i.e. act on basis of them, thereby harming oneself and setting oneself back on the path. One is moving further away from Nibbana, when one commits volitional unwholesome actions. The Buddha was very clear on the destructive nature of lying, even if a lie is merely told in jest. This can be seen in the "Ambalatthikarahulovada Sutta". In this sutta the Buddha is giving an exhortation to his son Rahula, on how to distinguish between wholesome (kusala) and unwholesome actions. The following quote is the Buddha's words on the topic of lying: 

Yes, ie. if you were mindful during the processes of the object, not after or later, but while they were happening. You noticed it proceeded in bursts, meaning its not permanent but ever-changing. You noticed that it eventually subsided meaning you saw (if you were mindful of it) that it was subject to cessation and uncontrollability. Whether you saw these things, I cannot know, only you can know. But if you saw these characteristics, you have seen the Three Marks of Existence, which all compounded phenomena are subject to. 

You can use your work as an oppertunity to work on your morality as it is also mentioned in the other comments. In buddhism there is 2 aspects, one is to work on yourself and develop your mind and morality. The other aspect is to help other beings when you have the oppertunity and think that you are in a position to help. There might someone who needs your help at your work place. Regarding your own opinions. When looking at it from a standpoint of ultimate reality then there is no self existing. So the opinions you experience does not really belong to anyone. They are arisen phenomena that will cease again. So you dont really have to pay much attention to them. You can just note them and let them go. Opinions are mental formations that as all the other aggregates are subject to the 3 signs of existence; impermanence, unsatisfactoriness and not-self meaning that it can create suffering for you if you identify, hold on to or take ownership of these opinions since they change anyway because of being impermanent. In the the noble eight-fold path you will have the specific guidelines to follow regarding both morality, concentration and wisdom. So you can let that be your guiding light. To go even further; the conflict you are mentioning here is also just a mental formation that is impermanent, unsatisfactory and not-self. These mental formations can if they are not guarded with mindfulness and noted, manifest themselves in the physical body e.g. as stress or physical pain. But they are also just arisen phenomena that do not belong to anyone and will cease again. So them too you can also just note and let go. All this is of course much easier said than done. It takes practice and that can be a challenge but that will develop you. So in that sense you are lucky to have a job where such a conflict is now happening. Why? Because you can use that conflict as an oppertunity to grow and develop and practice your mindfulness. In this way you will realize the truth about reality. You will see that phenomena are suffering because they arise and cease without any control. When you truly see and realize that you can detach from them. If you are not already doing insight meditation it could be beneficial for you to start doing it outside of work meaning at home or whereever you have a quiet place. In that way you can observe this conflict and the mental formations pertaining to it in a safe and quiet environment. That way you will also be much better prepared for when you are going to work. Why? Because you then know exactly what mental formations and/or feelings that will come up and because you already have trained at home in noting them and letting them go, you have an advantage when they do arise at your workplace. I will end my comment with a great qoute from Ajahn Brahm. He says in one of his videos: "Suffering is the fertilizer for our spiritual growth". Lanka 

I was wondering if im breaking any buddhist rules if i answer no to any of those? I have tried thinking about it but i cannot fully grasp it at the moment. Lets say i was in a traffic accident and was left as a vegetable. By writing the life testament and answering no to life-prolonging treatment because it would only op hold the life of a vegetable am i then breaking anything? Is this the desire/craving for non-existence im wandering into here? Should i just let things be and play out according to my kamma. Im a bit confused. Help would be much appreciated. Thank you. May you be happy, peaceful and free from physical and mental suffering. Harshani 

Let me try to approach this from 2 different angles. I'm a physiotherapist and first i would like to approach this from an anatomical and physiological standpoint. It sounds to me like you might be lacking some core strength and that resulting in you swaying in your meditation. It could also be that you have some tight muscles around your pelvis and back which is creating muscular imbalances. The balances can cause pulling and tightening in different directions when standing, sitting or lying in certain postures. Muscular imbalances are quite common and not dangerous although if they are allowed to persist over long durations of time they can lead to more serious problems such as limited range of motion, body pain, mal-alignment which again can lead to other diagnoses. Lets not get into this here. If its relevant now or becomes relevant you are welcome to contact me on my mail: harshani85@gmail.com and i will take a look at you either via skype or you can sent me a video. I will give further instructions about that if you need it. For now i will give you some strengthening exercises for your lower back and core muscles + some stretching exercises for your hip flexors (m. iliopsoas) since they are often a problem because of too much sitting down. If they are or become tight they can limit range of motion in the spine and external rotation in the hip by creating an increased internal rotation in your upper legs which again will lead to mal-alighment in your spine which will affect your standing, sitting and lying posture. As you might have heard before the core is our force-generating center. It is very important to have a strong core in almost all activities that one do in ones everyday. A strong core means that one is physically centered. The standing, sitting and lying postures will improve greatly as will many other activities in ones daily life. The core consists of the following muscles; m. transversus abdominis, m. rectus abdominus, internal/external obliques, lumbal portion of m. erector spinae. Some people count also mm. gluteus, m. quadratus lumborum and m. iliopsas. I will not give exercises for these muscles but only the most important muscles which is m. erector spinae, m. transversus abdominis, m. rectus abdominus and mm. internal/external obliques. I would like to give you these exercises. They can be a bit difficult to understand when only viewing a photo so i have found this video for you that goes through some of the exercises. I want you to try them all out and find the ones that work best for you. Try to pick 3-4 exercises. I want you to do 1-3 sets with 10-15 repetitions in each exercise. 1-3 sets meaning that if you have a good day you can do 3 sets and if you are tired or not in the mood you can do 1-2 sets. That way you can regulate it yourself. You should train these exercises 3-4 times a week. Keep 1 day between sessions for rest. That was the strengthening exercises now to the stretching exercise for the hip flexor muscles, m. iliopsoas. See this photo. If you cannot do that i want you to do like this instead. You should do 3 sets of 60 seconds on both legs. You can do longer and more sets if you like but this is minimum. This exercise you can do everyday. If you have any questions feel free to contact me on my mail or write here and i will try to help out. Now i would like to approach this from a theravada buddhist perspective with basis in vipassana meditation practice. In vipassana practice we want things to come forth so we can study them. We do not want to interfere with them since that can create attachment or aversion towards the phenomena. By trying to help the swaying or stop the swaying you are really masking/camouflaging the impermanent, unsatisfactory, oppresive and insubstantial nature of the 1st aggregate, the form aggregate. I believe its best to just let the swaying be. Observe it. Note it. Observe that you have really no control over the body. The body is oppressive and ungovernable. It is not subject to ones will and by realizing that you can see both impermance, dukkha and not-self. So in short. Dont interfere with the phenomena. Just observe them diligently and you will come to realize the 3 signs of existence. As Mahasi Sayadaw has said; "the yogi (the meditator) will come to realize that there is just an object arising and mind arising to that object and no third besides. Third besides is here meaning a self". Unfortunately i cannot remember where he says that so i cannot quote it. Lanka