Perhaps you will be interested in the Ellsberg Paradox. (I won't bother including a complete description here, since there is a very nice Wikipedia article about it.) The Ellsberg Paradox differs from the Allais Paradox in that the probabilities of certain events are left unspecified; the decision-maker must construct her own "subjective probabilistic beliefs" about these events. But the interesting fact is that there is no set of "subjective probabilistic beliefs" which can explain the pattern of choices most people make in the Ellsberg Paradox. So it definitely falsifies the "descriptive" validity of expected utility (EU) maximization as a model of human decision-making. More importantly, it presents a strong challenge to the "normative" validity of EU-maximization; even many economic theorists who "bite the bullet" in the Allais Paradox are willing to acknowledge that in the Ellsberg Paradox, the choice pattern which is inconsistent with EU-maximization is much more compelling than a choice pattern which is consistent with EU-maximization. However, I should acknowledge that the Ellsberg Paradox is properly understood as a challenge to EU-maximization in a setting of "ambiguity" (where probabilities are not known a priori), whereas the Allais Paradox is already a challenge to EU-maximization even in a setting of "risk" (where all probabilities are known). It is a perfectly consistent position to accept the vNM axioms in a setting of risk (and hence, "bite the bullet" in the Allais Paradox), while rejecting EU-maximization (i.e. rejecting the Savage Theorem) in a setting of uncertainty. Another, entirely different normative challenge to vNM independence arises in a setting of social choice. Suppose that you have an indivisible resource (e.g. a hard candy), which you must allocate to one of two claimants (e.g. two children, Alice and Bob). Suppose that, a priori, both claimaints have an equal claim to the resource (they are equally deserving, equally hungry, etc.). The resource is indivisible, so you can't "split" it between the two claimants. Question: should you allocate the resource by some random mechanism (e.g. by flipping a fair coin)? Or should you allocate it by some deterministic mechanism (e.g. give it to the older child, or the one whose name comes first in alphabetical order, or the one who is standing further to the left at the moment the decision is made)? Most people have a strong intuition that a random mechanism is more "fair" than a deterministic mechanism. So they prefer to randomize. But at the same time, they are indifferent between giving the resource to Alice and giving it to Bob (recall: Alice and Bob are equally deserving of the resource). So if A is the outcome "give it to Alice", and B is the outcome "give it to Bob", then we have a situation where the decision maker is indifferent between A and B, but strictly prefers the lottery (1/2 A, 1/2 B) to either A or B. Clearly, this normative position cannot be explained by the vNM theory. This is sometimes called the Diamond Paradox, since it was originally pointed out in a 1967 article by Peter Diamond. 

You are correct that it is not possible to violate Weak Pareto and Nondictatorship at the same time. But your explanation (second paragraph) is a bit muddled. Here is how I would put it. To prove, "it is not possible to violate Weak Pareto and Nondictatorship at the same time", it suffices to prove: "Any Dictatorship satisfies Weak Pareto." To prove this, suppose F is a social choice rule in which voter i is a dictator. So for any alternatives a and b, if i prefers a over b, then so does the output of rule F. To see that F satisfies weak Pareto, let a and b be social alternatives, and suppose that everyone prefers a over b. Then in particular, i does. Thus, the output of F prefers a over b (because i is a dictator in F). Therefore, F satisfies Weak Pareto. 

There has been some papers and articles put forth from the IMF over the last few years suggesting that Austerity has caused many European economies to drag and not recovery from the great recession as well as they otherwise could have. I pulled the first article I found referencing the IMF research (from Washington post): $URL$ I think the largest concern with respect to expansionary fiscal policy in today's economic climate is the crowd-out effect that huge public debt can have on private investment. Perhaps someone can link a solid paper about that effect. 

Google and Wikipedia are your Friends... BEA was formed at the start of 1972; BEA wiki: $URL$ BLS wiki: $URL$ BLS only does labor market-related things. BEA estimates a variety of macroeconomic indices, the primary one is, of course, the GDP. 

Government behavior/actions play a big role in economics, but economic study certainly isn't constrained by "arbitrary" political forces. As @dismalscience pointed out in his comment, the existence of black markets points towards the drive towards a market-based system no matter the laws or political systems of a given country. Rather than picture economics as a derivative of a set of laws, picture the laws and political systems as being constructs to help shape the underlying economic system (to correct market failures, etc.). The goal and job of those that study economics is to help explain how all of these moving forces interact with one another. Also, in the comments it is asked why we need economic theory to set prices if it is achievable through "common sense." We don't need economic theory necessarily to set the price, but rather to understand why the price is set, what led to a given price, and how might the price change in the future. The example used of grocery store prices was used for simplicity, but certainly you could imagine far more complex economic interactions where a solid economic theory would come in quite useful (think international trade, wall street, the labor market of the EU, etc.). 

To add to the other comments here - when you allow for free trade to prosper countries/regions tend to specialize in what they are good at producing/creating (idea of comparative advantage). This leads to better products created more efficiently. Note that this idea has no care for unemployment rates in certain countries, it simply states that as a whole we are all better off. You may have heard that some people (often unskilled laborers) are "left behind" by globalization, particularly in developed nations such as the US (think auto industry). To think like an economist these people ought to re-appropriate their efforts to developing a skill that is useful in their new environment. However, that isn't always plausible for many people, which is where you can argue that government should step in and help them learn new and useful skills (preferable to protecting an inefficient industry). Protectionism tends to dampen productivity and efficiency thus often leading to inferior goods that cost more to the consumer. 

To answer directly why the slow decay in the ACF is an indication that a series is non-stationary, it is showing that the ratio of γs and γ0 (see below equations) is not approaching 0. The s in γs is what is represented on the x axis on the correlogram. γs and γ0 are represented by: γ0 = σ^2/[1-(α1)^2] γs = σ^2(α1)^s/[1-(α1)^2] 

I would use the Federal Reserve Economic Database (Fred) from the St. Louis Fed: $URL$ I know they have the Lerner Index and the Boone Indicator by country. Just do a search for it and you get a list of various datasets that you can download to excel, csv, etc. Hope that helps!