John Rawls, basically asks to vote as if we didn't know anything about our place in society, i.e to vote from behind a veil of ignorance, when deciding what the fairest political system or distribution of resources should be. Note that John Rawls is not a defender of income redistribution or total equality in a given society. Rawls finds inequality in a society perfectly acceptable, as long as it benefits everyone, including those least advantaged. See Rawls's second principle of justice as fairness. For example, it is acceptable, and maybe even preferable for doctors to be paid more money than most other professions, since this would guarantee that talented people would choose to be doctors, therefore increasing the well being and health of society as whole. 

Show his mystical side, despite his early philosophy being one of the central texts of empirical/positivist thinking that is usually the basis for denial of religious experience. William James in his The Varieties of Religious Experience criticize the positivistic dismissal of religious experiences: 

His main target here is the computational theory of the mind. He is attacking the idea that the brain is equivalent to a Turing machine, by saying that things like intention and meaning cannot be represented by a Turing machine no matter how powerful - I disagree with him, Hofstadter gives a very good account of how intentionality and meaning can arise in formal symbol processing systems in GEB. I also find Searle's Chinese room example to be completely wrong, but that topic is out of scope. 

The human mind is capable of parallel processing and does so on a regular basis. Although language is limited by its structure and gives the impression that we can only process predicates sequentially, if we look at the way we perceive objects in images or process incoming sounds, it is obvious that we can process multiple predicates simultaneously. Indeed Jerry Fodor's language of thought hypothesis was criticized for exactly this reason, that it didn't take into account the parallel processing that humans seemed capable of. 

which sounds very much like a statement made about the Abrahamic God. and "the gods", for example further down, Socrates says: 

A version of your solution to the brain in the vat problem was proposed by Daniel Dennett in the opening chapters of his book "Consciousness Explained" (Chapter 1 - How are hallucinations possible? - Section 1 - The brain in a vat). His reasoning goes like this: 

Kant's things in themselves are more like Non-measurable sets, as opposed to the empty set. The existence of non-measurable sets can be proved, but they can never be "displayed". Mathematicians are typically very careful in making sure that they are working with measurable sets (and more specifically Borel sets) when defining predicate calculuses or probability measures. 

A balance still needs to be struck between human needs and those of the overall ecosystem - the intention is not to provide a modern justification of "go forth and multiply", that would be throwing the baby out with the bath water. This just allows us to avoid going to the other extreme, which is to say that the best way to save the planet is to gradually eliminate humanity all together (There are those who hold this view). 

For Horkheimer and Adorno, "barbaric tendencies" are a consequence of the Enlightenment and the triumph of rational and scientific thinking. Deprived of meaning by the removal of myths and religion, yet provided with awesome technological means through science, human societies have nothing left to do each other than violence and attempts at domination through the tools that reason has provided them with. Reason itself lead to an irrational desire dominate. Horkheimer and Adorno's ideas are dense and complex, besides Marxist theory, they include ideas from Freudian psychology, Nietzsche, social commentary, greek mythology, art and even music theory in their approach. But I will try to give a simplified summary of their thought with regards to your question: 

To answer the question in the title directly, metaphysics and philosophy of mind are the two areas of philosophy that deal with the question of personal identity. (One might argue that philosophy of mind is itself a subfield of metaphysics). The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy has a pretty good entry on the question of personal identity. Also, see these posts for relevant discussion and references: $URL$ , $URL$ How can a stream of thoughts and perceptions have freewill?, and $URL$ And check out Douglas Hofstadter's "I am a Strange Loop". 

Since philosophy literally means "love of wisdom", the trivial answer to your question is: there are no such criteria because philosophy is the search for wisdom. I think what you really mean here is more along the lines: How would someone differentiate philosophy from literature, poetry and from mysticism and religious based wisdom? In this case there is a clear demarcation line: Religious and poetic dispensations of wisdom are always based on a set of starting assumptions (God, revelation, the nature of beauty and truth, ancestral traditions, etc...) which are taken for granted. Their truth is taken as established fact, and no attempt is made to justify or prove them. "Stealing is bad, because God, the river and trees, the ancestors said so,..." Philosophy at least tries to justify and argue for its set of starting assumptions, before moving on to giving the details and implications of these assumptions. Take for example Kantian ethics: Kant puts considerable effort into justifying his categorical imperative, and arrives at conclusions along the lines of"Based on logic I described, if everybody were allowed to steal freely, society would collapse, and therefore stealing is bad." In this sense, philosophy is more of a method, a way of thinking, than a topic. To recap: Philosophy tries to have the least amount of assumptions possible, and tries to argue for the validity of those assumptions using logic and reason, before moving on to dispensing wisdom based on those assumptions. Poetry, Literature, Religion and other such forms of Wisdom don't. Similarly to science what makes a field philosophical or not is based on the method used. 

What is the difference between property dualism and functionalism? Are there any specific points on which property dualism and functionalism are incompatible? More generally, how can we ever differentiate non-reductive physicalist theories and dualist theories? 

Maslow's self-actuaization (what you're calling self-expression) isn't necessarily related to creativity in the strict sense of the word. The guitarist begging for money under the subway tunnel hasn't fulfilled most of the lower needs in the hierarchy, and yet is still doing creative work in the strict sense of the term. Conversely, someone can be doing something very menial and non-creative, like driving a taxi or operating a forklift, and not have a single artistic/creative bone in his body, yet he is "at the top of the hierarchy", experiencing self-actuliztion because of a rich family and community life, and having already achieved all of the other needs in the hierarchy. That being said, it is true that in our current economic system, those who get to use creativity and self-expression in their daily work (or more generally those whose skill set can't be commodified) tend to have already obtained the lower needs in Maslow's hierarchy, and are working on achieving the higher objectives. I don't know where exactly did you get the notion that Marxist ideology holds creative pursuits "as the highest pursuits of the man" ? This seems to fly directly in the face of of Marx's other popular statement "From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs". 

Kuhn also adresses this in his book. Per Kuhn, science has multiple phases (see section 3 of this answer for details), and one of the main phases is the puzzle solving phase, when researchers just spending their time confirming already existing theories by solving minor puzzles, instead of truly questioning them and coming up with new ones. 

If you're placing yourself in the context of evolutionary game theory, then what matters is the utility for the genes and the species, not the utility for the individual. With this in mind, we already see pure altruism in nature: Species, usually insects, where individuals such as worker bees lack reproductive capacity, yet dedicate their lives and even sacrifice themselves for the good of the group. They do so because their genes are 'caring' about the species, not about the individuals themselves. From this perspective, one might explain acts of human pure altruism in the same matter, maybe that's why people are occasionally willing to sacrifice themselves for women and children, or for nations, with no regards to themselves. It's rational from the group or species perspective. 

You can point out to your friend that science is independently testable (verifiable and falsifiable) by different people, hence scientific facts are objective facts. Belief from feelings and emotions are subjective and internal, and there is no way for a outside person to independently verify them. You can also point out to your friend that schizophrenics truly feel the voices in their head, that religious fanatics truly feel that God told them to blow up the unbelievers or the abortion clinic, and that people on drugs truly feel the visions and experiences they have when using. If someone were to use feelings as a valid measure of legitimate belief, then the beliefs I mentioned above are all legitimate. Finally, practitioners of different religions with contradictory beliefs have all reported the same intensity of feeling with regards to their beliefs, so which one is true and which one isn't? 

So my question is: Has anyone of note attempted to dissolve the problems of philosophy of religion using analytic methods? 

This is an interesting question, but ultimately the answer is "No, a non-linear view of time doesn't solve the paradox". Here's why: At the heart of the paradox is the fact of God's omniscience, which presumably includes knowledge of all future events (knowledge of Ghaib includes knowledge of the future). So God's perception of time is already non-linear, and in fact it is this very non-linearity which makes the problems of predestination and evil so paradoxical in the first place. I would argue the other way around, that to remove the paradoxes of predestination and the problem of evil, one has to weaken God's omniscience a little so that his knowledge of the future is limited, and his perception of time is more linear. Or maybe he himself deliberately chooses to limit his knowledge of the future - see Plantinga's freewill defense - because that is the only for there to be true good in the world. But down that path lies blasphemy.... 

Many would argue, including Freud, that the concepts of after life and eternal soul were invented as a response to fear of non existence. People were so traumatized by the idea of non-existence after death, that they invented religion and mythology as a coping mechanism. 

I recently found myself unable to respond to the statement "But the big bang theory is just another creation myth!" during a science vs. religion argument. I found it very difficult to explain the difference between the big bang theory and creation myths without going through a crash course in Newtonian and then Relativistic mechanics. This had me thinking of the following scenario: Consider a person who for various reasons never got a formal education beyond basic reading and writing. He/She doesn't know any science or math, and was never exposed to any scientific reasoning and experiments. She/He is however an open minded, level headed, and rational person (I've met more than one such person myself). How would such a person differentiate science from religion? As far as he/she is concerned science has the exact same structure as religion: 

From another point of view, the question is a metaphysical one. What you need to understand about John Searle's Chinese Room argument and the Philosophical Zombie argument is that they are not technical arguments against Strong AI, but metaphysical ones. What such arguments try to prove is that no matter what a computer or a robot can achieve, it will never have mind, only the appearance of one. John Searle, with his Chinese Room argument, is trying to how that a digital computer can only simulate human intelligence, because it will always lack an understanding of the information that it is processing, it has no way of knowing the meaning of the symbols it processes. He calls this the syntax is not semantics argument. Searle does concede that if we were to produce a biological artificial intelligence (using cloning or some other biological replication technology), such an entity would indeed posses strong AI. Similarly Zombie arguments try to show that something can have all of the outward appearance and behavior of an intelligent human, yet it can still be missing the first person subjective experience that characterizes humans. Such a Zombie would talk and walk like a normal person, but there would be nothing inside that it is experiencing the world or experiencing emotions. Presumably, human like AI would fall into this category of being, and therefore would not be considered to have a real mind. 

I don't know exactly what is considered Canon and what isn't. I would mention Russell's "Mysticism and Logic", "Analysis of Mind" and most of Karl Popper's work is very accessible. 

Yes there is. While some species, including homo sapiens might have developed various selfish behaviors as the best way to propagate their genes, other species have developed altruism and cooperation as the best way to propagate. Think of various hive insects: Worker bees and ants do not reproduce at all, only the queens reproduce in such species. Yet the workers do their best for the survival of the hive. This is a case of evolution leading to completely selfless and altruistic behavior. You say "...bring good to universe other than this?": Like fairness, goodness is a purely human concept. Evolution is a neutral process that doesn't care about good or bad, and as I have shown earlier it can lead to either selfish behavior or altruistic behavior, whichever strategy leads to the most reproduction. One can argue that this is exactly what makes human special: We are the only species that can see beyond the evolutionary imperatives, and lead our lives according to a higher purpose. But only because we can go against evolution, instead of following it. 

More of an extended comment than a full answer. This is an interesting question at one level, but it loses some of its force if one disagrees with the idea that Nietzsche isn't really a philosopher. I can see how his output can be considered poetry or literature, but I disagree with the overall position. "For example, Nietzsche's entire canon is a matter of what is true to Nietzsche - not what is true." This itself is a philosophical position - see Nietzsche's perspectivism. Moreover, his contributions to the study of ethics and values in "Genealogy of Morals" and "Beyond Good and Evil" are definitely philosophical, especially the idea that morals undergo a genetic evolution and have historical basis, more so than any objective nature. His idea of the Will to Power is a continuation of Schopenhauer's Will to Live, and has a definitely philosophical pedigree. So the argument that Nietzsche isn't a philosopher is kind of difficult to maintain, if one sticks to a pseudo-Kuhnian sociological definition of philosophy along the lines of "Philosophy is the activity of professional philosophers". More generally, I think the pendulum swings the other way: Even authors who are considered pure literature or poetry are still considered to have contributed to philosophy. They just did so using a different medium. Think of Voltaire, Dostoyevsky, Lucretius, etc..... 

Although far from agreed upon by all philosophers, DesCartes' cogito - the famous "I think therefore I am" - was a result of him attempting to prove that the universe was not a simulation. He starts out by postulating that everything he sees, hears, feels etc, might not be real, but was actually an illusion created by an evil demon, trying to make humans believe they were part of a real world when they weren't. They didn't have computers or Keanu Reeves in the 17th century, so illusions created by demons has to do in lieu of simulation. The demon could make him doubt that anything he sees is real, or that anything he tastes is real, etc... However, while he can doubt everything else, he can't doubt the fact that he is actually doubting anything. Because doubting that he has the ability to doubt is in itself doubting. So he has established that at least the act of doubting is real. But for there to be doubting there has to be thinking. So thinking is real as well. But there has to be something to do the thinking. So now he has established that the soul (the "I") is real. Hence "I think, therefore I am". DesCartes claims that this proves with certainty that the soul is real and not a simulation (or demonic illusion). Hope this helps.