But again, most of those reasons are very individual- and situation-dependent, so let's look at how the situation could be stabilized with two easy steps. 1. Arm Neo-Switzerland Before real-world conflicts can be resolved by game as a challenge you need someone who can enforce the rules and outcome. Enter Neo-Switzerland and the War-game Accord. Neo-Switzerland is a neutral country with alliances to all. According to the War-game Accord, if anyone attacks Neo-Switzerland, all allies are bound to aid in defense. However, if Neo-Switzerland attempts to expand its borders or raid its neighbors a "punishment" article is activated whereby all signatories are to immediately declare war on Neo-Switzerland. Once Neo-Switzerland is subdued the parties determine appropriate punishments/reparation payments and then re-instate the previous status quo. More on-point to the question at hand, whenever countries (or territories, cities, etc) come to the point of armed conflict they are bound by the War-game Accord to instead send representatives to Neo-Switzerland to play a War-Game. The exact game(s) and rules are decided in Neo-Switzerland and the outcomes are considered binding. As part of the establishment of a War-Game the aggressor nation that initiated the War-Game must provide to Neo-Switzerland an amount of treasure/resources/land deeds that Neo-Switzerland feels constitutes a significant portion of their possible loss up front. The stakes for the losers will also be decided in Neo-Switzerland. If the aggressors lose, the resources will be transferred from them to the defenders. If the defenders lose they have a time limit to provide the aggressors with the land/treasure/resources/assistance outlined in the War-Game compact. What happens when the losers don't like the outcome? Neo-Switzerland takes a 10% share of all War-Game proceeds, which it is bound to put entirely towards their army. Over time, Neo-Switzerland develops a first-rate army. This army is used to enforce the outcome of all War-Games. Note that as a condition of the War-Game Accord, Neo-Switzerland's estimated army strength is never to exceed that of the most powerful nation in the accord. Any funds received that would improve their army beyond that point are sent to Neo-Switzerland's general treasury. 2. A Game to Play There is no reason to materially limit the types of games that could be played. Different nations and backgrounds will have different preferences. For example, in Europe the preferred option may have classically been Chess, where in Asia people may have preferred Go. Other disputes could even be settled by a battle of champions or a coin-toss. To use Chess as an example, it would have been a sufficient tool for a War-Game until recent history. For example, white typically has a slight advantage over black, but pieces can also be removed from the board before the game to handicap one play or another. The amount of the handicap is fairly well known. Since the 1990's however, Chess's fatal flaw is that it is not sufficiently complex to stand up to the capabilities of modern computers, which opens the doors for cheating to an unacceptable degree. Go is a better option because players could be similarly handicapped, though computers are closing in there too. If you do have to use a "standard" game, I would strongly suggest inventing your own game or making it a contest of physical skill. When you invent your own game you can simply state that it is a very complicated, highly strategic game which computers could not hope to beat a person at for 100 years and solve the problem. Physical skill competitions also reduce some opportunity for cheating through knowledge sharing, though as the Olympics clearly show, even there things are not perfect. Though given Neo-Switzerland's neutral nature and significant incentive to provide a fair platform, cheating may be much less likely than we see today. 

Assuming all those things held, then I would say that just harvesting the fluid metallic hydrogen would be worthwhile. The huge compression it's under would make it a very space-efficient source of material for use as a propellant or for use in some sort of controlled reaction process. Also, since Jupiter's (possible) core's construction is unknown, you can make it be anything! Arthur C. Clarke proposed in his novel 2001 that the core was made of diamond, given the high pressure and temperature. We don't really know any better at this point (again, to my knowledge), so you could just go with that. 

In general, bear claws are used more for digging than for actual hunting. As a result they don't tend to be the sharpest claws out there. A monomolecular edge is nice, but unless you're also changing the fundamental shape it's not likely to be the proper claw for either job. I do not expect it to tear through either plate mail or tanks. (Update) I wouldn't be surprised however if, with some sharpening and the right hit, the bear could pierce plate mail. But I think you are really talking about not just piercing, but also tearing for a notable length. That is where I think bear claws are going to fall flat. If you sharpened a lions claws sufficiently (and artificially), then sure... plate armor seems plausible as something the claws could penetrate. Arrows and head-on swords did, after all. Tanks however are another story. Tank armor is a lot thicker than plate mail - much thicker in fact than a lions claw. So it would have to scratch and scratch and scratch to create successively deeper gouges, which I expect would take so much time as to be impractical. I also think that the claws would probably break off by then, regardless of how sharp they are. Here's an interesting gallery for your question - claws from many types of animals. 

No, the Weapon is Not Feasible in Real Life The short story is that any machine that affects gravity on a macro level is simply not feasible. Well, excepting perhaps the case where a very large machine were to be made in space, at which point it may have enough microgravity to help trap some dust... but that's purely a function of the amount of material in the machine, not what it does. We don't conclusively know how gravity works now for any other answer to be possible. At best, if gravitons were real it could perhaps create gravitons and/or anti-gravitons, but doing so would require so much energy and take up so much space* that it couldn't possibly fit into something roughly the size of a large axe. *To clarify the space comment, consider this: to create gravitons/manipulate a gravity field on a macro level the device would undoubtedly consume significant energy. Just to create some particles today we require the momentary output of an entire power plant... and that's just a few particles. For the sheer amount of manipulation that would be necessary the power requirements would be astronomical. Storing that much power would take a lot of area... not just a a slot for a few D-cell batteries (which is about the best-case scenario for what would fit in the axe). Update: Additional Note Another reason this is not possible/feasible is that gravity cannot be manipulated in only one direction. If you were to increase the gravitational attraction to something (or reverse it, somehow) that effect would ripple out in a complete sphere from the device itself. So not only would your opponent be pushed/pulled, you would be too. It's hard to see how a melee weapon that smashes your face into the blade or throws itself from your hands could ever be effective (though it looks hilarious when I imagine the result). 

Gold as a Weight Enhancer (Filler) Gold has one property that could be useful in some hammers - it's relatively heavy. At 19.32g/cm^3, its density is actually higher than lead (11.34g/cm^3) and much higher than steel (8.05g/cm^3). Thus, if a large hammer with a sufficiently sturdy exterior plating were to be filled with gold it could be uncommonly heavy. There might be other ways to achieve the same effect, but none with that same je ne sais quoi. From here, it's an exercise of finding a golden-looking alloy that's sufficiently sturdy to take a pounding so that the exterior of the hammer looks the same as (or close to) the interior. Shalvenay already recommended Titanium Nitride, so I will take the easy way out and suggest the same. 

An Earthquake Followed by a Flood Not knowing anything about the geography of your story is not helpful, but it allows me to take a few liberties. To start with, let's go with the idea that the kingdom is below sea level. Maybe it exists entirely in a large valley, or in a very old crater. Certainly the natural walls around such an area might increase its defensibility. Then, unfortunately, there was an earthquake somewhere that produced a crack in the surrounding earth and allowed a nearby river to drain into it. That river happened to be about as large as the Amazon, flooding the entire basin "overnight" (OK, it took a few days, but every given survivor did lose their home overnight). Outlying (higher elevation) areas were spared, but the great majority of industry and invention happened near the capital, which was at the bottom of the basin. 

Spread Disease Spreading disease directly would be harmful under any subjective scrutiny, but what if each robot simply acquired a habit of "licking sidewalks"? They could simply rub small or concealed areas of their bodies against toilets, whatever dead things they may see on the sidewalk when no-one is looking, uncooked meats, etc. They wouldn't know what/if anything they were carrying, but would become walking reservoirs for a host of diseases. Bonus points if they can then be sure to rub prepared food against that area before they serve it. Double bonus points if the robots in hospitals are in on the scheme. . Destruction of Infrastructure You can do a lot of harm to a human's lifestyle without OVERTLY causing them harm. Here are some examples of ways robots could interfere with human infrastructure that would cause quite a bit of havoc: Disabling Cars - Walking to work won't hurt you (if anything, exercise is good for you), but it may not be possible or pleasurable either. I have a ~45 minute commute to work myself, and I've got to say that having my car not start would be a cramp in my day. Disabling Garbage Collection Vehicles - Similar to above, but more targeted. Life without garbage collection turns into a major problem in any large city very quickly. Disabling Power Plants (unless the robots plug in) - Just a few robots are needed for this. Presumably any power plant has robot workers; simply have them destroy major transformers. People won't die from loss of power, though injury rates may go up and hospital capabilities may go down. Disabling Water Sanitation - Start clogging and destroying water sanitation pipes. No water - or unsanitized water - will very quickly become a major concern for anyone. Disabling Telecommunications - Imagine that you live in the future, where telecommunications / the internet was even more prevalent in your daily life than it is now. Groceries (and most everything else) is ordered online, you probably telecommute to work, etc. Most stores are probably just manufacturing plants or warehouses with garage doors for shipping products, because who needs the expensive store setup when everyone shops online? Suddenly communications go out, everywhere. People need food and goods, but stores are few and far between! For an example of this in today's society, think about renting movies without the Internet now that all the movie rental chains are dead. You can maybe use Redbox, but that's about it... and in the future, not even that. . Disable their Auditory and Visual Centers People have become dependent on robots. They perform household chores, tend to the sick, and perform menial labor. But what if they suddenly couldn't take orders from us anymore? They're not harmed by disabling components of themselves in software that they can restart at any time, but we are. Suddenly our lifestyles that were built around the idea of not having to do chores at home is uprooted. If you had two incomes supporting your house you may find the distraction sufficient that one has to quit for some time, reducing incomes and immediately plunging the world into a recession at best. Entire necessary industries (think garbage collection, sewer management, etc) would come to a halt instantly; the piles of rotting garbage would cause a civil crisis that would undermine civilization as the citizens know it. Bonus points if the robots first destroy all robots NOT made by your evil corporation (killing other robots does not violate the 3 laws).