The authors assume a geocentric universe (first thing that is wrong). They then assume that the planet Mars has the same apparent diameter as a globe 30 yojana in diameter (about 150 miles) in the same orbit as the moon, from a perspective at the centre of the Earth. This is just stated, and appears to be supposition. It is an incorrect figure. It is conceivable that some kind of system for sighting through a pinhole could be used for this estimate. This method tends to over estimate the apparent size of planets. They next claim that the other planets have apparent sizes that would be the same as globes with diameter 37.5 (Saturn), 45 (Mercury) 52.5 (Jupiter) and 60 yojana (Venus). These form an arithmetic sequence with a common difference of 7.5, but apart from that, these values seem to be arbitrary (and are wrong). They might have been based on some kind of pinhole observations, but rounded to a simple sequence for the sake of the poetry or for easier memorisation. There is uncertainty about the ancient value of the yojana. A different conversion to miles will give different values throughout. Using this assumption and the distance already calculated to the moon they calculate the apparent angular diameter of each planet. The actual values they get are wrong, In fact, the angular diameter varies as the planet's distance varies. 

Eclipses occur at full moon, not last quarter. Eclipses take several hours as the moon traverses the Earth's shadow, not a few minutes. Eclipses don't look like the moon becoming a gleaming point of light. In a lunar eclipse the moon becomes a copper colour, as it is illuminated by red light that has passed round the Earth, through our atmosphere. 

There is no real way to decide what it was you saw. There are a couple of points in your report that are odd. You describe it as the same size as stars, but less bright. Stars have no visible size, and have many magnitudes of brightness. Your report suggests that you are someone who doesn't regularly observe the sky, and so is likely to be more susceptible to optical illusions and tricks that eyes can play on us. 

I agree with the comment by StephenG. This is a stuck pixel. As the link suggests, they are a very common flaw in digital cameras, and not an astronomical feature. I think this because it appears, on zooming in, to be a single pixel defect, most light sources even with the best focus, cover more than 1 pixel. The filter you are using is very powerful removing nearly all light. An object would have to be exceptionally bright to be seen through such a filter. If it was real then it would be so bright that when you removed the filter, that one spot would have totally overexposed your image. Since stuck pixels are pretty common, and you might not have noticed them in a picture taken at day, or of a star-field, it is a safe bet that that is the problem. 

A singularity is not a object. it is a time and position at which infinities appear in the solution of general relativity. When you speak of a "non-zero size singularity" I assume you mean a physical object inside a black hole (as could be predicted by some forms of string theory) Such objects are not part of General relativity, which models black holes as a region of spacetime including a point singularity (for a simple black hole) or a ring singularity (for a rotating black hole) These results are consistent with General Relativity and two merging Kerr black holes (which have a ring singularity in GR). They would also be consistent with other models of gravity, including models in which a physical singularity doesn't form. But there is no positive evidence here for there being an object that is a millionth of an angstrom behind the event horizon. I'm not sure what you mean by "binary singularities distanced by a few microns" The amplitude of the gravitational waves detected was much smaller than that, and there is nothing about microns in the linked video. We would not expect the signal to continue to increase in frequency up to 90KHz. A new single event horizon forms at some point, in this case when the gravitational waves have reached about 200Hz. A short "ring down" period follows the merger as a single black hole settles into a new stable state. The objects measured by LIGO are black holes, with an event horizon about 20km in diameter. The measurements at LIGO don't suggest that any object exists inside the black hole. Nothing in these data suggest the objects were the size of electrons. The mass estimates have quite large error bars, for the first Gravitational wave detected, the masses were about 30 solar masses +- 4solar masses, with similar uncertainties in the Schwartzchild radii See the orginal LIGO article $URL$ 

The L4 and L5 points are unstable orbits. The Trojans move in perturbed (ie slightly non-keplerian) orbits that move them around the L4 and L5 points. At any time you will find Trojans in a pair of lobes between about 30 and 90 degrees ahead of Jupiter. You can find individual asteroids using NASA Horizons ephemeris For example 624 Hektor, the largest Trojan (and placed in the Greek Camp around L4) will be found at RA 20 47 54.08, Dec -28 04 20.1 on Feb 10 2018. And 884 Piramus (in the Trojan Camp, L5) will be at RA 10 43 51.39 Dec +01 04 11.3. (Jupiter is between them at RA 15 18 55.32 Dec -17 07 47.1) Neither are easy to find, with a Magnitude of 15 or 16, due to their greater distance than main belt asteroids, and very dark colour. The image below shows the distribution of Trojans around Jupiter. 

In short, no. The reason is that while finding meteorites on Earth is hard, finding them in space is a lot harder. A small asteroid, weighing only a few kg can't be spotted while it is still in space. The first we know of them is when they make their fiery descent. On the other hand, there are some large asteroids that are metallic, such as 16 Psyche, and we have direct images of other large asteroids. Metallic asteroids are relatively rare, and have a higher albedo than stony asteroids, and much more than comets. However they are not shiny balls of metal. After a few billion years in space they absorb 80% of the light that falls on them. 

The various moons are on orbits that are mostly a lot more than 1km apart from other moons. The orbits are stable, so the moons just keep going round Saturn on the same orbit. The moons are far enough apart that they have negligible gravitational influence on other moons. So the moons never get close to each other and don't collide. There are moons, like Daphnis and Atlas that can come with 1000km of each other, but they are very small. No moons come within 1km of each other. There are some exceptions to this: Janus and Epimetheus orbit at nearly the same distance from Saturn. If they stayed like this they would collide within each other within about 4 years. However as one moon starts to catch up with the other, it is pulled forwards, causing it to move out, and slow down. Letting the other moon move inwards and faster. The two moons essentially swap orbits. Although there is only about 50km between the orbits, the two moons never approach closer than 10000km, so are not at any risk of collision. Moon collisions can take place, one theory on the origin of the rings is they they were formed from a moon that broke up, either from a collision or by Saturn's gravity (It's not the most popular or recent theory). Collisions have never been observed, nor are any forecast to occur for as long as we can predict. Of the 62 moons, remember that some of them are extremely small: a few tens of metres across, and there is no clear division between "small moon" and "large clump of ring material" 

While not absolutely impossible this is not a likely situation. The reason is that for a planet to be a "giant", then it will have enough gravity to hold on to its hydrogen and helium. Conversely, if you remove the H an He from a planet, it won't be "giant". There are only two gasses that are common enough in the universe to form a massive gas mantle, and those are Hydrogen and Helium. 

This is like asking "can I spot polar bears from my back garden?" There is nothing that would stop a determined polar bear from coming into my garden, so it is not impossible. But unless you live in Churchill, its probably not going to happen. You can get a radio telescope, and it would be able to receive a sufficiently powerful signal. But detecting alien signals is hard: so far we haven't detected any. Even with big detectors. Can you detect aliens: Yes. Will you detect aliens: Probably not. 

Lists of astronomical objects are called "catalogues" and other answers have already mentioned the NGC catalogue of galaxies and nebulae. However, you asked about quasars and black hole x-ray binaries. For quasars, there are several catalogues. None claim to be complete, as new discoveries happen all the time. The MILLIQUAS catalogue is a compendium of 460,222 type-I QSOs and AGN. It also contains about a million "Quasar candidates". (sources that may be quasars, 80% confidence) For Black hole binaries, the difficulty is proving that the object is indeed a black hole. This usually requires calculating the mass of the accreting object, which is not always easy. The X-ray catalogues are classified by the mass of the normal stellar component. The High Mass x-ray binary catalogue notes objects that are "black hole candidates". It is in no way a definitive list, since no such list exists. 

Polaris consists of multiple stars, α UMi Aa is the main star. It is a supergiant, and a cepheid variable. α UMi Ab and α UMi B are smaller (but still larger than the sun) and both are in orbit with α UMi Aa, (the former is close in, the latter is further out). There are two further stars: α UMi C and D. These stars are thought to have formed before α UMi Aa, and so are not considered to be physically associated with α UMi A. There are other stars that appear nearby, one might be physically associated: J021006.2+891626 J021454.3+890852 are their catalogue numbuers. They are faint, but appear to be the same age as Polaris. In conclusion, Polaris is known to have 3 stars: Aa, Ab and B. The stars C and D are not physically related to Polaris. There may be one or two more stars that are distant dwarfs and may share Polaris's orbit. Reference $URL$ 

Magnification is not the main purpose of a telescope. A very small telescope will have a lower resolution than a larger one, but for larger ones, the atmosphere limits the amount of detail visible. Large telescopes capture more light than small telescopes. More light means that dimmer objects are visible, and there is more light to be analysed. A very dim object, such as a planet orbiting another star, needs a very large mirror to collect enough light to analyse spectroscopically. And this is the reason why larger telescopes are made. Of course larger telescopes cost a lot, and cost is the reason that telescopes like the "Overwhelmingly large telescope" was not built. Much of the development in telescopes in the last 25 years has been not in ever larger mirrors, but in adaptive optics, or using two telescopes together as an interferometric telescope.