From your comment on the original post Slaterio I'm assuming that like me, you're UK based. When putting together my first CV whilst at Uni I was pretty much taught that there is a standard format with a 'personal interests' piece at the bottom. After landing my first job I dropped that section as I came to realise that it is essentially pointless and that the page space could be put to far space when ensuring that your CV exceeds no more than 2 pages at most. IMO your CV is about getting you an interview, as a hiring manager now I can honestly say that when reviewing over 50 CV's for a single post, that I have literally no interest in what an individual does in their spare time. I'm looking for the relevant skills and experience from their qualifications and work history to make a judgement call on whether this candidate has what it takes to do the job. The time for you to demonstrate your personality is at the interview, throughout the interview your general demeanor and personality ought to come across and I'll be able to gauge the team fit from that. I think this is evidenced by the 'larger' companies within the UK many of which no longer accept CV's submissions and instead use their own web based application portal, if you have a scout around you'll notice that within the web form there is no 'personal interests' section for you to complete. I'd concentrate more on making your CV the thing that lands you an interview, ensuring that your experience and skills detailed clearly demonstrate your fit for the job and make you more attractive to the person who's sifting through all those CV's. If you get the traditional and often uncomfortable question 'so tell us a bit about you as a person' within the interview then feel free to talk about the things that matter to you as a person i.e. the interests you have outside of work, whether that be sports/hobbies/family etc. 

As everyone else has pretty much covered you are under no obligation to stay in a job when you have made the decision to leave, and provided you offer the minimum notice period as defined in your contract of employment, or in the event that you haven't technically entered into one (judging from your comments) and they can't evidence one then adhere to your local or national employment legislation. However, you specifically asked 

From someone who's been in exactly the same situation but from the opposite side please let me reassure you firstly that this will pass. I suffered (and friends who have also returned from maternity leave agree) from what I can only describe as 'baby brain' for the first 12 months after we had our child. 'Baby brain' as we refer to it is, is generally caused by having spent the last 6/9 months where the majority of your human contact is spent with someone who makes only gurgle noises and weird faces. The fact that your mind is literally still reeling from the fact that you actually made a tiny little person and that the blob that they start out as quickly turns into an actual tiny person with moods and mannerisms all combine to make them literally your entire world. It follows therefore that you genuinely can't comprehend the possibility that another person won't find your baby's antics as amazing and hysterical as you do. Odds are that she has absolutely no idea that she's a) prattling on incessantly and b) that you really don't care. There's potentially other factors at play, if it's a first child then there's possibly a bit of separation anxiety and guilt on her part that she's at work and might miss some of the major milestones like first word, crawling etc. Talking excessively about baby's antics may be her way of reassuring herself that she's not essentially neglecting her child by coming back to work. I'm honestly not trying to justify it, once this period had passed for me I found it just as annoying when friends went through it so I understand where you're coming from. However I do remember what it was like, so tend to grin and bear it. If waiting it out (honestly this phenomena should pass), isn't an option then you can gently and tactfully try to explain that you have pressing work/deadlines etc. If it's possible, having things like a couple of photos on her desk (maybe as a collective gift from the office) can go a way to giving her the 'constant contact' she's craving. Lastly, once this period of time passes you may find that it's even beneficial. The days where big business client relationships were maintained on the golf course or in members only clubs are fast waning, partially as a result of increased numbers of women as CEO's and in senior management positions. I've traded some pretty funny (to us at least) child related anecdotes with clients (both male and female) before. This has established some common ground with them and makes both sides view each other as human. To the point where meetings can start with a quick 'how are the kids?'. This human side to the relationship can have its benefits when it comes to retaining client loyalty etc. 

Unnecessary interruptions is a pet peeve of mine, a single phonecall or email can cost me and my team about 15/30 minutes depending on how long it takes us to deal with the issue and then get 'into the groove' of whatever it was we were doing. There have been specific studies into just how negatively programmers are affected by interruptions and our team used one by Chris Parnin to persuade management that a change in culture was necessary. The problem is by no means limited to those in development either, a UCL study showed that learning, specifically the ability to retain information, is detrimentally affected by multitasking. If you're reading emails whilst you are doing something that you ought to be committing to memory e.g. whilst in a meeting, reading or reviewing documentation etc. your brain is going to struggle. Tetard's theory on the Fragmentation of Working Time has an interesting diagram that shows a disruption and recovery model that is applicable to any role and shows the productive time lost as a result in a simple format. My team all have an auto respond on our email; 

Unless there are rules regarding when and where you can use the vehicle i.e. you can only use it to commute for work purposes I'd treat this as you would if the damage had occurred anywhere, the fact that it happened in a work car park seems largely irrelevant. If you'd parked the car at a supermarket or in a pay and display public car park and this had happened I'm assuming you'd either ignore it (as suggested in one of the comments) or stump up the contribution? If so, I'd suggest dealing with it in the same way, these things do, unfortunately, happen. I can't imagine that reporting it will result in someone coming forward and admitting to it and is therefore unlikely to yield you any results that positively affect your current position. 

In that case my recommendation would be to enter your current legal forename in the name field, your current legal surname in the surname field and the name you wish to be/are known by into the preferred name field. From your previous questions I'm assuming you're based in the UK, as a minimum employers within the UK have a legal responsibility to ensure that all workers have the right to work within the UK. The GOV.UK website has a comprehensive list of documents that you can provide to evidence your right to work. All of these e.g. passport, birth certificate, UK photocard driving license etc. will all currently show your 'legal name' until it is changed and you can apply to have it changed on all of those. Many employers will also complete more than the minimum checks e.g. identity checks which will likely also require proof of address e.g. recent utility bill or bank statement. The name and surname you provide on the application form will be the ones they use to complete these checks. Therefore ensure you enter into those fields the name that is on your documentation. The preferred name field will indicate that you use a different name for day-to-day purposes and wish to be referred to by this name. The use of a preferred name field is becoming increasingly common across the UK for a number of reasons, supporting gender transition being one of them. I'm not a HR professional, however the above comes from having developed and delivered a national job portal for a part of the civil service so having had current and stringent employment legislation details and requirements drilled into me for the last 6 months. 

It's worth pointing out that we have next to no client contact, however the auto respond can be easily modified to apply to internal email addresses only therefore allowing external email's to be received as normal. If you can get management on-side this approach can be effective, we saw a huge increase in telephone calls for the first couple of weeks but by sticking to the criteria you've set on what is urgent and what is appropriate to you within your remit, deferring the non-urgent correspondence to a set time and educating people on the appropriate resources to self-resolve issues has resulted in a massive drop in the correspondence we receive. We backed up the trial with some metrics showing improved sprint outputs, decreased bugs etc. and now it's a permanent feature for our team. 

Whilst these sort of questions would be considered illegal in many countries, the UK included there are certain instances whereby exceptions are made based on the organisation or sector e.g. jobs in certain government organisations etc. At one point in my career I've had to undergo an extensive and invasive security screening process which included credit checking, drugs testing etc and a lengthy final interview whereby political viewpoints and my personal stance on various conflicts were discussed. Whilst in this instance the responses were unlikely to have any serious consequences such as being reported to a security agency, it was entirely possible that what was perceived as a 'potential risk factor' would result in security clearance not being granted and therefore not being successful in getting the job. I personally wouldn't try to make my answers suit the organisation, not out of a moral objection, but because since the January Revolution there has been an almost continual state of unrest with further protests and a coup d'état. Who's to say that the organisations views which you may align yourself to for the purposes of the interview won't be dramatically unpopular and compromise you later. If at all possible to politely decline the question with something along the lines of 'I prefer not to discuss politics, however I can assure you that my personal viewpoints will not affect my ability to perform the role effectively'. If it's not possible to avoid the question (as it wasn't for me when I was faced with it) then I see only a couple of options available; 

Yes it is correct to feel competitive, however it isn't a bad thing. The simple fact is that there is always going to be someone out there who is better than you in some respect, and there is always room for you to develop. As Thihara has commented, this can be a positive thing. If you've previously been seen as the 'expert' and your position or standing has now been usurped by the newcomer then it's perhaps an indicator that you've lapsed somewhat in your personal and professional development. Use what you're feeling as the impetus to improve. You haven't mentioned how your relationship with this individual is, but if it's cordial or better, why not see if they'd be willing to act as a workplace mentor? Otherwise educate yourself through reading, courses etc. to improve those area's you've identified as lacking compared to your colleague. Similarly, using his output; whether that be presentations/documentation/code etc as a quality benchmark for yourself isn't a bad thing. Particularly if you've not set yourself quality standards so to speak previously. Your question doesn't indicate what I'd consider to be a legitimate reason to be stressed i.e. you've not mentioned that anyone else is judging you poorly or that you're under pressure from those above. In which case the stress is likely of your own doing, whilst it's easy to say and harder to do, you need to nip this mentality in the bud. It'll likely only negatively effect your work and performance and possibly invite criticism that isn't currently there. In short, competitiveness can be and generally is a good thing and drives people to improve. However, unless there's a valid reason that you've not mentioned in your question then there's no need to let it effect you negatively. 

Doing some independent research on places such as glassdoor can be useful, however it's worth noting that many people will readily share negative experiences whist positive feedback is generally less forthcoming. I know it's mentioned time and again but remember an interview works both ways, you're both deciding whether you want the other. On a couple of occasions if I've been invited to an interview but am unsure about the company, it's ethos/working environment etc. I've asked to spend an hour/half a day etc. whatever works for you and them with the team you'd be working with should you be successful. Spending the time with the team rather than the management should give you the opportunity to diplomatically find out from them what opportunities are offered and what the company is like to work for. 

In an nutshell, no. I won first prize at a fancy dress party last year and my pub quiz team generally places in the top 3 each week but I'm not going to include it on my CV as it's utterly irrelevant to the person that's reading it. Other people have already mentioned that a CV should not exceed more than 2 pages and provided links to questions that detail exactly why this is the case so no need to hash over that again. However I think a point you need to consider is what purpose does your CV serve? It's my personal view that it is to sell yourself well enough through demonstrating the qualifications and experience to fulfill the role you're applying for. I've worked with professionals before who have worked in the industry for over 20 years and due to the various experiences and roles struggle to comply with the '2 page rule'. As a result they tailor their CV for specific roles to ensure that the content specifically applies to the post they're applying for. If you don't have much work experience under your belt then it is tempting to 'bulk out' the CV with awards and academic achievements. This is acceptable to some degree, but I'd want to read about those that demonstrate skills that are transferable to the workplace. If you've participated in opensource projects or university projects that allowed you to apply the theoretical knowledge you've gained through academia then tell me about those and be prepared to provide more detail in an interview. 

Posted as a response to your edit. Unfortunately for you, I think it's very unlikely that HR are going to make such a change on the basis of one individuals objection to a very specific thing. It's more of a pet peeve than anything else given that you've mentioned the office is not noisy it's just this particular issue. In addition, plastic cutlery and crockery won't stand up to the test of time and will likely need replacing on a regular basis, is this a recurring cost the organisation is willing to accept? Again it's unlikely given that a current provision of materials is already in place and works well for the majority. I think the that @TrueDub's suggestion is the best approach for you to take on this one, in some instances it's best to change your own behavior than enforce s standard upon the majority. 

In the UK there's a somewhat common misconception that it is illegal to provide a bad reference. Whilst not strictly true, it does leave the company open to litigation under Workers Right's legislation. There's limited information on the GOV.UK website on options available to you if it causes you loss e.g. a job offer being withdrawn. As you've stated, most UK recruiters will want the last 2 or 3 employers as references. If this is the case, then being up-front and honest about the circumstances under which you left your previous post will prepare them for a less than glowing reference or a refusal to provide a reference from your previous employer. If you're performing well in your current role and there are no problems then your current reference should be positive. If they only ask for 2 and you have sufficient work history offer to provide a 3rd reference from your employer previous to the job you left under bad terms. Explain that you don't feel that your previous employers reference, due to the circumstances you've already explained, will provide a genuine reflection of your performance and work ethic and you can provide additional references that indicate this. 

It isn't clear whether you've actually tried to tender your resignation yet or just discuss it. Regardless, when you actually want to submit your notice ensure it is in writing and also that it is submitted to multiple people (to prevent any potential recriminations along the lines of 'I never received it' from your manager). If I were in your position I'd submit it to your manager, their manager and the HR Manager you've already had contact with regarding this matter. It may be overkill but it's perhaps worth considering using registered or signed-for mail so you can evidence receipt or possibly attach it to an email and ensure you get a read receipt. It's perhaps the cynic in me that would want to cover my own back in being able to evidence that I submitted my resignation and offered the necessary notice period as defined by either a signed contract or law.