Example on how to use- I went to the gym today and benched 300 pounds for 5 repetitions so i apply the formula 5 reps- 1.15 x 300 pounds = 345 pounds for my one rep maximum 

you can find all these on bodybuilding.com under the store tab. They are great supplements, dont let anyone tell you, 'you need super 9000 creatine or nitro monster beast supplement'. The supplements i posted have been tested by consumer labs for purity and effectiveness. Plus they will last for a looooong time theres so many servings and cheap. How to use the supplements 

None really if your eating 5 times a day and getting enough protein. but HERE is a list of great supplements that help 

Take a zip lock bag and 4 tablespoons of baking soda. Put gloves into bag after workout and shake it like a paint mixer. Well bacteria thrives off of your sweat so baking soda will absorb the moisture and stop the stink. Oh and i forgot but another way is to throw your gloves into the freezer it will kill the bacteria that causes the stink. 

Before I show you my photos taken from different angles, I want to explain how I train. Biological informations AND Diseases I'm a 22.5yo male, 1.70m (67 inches), I think I'm between [20 ; 25]% BF. I think I have a pelvic anteversion. From June, 2017 to April, 2018, I suffered from sevear chronic insomnias (<5 hours, quite often 2 sleep hours). Since April, 2018, these insomnias are mostly cured. I think I have a gymnecomastia (since a lot of years and I believe it's due to hormones). Training dates Before september 2018, I trained all muscles (excepted back in thickness and lumbars) only with small weights (<= 20kg 44lb) during several months spaced by pauses of several months... Well I don't think these weird periods are actually important to take account. I seriously began musculation 9 months ago (i.e. : since september, 2018). Food Since I was 19, I always payed attention in excluding sodas and sweet things. From september to 1st may, 2018, I think I didn't eat I haven't eaten enough proteins for example (only 2 eggs per day whereas I eat 4 now). After 1st may, 2018, a typical day is : 

For fat loss and maximum muscle gain you will have to do compound exercises 3-4 times a week combined with proper nutrition. Have a look at this exercise $URL$ You can also do the following exercises with dumbbells however you might need some more dumbbells with different weights to target different muscles of your body. 

I have been going to the gym on and off for 18 years and I agree with you. I have seen it all and some of the exercises they doing are out right dangerous but the last thing I want to do is to hurt a person's ego specially in a gym. You don't know what they are going through and what is in their mind and what repercussion it might have when you point out mistake.So the best possible way is to learn from their mistakes, do not repeat while you are exercising and yes silence is gold. 

Clap push-ups In this exercise you assume the push-up position, then performs a push-up in an explosive manner, launching your upper body off the ground to a height where the participant has time to clap their hands together then place their hands back on the ground in the original start position. In this exercise the participant continues to perform repetitions until there is a loss in technique. Power push-ups from a kneeling position In this exercise the participant kneels on the ground with their body vertical and their spine in the neutral position, the participant then falls forwards (keeping the spine in the neutral position) placing their hands on the ground in the push-up position, then explosively performs a push-up, pushing their body back to the original start position.In this exercise the participant keeps performing repetitions until the participant can no longer push themselves back to the start position or until there is a loss in technique. Bench-Press throw In this exercise the participant sets up a Smith-Machine as if to do a regular Bench-Press, the participant then unlocks the bar and lowers the bar to the chest at a rapid pace then explosively pushes the bar into the air (and out of the hands), attempting to achieve as much height with the bar as possible, then catching the bar. Increasing the weight of the bar will result in a loss of speed and height, each time you increase the weight of the bar, your 2 main objectives will be to work on the speed component and work towards achieving the same height reached with the previous lighter weight. If the weight is too heavy there will be a noticeable loss in speed, height and technique. Horizontal push-press In this exercise the participant holds a BB at chest height while standing in a shoulder-width stance. 1) The participant then explosively drives the BB horizontally while at the same time driving the left foot forwards and the right foot backwards into a fighting stance. 2) The participant then explosively pulls the bar back into the chest while at the same time explosively returning the feet to a shoulder-width stance. 3) The participant again explosively drives the bar horizontally this time the right foot is driven forwards and the left foot is driven backwards into a fighting stance. 4) This sequence is repeated again and again In this exercise the participant either works for maximal reps (power endurance), stopping when there is a loss in technique, or works towards a set rep range. Increasing the weight of the BB will result in a loss in speed, the participant will also find it harder to be able to continually keep the bar at chest height as gravity is constantly pulling the bar in a downwards direction. Each time you increase the weight of the BB your objective will be to work on the speed component while keeping immaculate technique, if the additional weight is too heavy, there will be a noticeable loss in speed and technique Measuring your power out put Throwing a shot put in the same manner in which you would throw a punch is a great means to measure your punching power, if the distance that you are throwing the shot put is increasing and you are still able to hold good form, then your punching power must also be increasing. Throwing a shot put in the same manner in which you would throw a punch is also a great exercise to develop your maximal power in the same manner you would use a 1RM in the gym for strength training. In this exercise the participant adopts an orthodox-fighting stance and holds the shot put in their right hand, resting the shot put against their cheek. The participant then explosively throws the shot put as if they were throwing a right cross from a standing position, rotating their upper body anti-clockwise, throwing their right shoulder forwards while pulling their left shoulder backwards. It is important that the technique used to throw the shot put is the same as the technique used to throw a right cross. To keep the exercise simplistic and effective, keep your feet stationary and don’t use any unnecessary momentum to assist you in throwing the shot put. The same exercise is then repeated off the opposite side of the body, using the left hand to throw the shot put as if throwing a left cross from a southpaw fighting stance. Shot puts come in a range of sizes going from 2kg to 8kg in 1kg increments. Start with a 2kg shot put which is approximately six times the weight of a 12- oz boxing glove, as the 2kg shot put is considerably heavier than a 12oz boxing glove, there will be a considerable loss of speed at which the shot put is thrown compared to the speed at which a right cross is thrown with a 12oz boxing glove on. Initially your objective is to work on the speed component while keeping immaculate technique, if the speed at which you throw the shot put increases then your throwing distance will increase which inturn means that your power output has also increased. Each time you go onto a heavier shot put, your training goal will be to work towards achieving the same distance thrown with the previous lighter shot put, if the shot put is too heavy there will be a noticeable loss in technique and speed and distance. 

Just do a google "image search" of the above exercises and you will be able to understand how it performed. Combine the above exercises with any kettlebell movement with high intensity and you have a perfect combination for fat loss and muscle gain. Remember when it comes to weigh loss,gym is only 30% rest is nutrition. 

I will recommend doing pyramid training with the weights i.e. Do 8-10 reps of flys with 30 kgs ( or whatever you are comfortable with). After that with no rest pick 20 kgs dumbbell and try doing 8-10 reps, then move to 15 kgs and so forth till you get to 1 kgs dumbbell and you can't do any further. If this is too easy drop off weights by 2 kgs every set and focus on form and perform each rep slowly with full control and balance. Not only you will feel the real burn in your muscles but you will quickly build strength and definition. 

Are these formulas close to every ones one rep max on varies exercises? and I would like to know how accurate this is for everyone and if you have anything better? Formulas to find your one rep max (or 1rm) 

If you tend to carry your weight only around your midsection, you may lose weight more effectively by cutting back somewhat on carbohydrates, especially the highly processed or sugary carbohydrates. If you tend to carry your extra weight more uniformly, cutting back on overall calories is the best approach, and reducing fat intake is the easiest way to cut calories. Ive been reading a few recent studies, one of them show that when a majority of calories are consumed in the p.m. that there test subjects lost more bodyfat than the a.m. test group. They also tested exercises with the test group in the pm and am, the second part of the results show it's better to work out in the p.m. This other study showed eating all your carbs before 12pm had a big impact on body fat. Breaking up your meals to 5 times a day is also important, it boosts your metabolism and it helps burn calories through thermogenesis So i suggest eating 5 times a day. 50% protein(lean cuts and eggs) 40% carbs (vegetables) and 10% fat. No wheat, potatoes, beer, fried foods or sugar. eating most of your carbs in the morning time. You also need to reduce carbs if most of your weight is in your mid section or lower calories if your body fat is mostly evenly spread through out. Calories should be around 15x body weight if your trying to loss weight and your on a strength workout program like i wrote or it should be around 13-14x body weight if your body fat is spread evenly through out. Lastly it really doesnt matter much when you time your meals around your workouts as long as your eating 5 times a day. I never worry about timing around workouts and i gain muscle and strength fine cause your always moving food thru your gut. Leave me a comment if this is'nt what your looking for. 

Yoga has a more holistic approach to good health and well being. Its mind,body and soul and there are no specific program or ideology behind it.Do it as long as you are happy to do and you can physically do it. For example Sukhasana or shavasana are more to do with meditation, relaxation and has a calming effect on your body. If you are too stressed out or suffer from anxietypanic attack than you can do it 3-4 times a day or whatever you are comfortable with. It's a lifestyle rather than a exercise program. If you can start your day with Suryanamaskar then nothing like it, also try to repeat the whole suryanamaskar cycle 10 times a day and keep on increasing the cycle. Focus on your breathing,unplug your mind from the daily chaos and practice it daily. 

Bench press with Lat chest pulldown Inclined press with Cable row Unilateral Cable crossover at low pulley with < something e.g. Side raise > 

40 sec + 20 sec = 1 min, so the time under tension is 1 min, realized with a great load (because it hurts me from 40 sec). These both constraints imply a great mechanical stress. From 40 sec, my weights hurt me and I use supersets : it implies a great hormonal stress. Obviously, I have congestion : metabolic stress 

For any exercise AND for hypertrophy and/or nervous system, is there any benefit to make a pause at the maximum of the contraction ? Consider my training. 

Almost always no coffee nor tea. My training Supersets I always used supersets, in each of my workouts. For example, bench press + lat chest pulldown. These supersets, however, defer from what we commonly understand by "superset" (according to the moment of the workout of a given day) : on monday, at the end of my workout, I do Low pulley cross-over in "superset" with Side raises. Choice of the weights AND Realization of the movements Since Septembre, 2018, I can't tell you with accuracy how I chose the weights and how I realized the movements. Since approximately March, 2018, I followed this protocol : 

Dumbbell Bench Press Bent Over Dumbbell row Dumbbell Flyes Arnold Dumbbell Press Dumbbell Alternate Curls Dumbbell Alternate Hammer Curls Dumbbell Squats Dumbbell Lunges Dumbbell Romanian lunges Dumbbell Shrugs 

By the looks of it you are doing pretty good for yourself and yes age is on your side. If you have mental strength and strong will power that go for it. Remember you are young only once so try it as hard as possible. Train with proper plan and vision, focus is the key. Put on some kickass motivational music of your preference and practice hard, also get involved in some kind of strength exercises as 15 weeks is long enough to take your fitness and stamina to a new level. Also lot of people don't know much about proper nutrition and recovery so start gaining some knowledge about it. Whether you run this one or run till you are 80 these insights and knowledge will help in the longer run (pun :P). If you want to master it think like an athlete and eat like an athlete. 

Finally, my training is extremely complete. But within my 40 sec and within my 20 sec of work, I realized that doing pauses at the maximum of the contraction (I'm used to do it - NOTE that I'm not speaking about my rest-pauses !) impede me from doing [5 ; 7] repetitions. If I don't do any pause (not speaking about rest-pauses !) these [5 ; 7] repetitions are done without great difficulty (i.e. : without hurt). Thus, stopping from doing pauses at the maximum of the contraction implies a possible augmentation of the weights, since the used ones don't hurt me anymore. Otherwise, I would exceed my time under tension of 1 min and that's not good (i.e. : I don't want to use the energy chain of slow fibres). My question Would you recommend me to stop doing pauses at the maximum of the contraction (NOTE that I'm not speaking about my rest-pauses !) in order to allow me to augment my weights ? In other words : is there any benefit to make a pause at the maximum of the contraction that would deencourages me from stoping such a pause ? This benefit could be on hypertrophy or nervous system. Would you recommend me a periodization of that, i.e. : doing pauses at maximum of the contraction on Monday for an exercise A, and not on Thursday for this exercise A ?