While the strength of a skill may fade with time, generally skills don't disappear completely - you either have the skill or you don't. It doesn't matter if you currently use that skill or not. In my experience, skill-based resumes are written in the present tense. If you find yourself agonizing over a skill that was used so long in the past you wouldn't know how to do it any longer, that's a sign that you should leave it off your resume. 

Customer support for non-technical users can be a challenge if you haven't thought out the situation from their end. Some companies provide support folks with a script, using language that is comfortable to the users. Think of the cable company - "Is your television turned on? Is your cable modem plugged in? How many lights do you see on now? ..."). You could do the same. Some companies ask for screenshots. In some cases, that can help in the problem debugging. Some companies provide software that aids in customer support. For example, you could install remote-support software on their machines, guide the end user in granting permission to "take over" their computer, then you can see the problems and get the answers yourself. If using Windows 7, the Problem Step Recorder can be very handing for this type of situation. Some companies have their end users ship the laptop back and swap it out with another while they are fixing problems. 

Body language. You've probably noticed that you have more information conveyed to you when you talk to someone in person, rather than on the phone. The look on their face, the tilt of their head, the shaking or nodding their head - these all indicate what the person is thinking as much as their words do. This is what employers are trying to gain (at least to some extent) by using video rather than just phone calls. 

You can avoid burning bridges as best you can by giving plenty of notice to your current company, and letting folks know that you have gotten an offer "that is too good to turn down". People understand that. In my experience, I've been able to leave on a good note in similar circumstances. "Acceptable reason to leave" is in the eye of the beholder. Some will understand. A few won't. Not much you can do about it. 

No. That would be misleading at best, and a lie at worst. A reference check or background check would show the mismatch and could be embarrassing. 

Indicating that it is negotiable is often a good thing to do. A company doesn't want to offer too little or too much. But a company also doesn't want to waste time with someone who is clearly outside of their budget. I don't think you did anything wrong if you truly feel you are worth 20% more and don't want to settle for much less. On the other hand, perhaps that most important factor isn't the salary, and instead the possibility of working less than 60 hours per week is your most important requirement. In that case, you may indeed want to settle for less. And in that case, asking for 20% more may have been a mistake. Instead, you may have been better advised to emphasize that the hours (or working environment, etc) are more important, then seeing what offer you got. For future negotiations, go in with a clear understanding of the importance of all the work variables - both financial and non-financial. Then you'll be able to weight them effectively, and get what make you happiest. 

Agreed. That would be cheesy. If you aren't willing to use a personal day for this event, don't ask for compensation from the new company. 

Since she came back with a salary that is lower than you specified, I'd politely tell her to stay out of the discussion and stay out of your way. As @SierraMountainTech correctly points out, there's no need to burn bridges with this recruiter. But you still shouldn't let her block your path to success. I'd bypass her and go directly to the company and negotiate on my own behalf. And if the company really has "already decided" and cannot meet my needs, I'd decline the offer and move on. 

I've tried several versions of knowledgebases using wikis, SharePoint, Lotus Notes, etc. They were all successful to different extents. 

If they ask you your strengths and you say something like "I have played basketball at state level", there are some obvious questions that could come up: 

Apparently, you should finish your current project, then stay home. You should strive to finish "before the end of the period", as a decent recommendation from your boss might come in handy. You should ask your boss if there is any knowledge transfer you could provide that will benefit the department. And you should ask if there is documentation that you could write which could be helpful. And if for some reason you haven't already started your job search, you should jump into that full bore. Finding your next job (and in particular, one that fits your personal needs) is now your #1 priority above all else. As I suggested before, you should seek out support groups who could help you in finding suitable employment, despite your condition. 

This is not something I would ever advise someone to do in my locale (the US). Where I live you will almost certainly lose your non-union job, and you will very likely lose your professional reputation. Perhaps in your locale and your contract this won't be the case, or perhaps you don't care. 

So far, nobody has answered this part of your question, so I'll give it a shot. No - not all companies are like this. Most of the companies I've worked for (and with) have a strong sense of teamwork. Where I work now, there's a very good sense of "we are all in this together" and "how can I help?" Much of my background is with smaller companies, and startups. Almost without exception they were higher-teamwork shops, perhaps out of necessity. I have worked for a few much larger companies, and I do see less teamwork. But I can't say for sure that company size is a defining attribute here. It may be - I just don't have enough data points to decide. So, If you think all companies are "like this", then I suspect we have never worked together, otherwise you would already know the answer (No). 

It's not a waste of time to send in your resume, if you feel that you are qualified for the job posted (or for a potential job if one isn't specifically posted). Unfortunately, there's no magic way to ensure you will get past an HR agent. But there are general techniques that give you a good chance 

You should proceed with the change per the client's requests. Apparently the client wants this modification. And apparently your manager agrees. It seems that he's willing to absorb the technical impact in order to make the client happy. There's no use explaining it again, unless you don't think your manager understood you even though you clearly explained it (it seems he did understand but doesn't agree). Clearly, your manager is the one that gets to decide what is unnecessary here, not you. Once the client's request is met, you might want to find a quiet time for a discussion with your manager. Your goal for such a discussion should not be to convince your manager that you were right. Instead, your goal should be to ask your manager about the decision, so that you better understand the client request process at your company. Clearly there are things about the clients that you don't understand. 

Whenever you are unclear about any aspect of any job, talk with your boss. Explain what seems to be happening from your point of view and ask for suggestions about how to correct it. Then, act on those suggestions. You seem to imply that your boss is getting impatient with you, and that somehow she expects you to already have absorbed all these "vaguely-defined" rules, nuances and boundaries. But seemingly you aren't there yet. Talk with her about what she actually expects you to do, particularly when you aren't sure if you have absorbed all the details yet. Perhaps you need to be studying more, or asking more questions before acting, or something else. Hopefully, your boss will tell you and help you succeed. 

Probably. It's possible that this particular company will play the back-and-forth game a few more times and offer you yet another job. But no company I know of would do that. 

It sounds like this isn't the right job/company for you. While you can ask to only work in-house, if it's the kinds of company you eventually found out about, I'd doubt they have much (if any) in-house work. Ask anyway. Be prepared to find a new job elsewhere. 

I have always felt obligated to convey my best professional estimate, even when the schedule was imposed on me. If my estimate and the required schedule don't match (and scope is fixed, and no additional help is available), then I ask for help prioritizing tasks. Basically I say "I will give these tasks my best efforts. Still my professional opinion is that they cannot all be completed in the time allotted. Which tasks should be at the bottom of the list, so that if I run out of time these are the ones that won't get done?" Then I let my manager (and potentially the business) decide how best to mitigate the schedule risk, with my help. In the end all you can do is your best within the time available. 

Titles are clearly important to you, so it makes sense to bring it up - just as it makes sense to discuss and clarify any other important aspects of your new job before you accept. But before you ask the prospective employer to change it, make sure you understand how you intend to react if they don't agree to the change. If it's terribly important, than express it as a deal-breaker, and be prepared to move on. If you can live with the existing title then ask for the change, but be prepared to accept the existing title. I've found over the years that overall, titles tend to seem more important to the individual holding them than to prospective employers. A hard-earned "Programmer II" title may be very meaningful to the person who worked their way up from "Programmer I", but conveys little information to the hiring manager in a company which uses a different title structure. Similarly, "Senior Software Engineer" at some companies means that you've been there a while, yet at other companies, it means a distinctly different set of skills and responsibilities than "Software Engineer". Most (but admittedly not all) hiring managers and recruiters understand this. While there is the inevitable unconscious appeal to hiring someone with current title that exactly matches the title of the position you are trying to fill, most hiring managers can overcome this. Most will look at your resume to see if the tasks and responsibilities you list match the role they are filling - even when the title doesn't match. Also remember that titles are subject to change, and not under your control. When my small company was acquired by a very large company, everyone's title was changed from "xxx Engineer" to "xxx Analyst" - yet their roles and responsibilities remained the same as before. Oh well. I know some folks who choose to put a different title on their resume than the one they actually held within a company. In their case, they chose a title that they felt wasn't misleading, but gave the more correct impression of what they actually did (for example, no Developers put down a title of Senior Vice President, or anything like that). It's a bit of a risky move, since if the interviewer determines that the title's don't match, you've got some explaining to do. I don't think it affected them negatively in these case, but I don't actually know for sure. So ask if they can change the title for you. But be prepared and ready for your next step in case they decide not to do so. You can only know their reaction by asking. 

You can't ensure the boss will vouch for you without someone talking to the boss. If your fiance is so worried, have him talk to his boss about it and get agreement without making it a big deal. Get verbal or written agreement before you start. Otherwise, just do the work and chalk it up to an unreciprocated favor to your fiance. 

Since you don't have a definite date in mind yet, your only real choice is to have the meeting with your Managing Director, and keep your future plans to yourself until the dates and plans are absolutely clear. It's possible the meeting will yield something interesting that might delay (or even change) your self-employment plans. Perhaps a new position has opened up, perhaps there is now a viable future that you will want. More likely, it will just be a general "let's talk about stuff" periodic discussion. Whenever you come up with an actual date for your departure, you will of course give the standard notice. And if you leave very soon, you can always say something along the lines of "I'm sorry I couldn't be more open about this earlier, but I'm sure you understand that these sorts of things change rapidly." This type of bad timing situation happens now and then. If you tell them soon after you know your definite timeline, and you handle your notice period professionally, they will almost certainly understand. While it is awkward for you to have this discussion with your Managing Director now, this is one of those professional situations that occur from time to time. You cannot really announce "I'm going to leave soon, but I don't really know when." What if your plans change and you decide that you really want to stay? Don't sweat it. Be "conservative with the truth" here. Treat this meeting as you would have treated it before you started your mental self-employment planning. 

Your company pays you in line with how they value you and your position. It sounds like you reluctantly accepted this position, even while feeling that you were underpaid. Now you have been there for 2 years and feel like you have been getting raises that haven't brought you up to the level you believed you deserve. Most likely, your mental calculations for the value of this position don't match the company's actual value. It's possible you are near the top of the pay scale for your salary grade, and thus (despite a great review), you aren't entitled to a big raise. You could speak with your boss about this. "Boss, I feel like my position is worth more than you are paying me, and here's why". You should then list reasons why this position adds significant value to the department and the company. You could also approach this as a question about how to get more. "Boss, I was disappointed in my last raise. What can I do to get a better raise next time?" You might discuss how you can provide more value, or how you can be promoted to a higher pay scale. In either case, be prepared for an answer that basically says (in a nice way), "We don't think you are worth as much as you think you are worth." Remember, just because you feel underpaid is not necessarily a good reason for the company to give you a big raise. If you have leverage (for example, if you are in a position where few others could replace you), you may be able to command a raise, but in reality few are in such a position. 

It could. Employers usually don't like to see someone accept a job then jump to a new job quickly. It makes them worry that you'll do it again (to them). On the other hand, some employers understand that new graduates don't have enough experience to know what they "really" want and that these kinds of things happen. 

When the person shows up for work, ask a subset of the same interview questions and make sure the new answers match the old. Also ask a follow-on question to one of the original questions. I've done this in the past with phone screens when it seemed "iffy". I have a few offbeat questions that I ask, and I write down all of their answers. Then when the person shows up in the office, I ask some of those questions, and follow up - "So when I asked you X, you had an interesting answer. Can you tell me more?" Then I let them talk. Only once was it clear that either this person in front of me wasn't the same person I talked with on the phone, or had completely forgotten everything they knew before. And of course this person was dismissed and the agency was immediately notified. Perhaps because we got a reputation, it never happened again.