I tried the GoPro for a while and there were several things I didn't like about it, or where I felt it fell short. I'm now looking at buying one of the "tough" cameras produced by almost all of the major camera manufacturers which have several advantages over something like the GoPro or the ATC3K. Things I didn't like about the GoPro are... - The weight on my head when used on the helmet (could cause my helmet to shift). - No screen, so you can only review footage once transferred to the computer. Transferring also takes a long time. You can get an add-on screen now, but this will add bulk and weight. - No zoom, so for instance the wide angle cannot even show red-light runners, as the lights on the far side of the intersection (perpendicular to my direction), are too far away to show up on the video. - Menus are difficult to use and you have to remember the abbreviations they use. - The square shape is bulky. I didn't try it strapped to my arm because it would be too uncomfortable whilst cycling. - The handlebar mounts are kind of bulky and can be fiddly to fit. - It interfered with my wireless speedo when mounted right next to it (the speedo numbers went haywire). - Enclosure can fog up requiring the purchase of, and fiddling with, anti-fog inserts. Olympus, Panasonic, Sony, Canon, Nikon, Fuji and Toshiba all produce "tough" cameras that are resistant to water, shock, dust and so on to varying degrees. Of course the models vary but typically they have these advantages over the GoPro or ATC3K 

I had a similar experience, a few months ago, with a Mavic Open Sport rim laced to a Shimano 105 hub. It's a decent wheel and I am using it for my daily commute. This particular wheel was built by a machine, though, and not a human. Some wheels are built by people, some are built by robots. Robots that build wheels, alas, have precious little experience riding bicycles--they really aren't thinking about what they're doing while they do it. Sometimes their wheels just aren't as good as those built by a human wheel-builder. My LBS, where I bought the wheel, had nothing to do with this wheel's assembly. When I took the wheel in after about 300km of riding--with not just three loose spokes but two BROKEN spokes--they were very helpful and promptly replaced the spokes, retensioning the wheel. It happened again 50km later. They replaced the wheel under the wheel manufactuer's WARRANTY. 

If you are decellerating so quickly that you feel like your body may move forward, you should consider applying the brakes more gradually. No one is going to get impatient if it takes you five seconds instead of three to slow down. Slow down slowly enough that you can safely signal your intention. No sane motorist really wants to hit you. If they know what you are doing, they should respond in order to avoid damage to their expensive car (if nothing else--if they hit me, I'm going to definitely scratch that paint and I am uninsured). When in a situation where you must apply the brake rapidly while signalling, learn to assume a lower body position when you do this. On a commuter bike with riser bars, this would mean signalling with one arm while moving your head and shoulders down and bending the other arm. Use the non-signalling arm as a shock-absorber while maintaining control of your bicycle. This may sound like a challenge, but with a little practice it will come naturally. 

If the quick release hub is truly a 9 or 10mm quick release hub then no. The diameter of the internal hole where the spindle goes through on these hubs will not accept anything larger than about a 5mm spindle, which means it is not possible to use them with a 15mm spindle that threads into the fork or frame. 

Through-axle hubs have a larger inner diameter to accept a 15mm or in some cases 20mm spindle, so many of them can be purchased with adapters that accept a 5mm spindle and fit in a 9/10mm dropout (QR usually have a 5mm spindle and fit a 9/10mm dropout). For example Hope have conversion kits for their hubs that allow you to use their hubs with an older quick release (QR) fork $URL$ 

You should secure the cassette lockring removal tool with the quick release skewer or axle bolt, just enough to hold it in place (although some removal tools don't have a hole in the middle for you to do this). This means you can use more force without fear of the tool slipping. Then use a long handled wrench (spanner) and chain whip. A box-end wrench (ring spanner) will give you more purchase. Otherwise use a vice in place of the wrench (spanner) and just turn the chain whip counterclockwise when looking from the side of the wheel not fixed in the vice. When using the wrench and chain whip, if you can't push the two tools toward each other to remove the cassette, you can inflate the tire fully, and go for the most mechanical advantage by having the spanner and whip handles forming a v with angles of about 120-150 degrees. Then push down on both handles. This does run some risk of damaging your wheel though, so only try this as a last resort. You can also try putting the chain whip on the larger sprockets for more purchase. 

This might not be a very good place to start from when sizing a bicycle. Your inseam measurement is from the top of the crotch (top inseam point) to the BOTTOM SIDE OF THE ANKLE (lowest inseam point). Your feet go all the way to the floor. Inseam is specifically to determine what pants you wear. I might point out that pants and bicycles are made and sized quite differently. As @darkcanuck suggested, you're better served to stop by a local bike shop (LBS) and have them size you. Most LBS sales people will be more than happy to put you on a couple of bikes and let you take a test ride, even if you say, "I don't plan to buy anything today, I'm just starting to shop around." It won't cost you anything and you'll start to get a feel for how different styles of bikes feel in different sizes. Note also that standover is not the only measure you need to size your bike. The TOP TUBE length will also come into play--depending on how long your arms and torso are. Different manufacturers build different bikes with different ratios of top-tube-to-stand-over. Depending on the bike, you will also want to consider handle-bar width, crank-arm length, etc. Don't plan to buy a bike off of the internet because it has the right stand-over! At least, don't be surprised if you do so and then it doesn't feel right. Try out several actual bikes--even if they aren't ones you plan to actually buy--so you know how those different geometries feel when you're riding. AND IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT A USED BIKE... it still pays to try out some new ones and know what geometry suits you. When you are negotiating with a seller of a used bike, show up with tape measure in hand! 

Sheldon Brown makes a point about different spindle lengths being to do with seat tube diameter, when listing Shimano BB sizes. He says, 

Because of the wider BB Shell, Shimano may expect the frame's seat tube will also be wider and therefore recommend a slightly longer spindle to allow for front derailleur clearance on a wider seat tube. The 1mm difference in chainline due to a 2mm difference in spindle length is almost negligible for most riding, particularly for bikes with a derailleur. 

Looking at this and your previous question, and to answer whether you should be throwing good money after bad, the big question is how much riding you expect you're going to do. You may not know that yet, but what is obvious is that the more regular riding you do, the more you'll spend on maintenance. If the bike is old, you may find the bottom bracket bearings worn, the headset bearings worn, the hub bearings worn, the rims worn (if you have rim brakes), brake pads worn, cables in need of replacement, derailleur adjustment / replacement required, the wheels in need of truing, and so on. These things can be tolerable if you do only a little riding, but if you become a regular rider, you'll probably want to replace or fix a lot of that stuff. It may benefit you to go to a shop to have it looked at and they can assess the things that need replacing, before they go ahead and do anything. Try and find a shop that focusses on the type of riding you're doing. I'm mostly a commuter so I go to an urban commuting type shop. The road racing focussed shop near me will do it, but they don't have quite as much patience for me. 

I used to have an older road-bike with Shimano 600 parts. Rather than dust-caps, the Shimano 600's from the mid-eighties had self-extracting crank-bolts. What a great idea. If you can find a set, I recommend them. 

I ride to work most days. If I'm getting a cold or something, I sometimes hop on the bus. I save no time by riding the bus, so I rarely do it. About a month ago, I installed Planet Bike full-coverage plastic fenders on my bike, a mid-80's Schwinn Tempo. I've got the Hardcore fenders. $URL$ I'm pretty sure that the bike racks on public transit buses are fairly universal, in the U.S. anyhow. They appear to be the same on all of the transit buses I've used throughout California and in the Chicago area. Maybe there are different ones--but in these two areas they appear to be the same. $URL$ My question is this. Will the fenders interfere with the bar that goes over the front wheel? I haven't tried it because I don't want to inconvenience other bus users by futzing with a bike that might not fit. 

My partner and I were considering purchasing a Burley Travoy ($URL$ We thought we might do this because we like to get groceries at Rainbow in San Francisco sometimes, though we live across the Bay in Oakland. It seemed like the Travoy would be easier to get on an off the train (with a bike) and easier to keep out of the path of other passengers than our Burley Flatbed... but is this even allowed? It says NOTHING about trailers in any of the BART literature. Is there anyone out there who has tried taking a trailer on BART? Did you get hasseled? Are there other transit systems that have a policy on bike trailers? 

I've snapped a chain twice. Once the chain was very heavily worn and it snapped at one of the factory links, the second time it was also heavily worn but it snapped at the Connex Link which I may have re-used (I can't remember if I did or not). Both times I was heavily on the pedals, taking off from the lights, and it is not a pleasant experience. Based on this I'd recommend 1. Get a chain wear indicator. (Sounds like you have one now) and check the chain regularly and definitely replace it before the chain wears out. 2. Don't re-use master links. Replace them when you replace the chain. Also note that some can be installed the wrong way (The Connex link is like that, make sure it is installed correctly). 3. For chains with a connecting pin, don't break the chain in the same spot twice. 4. Use a proper bicycle chain lubricant. Things like WD-40 can just dry out and prematurely wear your chain. 5. Don't continually break and re-connect the chain. Use a chain scrubber if you want to clean it, rather than breaking the chain too often. Although I've given up on the chain scrubber now, I just wipe the chain down with a rag, lube the chain, then wipe off the excess and ride. Doing this after rain helps keep rust off too. I carry a compact chain tool and a Connex connecting link, just in case. But I'm more vigilant about checking my chain wear and replacing the chain now, so I shouldn't need it. 

There are many available. Here is one example: $URL$ Attaches to the seat tube and the top tube, providing a triangular storage space. This one also is padded to aid with portaging (if you have a big enough triangle). I know some people who tour with home-made frame bags that take up the entire triangle. These bags are a great idea because they keep your load close to your center of gravity. 

Not having seen a picture of this bolt, I may be entirely misunderstanding what you have. It seems to me though, from the narrative you give, that being threaded on both ends isn't a necessity for this set-up. It may be a piece of hardware that simply cannot be found anymore. Remember that Raleigh had their own machine shop and created all of their own screws and bolts, back in the olden days--many of those nuts and bolts simply do not follow any standard. You will not find a modern piece of hardware to fit in that hole. What I would recommend is a self-tapping screw. Find a self-tapping screw that is slighly larger than the hole in question. If you need a spacer between the fender and the frame, stick it in there. Make sure the screw is long enough to go throught the fender/spacer combination and still bite into the frame-hole. Use a socket wrench and a little pressure. The end result should be a screw which holds the fender to the frame... the head should be inside of the fender. Do choose a screw with a smallish head that won't interfere with the wheel. Ideally, you won't have to file it down once installed--or you'll never be able to remove it! Good luck.