I will admit that I don't like indentured servitude of indefinite length, or more properly, slavery. Your mages are slaves to the state. Yes,they gain value from the state from their training. Most of the books I've read separate the magic school from the state and problems occur when the state does take over. An interesting book that uses this as a theme is "Od Magic" by Patricia McKillip. Anything by McKillip is worth reading twice, mainly because it usually takes two readings to figure out what has happened. "The Riddlemaster of Hed" is another of hers that is well worth reading. I don't know how I feel about mages with random currents of magic which make them useless at random times. I could picture this being used too much to contrive weaknesses for the protagonist or antagonist. I feel there should be some way for the mage to store some magic within himself for those times when the magic currents disappear. I know that the government, if it is close to a modern one, will want to control the power of magic. However, there are some things that can't be controlled. There will probably be rogue mages out there as well or better trained than the government ones. Perhaps there is an alternate power out there that only the rogue mages can use. Maybe it comes from some place more like heaven, or maybe it is just earthly magic. Maybe it isn't as powerful, but it's almost always there, depending on the season and place. I would also be very interested in hearing your nine divisions of magic. There are so many ways to divide up magic. In my current book, I divide wizardry (natural magic, sort of) into the classical Greek Elements, but I use both their literal and symbolic meanings (Earth has physical protection, healing, some illusion, and growth; Fire has fire, magic, illusion, and scrying). Yes, much is duplicated in each division, but that is deliberate. 

One problem that I see immediately is that the modifications to the brain will make the resulting spaceship non-human in the way it thinks. If I were doing this, I would have the human bonded (in a cocoon) inside a highly modified animal that would be the ship. This animal could have a lot more modifications to make it a ship, so that it needs many fewer mechanical modifications like shielding. You'd still need to add computers and some life support, though the central part of the life-support would be part of the animal. The pilot would be bonded to the ship with some sort of direct brain connection so that he feels like he is the ship. There are many advantages to this way of doing things. First, creating a modified human might be a difficult problem, especially increasing the brain function without driving them totally insane. With the animals, you'd have less ethical problems with experimenting with them to get the process right. Second, it might be easier to make several different classes of ships from animals. Third, an animal could be allowed to grow so that it becomes a larger ship over the centuries. And I think it's way cooler to do it that way. One interesting story "Mayflies" by Kevin O'Donnel. A human brain is put in charge of a mechanical generation ship. The people in charge thought the brain was brain-dead, so they used it as a computer. Then he woke up. I've read a few short stories where humans were their own starships, but either they had evolved into something without a traditional body, or in one case the mechanics to do this (FTL engine, shield generator, life support) were implanted within a normal human. These are old stories, I ready them in college (40 years ago) and they were old then. 

In a series of SF pen-and-paper role-playing games I ran (and did the worldbuilding for), there had been a fad for genetically engineered miniature dinosaurs with dog brains. The T-Rex had a chiuaua's brain. One of the spiky herbivores had a lab's brain (always puppiesh and trying to get into everything). Since these games were set in habitats nobody really wanted a full-sized t-rex. Since they didn't have the full genome, they did have to guess at things. And they were made to all be herbivores since the liability of creating a pet that would eat little darling Johnny (the kid probably tortured his minisaurs when his parents were looking) would ruin a company. Unfortunately some of the little 'saurs did get loose and packs of 12-inch tall dino's roamed the hallways of more than one huge space ship. 

I would either use Life or Luck. In all cases, however, I would have the cost paid by the spell caster. This would prevent most casters from just throwing spell after spell, because the cost could be extreme. In the case of Life, which is my preference, the caster would age much faster than expected if he cast too many spells or too powerful of a spell. This would probably have the effect of having fewer casters because most people would say, "no way" to dying of old age in their twenties. People tend to remember the extremes rather than the averages. For example if a few times you go up elevators it takes a long time, most people will remember that rather than the much shorter average time. There is a long history in fantasy of magic being paid for by life, though usually it is the life of a deliberate sacrifice. I'd allow that, as long as it is a sentient being and the sacrifice is painful to show that it is an evil act and to discourage players from using this. My only problem is that I can't think of a game mechanic to make this a problem for the player character unless he goes to extremes. I've never had a character die of old age in a fantasy game. Either the campaign ended within 5 years game-time, or my character was killed off. The only game where my character died of old age was Traveller, and that was in character generation (yes, it is common to die in character generation in Traveller). Luck is much easier to define in game terms such that the player will understand that it is a real problem. Also, most physical magic could be defined as transferring luck around (altering probability). However, I'd also power them through future luck. Luck could also influence society more than Life. An unlucky caster in the middle of a town is a danger to everybody. I think I'm going to use this idea for my next fantasy game. 

One of the problems I see with a nuclear-kinetic shotgun, assuming that the engineers at Muppet Labs..., er, I mean R&D can make this, is that these things will keep going until they hit something. If they miss their primary target, they will keep going until eventually some sort of friction slows them down. I expect that after peace happens, there will still be pellets flying about. Long-term weapons that you don't have control of aren't a good idea in space. One weapon proposed is to set off a couple of fragmentation bombs (similar to what you've proposed) several places in Earth orbit. This would not only destroy most of our satellites, but prevent new ones from being put up. It might also prevent space travel from happening until the orbits are cleaned up of debris. 

If the speedster cannot turn off his abilities temporarily, he will probably never be able to interact with normal human beings. This would probably drive him mad within seconds (from the outside world). Solitary confinement is one of the worst things we can do to a prisoner. If he is moving this fast, we will not be able to perceive light in the visual spectrum, but rather shifted one way or the other (I'm not sure which way). At his speed, he will be moving so fast that a distant obstacle that is out of his range of vision will be too close for even him to avoid. The guy would never get to enjoy a movie, because all he'd see are pictures that look similar to each other switching at long intervals. Considering the quality of most movies, not a loss. Modern technology would be ruined by him. Imagine him trying to use a keyboard. The speed of his fingers would break it. But the big thing is that he would live in a world of unmoving objects. The speed to sound is basically the speed that air can't get out of the way of something (hence the shock wave). He would suffocate in open air because he couldn't move the air in and out of his lungs to support himself. He would go to open a door, and the momentum of the door would be too powerful for him to push it open. A mosquito flying innocently along for him to run into would kill him. And once he got up to speed, how would he stop? If he suddenly stopped, where would all his momentum go? One second to 24 hours is much to large a ratio. Even the Flash doesn't move that fast most of the time, and he is one of the most overpowered characters in comic books. One thing I've considered I call the Flash Paradox. After a battle, the Flash immediately cleans up the scene. From the point of view of the other characters, this is just something that takes no time. On the other hand, the Flash is subjectively doing all this work, so for him it might have taken days (or longer, some of the cleanup that he does are huge projects).