In this next example, I will just add an "-r" to the end of the verb to indicate that what is being said by my clause as a whole will always be true and is therefore infinitely true. 

This isn't a professional opinion at all, but I think that it looks very similar to a semitic language's writing system. 

Anyhow, I am wondering if other languages have something that funtions like this or is similar to this. 

Say I were making a language and I wanted to convey, through writing, anything that a real language could convey, except I didn't want to convey what I wanted to say by using words. Also, in this theoretical language, I didn't want to completely rely upon inflections. How might one do this? Also, when I am referings to words above, I am talking about a string of letters seperated by spaces or seperate meanings (other than a synthetic word). Sorry if its too vague, I'm trying to be as clear as possible. Ill try to make it a less open ended question as I get comments. 

I have many times looked up on the internet, "How to think in a language," or other such pretaining terms, but that often comes up with ways to literally think in a language in terms of language proficiency. What I'm more interested in is seeing how a language can make people think differently. I'm not just referring to stuff like the Sapir-Worf Hypothesis, but also in how a language works semantically, grammatically, and logically. In essence, I would like to know how a language affects someone's perspective and their logic, as well as being able to use linguistic grammar to understand a language's pretaining culture. Are there any theories, methods, or other such ways in which one can learn to "think" in another language? 

The Arabic script is an Abjad writing system or consonantal alphabet. Most letters stand for a consonant, and short vowels are usually not indicated (but can exceptionally be indicated with diacritic symbols). Long vowels also have proper letters, which is why the Arabic script can be called an impure Abjad. The Arabic script is said to be well adapted to Arabic grammar (and more generally, Abjads are well adapted to Semitic languages) because roots usually consist of three consonants. Words derived from a common root still look fairly similar in writing because much morphology consists of changes in short vowels. 

is a statement with falling intonation, but a question with rising intonation. However, tone languages also use intonation in this way, in addition to its phonemic function of distinguishing words. Wikipedia says that in Mandarin Chinese 

I think the term oracle here refers to information that is kind of useful in solving a question/task, but also intransparent and in need of interpretation. So your first example 

Corpora containing more than 15 million words are often not freely available due to copyright issues (such as the British National Corpus and the Corpus of Contemporary American English). The open part of the American National Corpus (OANC) might fulfill your criteria. It contains almost 15 m. words, it's free, and contains conversations and other genres. The spoken part consists mainly of the telephone based Switchboard corpus. If you want more face to face conversations consider adding the Santa Barbara Corpus of Spoken American English. The OANC comes in versions with different annotation schemes. If you take the version with the least amount of annotation you should be able to strip off all the annotations with a regex find and replace scheme in Python or Notepad++. 

Are there any languages which have a tense or voice that shows whether something is finite. For this example only I will indicate in the present tense that something is finitely true by adding an "-n" to the end of the verb. 

I'm wondering if N could be a partial vowel much like Y is. Since, at least to my understanding, vowels are used in between many consonant to make a word flow without having to pause, so why isn't n a vowel. One can make the n sound and go directly to an L, R, and some other letters, but one can't go from an n sound directly to a B very well. By this reasoning one could say that it just can't mesh well with enough letters, but there is a similar problem with Y. It can mesh well with only a few consonant -at least this is what I think based off of my trying to pronounce them with other letters of the alphabet-. These y and consonant combinations are yl, ym, yn, and yr. Even then some of the combos are stretching the ability for them to be pronounced well. Why then isn't n considered a vowel sometimes like y is? 

I am a beginner in linguistics and don't know many details about the field of study in general, but, for a beginner, is there anything that shows how english and spanish are related through those laws in general? I looked online but found only general charts that largely detailed PIE to english or to early germanic languages. 

English word order is SVO. If you move the object to subject position and subject to object position the meaning of the sentence changes fundamentally. The dog bit the man is not the same as The man bit the dog. In German, however, you can reverse the order of these consituents without changing the (truth-conditional) meaning of the sentence: 

His intonation also appears to be a quite accurate imitation. But what about how he pronounces the student's names? 

In computational linguistics, interesting questions might concern how parsers or taggers can be improved. If we compare their performance to that of humans, automatic parsers and taggers still have quite some way to go. But the way to improve them is probably not to reduce computational complexity because what computers currently lack and humans have is not more computational power, but real world knowledge. Take for example: 

I will first try to answer (1): (1) What is the motivation for word order changes? Sentences can be analysed, in terms of how they present information, into two parts: 

In a project that produced a corpus of (spoken) Nigerian English we used HES for hesitation. I've also come across HES in articles in linguistics journals, but not FILL. 

Many corpora (except very large ones) only include parts of larger texts like novels (such as 2,000 words) to circumvent this problem. If, however, you have to use a corpus where such imbalances occur there is a way to address this problem.