You could use your image to estimate the angular size of Jupiter that night. To find the actual diameter of Jupiter you would also need to know the distance that Jupiter is from Earth, and since Jupiter and Earth are both orbiting the sun, this distance changes. You can find the distance with software (Eg Stellarium) or using Nasa's Horizons web interface (You will need to use the column labeled "delta" which gives distance in astronomical units). To find the diameter you will need to do some trigonometry. (Diameter = distance $\times$ angular size in radians) Alternatively you could use the published Diameter of Jupiter (70000km) and use your observations to calculate the distance. To calculate the distance to Jupiter without knowing it's diameter requires more than a single observation. You will need to have: 

Several options are possible: Don't interpolate at all. Just assume the planet stays fixed until the next update. The planet Earth moves $10^{-7}$ degrees in 30milliseconds. In the vastness of space that is a rounding error. Given two objects, their position and velocity and acceleration, and the values of their Keplerian elements at times t0 and t1, you want to estimate their position, velocity and acceleration at any time in between. You can use simple linear interpolation of their position. This has the advantage of being very quick, but it assumes a constant velocity. Over short time-spans this is a reasonable assumption. For most orbiting bodies this approximation should be accurate enough for differences in time of many minutes, as the changes in velocity are relatively small. You can assume constant acceleration and interpolate using the SUVAT equation. This does very well if the objects don't move too far. For example it can model the flight of a ball in the Earth's gravitational field very well, giving a parabolic shape. This should give a fairly good approximation of the position over hours, or even days. You can interpolate the orbital elements, linearly, and solve Kepler's equation to get the position of the body at any given time. For most bodies the Orbital elements change only slowly with time (except for the Anomaly) That is the shape of the orbit stays nearly the same, only the position on the orbit changes. Approximating the orbit of a planet by interpolation of its elements should give a good approximation for several hundred years of orbital time. However the process of solving the equation is slow. Finally you can numerically integrate the n-body problem for the solar system. Depending on the time step you choose this can be accurate for an indefinite amount of time So these can be summarised as: 

We have not yet discovered any planets that are certainly capable of supporting life, (except Earth) and the few rogue planets that we do believe that we have found have been gas giants, no good for life. It is unlikely that life could exist on a rogue planet. The surface of a terrestrial planet that was not in orbit around a star would be exceedingly cold, as cold as Pluto. The only place for life to start would be in a layer of liquid water, similar to that on Enceladus. If the core were sufficiently warm, it could maintain a liquid water layer, under a thick layer of ices. No such rogue planet is known to exist. 

Take a look at the "Deep field" image from Hubble: $URL$ You can see in this tiny part of the sky, hundreds of galaxies, but between there is lots of dark sky. Most lines of sight don't end on a galaxy. I'd say dad was right. I would estimate, from the deep field, that you have about a 1/10 chance of pointing at a galaxy. Even if your finger does point at a galaxy, the distances between stars are vast. Think of two footballs separated by the distance between Europe and China as a model for the distances between stars. A finger pointing at a galaxy would be unlikely to point exactly at one of the stars. This is probably a Good Thing. Olber's paradox supposed that if each line of sight ended on a star, the night sky would be a uniform blaze of light. 

Convert answer in comment to community wiki You would need to do statistical tests. i.e. Is the data you have (given the known noise properties) consistent with a featureless spectrum? If not, then it has features. Of course, the lower the signal-to-noise or the weaker the features might be, then the harder it would be to rule out a featureless continuum. 

In general relativity, the curvature of spacetime is an interpretation of the model for gravity: Starting with the assumptions of gravity being equivalent to acceleration, and the speed of light being constant, a mathematical framework that describes gravity is developed. The mathematical conclusion of this model is that the distances between points is dependent on the distribution of mass and energy. A simple way of describing this is to say that spacetime is curved. In GR, the apparent force of gravity is explained by the curvature of spacetime. It is reasonable to ask if there is a more fundamental theory that can explain the curvature. String theory provides one possibility. In string theory it is possible to deduce the existence of a particle that would be a graviton, and the from that the field equations that describe gravity. In other words, string theory can predict exactly the same mathematical formulae that arise from curved spacetime in GR. However, on very small scales, string theory makes a series of corrections to the field theory, suggesting that the curvature of spacetime is actually an approximation, which is valid on the large scale, to a string theory of gravity. 

The use of giant and dwarf in reference to stars of the highest and lowest luminosity is attested by 1914, said to have been suggested by Danish astronomer Ejnar Hertzsprung, (1873-1967); hence red dwarf (attested by 1922) etc. ($URL$ The terms "giant" and "dwarf" refer to the position on the Herzprung-Russel diagram.It is apparent that there are some stars that are much brighter (and, we deduce, larger) then the temperature of their surface would suggest (these are the giant stars) There are others that are much dimmer dispite being very hot - white dwarfs. More recently, all non-giant stars have become classified as dwarfs. 

Possible, yes. In fact since you can just use their algorithm. Sky locations expressed a RA and Dec map directly to coordinates expressed as Longitude and Latitude. The celestial sphere is no more infinite than the terrestrial one. Each square seems to take about 0.1 arcseconds, which is very accurate, but it does raise a problem: The stars move. Barnards star has proper motion of over 10 arcseconds per year. This is an extreme example, but all the nearby stars move, so their addresses would change. The algorithm is designed not to give nearby locations similar names. So each year Barnards star would have 10 completely different addresses. Other stars would change address due to parallax. If you don't account for precession, all stars would be being renamed all the time. Now the purpose of the three word addresses is to give addresses to the address-less, in a way that is memorable. Is there a need for addresses of sky locations? We have a cute way of naming larger regions of the sky (the 88 constellations) and stars have names (or catalog numbers) that don't change due to their real or apparent motion. If you need to refer to a location you can use the numeric coordinates. So: this would not be useful, either for science (since the stars would keep moving address) or for outreach (the Constellations do very well for the whole sky) 

Your diagram is correct, your maths isn't. The bearing of the object's shadow is, as your diagram shows, away from the sun. If the bearing of the shadow is 75°, then the sun must have an azimuth of of 75°+180°, or 255°. Similarly if the bearing of the shadow was 300° (pointing towards the northwest) the sun would be at an azimuth of 300 - 180°, or 120° (in the southeast) 

The stars in the galaxy would be moving in a clockwise fashion. If you were to view from the other side, it would be as if you had made a mirror image of the galaxy, so the motion would be counterclockwise. If you look at the back of a clock, then from the wrong side, the hand would move counterclockwise. However the rotation of the galaxy is still with its arms trailing. There are some galaxies that rotate with arms leading: NGC 4622 is one example. 

Time isn't quite like space. The first difference is that we can't stop moving in time. In this picture time is on the vertical axis, and space is horizontal. You have a history and a future. if you don't move you will travel straight up the vertical axis. Even if you do move you can never escape the cone, which shows the path that light takes in spacetime. You can receive information from anything in the past light cone, and you can send information to something in the future light cone. Points in spacetime outside the cone can never give or get information of you. Secondly, there is Entropy: Entropy increases with time. This gives a direction to time. This prevents us from remembering the future. 

It depends on what you mean by "can". If you want to make the Earth into a black hole, you would have to compress it down to about the size of a marble. That is impossible. That is not just impossible with the technology of today, that is impossible with anything less than magic. However, if we did make an Earth-mass black hole, it would be stable. (Except to Hawking radiation) Now if you could somehow compress the Earth into a slightly smaller space, you would need to overcome electron-degeneracy and at some point before making your black hole you would form neutron matter. This is impossible. Nothing can do this, not now and not ever. An Earth-mass piece of neutron matter, however, would not be stable. Its own gravity is not sufficient to keep it from expanding, so it would very very rapidly explode. The same with Jupiter. A body needs to be larger than about 15% of the mass of the sun to have enough gravity as a neutron star to be stable. Jupiter has about 0.1% of the sun's mass We can't create a small neutron star by compressing the Earth, unless we use magic, and if we stop squeezing it would explode. 

The mass of fundamental particles, like the proton or electron is very very small in comparison to the charge. This means that the motion of electrons in atoms can produce significant amounts of high frequency electromagnetic radiation. Quantum effects stop electrons from falling into the protons they orbit. To produce and control gravitational radiation in significant amounts you would need something very small, but very massive: a microscopic pair of black holes. Such things would be rather hard to manage. In short it is beyond any conceivable current or future technology. 

The moon has been known to be lit by the sun since antiquity. Since the moon was known to be lit by the sun, it is not much of a leap to believe the other planets were too. The Pythagoreans believed all the Planets (including the sun and fixed stars) were lit by the light of the "central fire". So the notion that the planets reflected light is ancient. This notion is consistent with Ptolemy. As for proof, at least since Galileo in about 1610. Galileo observed the phases of Venus, which he interpreted as a spherical body being lit by the sun from various angles. It is notable that this does not appear to have been a "wow" moment. It confirmed what Galileo already believed about the orbit of Venus, he does not appear to be have been greatly surprised that the planets show as discs in a telescope. I surmise that the fact that planets reflect the light of the sun was generally believed by Muslim and Western astronomers since ancient time. 

You model the massive object moving through space time. Remember Relativity. In this case I mean just Galilean relativity: The laws of motion are the same in any inertial frame. If I choose a frame that moves with your planet it would mean that the planet does not move at all. That would make it clear that your model is wrong, a motionless planet should not create a wake in spacetime. Your planet is motionless (wrt to an inertial frame) but is leaving a wake. Your model is incorrect. Glancing over the code you seem to be dynamically distorting your grid. But really this is a static situation. The grid distortions can be determined for any position of the planet, where the planet has been before should not need to be calculated. Now this is not spacetime you are describing here, rather this is just Newtonian gravity dressed to look like spacetime. For the sort of mass you discribe here there is no great difference between GR and Newtonian gravity. GR is asymptotically approximated by Newtonian gravity. It is possible to model real spacetime, but it is very computationally intensive. This doesn't make your simulation uninteresting but take care in what is claimed for it. 

It is possible for two brown dwarfs to form a contact binary. This would not, of itself, cause core temperatures in either to rise. If the two brown dwarfs were to merge, the mass of the resulting body could be enough to generate sufficient heat and pressure in the core for nuclear reactions to start. If both brown dwarfs had a mass of about 60 Jupiters, the combined size of 120 Jupiters would certainly be big enough to form a red dwarf.