Troy Aikman won three Super Bowls with the Dallas Cowboys, but I see six rings here. How many championship rings does Troy Aikman have? 

In the NBA, this is considered an Illegal Assist in Scoring, and results in a loss of the ball. From Official Rules of the National Basketball Association, Rule 10 (Violations and Penalties), Section XIII (Illegal Assist in Scoring): 

Besides the practical advantages in cost and transportation of having all the athletes housed together near the venues, the Olympic Village is seen as encouraging the Olympic Spirit, allowing athletes from around the world to spend time together away from the competition. At the closing ceremonies in Sochi 2014, IOC president Thomas Bach said to the athletes: 

Yes, I believe it is possible for a team to end the game with a score of 1 in the NCAA, but not in the NFL. This could happen in the exact scenario that you mentioned in your question. On an extra point attempt, Team A (which already has 6 points for a touchdown) fumbles the ball (or has kick blocked). Team B recovers. Here is where the NFL and NCAA differ: In the NFL, the ball would be dead at this point, but in NCAA, Team B has a chance to take the ball to the other end of the field. So Team B runs down the field, but fumbles before he gets to the end zone. Team A recovers, but gets tackled in the end zone, resulting in a 1 point safety for Team B. I don't think this has ever happened, but I don't see why it couldn't. 

Up until recently, all table tennis balls were made of celluloid. ITTF has mandated a change to a new ball, known as the plastic ball or poly ball. The deadline for the use of the plastic ball was July 1, 2014, and the Belarus Open was the first event to use the plastic ball. From this point on, all World Title and ITTF sanctioned events will use the plastic ball. The reason behind the switch to the plastic ball is two-fold. Initially, the reason given was that celluloid is increasingly becoming difficult and expensive to obtain, due to dangers in production and increasing regulatory restrictions. However, ITTF president Adham Sharara revealed in an interview in February 2014 that another purpose was to slow down the game: 

Yes, this is true. When playing co-ed indoor volleyball (also called Mixed Six), anytime your team has more than one hit, one of the hits, not including blocking, must be made by a female. There is also a provision in the rulebook for "reverse co-ed" (reverse Mixed Six) where one of the touches must be made by a male. From the 2013-2015 Domestic Competition Regulations, Co-Ed Rules (page 108): 

If any of these three criteria are not met, it is an incompletion. If all three are met, it is a completion, and if the ball is dropped, a fumble. From the 2013 Official Playing Rules of the NFL, 8.1.3: 

Yes, it is legal to hold the racket with two hands. During a serve, you need to hold the racket with one hand, because you need to hold the ball with your free hand. From the ITTF Handbook, 2.06 (The Service): 

It depends how closely you want to define "home." If we say that a home Super Bowl would be one that takes place in the same metro area as a team, then two teams have had a home Super Bowl. 

"TON" is a brand name of cricket bat manufactured by Sareen Sports Industries (also known as SS Cricket), an Indian cricket supply company. 

Any player that is in the Top 30 in the ATP Rankings from the previous year is considered a Commitment Player for the current year. From the 2013 ATP Official Rulebook, I. ATP Circuit Regulations, 1.07 C: 

* Interesting side story: Several years ago I attended the annual "Packers Family Night" pre-pre-season scrimmage at Lambeau Field. Although it was strictly a practice scrimmage, there were referees there, treating it as if it was a real game (for their own practice). Early in the scrimmage, the offense scored, and the entire offense team did a Lambeau Leap. The refs, of course, threw the flag for excessive celebration. 

In the FA's Report and Financial Statements 2012, on page 18, the 2012 "Other Income" line item on their income statement in the amount of £18 million, includes the disciplinary fines: 

Stopping is a crucial skill in skating. Inline skates generally come with a removable heel brake on the right skate. The advice on skating that you quoted from WikiHow does indeed refer to using the heel brake for stopping. Advanced inline skaters usually remove the brake. There are a couple of reasons for this. The brake can often get in the way of tricks. The primary reason, though, is that stopping with a heel brake is not a very fast way to stop. There are other ways to stop that are much faster. The T Stop is one of those ways. When practicing this stop, it is helpful to start skating from the T position. Push off of your rear skate, then immediately use the rear skate to stop. By practicing this, you've eliminated one of the steps of the stop, which is getting your braking skate into position. After you've practiced starting and stopping while in the T position, you can work on skating normally, then moving your braking skate into position for the T Stop. When you first get into the T shape, keep your weight on the front skate, and very gently transfer some of your weight to the braking skate. If you find yourself spinning sideways, perhaps you are putting too much weight on the braking skate too early. The beginning of this video discusses practicing the T Stop: How To Practice The T-Stop On Rollerblades. This video discusses what to do if you are spinning while stopping: How to do a T-Stop on inline skates Some other stops you could learn are the Edge Stop and the Hockey Stop. This video discusses learning both stops: How to stop on rollerblades using the Hockey Stop. Using a heel brake is probably the easiest, but slowest, way to stop. The Hockey Stop is one of the fastest ways to stop. There are other stops, as well. For example, here is a video that demonstrates the Plough Stop: How to stop without a brake using the Plough Stop on inline skates or rollerblades. Which stop is safest? This is relative. The safest stop is the one that you have practiced and can do reliably. For a beginner, using the heel brake is safest, because it is easiest. However, for an advanced skater that has several stops in his arsenal, using the heel brake would not be the safest, because it is slow. 

So the fine money is added to the income statement of the FA. The line item is not broken out further than that on this statement, so I don't know how much of that £18 million is fines. On page 24, the report lists a total of £14.9 million in charitable donations by the FA for 2012. I don't know if the two are related, but it is likely that the FA pays out more in charitable donations than it takes in with disciplinary fines. 

"Plastic" is a pretty broad term. It generally refers to a non-metallic material that can be molded. Plastic can be based on natural or synthetic materials, and the material that Vibram uses is a natural rubber-based plastic compound. I would guess that a molded wood-based material would be permissible. Metal seems to be explicitly rejected. There can be electronic components inside, but no metal exposed externally. Part of this rule, I'm sure, is to prevent the disc from being magnetized. 

Yes, the blocker can reach over the net to block the ball. However, blockers are not allowed to interfere with an opponent's play. Essentially, this means that the blocker is not allowed to touch the ball until an opponent has made an attack hit. The rules on blocks are found in Chapter 14 of the FIVB Official Volleyball Rules, which are the rules used in Olympic play. Section 14.3 covers Blocking Within the Opponent's Space: 

They always say that it is hard to beat the same team three times in one season. However, it happens periodically. Since 1950, it has happened 17 times: 

According to Metro, the Liverpool/Manchester United game on March 16, 2014 is the first time a referee has awarded an away team two penalties, let alone three, at Old Trafford: 

For college, this statistic is explained in the NCAA Football Statisticians' Manual. Kick return statistics are defined in Section 8. From the 2016 edition: 

Like it or not, American sports has a history of calling the winner of each of its major professional sports each year "World Champions." This tradition goes back to the 1884 World Series. Besides the NBA and Major League Baseball, the NFL also calls their Super Bowl winning team "World Champions." It is a little bit of a joke, but also signifies that we American sports fans think of our sports as the best in the world. 

This is called a Three Wall Violation. To understand this rule, you need to understand the Passing rule. The International Table Soccer Federation Rule Book covers passing in Rule 23: 

There is no difference. Ping pong is simply another name for table tennis. The two terms are used by the vast majority of people interchangably. Historically, the name Ping Pong was a trademarked name owned by Jaques of London and by Parker Brothers in the U.S. Table tennis was the generic name for the sport, and is the official name as recognized by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF), the governing body of the sport. In practice, ping pong is now essentially a genericized trademark (although a company named Escalade Sports still claims to own the Ping Pong trademark). There are table tennis enthusiasts that do not like the name "ping pong" because they think that name doesn't sound enough like a serious sport. 

The simple answer is that a football team will decline a penalty anytime they think that the loss of down with the result of the play is better for them than rerunning the down and taking the penalty yards. This is really a judgement call. In the case of deciding between "1st and 15" or "2nd and 10," the defense will usually prefer to be in a "2nd and 10" situation. However, there are some situations when "1st and 15" might be better for the defense. As you mentioned, if the offense is on the edge of field goal range, a 5 yard penalty might be enough to push them out of range. However, this is usually more of a 4th quarter move in a close game, when you need to make sure that the offense doesn't get a needed field goal, and you'll take the risk of allowing the offense an extra down. In the first quarter, the defense is more focused on minimizing touchdowns, and would give them 5 yards if it makes it harder for the offense to reach 1st down. Another situation where "1st and 15" might be better than "2nd and 10" would be on the other end of the field. If the penalty would push the offense back against their own goal line, the defense might take it to get the possibility of a safety. 

For each game, the home team decides whether they want to wear colors or white, and the visiting team wears the opposite. The majority of teams wear colors at home, which means that the visiting teams wear white. However, Dallas traditionally wears white at home, which means that usually teams that go to Dallas to play wear their color uniforms. As a result, Dallas wears white uniforms in almost every game they play, both home and away. Dallas isn't the only team to select white jerseys at home. Washington wore white at home for many years, and Miami usually chooses white for day games, forcing their opponents to wear dark colors in the Florida sun. 

No, this has never happened. Until 2002, the Super Bowl was always played in January, and the Winter Olympics almost always begins in February. Now that the Super Bowl is played in February, the events are closer. Since 2002, the Winter Olympic Opening Ceremonies has been scheduled for a Friday, and the Super Bowl is always scheduled for Sunday. In addition, since both the Super Bowl and the Olympic Opening Ceremonies are worldwide television events, it is unlikely that they would ever schedule both events for the same day. This year, with the Super Bowl on February 2, 2014, and the Sochi Opening Ceremonies taking place on February 7, the two events are as close as they have ever been, although they were just as close in 2002, when the two events occurred on February 3 and February 8.