I think it depends of the initial defense of the wizards. If they posses the Chinese wall which is secured from the beginning, or know they will be attacked, they will probably win. If not and the caveman will lunch an surprise attack, 3,000 people is to few to survive. If the caveman raided the village at night when everybody sleeps, there would be almost no resistance. Most would be killed in sleep or while waking up. The next big part of people die while in panic. The rest dies fighting or fleeing unarmed before they get any weapons. Only a few would be able to arm themselves and effective fight back. To few. In the last scenario I assume the wizards have an open town design and almost no military facilities. Also normal people don't posses firearms. That what I would assume from an peaceful society. Additional from those 3000 people not all are able to defend themselves. They could be to young or to old. And if they have the correct age, they still cold be in a fitness state where they would be no match for an enemy. The caveman on the other side have 100 people per wizard in addition they will most likely die younger and all young and adult men and woman would be stronger and tougher. So for every wizard that can defend there town would be 120 or more attackers. I could image 20 to 50 people to fend of the initial attack, get some firearms and regroup. Even if they use there superior firepower to kill enough caveman so they will retreat, the wizards would be as good as dead. Most likely all children and older people are dead, without some luck all women also. That would be the end. The survivors would soon run out of essential stuff like weapons, food, fuel, medicine or something else. Higher advanced civilizations have an higher specialization of individual. It is not likely that the survivors will have the knowledge in all fields they need to keep on fighting the caveman. Eventually they will get hunt down by the caveman. 

CIA: take this course of action immediately, find and contain all of the Affected, we will build a large compound, maybe in Russia or Canada, those huge empty places and with the help of governments around the world we will restrain the Affected. The only hard part are the ancient Affected, but they're good at being quiet. The only thing we really don't want is a witch hunt, it'll ruin modern day society. Sincerely Mr. President. 

I need a really good weapon for a hero to wield, and not just a regular sword, something really cool, that'll be noticed by all, like a huge flail, or a creepy scythe. Here's how magic works: Magic is in your blood. When you use magic you lose some of the power that's in your blood. If you run out, you die. Words are linked with the flow of magic but not necessarily, if you have enough concentration and focus you can just think what you want, but the words make it safer. There are runes that power's imbued on but I don't just want a sword covered in those. To sum up my question, What's the best weapon that's unusual and awesome to bring into battle and trust your life with. Sorry if you didn't understand this, the weapon is for fighting those with some plate armor, a helm, chest-plate, vambraces, grieves, but no armor around the belly and groin. The enemies also wear a chainmail hauberk. 

What would a typical user use such a network for? Well we talking about interplanetary internet so the user will (want) to use it for what we use it today. 

I assume with static you mean you cant post or change things, but you will still get the latest info, like the mysterious disappearing of yourself in the local news. A way to archive this: Your smartphone is no ordenary smartphone, it has special designed OS and automatically generate a VPN to your cooperation instead of your normal access to the internet, you access it through the cooperation firewall. However your cooperation has the policy that posting is not allowed. Any HTTP request other then GET will be filtered. And maybe some other popular Sites. While this would not completely prevent the ability to influence the internet, it could be enough for your story. You would still appear in the logs, everything that uses get to transmit data will work (unless the firewall has some special rules to prevent this, because it is a relay good firewall), but that doesn't mean your character knows this or find such services. Some company also have the rules of no mails on holidays, which would prevent you from writing emails. Maybe after some time someone will notice that your character access the network, and starts communicating with him. Or he will be trapped forever. 

I have a huge castle, more like a walled city, population 70,000. About one thirds of those are fighting age and men. The castle is built on a huge mountain, which is flat at the top, about ten square miles. There's only one way up the mountain, a winding ramp that goes all the way around the mountain. (The top is directly above them bottom.) There is magic, but very few have enough power and knowledge to wield it well; about 100. The castle has a force of cavalry 3,000 strong, and they're trained on charges down the slope(the winding path that goes around the mountain that the castle is on top of.) The defenders have enough food and water to last them years, and they keep on growing things so scurvy isn't a problem. They also have trebuchet at different positions on the wall and distributed around the city. Explanation of Magic Magic is a second life source. If you run out of it you die. The less Magic you have the weaker you get. In this respect it is like a second stamina. They way your body checks if it is physically strong enough to do something is as follows: 

I'll have a limited space like $1 km^3$ that have (through handwaving) more then three dimensions. But anyone entering it would perceive it as a three dimensional space. A little bit like this video, but more or less a flat version. This results in two people walking around the same tree in clockwise or anti clockwise direction would end up at different positions. What I would like to know is how big is my surface area on which I can walk at maximum inside the multidimensional space. My first guess was, if I have a $1 km^n$ hypercube and ignore height I would have a surface area of $1^{n-1} $. With an 4 dimensional example I would have a surface area of $1km^3$. Unfortunately this is a unit of volume. So my formula is missing something to get $km^2$. I would also assume that the result would be something greater than $1km^2$ 

It really depends on the power of the mages, but if you've got enough archers, maybe eighty, even if he does have supersonic speed, they could shoot arrows all around him, along with the mages shooting spells, he'd die pretty quickly. 

Some spells can be both, but some are only on impact. If you send a spell to paralyze your enemies (make them unable to move) there is no way, unless maybe send a spray of paralyzing poison toward them, to do it on release. Everyone in this universe has Magic. Some people produce more Magic than others. This is the reason that few can do great feats of Magic, though if they knew how, almost anybody could conjure a candle-flame. Another thing that you need to know about Magic is the use of it. Special words, the Olde Tongue, were linked to the usage usually, but not always. The words just helped you to focus and ‘stay on target’. These words helped magicians to focus on what they were doing and not get lost in the process. The Enemy They have about 100,000 soldiers land, about half are conscripted so they don't really want to fight and don't have good training, other half are expert soldiers, about 10,000 are mounted, the rest are melee or archers, about half and half, also archers have low bows, not crossbows. Enemy have about 200 mages. The enemy also have a Sky Force of about 12,000. Enemy Sky Force 500 Dragon Riders: dragons are about 80 ft. long, can breathe fire, have deadly whiplash tails, aren't smart. 500 Griffin Lancers: men with long lances, land in the middle of the city and wreck havoc, griffins aren't smart but listen to commands, about 50 ft. wingspan. 10,000 Transported by Rocs: men who will be dropped in the middle of the city by a roc, they ride in carts, but if safely dropped, cause mayhem, trying to open gates and letting the rest of the army inside. They are distributed among 100 rocs, 100 to a roc. 1000 Gargoyle Trainers: stay on ground but set gargoyles, (almost as smart as humans,) onto people, gargoyles are demonic things that can turn into almost unbreakable stone, and then turn back at will, so they are great bombers, bombing themselves onto prominent buildings and troop forces, can be broken by some magic spells. As you can see, it'll be a hard fight for my defenders so I need some really good defense ideas. What'll help the defenders win?