(I make a few generalisations here, beware) Economy of scale is a factor in the production of maille, especially in Europe during the early medieval period. During much of the Roman period, iron was mined - mining (espeically deep mining) is an extremely labour intensive activity which can only be supported by a stable and sophisticated economy. The benefits, however, are the smelting of highly concentrated ore to create metals with few impurities. Thus, the prevalence of lorica segmentate (plate armour essentially) at the height of the Roman empire. In the later Roman period civil war had broken out, and the gift-economies of the 'barbarians' took over as the predominant system in Europe. These economies do not rely on gold or silver as a means of exchange, instead using domestic livestock as the unit of account. In these economies, large scale operations for mining are extremely difficult. So, much of the iron used becomes that which is found close to the surface, or bog iron. This is full of impurities and required a lot of processing to get workable metals (for example, the technique of pattern welding is used to overcome the inherent weakness of steel made from bad iron). In this case, creating wire is a better substitute; it's relatively easy to produce at scale, and requires less processing as a steel plate would. The gauge is thin and the inner-diametre is small (6-9mm) so uses little material. 'Knitting' the wire together is quick and can be done with finger strength alone before the rivet is tapped, enabling low-skilled labour. These factors make maille a relatively 'cheap' product compared to plated armours (scale, lamellar, full plate harnesses etc). Later, when silver economies reassert themselves (~600-900AD), the production of maille becomes a viable option on a larger scale, then as economies stabilise under the feudal lords of Europe (lots of tax income again), plate becomes possible again. In terms of raw material cost, we can look at bloomaries excavated in Iceland for clues: they found approx 5000kg of iron slag, containing 45-600% residual iron oxide representing possibly 1400kg of raw iron blooms. This would require approx 6400kg of iron bog ore and 22000kg of charcoal. After primary and secondary smithing, this represents about 370kg of bar iron. At 8-10kg per raw bloom, this is about 140 smelts - with 3-5 metal workers, this is about 9000 man hours - that's before starting to work it from bar to wire/sheet! In terms of monetary cost, the Scandinavian unit of account (~13th Century) was a good milking cow of not more than 7 winters (or 120 standardized iron ingots c. 12.3kg). Assuming 12.3kg is enough to make the necessary wire and rivets for a 8kg shirt, this gives us a good idea of a modern cost - it's about £1500 to buy a cow in the UK at the moment. Add in labour and I reckon it would be the price of a small family car. (In period, giving up food and a source of income - milk and meat - would inflate the cost by quite a bit!) Smith, K.P., Ore, Fire, Hammer, Sickle: Iron Production in Viking Age and Early Medieval Iceland Skre, D. (Chapter 3) Silver Economies, Monetisation and Society in Scandinavia, AD 800-1000 

I can tell you two things, how many were under Nelson's fleet in the Mediterranean and how many were in commission throughout the world in May 1804. Under Nelson's command were 13 Ships of the Line, 1 Fifty, 11 Frigates, 10 Sloops, 3 Bombs, 6 Gunboats and 2 Cutter and Schooners. In total commission (throughout the world) were 88 Ships of the Line, 13 Fifties, 125 Frigates, 92 Sloops, 18 Bombs, 40 Gunbrigs, 6 Gunboats and 82 Cutter and Schooners and 41 Armed ships. Source: The Command of the Ocean, A Naval History of Britain, 1649–1815, N.A.M Rodger. 

Gaddafi spent Libyas oil millions on his own image, self importance, family and military whilst his population were suppressed, imprisoned, tortured and left to starve. I don't think the West's view of Gaddafi is distorted at all. Whether it was right for the West to interfere in a country that was not their concern is a different issue and question. 

Firstly, I think you may be getting a little confused between life peers and hereditary peers. Life peers are given a peerage or title for their lifetime only. It is not hereditary and it cannot be handed down to their children. When that person dies, the peerage or title dies with them. They are not expected to maintain a country estate or multiple houses, nor are they necessarily expected to be wealthy. The cost you refer to I believe is probably constituted from an honour fee paid, for the priviledge of becoming a peer which probably covers the administrative charges, charge for the warrant and possibly also the fee for a coat of arms or heraldry from the College of Heralds. In addition to that would also be the cost of regalia when needed and worn on public occasions. The cost of all that added up could well constitute a considerable sum of money. Hereditary peers are in a similar position but the initial cost of being made one will already have been paid and their main concern is the upkeep of the family seat or family home which would have been passed down to them through the generations. Many peers have found that these old country homes and castles are simply so expensive to maintain they've had to sell them to English Heritage, who maintain them but open them to the public. Some have had to sell them to private individuals simply because they have insufficient funds to maintain them. Just because a country seat has been sold, does not mean a hereditary peerage or titles goes with it. It does not, it remains with the peer until death and is then inherited by their son or sometimes daughter. 

The British army has throughout history plied soldiers with rum and grog to boost morale and quiet dissent. Did this policy continue into WW2, and if so, what was the drink supplied by the state? 

It's possible. The princes were a significant roadblock to Henry's ascension to the throne. Even though Richard III had the princes declared illegitimate in 1484 by way of a Titulus Regius, Henry's claim to the throne was tenuous at best (some 20+ ahead of him in succession). He needed to marry into the royal family and re-legitimise Elizabeth of York by repealing the Titulus Regius. The problem with that is that in doing so he would also re-legitimise the princes. If the princes were alive, Henry would have no legal claim to the throne at all. With them out of the way, his claim would be extremely strong as the husband of the rightful queen (although in practice no woman had ever become queen of England and wouldn't until the accession of Elizabeth's granddaughter Mary 60-odd years later). Whether it was Margaret or Henry who killed the princes - or indeed any other actor (Henry Stafford, Thomas Stanley) - we shall never know, but it is possible given the circumstances. Interestingly, some suggest that the princes survived (pretenders not withstanding), though this is just speculation. 

Having dug out Lineage Book of British Land Forces 1660-1978, Volume 2 (Frederick 1987) from the library, I have discovered that that the nominal strength of a regiment of foot in 1775 was 737 men. Regiments were composed of 10 companies: 8 battalion companies, a grenadier company and a light company. A full strength company would consist of 3 officers (usually a captain and subalterns, either lieutenant or ensign rank), 2 drummers (fifers in grenadier companies), 6 NCOs (2 sergeants) and 62 private soldiers. The regiment general staff would make up the rest. During the 'American War' some regiments were granted a further 2 companies for recruitment purposes, bringing their upper limit to 811. Guards regiments sometimes had larger companies of 100 or more. However, at the start of the war, the average regiment consisted of only 477 men - particularly if on service in the English Establishment (other territories varied further). Grenadier and light companies were detached to form their own battalions (such as the famous 'bloodhounds' of the 2nd Battalion of Light Infantry) which further reduced regimental numbers. Quite often, regiments were split across barracks and rarely paraded together, which compounded recruitment problems (it was a volunteer army). It also made large scale military manoeuvres difficult, to the point that regiments were having to train together for the first time in the theatre of war. (Houlding 1981, Spring 2010 - see below) According to the Manual Exercise 1764 (last printed in 1778), each company would form a subdivision, 2 companies form a grand division. The Battalion is formed of several grand divisions. Divisions were formed to perform the firings. In the exercise, mass firings (three ranks firing by battalion) were practice. However, in America, General Howe countermanded these orders and instructed divisions to fire in the alternate fire method used by Wolfe in the French and Indian Wars. Further to this, divisions would form in 2 ranks at open order and fire by company, giving the captains and subalterns significant initiative. To complicate matters of regimental strength further, due to the lack of cavalry and broken, rough terrain in America, the usual European Order of Battle was distilled into smaller, more mobile forces with detachments and transfers commonplace, particularly for flank units. Further Reading: Houlding, J. A (1981) Fit for Service: The training of the British Army, 1715-1795 Spring, M (2010) With Zeal and Bayonets Only: The British Army on Campaign in North America, 1775-1783 

No he wasn't. He abdicated of his own free will choosing Wallis Simpson over the throne. He abdicated because as a British Monarch he was the nominal head of the Church of England that did not allow divorcees to remarry. The Church strongly disapproved of Edward's intention to marry a divorcee in Wallis Simpson. He was also viewed as a bit of playboy and held fairly naive views on Hitler's Germany which also didn't sit well with the English government. This doesn't mean they forced him to abdicate, but given they didn't view him as a particularly strong minded potential Monarch, they didn't help him either. 

Wiki Source It was just another contributing factor that led up to the French Revolution so it's worth researching the causes of that as well. Ironic that France in trying to weaken her old enemy Britain actually contributed to the downfall of her own monarchy. 

I agree with point 1 on the third answer - it was because of the kick on the musket that would send the ball too high if aimed horizontally. By pointing the musket down slightly from horizontal the kick on the musket would bring the ball slightly higher than horizontal which with falling trajectory would have a much better chance of hitting 'a target' in a group of men. Let's not forget here that smooth wall (non rifled) muskets of the type used early on in the Civil War were notoriously inaccurate when fired from any kind of range. From close range their inaccuracy didn't matter, from longer range it was more a question of luck whether you hit anything. 

After the Roman Empire's slow decline, and its withdrawal from much of northern Europe (France, Germany, Britain), gold coin use seems to have declined to the point where it would be a rare to see any. For example, in the archaeological record, huge silver hoards have been found in Britain and Scandinavia, but gold is extremely rare. Why was this? Was there an economic or logistical reason for the decline of gold use in this period? Or were their political factors involved with trade agreements from the old empires, and the emerging powers in central and northern europe? 

It seems odd that the Brother of Lord Thomas Stanley would swap sides so soon after the beginning of Henry VII's reign. I want to ascertain the political, social or economic motivations that could have affected his decision to side with the supposed imposter, rather than support the King he helped usurp the throne in the first place. 

Throughout the last 1000 years red has become a consistent motif for military clothing and heraldic imagery in England. What are the reasons for this? Are there economic, environmental (eg. dyes used in wool trade), social or political reasons for the primacy of this colour? 

There are several extant examples of medieval 'fight books'. Many exist to instruct combatants on how to fight in a judicial combat or other codified engagement to settle a dispute. The oldest known medieval 'fight book' (and my personal favourite in terms of studying and using) is Tower MS I.33 (13thC approx) which covers the use of sword and buckler. The close similarities of later works by Johannes Liechtenauer and Sigmund Ringeck seems to suggest that the medieval martial tradition continued and advanced throughout the centuries for single combat. The works of Hans Talhoffer such as Ms.Chart.A.558 compiles a number of masters' work together from sword to polearm, to unarmed combat. Similarly, in the Italian school, Antonio Manciolino and Achille Marozzo authored a number of texts (such as Opera Nova dell'Arte delle Armi ) covering a programme that would later be called the 'circle.' There are many more (Mark C Wallace's link covers a good number). Some complete translations and facsimiles can be found here: $URL$ and there is also a list of fencing manuals from AD200s to the 19thC. 

Did the North's population outnumber the South, or merely have more men available to be conscripted into the army to fight? The answer to this question is less about industrialisation and more about the availability of qualified men able to be conscripted into the army to fight. The southern states had a totally different economy to the north and was based primarily on slave labour. This slave labour, consisting mostly of African-American (is that the correct term?) descent were not available to join the army and fight. It's true the confederate Army did enlist some slaves towards the end of the war, but at the beginning the Confederate Army consisted mostly of non-slaves. This is the reason for the larger Union Armies compared to the Confederate ones. 

The IMF wasn't complicit in it at all, it merely lent Ceaușescu's government money to invest in industrialisation - the investment of which which was mismanaged. Did Ceaușescu have to continue austerity measures despite the loans having been repaid to the IMF? IF so how is the IMF complicit? For demanding those loans be repaid? Look to Ceaușescu's inefficient handling of government and industrial investment (and likely financial embezzlement) as the prime cause and not the IMF. 

I believe the answer you're looking for is a direct result of the Industrial Revolution which occurred between 1750-1850, exactly the correct time frame for the time period you're referring to. This allowed enterprising entrepreneurs to harness the technological advances in production machinery to both produce more for less and new mass produced items that were previously unavailable. The result of this was a new class of businessman who became very wealthy. This clearly elevated them above the 'manual workers' but still below the already well established aristocracy whose wealth came from more traditional means but most generally was inherited wealth. So you now have three established classes.