I'm wondering what the purpose of the braze-on pictured below is? It's on the non-drive side of my fork. I thought it could have something to do with racks, but then I figured they would put one on both sides. It could be used for a cable-guide for disc brakes, but my fork doesn't have disc tabs. It seems like it's situated too low to be a cable guide for V-Brakes. The bike is a touring bike, and the fork does have rack mounting holes, if that will give any clues to it's use. Update It's the factory fork from a 2011 Devinci Caribou. I think I've seen disk versions, but they are older, all their newer ones have cantilevers, no option for disks. It's not threaded, and there is no split. I may just be a wire-guide for whatever you choose to use it for, like a dynamo or speedometer. However, I think most wired speedometers are hard wired between the sensor and the computer, so I don't know how you would thread the cable through with the hardware on each end. 

According to the manual linked to by @Batman, it looks like you can enter a custom wheel size after you have clicked through all the predefined wheel sizes. Based on the fact that it's 4 digits, the custom wheel size is most likely in mm. Another way of calculating the circumference, is to take wheel diameter (total distance across, and multiply by pi (3.14). If you don't have any measuring device and want something reasonably close, take the bead seat diameter, for 650B, this is 584mm, add in 2 times the tire size. Assuming you have 2 inch tires, that's 50.8 mm. So we end up with 584 + 2 * 50.8 = 685.6 mm diameter, and when multiplying by pi gives us a circumference of 2152.8 mm. 

Sounds like you already have a decent pace for somebody starting out. Upping the tire pressure is a good idea, but make sure to not go too far beyond what is recommended on the sidewall of the tire. 120 psi might be a bit too high. In order to get quicker and build your endurance you should ride more. You can do things like intervals to try and increase the effectiveness of your training, but simply just putting more miles on the bike should get you pretty far. I would recommend going for longer rides, even if you have to slow your pace to be able to complete the ride. Look for cycling groups in your area and get involved. Having people to ride with helps you to push harder and gives you more motivation to get out and ride. 

There's the Bicymple, but it costs quite a bit more than it should, possibly because of the non-standard design. It's on Kickstarter right now, and the smallest "pledge" that will get you a bike is $800. It achieves a smaller size, while still having standard size wheels. The pedals are direct drive on the rear hub which limits your top speed, but they plan to put gears in there somehow at a later date. It's already met its funding goal, so it may be something to watch for in the future to see if they can bring the cost down. 

If you really want to measure how much effort you're putting in, you should look into getting a power meter. It measures the actual wattage you output, and can therefore be used to calculate total energy output. However, they are quite expensive. The other option is to get a heart rate monitor along with cadence and speed meters which together can give you a reasonable estimate of how much energy you used. This ends up being much cheaper than a power meter, but is less accurate. These are the preferred methods if you a really want to track how hard you are training. This is because many things can effect how much effort it takes to cycle such as hills (like you mentioned), but also wind, your body position, and the road surface itself. 

I had a similar problem on my bike and used shims. But I'm pretty sure they weren't "Specialized" branded ones. I was told they were supposed to come with the brifters but most bike shops don't put them on. Check with the bike shop you got the bike at to see if they have some lying around and perhaps you can get them for free. I agree that it's kind of odd that there's no reach adjustment, and only 1 size of brifters. My hands aren't that small. I would wonder how a woman with small hands would be able to reliably reach the brake levers at all, give how little room there is for adjustment. Biking in cold weather with gloves adds even more complication to the problem. 

I wear MEC Roubaix Tights down to about -15 and they work quite well. The fronts and backs are different material, so they block the wind, while still allowing your legs to dissipate some of the heat. They aren't so great in the wet, because the backs aren't waterproof, but once the temperature drops below zero, that usually doesn't matter. Although if you have fenders, you might not have to worry at all. That jacket looks good. You probably want to wear another layer or 2 or 3 underneath. I find that it's all about using lots of layers. Lots of thin layers can keep you warm, while still allowing for a lot of mobility. 

My bottom bracket feels rough when I turn it with my fingers. I don't notice any problems when it's all assembled, but it's definitely not smooth like the other parts of much bike like my pedal axles. It feels like there's sand or dirt in the bottom bracket. Do you think it's time to replace it? It's a cartridge bottom bracket (Truvativ PowerSpline) so I don't think it's serviceable. Here's a video of what it sounds like. The picture quality shouldn't matter, but you should be able to hear the sound. You might need to jack up the sound or wear headphones to hear it best. 

The above site shows a clearer image of the part in question which might be useful to future visitors. 

There's a great video of Nino Schurter's Scott Spark. I'm not sure if he used the exact same bike in the Olympics, but the video from July of this year, so it should be quite similar. It has 29 inch wheels. According to the comments in the youtube video, this is different from what he used to ride. Somebody commented that it may be in preparation for the Olympics, which favours large rim sizes. I don't think any size has really "won". The size of rim/tire used on race day is going to depend on course conditions. I think this is the reason for the upcoming popularity of 650b/27.5 tires. Most of us can only afford a single bike or a single set of wheels, so you have to go for a compromise. You should also check out the GMBN Pro Bike Playlist if you want to learn more about the equipment the pros are using. 

It's hard to tell from your pictures, one from the side would be nice. I did a search and came up with the following picture. 

Ask the bus driver really nicely if you can get on the bus with your bike. I've done this a few times, not because the rack was full, but because there was no rack where there should have been one. If the bus is quite empty, you can often use the wheelchair accessible seats as a place to put your bike. Don't be surprised if the driver doesn't let you. There is no way you can do this during rush hour unless your route isn't used very much. Go on the train/subway. Depending on the rules in your locality, it's often allowed to take your bike on the train. Even if you have to go out of your way to get to the train, it can be better then waiting for the bus only to find out the racks are empty. Again, maybe not possible during rush hour. Cycle to a location that's before where the majority of people board the bus. Take the following scenario. Assuming you are downtown, and want to travel home, Travel in the reverse direction along your bus route to a location before the bus gets downtown, or to the first stop if the bus starts downtown. This will give you a better chance of getting to use the rack. If you work at a place that lets you have flexible work hours, adjust your schedule so it isn't during rush hour. Look for a different bus route. You might have to cycle a bit further to get to the other route, and take a slower bus (more stops, residential roads, non-direct route) . Plan a completely different route, and avoid the bus altogether. For a short time I had a 25 km bike ride to work. I would take the bus in the morning as I could get on at the beginning of the route and almost always got a spot on the rack. However in the evening, after a week or so of waiting upwards of half an hour and sometimes giving up at getting a rack spot, I decided it would just be quicker to bike all the way home. Got in really good shape that summer. 

You might want to look at the Biologic ReeCharge by Dahon. It says it hooks up to any standard dynamo hub. The nice thing about this is that it has it's own battery. So the dynamo changes the internal battery and the battery charges your phone/gps/device. This allows you to change while you are resting, as well as provide added protection against sending bad current to your device. I don't have any experience with it, but the idea is sound, and Dahon has many good products. It sells for $100 which isn't too bad considering it has it's own battery. 

According to this page, the tooth capacity of the short cage version is 31 teeth. But let's look at a road bike with a relatively small gear range. you're likely to find. Filling in your formula, we end up with 52-39 + (23 - 12) = 24 Even the smallest cage derailleur would most likely cover that range. 52-39 is a standard road double crankset, and although there are smaller cassettes, they are quite uncommon. I would say that just about any derailleur could cover a 24 tooth range. 

I would say that you might have some luck pairing up an industrial level combination lock with a big security chain. I've actually been toying with the idea of making my own bike lock for quite a while. THe problem with the big chains as I shown is that they are really mostly way too long, making them heavier than necessary. I would think that 18 inches (or maybe even 12 inches) would be sufficient to get the lock around the frame and back tire and lock it to the bike rack. The security chains really are quite difficult to break, even with a big pair of bolt cutters, and there are shrouded padlocks which don't really provide any place where the bolt cutters could even be used. 

Just from looking at the Selle Italia SLR Product Page it seems that there is little difference between "road" and "offroad" saddles, as all the saddles listed seem to be recommended for both "road" and "offroad". The same goes for Brooks who group road and MTB in one category. There are various models and I can't see any labelled simple SLR. But if we compare, for instance, the SLR Tekno and the SLR XC, you'll notice that the SLR XC is double the weight (170g vs 85g). I can only guess that the increased weight would give it more strength, and it would probably be able to able to withstand a few more bumps. It would probably also have thicker padding to be a little easier when going over bumps. Personally I think it all comes down to what actually feels comfortable for you. As well as what fits your riding style. If you have a full suspension mountain bike, you may not need the saddle to absorb a lot of impact. If you have a road bike, and the roads aren't that nice where you live, then you may need something a little sturdier, or with a little extra padding.