(See the Free Will Theorem.) Computing is based on decisions, and decisions are an expression of "will". Since you use a religious context, tying it into this issue of central importance in modern religions would greatly strengthen the work. 

It's actually not an issue because "history is written by the victors", who often use their dominance to codify the evil of the vanquished. The vanquished may have been evil, but evil is a relative concept based on social mores, (despite what deolators would assert), and so, even engaging in acts that would be considered evil, it's a safe bet that most of the actors did not consider such actions evil. But the depiction of the vanquished as evil is in no way universal. Certainly this was not the case in the Iliad of Homer. In the Iliad, the Trojans are not presented as evil. Conversely, they are depicted as noble adversaries, with the subversive element that their dignity is greater than that of the Greeks, certainly Agamemnon, Menelaus and Odysseus. It's not insignificant that the epic ends with the line "And thus was the funeral of Hector, breaker of horses." Hector unquestionably possessed the greatest dignity of all of the heroes of the epic, Greek or Trojan. He neither instigated the war nor desired it, but must fight in it regardless. He is blameless and esteemed, and makes the greatest sacrifice for his country. I'd say that books where the bad guys are evil is a type of shorthand, a technique that allows the author not to have fully explicate their point of view in simplistic narrative. Another way to contextualize this is per the advice of skilled actors in portraying villains, and may be condensed into: 

You may want to look a the New Sun trilogy by Gene Wolfe. It's an extraordinary feat of worldbuilding (Wolfe is regarded as the "scifi writers' writer", a term of profound respect for his vision and execution.) In this series, the world is so old, the ages of history are marked by the exhaustion of different resources, such as iron. 

We see it in the caduceus of Hermes and the thyrsus of Dionysos, both gods with tangible magical powers. The symbol pre-dates Ancient Greece--Thoth, commonly associated with magic, is depicted with a staff. The symbol was formalized in the hermetic tradition, in the suite of clubs. In Tarot decks, clubs are known as "staves", "rods" or "wands", and their domain is fire. Fire fundamentally represents power in the form of energy. Note that in the Rider-Waite Ace of Wands, the staff depicted is the thyrsus: Even Zeus' lightening bolts are a form of staff, and constitute something of an ultimate weapon, as demonstrated by Zeus' vanquishing of Typhon, and it's important to note that the symbol was also associated with temporal power and authority, which Wizards often wield. This form of the staff is commonly known as a sceptre. CONCLUSION: As to why the staff increases power, it almost certainly has to do with the phallic nature of the symbol/object. Hermes was quite literally a phallic god in that his earliest representations are "hermas", simple columns of rock or wood (pun intended;) The honey-dripping thyrsus is overtly phallic. Typically feminine power is receptive (the suit of cups/grail) where male generative power is active. Thus the staff is a symbol of the active exercise of power, spiritual and temporal. 

Without going into too much detail, which I don't think is necessary to explicate this wonderful idea, I'd say use quantum mechanics. 

Going into space, for instance, would require autonomous agents. Since biology is what the superintelligence has to work with, the tools it creates are biological. The autonomous agents could then make tools out of inorganic substances, and develop any technology humans currently have. The cool thing though, is that you wouldn't be confined to a single, intelligent, autonomous "proxy" species--you could have entire classes of intelligent species optimized for specific tasks. 

According to this person 57 trillion annihilations at 30 cm gives you 1 rad of radiation. Scale that over the entire planet and you get 2.9 kg of antielectrons. Indiana Jones level kill you immediately radiation dosage is about 100000 rads, so that's about 290,000 kg of antiprotons spread out evenly. Except the isochoric heat capacity of earth atmosphere is $C_v=.717kJ*kg^{-1}*K^{-1}$. Multiplying by the mass of the atmosphere $M_{atm}=5.1*10^{18}$ gives us how much energy it takes to heat the atmosphere by 1 degree Kelvin, $C_v*M_{atm}=3.6567*10^{18}kJ*K^{-1}$. Divide the energy put out by this annihilation and we get $\Delta K = 14000$. WAY too much. Let's shoot to heat up the atmosphere by 200K; there's no way anyone's surviving that. $3.6567*10^{18}kJ*K^{-1} * 200K=7.313×10^{20} kJ$. Convert that into mass using $E=mc^2$ and we get $8.137×10^6 kg$ divide by 2 because half that mass is coming from regular matter and we have $4.069×10^6 kg$. So to kill all humans you need 406,900 kg of antimatter. In all honesty you can probably get away with less because the force of the explosion will likely kill many humans. But I don't know how to calculate that. I was planning on adding more to this response, but I think Serban covered it as well as I can for numbers #1 and #2. I definitely think #1 is overkill in his answer though. 

Lasers. You don't need to destroy the debris, just push it out of the way by the slightest amount. The vast majority of space junk is tracked, as others have mentioned, so you'll know what's a threat long before it actually hits. Hit the debris with a laser to alter it's path slightly and you can avoid collisions. Because you can track most of the debris, you can even start this process well in advance. Debris will be speeding past very quickly, but you should be able to hit anything dangerous multiple times as it passes by with each orbit. You can even use this system whenever it's not directly protecting the elevator to slowly reenter space debris as it passes. Just slow down the speed of whatever passes by and eventually stuff will start to fall out of orbit. It cleans up space and protects the elevator all at once! As for the stuff that isn't tracked, you'll need to be able to detect it in advance, so some sort of sensing equipment will be necessary, but you'll need that already for laser targeting. Luckily the stuff that's not tracked is all very small stuff, so it will be easier to push out of the way, and you won't need as much advance notice. 

I don't have a real-world example because I'm not sure such a situation ever arose, but if the generalship is a permanent position, then he could be nearly universally disliked by those passed over for the promotion. I imagine a situation similar to the Romans, where, in a time of war, a leader is chosen with total power. This position is then held for life. Obviously they would be expected to choose a very good leader, so you could plausibly expect them to win many battles, but his rivals would pick apart every action he makes, trying to show the world what a terrible commander he is! In reality, he would make few mistakes, but those few he does make would be poured over in an attempt to discredit him. They would probably need a motive to do this, so maybe they are attempting a constitutional change to dethrone him? 

So it's a fairly universal constant, which, (assuming current theory holds) would translate to any civilization advanced enough to discover it. It's value is $1.616×10^{-35}\ meters$. Rather conveniently, there are $5.854×10^{50}\ plank\ lengths$ in a light year, so you could quite easily make up your own unit defined as $10^{50}\ plank\ lengths$ and have a similarly sized unit that's detached from any non-universal measurement of time. The problem with this answer is that it uses our (relatively arbitrary) base 10 system. I recommend switching to a base 2 system, which gives us $~2^{169}\ plank\ lengths$ in a light year. This you can round to whatever you see fit. I would recommend going for either 128 or 256, as both are powers of two. After this, naming depends on what you want to make your "standard length". In SI it's the meter, which is $~2^{34}\ plank\ lengths$. From there scale up with SI prefixes until you reach your stand-in for the light-year. 

This could be used in a circular manner, swinging the axe-blade at the opponent at a level designed to forestall ducking or jumping to avoid the path of the blade. 

I'd also use postmodernism in presenting the conflict. The Trojan war is generally held to be a result of the "abduction" of Helen by Paris. The reality is that Troy held an incredibly powerful strategic position, and dominated trade between the Euxine (Black) Sea and the Aegean. If the Trojan war actually occurred, it was almost certainly about economic control of the region. Even the pretext of Helen is illuminating. WWI has been cast by respected historians as a war fought for no real reason, other than Europe has become a power keg in the wake of the success of Fredrick of Prussia's regimental system. (Critiques of Keegan rely on a romanticized view of warfare as an "extension of politics by other means", but should more properly be cast as an "extension of economic and political hegemony by other means.") WWI can be viewed as an unfortunate outcome of inciting event in which actors in the war were obligated by treaty to take part. 

Liminality is perhaps the most important aspect of mythology, as nearly all cycles are concerned with binaries such as life/death, winter/summer, etc. (i.e. Pagan religions tend to be focused on the cycles of generation.) The concept is doubly resonant here in that important definitions of "liman" are maritime and fluvial. 

This would be some sort of simple, cellular matrix, the size of the entire ocean, using natural processes such as photosynthesis and other chemical reactions, even underwater volcanic vents, for power. This is essentially a plant scale cellular automata. This is also known as the Gaia Hypothesis. 

I'd strongly urge you to look to Game Theory, minimax, and the rational strategy as opposed to the superrational strategy. Nash proves that cooperative behavior is mathematically optimal by analyzing minimax equilibria. In normal Prisoner's Dilemma, the rational strategy is to defect, to guarantee minimal downside, but the result, if the other agent also rationally defects, is less benefit for both participants. The superrational strategy, where both players cooperate, leads to the maximum benefit. (This is problematic in un-iterated Dilemma, but it's easy to prove that persistent defection in iterated Dilemma with a superrational agent is irrational.) Financialists don't like Nash and his ideas because it undermines the license they have to wreak havoc on the economy by pursuing self-interested goals with no concern for the fallout. Financialists, which is to say people who make their money by speculating, have more incentive to exploit Pareto Efficiency, which is gain that requires making someone else worse off, because the markets are filled with optimists (otherwise known as "marks") with less information and resources than the financialists, who can often drive the market. Pareto Improvement, under which a party or parties may benefit without making someone else worse off, is the ideal for for a society that values humanity, and produces maximum benefit for that society. The best part is, this position is not subjective, but arises out of the mathematical analysis of equilibria in the framework of Game Theory. 

I highly recommend the book The Qabalistic Tarot: A Textbook of Mystical Philosophy. It is scholarly, extremely well researched, and contains extensive footnotes and citations. You may also find Israel Regardie's work useful, particularly The Tree of Life: A Study in Magic. [Note: there is also a revised, illustrated edition available]. And of course, for an understanding of magic in general, Frazier's The Golden Bough is essential. (Take a look at the chapter on Sympathetic Magic, which is a very good primer.) Finally, Alan Moore's Promethea can be understood as a thesis on magic in general, and the Tarot in particular. Plus, the artwork is astounding! 

I strongly urge you to look at Conway's Game of Life, particularly at how it demonstrates that complex structures can arise from very simple rules. In an infinite Game of Life, the hypothesis holds that intelligence and superintelligence would develop. I think there's an opportunity to unify the two concepts you are pondering in your world.