I have a similar tights from MEC which I mostly use for commuting and also a thinner MEC spandex tights which I pair with a Patagonia polypro inner layer which I wear when riding the road bike (group or solo). In both cases, I wear spandex shorts outside the tights. The shorts I use in such cases are those with the thinnest chammy. Why do I wear the shorts outside? Mainly because it protects the tights from chaffing/runs. I noticed the material used for the tights are not as robust as those of the cycling shorts. When temps go north of 0 C, I stop using tights altogether and start using leg warmers... much easier to get into. 

I would go with a Dahon myself such as this one: Dahon Eco Dahon has been around for a long time and is well known for manufacturing folding bikes. I have a friend who uses a similar bike to commute more than an hour each day. It is fairly reliable. He travels mostly on side streets. I myself uses a Brompton M6R but only for short range commutes or for multi-modal commutes where I would only ride a maybe maximum of 5 km one way and only when I can use side streets. Beyond 5 km and/or when I have to travel via arterial roads, I use a cyclocross bike with bigger 700c wheels. The Brompton is just too slow to travel safely in my opinion on arterial roads where I live where the speed limit is 60 kph... most cars do more than that though. 

I have used a CO2 inflator for almost 5 years. On average I use mine around 2 to 3 times a year not only to pump my tires when I have a flat while riding solo but also those of my friends when they suffer flats on group rides. I have had no incident of the tire exploding and I don't even check what pressure the tire got to after inflating it with the CO2 inflator. What experience has shown me is you just pump your tire (700 x 23 or 25) and the pump will auto stop outputting CO2 when it reaches approximately 100 psi. One cartridge if you are careful is good for inflating two 700 x 23c tires (or being used twice). I use a spring loaded Genuine Innovations Inflator which you just press a bit hard to engage. Finally one should remember the CO2 seeps out of the inner tube faster than air so one should replace the CO2 with air after arriving home or at the shop. 

I assume that when you say popped you mean it flatted etc. But unless the tire came off the rim, it is unlikely to be the tire. But check the inside of the tire for anything that could puncture the tube. What I do is to mount the tire with the label/logo at the valve. That way when I remove the tire and find the puncture I know where to look on the tire for a nail or whatever. The way I mount a new tire is to stuff the tube in the tire. Inflate it just enough so it has form with no folds. I get one side over the rim all the way around. This is usually quite easy. I then make sure the tire is in the rim. Finally, I start at the valve and work the other bead in to the rim. I do this all by hand although I understand some tires are tight enough to make this pretty hard. You might want to get a tire jack if that is the case instead of trying to use tire irons. While in this barely inflated state, I work around the entire wheel sort of pinching / flexing the bead to make sure it is seated. Then I pump up to about 1/2 pressure and bounce the wheel at various points. Lastly, I deflate the tire to relax the tube and let it do any final shifting it wants to do and then inflate to the desired pressure. Sounds like a lot of work but it really is but a minute or two. BTW most tires show a max pressure but that isn't necessarily the pressure you want. Like an auto, you'll want the best contact patch which varies from tire to tire and with the total weight. 

I have been chased by dogs countless times while riding solo or with a group. In all cases I have never been bitten. I may be wrong but in most cases the dogs just want to frighten you away. What works for me is not to panic, try and maintain a steady speed, and most importantly, make sure not to hit/run over the dog if it is coming towards you. Here is a pic of me and a buddy of an incident with 2 dogs 2 summers ago taken from a GoPro camera: 

I have Planet Bike Cascadia fenders and my shoes did clip the metal rods/wire fender supports after I had the fenders installed. This happens when I am making a tight turn while continuing to pedal. Simple solution for me was to cut the protruding rod/wires. Initially I tried to use a hacksaw but had little luck as the coating was hard and the saw just bounced around. I then tried using a pair of big pliers and that did the trick. I found that the wire only had hardened coating but once you pierced that it cut easily... a big set of pliers can easily do the job. 

A cyclocross bike which can accomodate fenders and a rack could be an option. I personally use an aluminum framed Cannondale CAADX Tiagra on my 17 mile (one way) commute and I like its versatility. It is relatively light (21 lbs) and has eyelets to accommodate fenders and a rack. It can also be fitted with a variety of tires ranging from slicks to studded. The XC frame makes the bike more maneuverable (can be useful in negotiating traffic) than a touring bicycle. Pic of the commuter below: I use this bike 2 or 3 times a week to commute downtown. It is almost as fast as my road bike on uneven roads. The wider tires (that can run at lower pressure) can soak up bumps better. 

Many decent hardware stores (at least in the US) will also carry them. Look in the fastener section of the store, where I usually find them is in the collection of small boxes that holds all of the oddball hardware. 

I think the only purpose of the pin is to retain the pad. So if you can convince yourself that the damaged pin isn't preventing the pad from sitting cleanly agains the "piston" and that it is prevented from dropping out, then I would be inclined to think you're ok. I've seen instructions for rebuilding BB-7 calipers, which makes me think that parts might be available – at least in some markets. The SRAM/Avid number for the "internals kit" is A150080A and they appear to be available, I found links to the kit at shops in the UK, in the US Amazon lists the item, but doesn't have stock. In any case a whole new brake assembly isn't too expensive (considering that you get a set of pads and a disk as part of the deal), so if you have any doubts I'd just go ahead and replace the caliper (or see if you can get parts). 

I don't see any problem with doing this on your bike if you use Shimano drifters. Generically there are two areas you'll need to consider: 

I'm thinking about buying a vintage ('80s or '90s) frame for a 650b conversion. In my dreams I'm hoping to find a big frame (60+ cm) with long chain stays that was built for center pull or side pull brakes. I figure this means I want to go looking for old geometry charts and/or catalogs. I know about some sites, such as Vintage Trek and The Headbadge (although I can't find much geometry information there) – are there others?