I wanted to train for strength, with no hurry. Forced by the personal need of building strong conective tissue and avoid injury at all costs (42 yr, untrained, somehow prone to injury) I implemented the following strategy for each exercise: I use a fixed load and increase the volume by adding reps, from 3 sets of 3 reps (in the strength range, no doubt) all the way up to 3 sets of 15 reps with the same load. It takes a lot of training sessions to reach 3x15, because each workout I never add more than 3 reps in total (one per set) as a rule, and very often I only add 1 rep. By the time I reach 3x15, it feels safe and sometimes even easy to increase the load (and start again the cycle with 3x3) so there is no doubt my strength has increased. But lately the volume seems too much, I need too much time to recover, and another answer to another question here has suggested I might need some kind of micro periodization, which I think it is the right way. Also, I think I could try also to reduce the overall volume when close to 15 reps per set (e.g. by switching to 2 sets after having achieved 3x12 or somehing). How can I implement that periodization in a simple way? For instance, after achieving 3x10 I could start alternating the high rep workouts with the next level of resistance and low reps. E.g. 40kg x 3 x 10, the next workout 45 kg x 3 x 3, then back to 40 kg x 3 x (10~11) and so on. As much as I would like it, 5/3/1 is out of the menu because I can't train all the time in such short rep range, it is not for my age and fitness level. 

After more than a month walking at a fast pace everyday, my body seems to be adapting and now I need to walk at a ridiculously forced high speed in order to feel it sort of challenging. So I want to start running. But I am doing air squats once every three or four days or so. The number of squats has steadily been increasing too, and I plan to restrict them to once a week. Running might impose some stress on my knees, so I want to run only once a week as well, at least for the first month until I am convinced that everything goes well. So, my question, which one the following two alternatives is best, in order to minimize the risk of knee injuries? 

I am a 44 yr old male. I have been lifting weights for 3 ~ 4 yr now. The beginning was difficult, but in the last 2 ~ 3 years I have made progress without injuries. I hit the gym twice a week and, after much trial and error, I am positive that it is the right frequency for me at this stage of my life, and I am not willing to discuss this point. I have recently inserted deadlifts once a week in my routine. I wonder if that is enough or if I should do twice a week (I train twice a week, so it is either once or twice a week). I am not interested in "optimal" progress, but rather in "any" progress at all, no matter how slow. Deadlift may be a risky exercise and I am happy with the least amount of it that still produces results. If each time I become deconditioned because a week is too much, then it is useless. 

Yes. That kind of exercises is called calisthenics (see Wikipedia), or you may spell it callisthenics in US english. It comes from the ancient Greek, "Beautiful Strength" The Push-Up in your picture is probably the most popular, but there are many more. See for instance this amazing video (Tee Major), or do a search in Youtube with the word "Barstarzz". 

All in the pink light dumbbells and high reps range for the moment. I have just came back from a tendonitis. I am working too in the problem of weak/painful wrists. And a few days ago I solved the problem of lower abdomen pain after doing air squats, by effective learning how to stretch the hip flexors. And now this new thing arises. My body is a crap... I really need to get it in shape, but the beginning is being very difficult... 

While I recover from two simultaneous tendonitis caused by improper use of the pull-down machine, I cannot help thinking and re-designing the program I am going to do when I return to training. For practical everyday life reasons, it is going to be very difficult for me to go to a gym, and nearly impossible to go to one that has a proper squat cage and olympic barbells. Therefore SL5x5 will have to wait until my circumstances change. Nevertheless I have a door bar and a pair of adjustable dumbbells with plates I want to use at home. I have thought of a workout, and I would like to have your suggestions (or warnings) in order to improve it. These are the circumstances and goals that must be taken into account: 

For reasons explained in other posts and not relevant here, I am only doing now Push-Ups and Dumbbell Bent-Over Row (and Air Squats). For the rows I use a nearly empty dumbbell for the moment. That is far from the ideal push-pull equilibrium. Relative to that, push-ups are a strong exercise: Playing a bit with a scale at home, I reached the conclusion that I was lifting 77% of my body weight at the bottom position of each push-up, and around 65% for an easy version with knees on the floor. Therefore my question: can that be a problem for my shoulders? Which load should I aim for in the rows? Should I keep the pushups under a minimum? I don't want the next injury to be caused by muscular imbalance... 

I have been running every third day for six months now. About a month ago I added a simple, full-body resistance training workout each day before running: 

What my new therapist uses to prescribe in order to help healing not very severe tendon problems is slow eccentric exercises, aka negative phases, with very light weights, two or three sets, three times a day, everyday. Now, I think that you don't need to be a rocket scientist to understand that, whatever is useful to heal and strengthen an injured tendon, is likely to be helpful in strengthening a healthy tendon as well. Here are some links to places where I have seen sort of confirmation to this question, and references to scientific papers: This link, tendinosis.org with this paragraph, among other interesting data: 

This of course has to do with your swimming technique, and it is quite normal. Unlike running, swimming requires that part of your training is specifically devoted to learning the technique. That is, your workouts cannot be composed alone by breast stroke, front crawl and so on, but also you have to devote certain amount of time to specific swimming drills aimed at focusing only on a single component of swimming at a time (e.g. the leg kicks or how to breathe). Here is an example youtube list Swimming workouts usually combine sessions with different kinds of swimming drills. You may choose to ignore the drills and simply keep on trying, but then it is very difficult that you achieve a decently efficient front crawl style. Furthermore, the more you swim with bad form, the more difficult to correct your swimming patterns in the future. Additional Warning: You seem to have been swimming quite a lot by means of breaststroke only. Improper breaststroke technique may be eventually bad for your knees. The whipkick used in the breaststroke easily leads to problems. This is the well known "Swimmer's Knee" or "Breaststroker's Knee". A good workout should combine different swimming styles. Try focusing your attention on your technique rather than on your mileage. 

My left Levator Scapulae is tight like hell today (probably from incorrectly lifting a heavy gas bottle yesterday) and it is causing some undesirable effects. It is even noticeable in the mirror. I just came back from a doctor that has told me to avoid exercises involving that muscle, take a muscle relaxant and correct my posture. Additionally, I asked how long this may take, and the answer was: probably weeks or even months. The question: what exercises can be done to still keep on working your upper body, at least up to some extent, that minimize involvement of the Levator Scapulae? That was the general form of the question. Now, to add some detail, these are the exercises in my workout. I would like to change as little as possible: 

A lot of pressure on the idea that you need supplements, An enormous volume per workout, so that it is ensured that you will be exhausted and think that it is because you need the supplements. This is because bodybuilding.com is merely a retailer of supplements, as you can simply check in its wikipedia entry. 

When "software engineer" and "upper trapecius contractures" are written side to side, they powerfully ring a bell. This is quite common. Many hours seated, hunched, with no attention to your body because your mind is debugging subroutines... Cycling won't probably help (your legs may be moving, but you are seated and hunched over the bicycle...) but swimming should. One important point is that, no matter what sport you do or what muscles you strengthen, you will still have problems if you don't pay attention to what is causing the problem, the rest of the day, when you are out of the gym/swimming pool/whatever. This is one of the points mentioned in this fantastic series of three or four posts you should read: "Deconstructing Computer Guy" in T-Nation, I think they will give you a better understanding of what is happening and what may be a better approach. I quote a paragraph. After mentioning some sporting activities (spinning among them) and showing a picture of some guys riding stationary exercise bicycles in a gym, the text reads: 

Now, after the general question, I would like to add some particular details that may help the readers understand better what I want to know: I am 41, quite out of shape but I have permission from the doctors to do aerobic exercise. Because several months ago I returned to weight training improperly after 18 years of sedentary computer work, and then aggravated it by improperly stretching my pecs and carrying my 16 kg doughter always on the same arm, I am still recovering from several tendonitis in both shoulders. In the meantime, I am doing some aerobic exercise every day. But, after having injured myself so badly, this time I want to be sure that I am doing the aerobic exercise properly and that I am not going to die suddenly in the middle of the street because I was stressing my heart too much, or who knows what may happen this time... This is exactly what I have been doing in the last 11 days: I start walking very fast, just at a pace where it seems that I should instead start running. But I don't run, I just stay walking. I do this uninterruptedly for up to 45 min. I wear a fairly good running shoes. I check my pulse at least twice during the walk, and it always stays between 120 and 150 bpm (I never let it go over 14 beats in six seconds). I breath correctly. I don't feel it is exhausting, but rather slightly challenging. I think I could say some sentences aloud while walking, as long as they were short and there were enough pauses to breathe in between. I sweat a bit but not too much. At the end, I stretch my quads a bit. I have written down how long I do this every day. This are the times up to yesterday: 25, 30, 36, 45, 45, 41, 45, 45, 43, 42 and 45 min. Is that wrong? Should I insert rest days or something? If this question seems too localized because of the additional details I gave, please feel free to answer only to the general question at the beginning, and I will try to derive the appropriate adaptation to my personal circumstances. Nevertheless, I think that explaining the correct way of starting a soft aerobic walking program for middle-aged unconditioned people is something of a general interest, and the personal details I added are valuable as an example of how it should (or how it should not) be done. 

There are a bunch of sound scientific studies on that question (Hans et al. 2000 / Rhea et al. 2002 / Bors et al. 2001 / Wolfe et al. 2004) essentially suggesting that performing more than 2~3 sets offers little additional progress. I took those references from this nice summary in EXRX with many scholar references and many more details. 

Did you do any progress regarding the weigths you use for those exercises? (that information is missing in your question). If you have been able to increase the weigths more or less steadily, then you have done progress. It is only that you still don't see it in the mirror (have some patience). But if you have spent 3 months training with nearly the same weigths and reps, then you definitely have a problem. You mention things like nutrition and weekly workout frequency, but what about your sleep quality? Sleep is often forgotten as if it were not important. But it is during deep sleep that most of the growth hormone you will get is released. Every effort goes down the drain if you don't have enough sleep regularly. One variable you might want to tweak a bit is your recovery times. Try inserting additional rest days in your routine. Perhaps only then you will start making gains.