That does not make much sense. A freehub/cassette combination has the same function as a freewheel. You cannot replace a cassette with a freewheel unless you replace the wheel hub as well. The only reason I can think of is that the manufacturer thinks freewheels are stronger and can resist the extra torque of the motor better. 

However, given that a few decades ago cycle helmets were rarely worn, but are now common; it seems plausible that in the future lighter, more ventilated helmets will be developed and become generally acceptable for less extreme forms of riding. 

I don't have experience riding at moderate altitude (1000-2500m), but do have experience mountaineering in the French Alps (>3000m) and Himalaya (up to about 5000m). Going to over 2000m altitude is not trivial, even for people in good shape, and can have some adverse effects. It's not something you can totally ignore. Although if you are fit and have experience hiking at similar altitude you will definitely notice the relative lack of oxygen but avoid any serious issues. The most important thing is to drink tons of water, which helps with some of the immediate physiological effects of working at altitude. As your accommodation is relatively low you will have a chance to recover each night. The mountaineering mantra for acclimatizing is 'climb high, sleep low'. 

Update: Also check the above if changing set of rings or whole crank. You also need to check that you have enough chainstay clearance for larger rings. 

Very hard to discern which of the two used bikes is 'better' given just a picture of each. Having information on the year and component level would really help. They both appear to be aluminium frames, If one has substantially better components, then it would be better. However, you also need to look at the amount of wear each has, and if there are any problems such as wheels out of true. The primary wear items to look at are the tires, chain, rear sprocket cassette and front rings. If any of those are worn out you'll need to factor in replacing them. As others have said, all other things being equal, how each fits you is a big deciding factor, Note that the Trek has its bars set quite high so those could come down if you wanted One thing I can say with certainty is that they are actually slightly different types of bikes, The Trek X0 is a cyclocross bike with cantilever brakes, whereas the Giant Defy is a straight road bike. The Trek will allow wider tires and could be a good 'go anywhere' bike that will take on unpaved and rougher paved trails. however, it may have classic cyclocross geometry with a higher bottom bracket which will place you higher on the bike, which you may or may not like. 

The question as stated is very broad and a complete answer to your question would be very, very long! I'll endeavor to provide something useful in an answer of reasonable length. Your best approach is: 1) Clean the bike thoroughly (kinda optional but it makes everything else easier and more pleasant). There are many videos and web articles on this subject. 2) Make sure the bike is safe and check for any obvious problems. Again, there are many videos and web articles on this subject, but I'll give a basic checklist. In regard to cosmetic vs. real damage: if there is anything that you are in doubt about, post a specific question on this site with a good description and photos or go to a good bike repair shop to get the issue addressed. 3) Deal with items that show wear or become maladjusted the quickest. 4) Start learning bike repair and maintenance to deal with everything else. There are many great resources available: books, YouTube instruction and how-to videos, and web pages. My personal favorites are the videos and web articles produced by Park Tool and Global Cycling Network. For brevity I won't go into lots of detail below. Look for questions and answers on this site or Google for articles or instruction videos. Safety Checks 

Get the rear wheel out, observer the derailer and run the shifter through its range properly. Does it move at each shift and through the full range? If not it points to a problem with the shifter. Manually inspect the cable run to make sure they are no snags, twists or kinks and that the housing is properly in each cable stop. If you have exposed cable rather than full run housing: shift to the highest gear/smallest sprocket, grab the shift cable in different places on its run and pull outwards from the frame to actuate the derailleur to its innermost (low gear) position. If you feel resistance or roughness there is an impediment 'downstream' from where you pulled the cable. Disconnect the cable from the derailleur. Manually check the derailleur will smoothly sweep through it's full range, outer limit to inner limit, you should of course feel spring tension but no roughness. With the derailleur still disconnected, manually put a little tension on the cable at the derailleur end (you may have to use pliers to grip the cable, but don't crush it), run the shifter through it's range. Do you still get resistance at the shifter? Does the cable move at the derailleur end at each shift? If the above does not show up a problem with the derailleur or cable run, you will want to look at the shifter itself. I'd want to try to see if the shifter is slipping back to higher gear positions after being shifted to low gear positions. If you can, get hold of the cable as close to the shifter as possible in it's run, put tension on it and run the shifter from high to low gears, it should pull cable the cable in in increments. if you can pull the cable back out out, the shifter is probably work out or broken and will need to be replaced I'm afraid. 

Very definitely a conversion: motor in front wheel, strap-on battery pack. Looks more like a BMX than a MTB. Frame looks small.