I think you can create your own ways to get some face-to-face communication without disrupting the corporate culture. Take advantage of being the "new person" and reply to an email request and ask if you can schedule a time to discuss. Don't just drop in on people and disrupt their work. Being an analyst takes a high-level of concentration for many tasks and interruptions are counter-productive. Use phone calls as an alternative. You may find yourself at a particular company where everyone else has been there for so long, they already know each other enough to maintain their relationships with minimal conversation. This could also be a time of year when everyone is busier than others or in a state of being understaffed (That's why they hired you.). I do think over-all, you're in a profession that requires a lot of individual work and may typically be preferred by people who are more introverted. 

To be legal, there are some places where discrimination and equal opportunity regulations come into place. Some require the posting of a job for a certain amount of time before hiring a candidate. Changing the requirements, could require reposting the position. This is why many companies do not give feedback for why you were not selected. This could prompt litigation. Let's put an interesting twist on the newly discovered Mandarin language requirement. What if Mandarin was required from the beginning, but the company noticed that too many of the applicants were native Mandarin speakers, so they decided to make Mandarin as a second language as the requirement. This looks suspicious especially for candidates who speak both languages very well and opens the company up to a discrimination lawsuit. Sometimes a company already has a candidate in mind and may tailor the requirements to fit this person. All the sudden, a surprise candidate who is equally qualified appears. Now company politics or possibly nepotism rears its ugly head, which isn't very moral, but is more normal than we would like. Again, most companies don't really need to give you a reason not to hire you (Some locations may differ.) and it is in their best interests to say nothing. This is sad, because job candidates don't get the proper feedback to boost their skill sets. Maybe your friend could have picked up enough Mandarin in 4 months, but it would have been better to know that sooner rather than later. 

A better skill to learn would be to be able to ask for more money when you can justify the benefit to the company. Your boss did sort of open the door that you may be up for a raise at the end of this project when you show you can do the job. Have that discussion and get some level of commitment on how you will be evaluated and when a decision could be made to offer a raise later one. I think this also depends on whether or not this is an additional responsibility or just a different one. If you're asked to be the Scrum Master and perform as a programmer as much as before, you could be setting yourself up for failure or a disproportionate amount of work. You could blame a SM for a failed project, but the person who fell behind is more likely to be blamed. Like others said, it is good if this is a career path you want and makes your CV look better, but it comes with a price. 

Do the design work just like your boss asks. Get involved with code review, training and mentoring young developers. Teaching them how to code will elevate your coding knowledge. Continue to study and writing code on your own. You can also use this when working with young devs. Encourage them to stretch their skills by implementing newly learned strategies. 

You make the final decision, but the person does not comply/get things done. This person continues to waste everyone's time with their objections. By excessively complaining to others, it undermines your ability to lead the project. 

Be open with both agents, but don't identify them to one another. Don't offer the amount, the size of project or who came up with the value. Let Agent Z decide what to do. My company may bid on on the same contract with two different teams. We take extra precautions to hide data from one another and never have the same person on two teams. You only have 3 agents; no reason to upset one of them. Let them all know you are a professional. 

Other than being a really strong team player, you've used programmer stereo-types. Try combining them or looking at them in some other ways. 

The most difficult part of being a recruiter is finding available jobs willing to pay the extra commission. There are some skill sets that are harder to find good candidates. This particular recruiter may have more full-time positions to fill than contract positions. If they have both types of positions available, they get paid to fill both of them, so they shouldn't care which one any particular person gets placed. Again, it could be that your particular skill set has more full-time positions available. Personally, I would think it is more difficult for those working full-time to switch to being a consultant/contractor than the other way around. Most people are use to the consistent pay check and don't like the risk of frequently changing jobs. It is possible your skills can get more focused (or isolated) as well as your industry experience. 

Make sure everyone knows why putting chairs away is important. This could be a symptom of people not caring in general. I don't think you can address that, but at least get them to do something. 

Other than this, I don't recommend saying anything until you know all the facts from all parties. You were brought in for a reason, so get your work done. If you get put into a position of authority/team leader, that would be the time to put everyone on notice. Again, the owner may know more than you think. 

I would hope a mid-level developer wants to be an upper-level developer some day. You'll need to keep coding and asking lots of questions. Many of those questions you'll end up answering yourself through trial and error along with research. Nothing wrong with this. It's called learning. 

I made the switch. There was a little over a year of going back to graduate school in between. My intention was one career change, but I ended up in technology instead. My graduate work offered experience but wasn't in the computer science department. You have to start looking for a job in the new field. Make a resume/CV. Start looking for jobs. Research how to handle interview questions. Education tends to be seasonal, so you probably have some time. Your ultimate fate could be whether or not you can even get a job as a teacher depending on where you live and your area of expertise. If you get an offer, you'll be forced to make a decision. Depending on the offer, it may be exactly what you're looking for which makes it easier to accept.