The manufacturer sells said "vulcanizing solution" in quantities of 25g tubes through 1 gallon cans, so you should be able to buy it in larger quantities. Indeed, a quick search of Amazon yield 8 oz cans (or slightly cheaper), and while I couldn't find it on something well known like Amazon there are other places that sell the 1 gallon quantity. However, as many of the reviewers on Amazon point out, an 8 oz can should be a lifetime supply, and won't dry up nearly as quickly as those little tubes. As far as what it is, that's a little harder to figure out. Checking the MSDS, we find only that it consists of 40-70% trichloroethelyne, an organic solvent. That doesn't really solve the problem, as that's just the solvent used. To address the question of rubber cement, if we follow your link to Wikipedia, we find that it's generally a non-vulcanizing cement, while the tire patch stuff definitely claims to be vulcanizing. Moving on, we can think about what the traditional solution to closely held trade secret formulas is. And the tool that was designed to solve that, though only does so imperfectly, is the patent system. Maybe we can find something in a patent filing. A quick check over on Google Patents yields something promising, Cold self-vulcanizing rubber compositions; however, upon reading the patent, it's a three part mixture, and the process involves things like "the rubber used is a natural rubber, partially depolymerized by mechanical working and peptization with diorthobenzamidophenyl." I don't know about you, but peptization with diorthobenzamidophenyl is not exactly something I feel like trying to cook up with common household substances in my basement. Reading further on, we find some further promising patents like Tire repair with cured patch or Tire repair by "patch only" method, but they all also involve discussions of the following form: 

I have an Android smartphone, with GPS, accelerometer, 3G internet connection, and other features that seem useful for bicycling. Are there any good bicycling apps on Android? One app per answer please; feel free to answer multiple times. 

On a road bike its probably a toss up. Seats can be raised or lowered. Stems can be brought in or out. As long as the standover is comfortable, you should be fine on the large. 

i have really been liking the garmin app. It tracks the best for my area, maintains solid connection, and seems like its accurate overall. Also good on battery. Garmin Apps 

I think there is likely no clear answer. The points go both ways. Yes at speed there is the ability to roll. But also the risk of trauma with a stationary object. Be it an object or the ground. Humans are soft and squishy with fragile bones compared to concrete and asphalt, rocks or trees. 

The above comments and answers are all really spot on. I just wanted to add that if you plan any group rides or get into more competitive riding, the CX bike will be noticeably slower. I rode in a good number of rides, and trained for a century on a CX. But after 50 miles of trying hard to keep up, i noticed how much more fatigued i would be compared to my friends and those in the group. I later picked up a nice full ultegra carbon road bike, and picked up 2- 3 mph, with less effort over a 50 mile average. 

I found that almost every Spy sunglass model can be made into an Rx lens. No insert, which i really like since inserts can be too close to my eyes, or fog too quickly. i use the Spy Logan which is a full wrap. The breathe well, and fit by large head. They are pretty affordable, and took the prescription well. 

If you are committed and serious about your biking, which sounds like you are if you already ride 120 a week, I think a road bike would have more pros than cons. Keep your other bike for the coffee shop and errands. I have a commuter hybrid bike that i dont mind locking up, getting groceries with, and such. I put on a chain guard and flat pedals and love the casual ride to the office. 

I know I should lubricate my chain regularly. I got some lube at my LBS; how should I apply it? Do I just drip some on one spot, and turn the pedals around a few times to spread it out? Drip it all over the chain? Do I clean the chain first? How can I tell if it needs lube, or if I've put enough on? 

Some people ride a fixed-gear bike to play Cycleball, the most awesome of all competitive cycling sports. 

Personally, I just wear boots, and use toe clips or bare platforms depending on the size of the boots. 

I haven't tried it myself, but according to the quite informative ICEBIKE website, sandals with layers of socks, including breathable waterproof ones, works quite well. 

Not the most convenient way of measuring your heart rate while cycling, but Instant Heart Rate is a neat program which might be useful when you to take a break. You use your phone's camera and LED flash (if it has one, otherwise any bright light source) to measure your heart rate by pressing the camera and flash against your finger, and it detects fluctuations in the oxygen content of your blood by detecting changes in color. 

Continue to travel in the lane that will run out until it actually does, then stop and wait for a gap in the traffic before merging in. That can sometimes require stopping and waiting for quite a while, due to busy traffic. Signal to the left in advance of running out of the lane, check for a reasonable gap in the cars while still moving, and merge into that gap once I've determined it's safe, or fall back to the first option if that doesn't work. The problem is, this requires a good deal of judgement to tell when there's a good enough gap in traffic to merge back in, I can only glance back quickly and not make good eye contact with drivers in the lane I'm merging into since I need to be paying attention to what's ahead of me as well, and I'm not sure if I'm cutting people off too closely. Pass the cars on the right, then pull up in front of them at a stop light so I can take the lane when it turns green. This makes me feel like a jerk, like I'm cutting in line. Simply stay in, and take, the lane that doesn't keep disappearing. This is what I would do if I were driving a car. The problems are that I get stuck in stop-and-go traffic which slows me down, I have to breathe in the smog of trucks and busses in front of me as I wait, and I hold up somewhat more traffic as I don't take several of the block-long opportunities to make it easy for cars to pass me. Run red lights. This way, I can actually get into the lane I need to before I have to contend with cars. The disadvantage is, of course, that I'm running red lights. 

Road bike tires are indeed different than what you are used to. IF your tires are aired up right (yes likely 100+ PSI per the sidewall recommendations) you should NOT be getting pinch flats. Avoid potholes and curbs. Yes you can hop a curb on a road bike, but but takes grace and a soft touch, and you have to pop up the back wheel a bit. you can not just pop the front and bash the back. Even with the right tire pressure you can break the rim. Glass is a road bike tire's worst enemy. It will slice or gash a tire. Also watch out for chunks of metal and bolts. I slit open a tire 3" on a piece of metal i failed to see. Braking power is a different thread. But good brakes will go a long way. I went years on cheap textro or low level shimanos and simply thought road bikes never stopped fast. Then i picked up some Ultegra's and wow what a difference. I now stop on a dime, just as fast if not faster than with dic brakes on my mountain bike. I have since added some shimano 105's to my commuter, and while not as good as my ultegras, they are 2x better than the stock junk. I picked up the 105 calipers used on ebay for $40. Worth a look. 

First off many forks have a remote lock out as an add on. Fox and rock shox especially. If it has a lock out, a remote lock out is likely available. Secondly, a nice fork that is set up properly for your weight shouldn't need to be locked out all that often. I have had a variety of great fox and rock shox forks that i only lock on long, steep, grueling climbs where I am standing and pumping. This was more needed on a single speed. If you plan to sit and spin up a hill you dont need the lock out at all. Out of the last 5 forks i have had, all had a lockout, but only one with the remote. While the remote is convenient, I have never found it difficult to reach down and lock out on the fork while riding. 

Run.GPS is mentioned in the list of apps supporting the Zephyr heart rate monitor. I haven't tried it; anyone who has, feel free to comment or edit this answer with more information. 

VeloComputer appears to be an attempt at turning a phone into a complete cycling computer. Version 7, which is available for Android, uses GPS for measuring position and speed, and the accelerometer to measure cadence. They also sell Bluetooth enabled wheel and pedal sensors, for more accurate speed and cadence, though those seem to only be supported on Blackberry at the moment. I have not tried this; it looks interesting, though some of the reviews indicate that it's a bit flaky. Does anyone else have experience with it? 

As well as references to entire books on rubber and the process of vulcanization: 'Rubber Technology, edited by Maurice Morton, Chapter 2, "The Compounding and Vulcanization of Rubber," 3rd edition, 1987' None of these appears to have any kind of description of a single readily available material or combination of a few that could be mixed together to work; they all appear to be fairly intricate, specialized compounds consisting of a variety of ingredients. So I think that the 8oz can on Amazon is probably your best bet. I've heard some people claim you can just use regular rubber cement, but given that there are big cans of the "vulcanizing solution" readily available, my instinct would be to go for that. 

My commute takes me along a fairly busy road, with 4 lanes of traffic and parked cars along most of it. There are no bike lanes, but in some places, it's wide enough that I can easily pass traffic on the right (which is legal in my state, as far as I can tell), and in some places, there's actually a whole extra lane on the right for a block or two. However, the conditions change from block to block. On some of the blocks, there is not enough room to pass safely on the right of cars, and there are some places where the extra lane on the right no longer exists across the intersection or is filled with parked cars. There are several times when I've passed cars on the right, either in a full lane or in the room between a lane of stopped cars and parked cars, and then realized after crossing through the next intersection that I need to merge back into the next lane. What is the etiquette of merging back into the next lane in such circumstances? There are a few possibilities that I've tried, and all of them seem unsatisfying in certain ways.