Yes, if you have a Schraeder valve then the core can be easily removed with a simple tool (available for a couple of dollars at any car parts place and some bike shops). If it's a Presta, OTOH, the core is not usually removable, but it's quite easy to keep the pin depressed. To get the air out of the tube, first fold it in half with the valve near (but not at) one folded end. Then roll up the tube from the other end, possibly making use of a piece of pipe or such to roll it around. Or use a can of soup or such as a "steamroller" to press out the air. 

One thing that I've noticed is that I tend to put my stronger (right) leg down. This leaves the weaker left leg to give the initial stroke. I'm (eventually) going to try to train myself to put my left leg down so that the stronger leg is making the stroke. 

For my panniers I took some lightweight aircraft cable and ran loops to the screws that secure the bag to its frame. These loops are long enough to run my regular lock through them, and they're stuffed in the bag when not in use. In my case the purpose is to prevent "opportunistic" thefts by stupid kids, but the technique could be used with heavier cables to discourage more "professional" thieves. Obviously, with any sort of fabric bag the fabric can be cut, so there is a practical limit to the amount of security provided by this technique. 

For greasing a seatpost you wouldn't use the same grease as for a bearing. For the seatpost you want a "clean" grease, and one that will stick well, not a grease designed to stand the extremes of wheel bearings. "White grease" or silicone grease would be options, or even a heavy oil. A hardware store will have options, if you describe the application. (Not that any great harm will occur from using the grease you have -- it's just that it will be unnecessarily messy and will wash away in the rain a bit too readily.) For bearings you'd best use Phil Wood or Park grease from your local bike shop (or online), unless you have an exotic bike that specs something different (in which case follow the specs to the letter). A small tube of bike grease will last a good while, and it's not a major investment. But the stuff you have is certainly adequate, and I wouldn't hesitate to use it if it was the only thing at hand. 

A standard rack will fit a standard (full-sized, non-suspension, diamond frame) bike with rack eyelets. Beyond that you're on your own. 

This is a touchy issue. In general, unless the helmet is one that was very precisely designed for the lightest possible weight and the smallest dimensions, you should be able to cut away about 1/4 of the thickness of the liner in a small area without seriously reducing protection. It could be a bit tricky to do this over a larger area without endangering the integrity of the liner, however, from the standpoint of it fragmenting in an accident. Probably better is a slightly oversize helmet with additional padding added. But one must be careful to use appropriate padding material -- not too hard, not too soft. A too-hard liner would transfer too much stress to the skull, while a too-soft liner would allow the head to "bang" against the real liner in an accident. And an added liner is apt to reduce ventilation and make the helmet less comfortable. It's not really rocket science, but you have to have some understanding of the forces involved and how a bike helmet works. 

At each end there are bearings, either loose balls or a set of balls in a "cage". They fit into the "cup" recess in the end of the hub body, then the "cone" is screwed onto the axle shaft to hold everything together. A "lock nut" tightens against the cone to keep things from working apart. (Note that this lock nut is different from the nut used to secure the axle to the frame.) Adjusting an axle involves screwing one of the cones in or out as needed to achieve smooth motion with neither looseness nor a sort of drag and rough feeling (when the axle is spun by hand). Then the lock nut must be tightened against the cone. In order to do this adjustment one needs a "cone wrench", an inexpensive, non-adjustable open-end wrench that is very thin. These are available online or from any bike shop that sells tools. (Alas, there are several sizes, and you need to find the right size for your axle.) The cone wrench must be used to hold the cone while the lock nut is tightened against it. This adjustment is apt to take 3-4 tries to get it right the first time -- the cone must be very slightly loose before the lock nut is tightened, as doing so pushes the cone in slightly. 

Generally you should use a patch kit similar to this , which consists of patches with rounded corners & feathered edges, a small tube of glue, and a bit of coarse sandpaper. Usually you can locate the leak by over-inflating the tube (to about twice normal diameter) and then either moving your hand along it or moving it around near your face (your face skin is quite sensitive to air movement) to feel the leak. Sometimes it helps to move it around near your ear to hear the leak. As a last resort, fill a basin with water and use that to detect the bubbles. Discard any tube with a leak within two inches of the stem, or with a leak within an inch or two of an existing patch. And of course discard any tube with a slit or blowout (except in extreme emergency). Marking is tricky. Often the leak is near enough to the center of the tread area that you can simply center on the tread area and only need to mark the position around the circumference. Other times the leak is more on the sidewall, and you need to mark both X and Y (so to speak) positions. (Or you can wing it and try to remember where the leak is.) But remember that you need to abrade the area of the patch (plus at least a half inch beyond its margins) and then spread glue on this area. This will obliterate any nearby marks, so you need to mark farther away than that. It's often best to mark on both sides, so you can conceptually draw a line between the marks. Chalk, a soft pencil, or a fine-tipped felt pen can be used for marking. (Be sure to test marking first and be sure you can see the mark.) Avoid using a grease pen, since the grease may get onto the patch area. Abrade the area of the patch. If the patch will fall on top of the mold sprue (seam) on the centerline of the tube, you need to abrade that pretty well -- not necessarily enough to remove the "seam", but enough to make it lay flat. Spread on the glue, going about 1/2" beyond the patch margins. You don't need a lot, but enough to make the whole area shiny and smooth. (Note, you WILL get glue on your fingers, especially since the finger is the best way to spread the glue. Be prepared with some sort of towel to wipe your hands, and don't do any of this on your wife's new hardwood diningroom table, nor should you wipe your hands on the upholstery of the new couch.) Allow the glue to dry. Here I may diverge from "conventional wisdom" and the instructions in the patch kit, since I like the glue to be not quite totally dry before applying the patch. Others like it thoroughly dry, but I find I get better adhesion my way. Apply the patch. It comes with a clear plastic top cover and a foil backing. The trick is to remove the foil without removing the clear plastic, so that you can use the plastic to cover some of the glue while pressing. After the patch is in place, press it thoroughly, by, eg, rubbing your fingernail back and forth across it. (The smooth, rounded end of a plastic tire "iron" is useful for this function.) It's important to do this pressing well, crossing the patch first one direction, then another, applying considerable pressure. If the patch is on the sidewall where you will fold it while folding up the tube for stowage, allow the patch to "set" for at least another 15 minutes, preferably a couple of hours. And, before folding for stowage, place a bit of tissue over the glued area (even if the clear plastic is still covering it) since the glue, over time, will want to stick to parts of the tube it touches when folded. (Another option is to thoroughly dust the area with talc.) You need the same consideration when installing the tube back in the tire, to prevent the patch from sticking to the inside of the tire. (In a pinch, when you need to put the tube back in a tire and ride immediately, roadside dust is a good stand-in for talc.) 

What you want to minimize (within reason) is "drag" or "rolling resistance" caused by the tires in contact with the road. This is a function of tire width, tire pressure, tread design, and the characteristics of the rubber. Plus, of course, the characteristics of the road. Generally, higher pressure reduces contact area (for a given weight) and hence rolling resistance. Smooth tires produce fewer losses than lugged tires, and hard rubber fewer losses than a softer rubber. (But at some point the tire is harder than the road and no additional gains can be made.) Further, having tires that are too hard can reduce overall (human-operated) bike efficiency because vibrations are transmitted through the tires and bike to the rider's body, where they are dissipated as heat (and fatigue). Ideally, the tires are soft enough to absorb moderate bumps, but the rubber and tread are designed such that very little energy is absorbed, but rather "reflected" back to the road as the bumps go the opposite direction. 

A significant factor is that the narrower saddle results in less friction on the inside of the legs -- important when you're riding for hours in a relatively fixed position, but less so when riding for shorter periods or in conditions where you're shifting positions frequently. Likewise, the wider saddle provides more support when you're shifting positions frequently but is unnecessary when you ride in a fixed position. 

Remove the pedals (leave the crank in place) and set the seat low enough for him to touch the ground with his feet and push himself along. Keep raising the seat a little at a time, as he gets the concept of balance, and reinstall the pedals when he seems ready. Intentionally do what is often unintentionally done to a bike: Wrap something -- rope, twine, some sort of rubber strip -- around the rear axle, between the wheel proper and the sprocket. Get it tight (tie it in place if necessary) and make sure it doesn't stick out to where it will get caught by the chain. This will keep the sprocket from "freewheeling". 

Lean the bike against a wall, with the derailer facing out. Make sure you're on a surface that won't mind getting a little oil and dirt on it. Place a section of newspaper against the wheel such that it covers the lower part of the wheel (trailing off onto the floor) and slides up behind the derailer. Spray the derailer thoroughly with WD-40 or a similar spray solvent, to remove the gunk. Ideally, use an old toothbrush to loosen hardened gunk. (Yes, I know that WD-40 is not a "lubricant". But it's a pretty good solvent/degreaser for this sort of application.) Thoroughly wipe the derailer and surrounding area dry with reasonably clean rags or paper toweling. Also wipe up the puddle that's no doubt collected on the floor. Oil the derailer and chain with good quality chain oil. For "general purpose" use (neither wet nor dusty) I prefer a "wax" based product such at Tech-Line KryTech. Wipe away the excess oil. Remove the newspaper and wipe again. (Dispose of the materials "responsibly".) Give the rim and tire face one more wipe with a clean rag -- you want to get as much oil off of these as possible (and even in the best of circumstances something will spatter there). 

You don't say what sort of cycling (and how much) you've done before, or what sort of seat you've previously used. There are all sorts of seats available, from rail-thin to extra wide, short to long, hard to soft, and the seat you should use is the one that is (in the long term) comfortable to YOU (though, granted, certain seats may cause "serious" riders to turn up their noses). There is no "right" or "wrong" seat (within reason). Do note that a seat that's uncomfortable in the short term may be more comfortable in the long term, and vice-versa. (A lot has to do with getting your butt "conditioned" to the seat.) There's no really good way to tell, beforehand, what is the "right" seat for you. 

It's unclear how much rust you're talking about, but it's unlikely that a bike could develop serious rust on a chain in 5 months unless left outside with no maintenance. I've dealt with some pretty rusty bikes over the years (especially when I spent a spell working on donated bikes for Christmas Anonymous) and I've never seen a cog that was so rusty that it was unserviceable. The chain, of course, is a different matter, but generally rust on a chain is of little consequence unless it causes "stiff links", and that won't happen on a bike that's used regularly. I'd recommend that you switch to a slightly less "dry" lube (or at least give the chain a few squirts of regular oil every now and again). Also, if you've been cleaning the chain at all, be a little less diligent cleaning it -- it's not necessary to get it shiny bright, you just want to get off the crud. Otherwise don't worry about it.