Unless you have sealed bearings, my money will be on the cone nuts. The most common way to adjust them is with a flat wrench. The rear wheel is the most complicated, but it isn't that bad. Remove the wheel from the forks and loosen all the nuts on the left side, the side that doesn't have the gears. You only need to loosen them enough to expose the cone fully past the sprockets. Make sure to watch for the bearings falling out. The best way to do this is to place the axle on something hard to push the right cone up against the bearings as you loosen the left side, then flip the wheel over and push the left cone up. (Grease can act as glue to keep them all in there.) Tighten the locking nut against the right cone to the recommended torque. Now tighten the left cone down on the bearings. We are not going to get it perfect yet, just close enough to put the wheel back on the frame and tighten the right wheel nut. (If you have a quick release, take it off and use a wheel nut. If you can not find one anywhere, keep the wheel off the bike and use a 3rd wrench on the right side to keep the axle from rotating in this next procedure.) We are now going to adjust the left side. This is where you need judgment. You need to have the cone snug against the bearings but you also need to allow the wheel to spin freely. Spin the wheel and try to find that perfect sweet-spot for the cone. Once you find that perfect spot, keep the flat wrench exactly where it is and tighten the lock nut up against it. (This is where the wheel being on the bike comes in VERY handy. If the axle rotates, you will lose that sweet spot and your cone will either be too lose and cause damage to the axle or too lose and cause damage to the bearings and cup. Like I said, you can opt to use a 3rd wrench on the right side.) Now just tighten the left wheel nut and you are done! The front is almost the same except it doesn't matter which side you tighten down first. (NOTE: You MUST have washers between the cones and lock-nuts or they will mesh together and act as one unit and loosen up very quick!!) 

There is a small seam that should sit a few millimeters above the rim that helps you see that the tire is seated right. 

If you are close enough to get into their Slipstream, you can essentially kill their drag. This might feel like a boost because the wind that was previously pulling them back is now transferred to YOUR rear and not sucking on them anymore. Here is a photo of a bullet's slipstream (wake), where you can see the air sucking the bullet backwards. 

The curve above the brake looks like it is crimping down on the cable, so yeah, it is too long. The curve coming out of the cable stop is about the curve that you want going from the stop to the brake (but curving down rather than up). And it is ALWAYS better to be slightly longer than shorter, you can all ways cut it if it is long, but too short and you need another housing. The best way to measure the housing is with the cable out. I would drop the adjuster almost all the way down (leave a few threads showing so you can adjust it down if you need); remove the cable, chop an inch or so (from this shot I would maybe even do 2 inches), replace the housing and look to see if there is a gentle curve. Chop a little at a time until it looks right, then put the cable back in and tighten everything down. 

Personally I'd look for something that uses a rubber strap to hold it onto the handlebar, loose enough that you can move it to point up and down, but tight enough to stay stable when moved. Adjusting the Philips ball and socket to work that way, instead of setting aim once and then tightening to lock, could be tricky. 

Even where there is considerable evidence of dangerous driving, it can be ignored: $URL$ The Crown Prosecution Service guidance often appears to be flagrantly ignored. Some police forces have a policy of ignoring all reports where the driver was merely endangering a cyclist and didn't actually cause injury this time. For much more on the subject, see $URL$ 

Other effects: the front tyre can disturb something lying flat on the ground, flicking it up ready to cause a puncture on the rear; and taking a rear wheel off to fix a flat is more hassle because of the gears and so even if you have equal numbers of flats, the extra time spent on rear ones makes it feel like you have more rear ones :-) 

Answers so far seem to concentrate on floor pumps, but what I haven't seen recently is a full length frame pump that uses a hose connector. But 20+ years ago, that was fairly standard. I'd recommend getting a floor pump for regularly keeping tyres topped up, but you still need a pump to take on the bike in case of a flat. If you want an old style pump, Google finds me the Zefal Lapize, but a couple of reviews are unenthusiastic, and suggest that the retro style is the only real reason to consider it. In a more compact style, the Topeak RaceRocket has a hose connection that fits both main valve types. Topeak also make some "mini-floor" style compact pumps with hoses, the Morph range. For pumps without a hose : 

While you probably could cold set it, the Sturmey-Archer XRF-8 is available in a version with 120mm OLN dimension. (And you almost certainly can fit a modern bottom bracket. Worst case, have the existing threads removed and fit a threadless bracket. Bottom bracket size guide.) 

Another option would be to very carefully cut off the piece of metal that crimps the existing hose onto the threaded part, and then reuse the threaded part by crimping the new hose onto it. The downside is that if it doesn't work, you can no longer even go on as you are, because you will no longer have any of the old hose left at all to join to. If you can find another hose that fits first, like maybe a one from a similar age frame pump (which would be too short to just use as is), that would be safer. Yet another option (which could also be used if you try the option above and it fails) - pick one of the adapters that came with the new hose, and make the pump fit it, either by tapping it out to a larger thread that fits a larger adapter thread, or tapping it out to a larger thread and fitting a helicoil. Downside - if the new thread is too much larger, the base of the pump will break. (And if it's not larger enough, it won't hold the new adapter securely. You could cross thread it and then use epoxy, but that's getting pretty desperate.) 

I assume you mean 700c (622mm), not the obsolete 27" (630mm) size. You could try the "WHEEL V BRAKE EXTENDER" from $URL$ or a similar idea from Lite_pro $URL$ Personally, I'm not very convinced by them, but I haven't tried them. The Paul Moto BMX are probably a safer idea. (These $URL$ also look as if they allow more adjustment than standard V brakes, but it might not be enough.) If you do use something like the Paul Moto, you might want levers designed for old-style cantilevers, because the mechanical advantage will be very different from a standard V-brake setup. (Edit: scratch that, Paul's instructions say use brakes designed for direct-pull (i.e. V-brakes).) Edit: A couple more adapters that look a bit better designed to me: $URL$ $URL$ 

Pretty much all bike-related lights for helmets are mounted with velcro straps. My mate was riding in full-face helmet with lights on helmet. He had vents on top of the helmet and mounted the lights through the vents. Worked just fine. We use Light and Motion for "battery in the pack, light on the head" set up. If you are planning a DH in the dark, I highly recommend have 2 lights - one on your helmet to shine where you are looking at. And another on your handlebars - to put light just in front of the wheel. You can never have too much light for DH, and even with all the lights you can get, it does not give you the same confidence as with day-light. So take care when you are trying to do that drop you usually nail daytime. In the dark it'll be a whole new territory. 

I've done something like that ages ago. But had a friend working in CNC shop - he made a steel insert to fix the threads. And 10 years after - the cranks are still going fine. But not everyone have access to CNC machinery. So it might be easier and cheaper to replace the cranks. 

The only way to know for sure what happens with your fork is to take it apart and have a look. Any other suggested procedure will be a guess. So if that noise bothers you, get your tools out and open the fork. Apart from checking the internal condition, you will gain a better understanding of the fork structure and operations, and you'll know what to expect from it. And next time you face with strange sound, you'll know what's happening there. 

Risk to damage the fork/frame? Yes, absolutely. But all depend on what you are doing and what bike it is. I've snapped a few frames doing trials and stunts. But chances of damaging are less if you are using trials frame. Wheel size is a great debate in a trials world. There are 26", 24" and 20" (19") wheels. All down to the preference and rider level. I'd start with 26" and then once you know what you want/need, decide on the sizes. If you are very keen on trials and have finance, definitely get a trials bike. Many times while learning I found my bike stopping my progress. Good quality parts... get a good chain and good freewheel. Because if freewheel slips while doing gaps - you are going down. And that can lead to an injury. Also get a great rear tyre with good brake. A lot depends on that. Other parts are essential, but these are high priority. Breaks are another point of debate in trials world. Magura HS33 - hydraulic rim brakes used to be very popular 10 years ago. Now I'm not quite sure about the trends. Certainly I'd put some cash in for a good rear break - that is a vital part of the bike. 

Perhaps you'll have more luck with answers on specialised trials forums, like $URL$ However, I'll try to address your questions briefly. 

On Trek 4300 you have RST Gila fork which is cheap and simple. You can't really lock it completely, just pre-load the spring to maximum. I'd say you should not worry about it - the internals are very simple and can't really be damaged easily: this is no oil/air fork. It has a steel spring and some rubbers to work as dumper. And most likely the juddering you notice is not from the fork, but rather from the breaks themselves. 

A lot of your questions are down to experience. You'll know when you need a better rear break and what other parts to change. And you'll slowly assemble a great bike, going along with your skill level. And good luck!