This means, on the soles of Buddha's feet there's a wheel sign with thousand spokes. According to commentaries, this wheel sign is said to have accompanied by 108 sub features, and Swastika is the first of those 108 sub features. It symbolizes auspiciousness and prosperity for Buddhists. This is the traditional Swastika, it is flat and counterclockwise while the Nazi swastika is tilted and clockwise. 

in eight precepts suggests that one should abstain from high and luxurious beds and seats. How should one define which bed or seat is not high and which one is not luxurious? Can this precept be practiced at home? 

According to Mahāpadā­na­sutta, when he was born he stood firm on both feet, then with his face to the north took seven strides while a white canopy was held over him. There is no mention of a shower at every step though. According to Mahāpadā­na­sutta commentary, standing firm on both feet is a portend for achieving the four iddhipada (Intention, Effort, Consciousness, Investigation). Facing north is a sign that he'll rise above others, the seven steps he walked is a portend that he'll achieve the seven factors of enlightenment (satta bojjhaṅgā) and finally the white canopy held over his head is a symbol that he'll achieve nirvana. 

In Theravada tradition, a Buddha appears in this world only after the teachings of the previous Buddha completely vanishes. It is also mentioned that the teachings of a Buddha will survive after his parinibbāna only if he teaches the Vinaya pitaka. 

The answer for this seems debatable, this is what I found in Vinaya, The Khandaka rules translated by Thanissaro Bhikku page 89, 

On the other hand, a person can be a strict vegetarian while craving for tastier food and could be strengthening his ego considering his higher morality, both of which are not good. 

Buddha gave his disciple Moggallana a sequence of advice on how to overcome drowsiness during meditation. Moggallana was however continuously meditating for 7 days without sleep when he received this advice. 

If there's no monk in the temple, a lay person who's an attendant can also take them. If there's no such person, there's no harm if anyone else uses them. Nonetheless, if something's offered to the Buddha that can be used in the temple e.g. oil, taking them for personal use can be stealing. Otherwise there's no harm in eating food or even giving them to beggars or animals, you can get more merit :) That being said, in Dhammadayada sutta, Buddha asks the monks to be the inheriters of his teaching and not the inheriters of his material. Further, he says that the monks who don't eat his leftovers are more praiseworthy than the monks who eat them because it conduces to that monks' few desires, satisfaction, purity, the nature of being supported easily, and for arousing of effort. 

If I consider your example of hitting back when someone hits you, we can categorize this as a immediately effective kamma for the person you're hitting back. But we can't still say the power of his initial kamma has weakened. In another life, in several other lives or even in this life he may reap the results of this. If the conditions didn't fall the kamma may never function as well. For the second question the answer is also NO. You may not have have anger at the point you hit him, but your intention is filled with delusion. You are purposefully hurting someone with a wrong view in your mind. 

is mentioned in $URL$ What is the definition of a pernicious false belief and why is it considered such a severe offense to be in the same level as other acts? 

and sent him away from his presence. Vakkali was depressed by this and wanted to commit suicide, however at the moment of committing suicide buddha was able to help him get enlightened. Source:$URL$ 

However, I assume your question is on conceit, so here are some methods discussed here to tackle conceit, some of them are applicable for mana as well. On a practical aspect, the 4th and 1st methods have been very helpful to me whenever conceit arises. 

The reason stated in Anagarika Dharmapala's wikipedia page for his split with the Theosophical society is that he was against the idea of a universal religion that the Theosophists were aiming at. 

From dependant origination, it is evident that the meritorious acts or good karma (conditioned by ignorance and clinging) and there results play vital roles in turning the wheel of life and extending our samsara. Any discourse mentioned it and how to deal with it? In MN 9 Sariputta thera mentions about Formations and how to deal with it, 

Sevenfold skill in learning of the 32 parts are, (1) as verbal recitation, (2) as mental recitation, (3) as to colour, (4) as to shape, (5) as to direction, (6) as to location, (7) as to delimitation. 

An untrue state of affairs. - In your case the coin is not in your hand An intention to deceive - Your intention is to deceive the people by saying it's in your hand. The expression of the falsehood either with gesture, words or body language- In your case you are saying that it's in your hand Conveying a false impression - The audience is deceived by your words. 

Yes, various other beings can possess humans e.g. hungry ghosts, Yakṣas, Maras Here's one occasion where a human was possessed by a Mara named Dusi and the Mara being Moggallana himself in that life. 

Since you are seeking inspiration similar to the simile how one should eat as if they are eating their own child having lost in a desert, to understand the drawbacks of lust, I think Alagaddupama Sutta is a good place where Buddha gave ten similes to understand the true nature of sensual pleasure. Here, Buddha says that one should see sensual pleasure as either bare bones, a lump of flesh, a torch of straw, a pit of burning coal, a dream, borrowed goods, a fruit tree, a slaughter house, a stake of swords or a snake's head to understand there true nature. According to commentary and subcommentary sensual pleasure here means sexual intercourse or expressing sexual desire by other ways including hugging, petting and other acts to satisfy lust. The first 7 of the 10 similes are explained in further detail in Potaliya sutta as well as here (summary of all 10 explanations). 

In theravada, a universe is described in three tiers: galaxies, cluster of galaxies, meta-galaxies consisting of a large number of solar systems. I don't see a conflict of this with science. 

I've come across many stories in the Tipitaka where people attained arahanthood or became non-returners through meditation. However, I cannot recollect any instance where someone becomes a sotapanna through a meditation practice (including vipassana). Can someone provide me a reference for such an instance (or multiple instances) from suttas, commentaries or any other source in the Pali canon (ideally excluding Visuddhimagga)? The reason why I'm asking this is that there's a claim by certain lineages that stream entry cannot be reached through meditation, at least based on Tipitaka evidence. 

Because of this, I believe it is better to be born in a place where you can hear the Dhamma, rather than extending the samsara by doing positive or negative kamma. 

If a person is on a life support system due to the failure of one or more organs and not able to return to normal life without them again, if the family consents to the doctors' recommendation to turn off the artificial life support, can this be considered encouraging to kill, violating the first precept? 

So in summary, equanimity that is diversified = undeveloped mind equanimity which is unified = a mind at Jhāna level 

The other one seems to be coming from a Mahayana sutta, "Sermon on Abuse" in The sutta of 42 sections 

A marriage is something that increases attachments to this world, and Buddhism encourages to go in the other direction on reducing attachments. So, Buddhist monks or Buddhist monasteries do not play any role in marriages at least in Theravada. Of course, the monks would give their blessing to the couple as in any other special occasion in their life when they visit the monastery before or after the marraige, as mentioned by Sankha. Weddings are taken according to local customs of the people involved in it. The closest that happens to a religious activity during a wedding is the chanting of paritta, Jayamangala Gatha as a blessing to the couple. This is also performed by lay people. Another influence of Buddhism in a marriage I would say is that the couple would bow to the parents as you would bow to a monk or a Buddha statue. Recently in Sri Lanka there were some attempts to have weddings in a temple, and it got criticized by monks and the public (I don't know the current situation though). 

Performing magic doesn't necessarily break the precept but the kind of methods you use to perform magic may break it. There must be four factors involved in your action to breach the fourth precept. If I take your example with the four factors here, 

No, there's no limit to practising metta. In Metta sutta it is mentioned that the one who practices this can do it anytime and anywhere. 

Answering one of the questions from a Deva, Buddha gave a discourse on the merit gained by planting groves. 

There are some great answers here. I would also like to add the following comment by Buddha which emphasizes the importance of giving to anyone in need. 

In Buddha's time the life span is said to have been 100 years and there were several theras who touched even 120 years e.g. Ananda and Maha Kassapa. In fact Bakkula thera is said to have lived 160 years, he had ordained when he was 80. But we rarely hear anyone passing 100 at present. A well-respected monk in Sri Lanka (late Ven. Nauyane Ariyadhamma) has mentioned that the life span reduces by 10 years in each millennium. Judging from that, the 10 year period should occur roughly in 7500 years from now. Who knows what can happen within this period. The causes of illnesses and therefore, the reduction in life span according to Buddhism is mentioned in Cakkavatthi sutta. 

The reason is given in the sutta itself. Pondering on these brings madness and frustration for someone with an undeveloped mind. 

This is one of the four protective meditations (metta, contemplation of the Buddha, death and foulness of the body) and you won't experience side effects as in other types of meditations as well. You cannot practice breathing meditation when you are ill, like headaches and anxiety, it tends to aggravate the problem, but metta doesn't. Also, it is usually recommended to practice the four protective meditations before breathing meditation to reduce defilements. The claim, metta meditation does not lead to wisdom is also not entirely true. In AN 11.16 sutta it is clearly stated how a metta jhana can be used to develop insight. 

Hence, the precept has been broken here. In this kind of situation I think we can use our intelligence to avoid such things from happening. Even if you lie to save someone's life, let alone entertain someone that's still a breach of the precept. From this action, there'll be good results by saving a life and bad consequences from lying. 

Although there are no rules for lay people, there are several vinaya rules for monks for harming the environment such as cutting down trees, burning forests. In one occasion, monks who were making some repairs, were cutting down trees and when Buddha heard about this he criticized them,