Golden colored tools are already a thing The native state of engineering TiN (Titanium Nitride) coatings is a bright golden color -- it is quite common to see high-speed machine tool bits that are coated this way for its anti-galling, anti-corrosion, and anti-wear properties. An example is the drill bit depicted below (pic from Binter on Wikipedia.DE): 

Assume you have two blades (of whatever design you wish) made from identical starting steel (in fact, we can assume that the two starting ingots are sisters from the same mill run). One is shaped by manual hot-forging, while the other is shaped by a single-blow, closed-die hot forging process. After shaping, they are identically heat-treated and machined to final dimensions. How would the two blades be different, and how would this difference manifest itself in practical usage as a tool or a weapon, both initially and over a long period of time? 

Fire code says no Modern cities with well-enforced building standards have a massive edge over their counterparts 100 years ago in the form of largely noncombustible/fire-resistive construction for key buildings and party walls, zoning rules that help prevent combustible buildings from being abutted too closely to each other, and even the widespread application of active automatic fire suppression inside buildings. Downtowns and other high-density areas in particular are aggressively fire-resistant in design and implementation, relying heavily on the factors mentioned above to keep fires manageable. These combine to make fire spread within buildings and from building to building vastly more difficult. Wildland-interface suburbs, due to their lower-rise, more combustible construction and the higher surrounding fire load, are more vulnerable to such a conflagration than downtowns. Even then, though, building code development has been catching up to prior experience in these matters, requiring improved exposure fire resistance in such applications. Even buried pipelines and factories aren't enough to touch off a wide-scale disaster in many cases -- transmission pipelines can be shut down remotely if they start to leak, and zoning keeps hazardous industries largely separated from residential areas. 

Set them free. Seriously. You'd have a happy, basically motivated society, that's mostly pissed at you. Your fault, but they have a lot of space to rebuild on. That'll keep them busy. A small faction of them might actually find said felines attractive (furries?) or merely suffer from stockholm syndrome. Employ them, treat them well, and you might attract a few more. Considering how human history is littered with "superior" nations defeated by small, motivated armies, leaving this planet alone would also be sensible, cause eventually you'd find random acts of sabotage and open insurrection. Students of human history would probably realise that few nations of slaveholders rested easy. 

There's been a few examples of planned cities coming up out of nowhere. Assuming you have all the resources you need The current capital of Myanmar took 10 years to build from nothing Brasilia took 48 months to build So the city core is easy. The hard part is convincing people to move. If you had enough support, you could build 'close enough' to a major urban center to attract business and jobs away from it, but many newly rich nations like china often have entire towns or cities that are empty. So the process of building a community is somewhat tricky. You need to start with attracting business and jobs, and then people. But if you had the right backing, you could certainly get a metropolis up in under a decade. 

Satellites Satellite systems are only expensive today because of the cost of launch -- LEO sats are in a radiation benign environment relatively speaking (vs GEO/MEO/Molniya birds which need to be rad hardened thoroughly to avoid making the next AO-10), and are relatively undemanding on their launch platform compared to higher-orbiting satellites. This means that you can pretty much use whatever decent rockets you have on hand for the job, vs needing to build a multi-stage rocket custom tailored to get into a high-velocity GTO, and reusable rocket technology is more readily applicable due to the lower deltaV needed. Using LEO also gives you the ability to use compact terminals (see Iridium for instance) and a variety of topologies for the network (satellite buffered store-and-forward vs real-time space-to-space circuit switching vs ground interlinked satellites). The downside is you need several LEO sats to do the job of one geostationary satellite, but the much higher geostationary launch and vehicle costs can make up for it. Ground terminals will look much like what you get with today's Iridium system in this case -- something that looks phone-like, but with a noticeable antenna vs. having one integrated into the case. Shortwave (HF) Before the development of satellites, just about all long-haul radio communications was done through HF (shortwave) radio technology, bouncing radio signals off of ionized layers of air high in Earth's atmosphere. By using sensitive receivers, frequency agility, and the knowledge and skill of operators, messages could be passed this way year-round without resorting to high-powered transmissions, and still are to this day in some parts of the world. Voice and slow-speed data are both possible, and improvements in technology have made it possible to leverage HF's strengths while mitigating its weaknesses and reducing the amount of operator intervention needed. One thing that will be noted here is that HF is a direct, point-to-point technology -- there is no switching going on here. Stations will need to follow a protocol (such as Automatic Link Establishment) in order to find and communicate with each other, and also be able to be automatically frequency agile in order to maintain a link through ionospheric changes. The resulting terminals will more than likely be a bit more "brick" like due to the need to supply at least a few watts of transmit power, and have long antennae, presumably an extensible whip of the type familiar from old-school transistor radios. Meteor burst Meteors not only generate spectacular light shows, but ionization bursts as well. This can be used for burst-type, point-to-point links, useful for store-and-forward messaging; a system like this will be a store-and-forward switched network, presumably with some degree of peer-to-peer component to provide resiliency, as well as the ability to establish links automatically. Generally speaking, meteor burst terminals rely on pointable, directional antennae to aid in tracking the fast-moving ionization clouds from the meteors. The resulting network would have high latency and unusual terminal designs (presumably using a phased array antenna to achieve directionality), but could be useful for emergency or command and control communications over relatively long distances. 

Something similar to a Strangler fig, though rather than a single plant it might be many would work. Rather than a single large tree, it would be a fast growing population of trees, possibly aminable to coppicing, possibly this could be a combination of a primary 'structural' plant, with a vine like plant that grows fast and thickens to a woody, strong structure. While nothing like this exists in nature, over time you have a central tree that dies and spreads, and strangler vines acting much like a natural lumberjack, and then dying as nutrients run out near the centre. Due to this you wouldn't have a nice round circular trunk, but rather a interconnected series of naturally tangled living and dead wood. 

I'd note the lack of usable fingers (How do they even pick up tools) and roughly the same range of motion as lego people. Non functional hips. No knees of elbows. No feet (how are they even standing????) Essentially this bodyplan makes tool use difficult, these folks would find it impossible to get up if they ever fell over and there's no plausible way it would work. 

How large can this animal be before domesticating it for hunting and guard duties, as well as general companionship, becomes impractical for the settlers to pull off? You can assume that they have skilled animal trainers and breeders among their ranks. 

You might actually get Warren Buffet pissed at the tax code this way This sounds OK at first, until you realize that it'd impact certain entities highly disproportionately to others, as some entities hold land in highly disproportionate ways. Historically, land grants have been used as a means to encourage certain types of development (homesteading, transportation, universities), and entities involved with those types of operations are going to get hit hard under your scheme. In particular, in the USA, the major Class I railroads own oodles of land, much of which dates back to the original land grants they were given to spur the development of railroads through yet-undeveloped areas. Under your proposal, they, along with some major agricultural cooperatives and corporations and a few major real estate holding/management firms, would be some of the largest taxpayers in the country, while many other businesses that lease most of their resources would pay minimal or no direct taxes. The impact would be greatest in transportation -- it'd be a massive subsidy to trucks, aircraft, and ships/barges as most of those companies rely heavily on public infrastructure, while massively penalizing railroads. It'd also discourage upfront private investment in large-scale facilities such as toll roads, bridges, and airports due to tax liability confusion when public and private entities jointly own land. In short, you'd have to give the railroads an absolutely monster tax break, or completely nationalize the rail network infrastructure (track, right-of-way, and maintenance thereto) in order to give this scheme a snowball's chance in hell. Either that, or your scheme contacts BNSF 793812 while said equipment is moving... If privately owned transportation infrastructure wasn't a thing, though... Now, if you're in a place where the railroads are nationalized along with all the other transport infrastructure (i.e. most of Europe), this could work. Major estate holders would basically become tax collection clearinghouses under this scheme, collecting what basically would be a value-added tax on their leases and remitting it to the government. 

Money is anything that has value. While recently money has not been tied to the value of a physical commodity traditionally it has. Lets consider a few concepts. Obviously the settlements have to agree on the value of 'money' and an exchange rate. Lets start with a 'basic' non unified currency exchangable for a physical resource as needed - for example bringing in a "gas" chit of the value of 2l would get you 2l of gas of a certain quality, or a "wheat pound" gets you a pound of wheat. Based off that, set the value of currency off of the average value of a bunch of these commodities, exchangable based off the current agreed value of them. Of course, someone needs to handle this - this is one of the situations where a government of sorts is handy. Set up a central authority with offices in each settlement, with civil and military/police administration shared amongst them. Anyone can walk in, and exchange goods for 'money'. Since its based off a bunch of goods no one settlement has an advantage, control is shared, and since each settlement works towards its own self interest, it should self regulate. The central authority makes money (with some degree of signorage for operation costs) and moves goods from one settlement to another based on demand. 

George your friendly neighborhood dragon speaking here. The civil engineering required to build a community for my kith and kin is an interesting subject, and one I have some contact with myself, albeit in a more modern sense: living outside Los Angeles makes for an interesting life, for sure! Many of the concerns raised by the other posters here are quite valid -- residential structures for a dragon, say, my size (or even small aircraft sized) would come closer to the form of modern-day aircraft hangars than they would a human house; I, for one, don't mind an outdoorsy life, but having a retreat when storms brew is a very good idea, for while I may be tough, I'm not hail-proof! Of course, high-capacity sewerage and drinking water provisions would be required, and heavy timbering or metalwork in truss arrangements would be developed in order to support hangar-sized roof spans. Small dragons, of course, would have an easier time with this, and could have spaces that are closer to what humans consider "residential" in nature. As to providing spaces to take off and land: while the idea of wide roads would be good enough for small dragons, such as the ten-footers you mention as average, larger dragons like me would generally organize around runway-like constructions, similar to modern fly-in communities, where houses with hangars are built around small general aviation airports. Employment, though, would be a curious question; I don't know how to answer you, considering I still need to hire humans for most of my business! (I collect and trade in aircraft parts, but I don't have the dexterity to type with my claws, never mind operate precision machine tools the way the co-owners of my business can!) 

It would be low tech, allow for a variety of rounds to be used and simple for a oldschool navy to adapt to. Considering the missiles coast most of they way, they'd also possibly be harder to spot thermally, which might be handy. 

Couple of possibilities - while your powersources are gone, most machines would work with a suitable power source. I'd suggest several different technologies - which I'll term 'greenpunk' cause I'm unimaginative Wind power might work for farm equipment, which would need to work inside a specific area. . Regard the strandbeest Might be complicated to steer but you might be able to powered wheeled vehicles off of this, or simple walkers. A vertical wind turbine might work. Fixed wind turbines would also be handy. Solarpunk. But not solar panels - great big reflectors or massive fresnel lenses heating a tank of water (or salt) powering static devices. Depending on your 'flavour' of steampunk a fresnel lens or a large array of reflectors could work to direct light at a boiler. Course, machines that only work at daylight arn't that useful. Energy storage would probably help with many of the issues. A flywheel would be very steampunky, or you could take a page from the wind up girl and and store energy in springs. You might also power machines off of compressed air 

The legends of lycanthropes go back eons; while they have changed over time, a common modern expression of them is of an infected or cursed human that is given the power to transform into a wolf and/or a hybrid canid-humanoid form either willingly or when triggered by certain events (anger, full moon), in exchange for a more...primal and predatory mindset. While we know that shapeshifting requires magic, one possible interpretation of lycanthropy is of a permanent change to the "hybrid" canid-humanoid form upon infection: 

The law isn't precise enough for this The law in a common-law country is not just a set of statutes and rulings, it is a living entity -- a body of knowledge that changes with changing social norms (for instance: trespass law is almost entirely dependent on its surrounding social norms to function, an issue that's caused great problems with attempts to define the digital equivalent). Furthermore, interpretation differences between courts arise as a natural part of the legal system's functioning -- eventually, these are settled by a high court, but can persist for years until a suitable case appears. A great example within the US Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) was recently pointed out by the EFF on their blog: 

Essentially - at the beginning all you need is a nice straight runway (And for that matter, its not all that different from a highway). Taxiways to get aircraft in or out of the runway(s), and a hut somewhere to seat people. 2 runways would be a good minimum (one in and one out) I'd say 4 would be sane - heathrow had 6 back in the day, and struggles with 2 nowdays Large covered garages for storing vehicles or aircraft maintenance would be awesome. Aerobridges are nice, but many aircraft can be boarded through internal steps or a mobile staircase. While traditionally ATC's a tower, many airports have large towers as a 'showpiece'. Radars are often regional, but having a small 'local' radar would be useful. These are not that large - military radars are often vehicle mounted. London's main airport, heathrow's actually a pretty bad example. They have trouble getting an additional runway approved for example. Terminals are all about people processing. A minimal, people processing terminal is no different from a regional bus station. Luggage is a problem - you need to get it in and to the right plane and the right way. Then of course, customs and immigration, holding people to and boarding. Assume enough capacity for one average airplane in each stage and you're good. Add some space cause people would not be happy being treated like cattle. 

While sentient avians would definitely make some note of winds aloft, there are other types of maps that are needed for safe flight as well. A map of ground features themselves, such as found on a sectional chart, is not only useful for figuring out where to park yourself overnight when a storm is coming in while, but for orienting yourself and navigating while in the air, especially over unfamiliar terrain (this is known as pilotage, and is taught to all airplane pilots as part of their fundamental flying courses). More sophisticated sentient avians who have developed or evolved blind-flying systems could have route maps and such that work with those waypoints, similar to today's en route instrument charts. 

Dissolving folks quickly is hard work Most acids aren't going to eat through you (or your average door) quickly -- while they denature proteins and dissolve metals, they don't have the oxidizing power to dissolve someone movie-style, and won't eat a doorknob faster than a drill bit. Even strong oxidizing acids can be sluggish by themselves under normal conditions. There are some oxidizing reagents, however, that are capable of reacting that vigorously, and aren't completely out of reach of a supervillain. Mostly, they're used to deal with nasty cleaning/etching jobs IRL, far beyond the reach of anything you can get at the hardware store. Note that green and gooey aren't going to show up here -- gooey doesn't help you much when trying to get a vigorous reaction going, and very few things can produce a green color without getting eaten up by the stuff doing the dissolving. Bubbly, however, certainly will. Piranha The term "piranha solution", or just "piranha" for short, has a very specific meaning to chemists -- it's a reagent produced by mixing laboratory sulfuric acid with 30% hydrogen peroxide. The partial in situ sulfuric acid peroxidation that happens combines with the ability of sulfuric acid itself to abstract water away from molecules and the ability of hydrogen peroxide to attack carbon-carbon structures by producing carbonyls, yielding rapid dissolution of whatever organic matter gets thrown its way. It is much less effective against metals though -- only about as effective as sulfuric acid by itself. Aqua regia The other famed dissolving acid of history is aqua regia, a mixture of concentrated nitric and hydrochloric acids. While less effective against organic matter (nitric acid will oxidize it, albeit with a bit of sluggishness due to stuff getting nitro groups tacked on first), it is wickedly effective against many metals, even normally corrosion-resistant ones, due to the ability to form stable chloride complexes that drive the oxidation of the metal far to the right. It's also the most colorful of the reagents mentioned here due to the nitrogen dioxide, nitrosyl chloride, and chlorine that forms when it decomposes. Perchloric acid Perchloric acid is special, even as far as acids go -- it can attack and dissolve most metals all by its lonesome and is far more acidic than any other commonly produced industrial acid (its acidity puts it in the "superacid" category -- no other large-industrial-scale acid can claim that). Its technical grade is relatively sedate, but when concentrated well beyond that and heated, it is one of the most violent single-component oxidizing acids known, reacting violently or even explosively with organic matter. Atop that, many perchlorate salts are powerful oxidizers and even explosives -- ammonium perchlorate is used industrially in pyrotechnics and solid propellants, and friskier perchlorates such as heavy metal salts and alkyl compounds are well known to blow up at the first cross look they receive. Chlorine Trifluoride The one thing in our rogue's gallery that isn't acidic (I left elemental fluorine off as it's a cryogenic liquefied gas for most transport) is actually perhaps the most brutal of them all: chlorine trifluoride. This is one of the few reagents that will completely consume someone, pretty much irrespective of what they're wearing, in a matter of seconds to minutes. It will also do things like burn its way viciously through things that have already had as many oxygens stuffed onto them as they will ever take, such as concrete, as is fitting for a strong fluorinating agent. It is a volatile liquid stored under its own vapor pressure though, but does come the closest to meeting your color criteria.