Suppose that all names can be named. (Just like, for example, "Schiphol" is a name of my name.) If so, no name is enduring and unchanging. No paradox here either. On the other hand, maybe there is an enduring and unchanging name, and that name has no name. This is semantically implausible, but not paradoxical. Anyway, introducing the notation: Nxy: stands for the relation of x being a name of y We can say that a is a name iff there is an y such that Nay, and your second sentence can be rendered thus: 

Will a proof by example do? A venerable position in epistemology, since Plato and until mid XXth century, was that knowledge should be analyzed as justified true belief. This was the mainstream philosophical position up until Gettier's 1963 paper Is Justified True Belief Knowledge?. This paper, two pages long, demonstrated to everyone's satisfaction that knowledge is not justified true belief. This is a clear example in which philosophical progress leads to the answer of a substantial philosophical question -- the question in Gettier's title. 

I agree that it doesn't seems to be taken seriously. One of the reason might be that there is kind of an evolution, from polytheism to monotheism. It would feel like going back in time, to an idea that has been abandoned at some point. More than that, the fact that there is a lot of different traditions in it, a lot of ways to be wiccan or neopagan makes it harder to say it is a religion. Maybe also, the fact that it's sometimes related to magical practice, and some sorts of weird rituals makes it more look like it's not just a religion. I usually see books of wicca in "esoteric" category. Some people might consider that the main purpose is not the faith in those gods, but rather the ideology of living in small society without following some rules (at least for wicca), or making secret societies ... Another point is that the resurgence is recent, and the more than two thousand years history that it carries is not obvious. There is no continuity with the old civilization. In this regards, wicca is very young and it's difficult to have a good feedback on what it really is. 

So, sure enough, (4) is true: it's a material conditional with a false antecedent; nothing in s not being the case can make it false that if s then r. The puzzlement over this line of the truth table of the material conditional is recurrent at Philosophy SE. Look around and you'll find other related questions. 

A point on terminology: identity is normally taken to refer to the relation that every thing bears with, and only with, itself. So understood, of course, identity is possible: I am identical with myself, you with yourself and everything with itself. 

Well, such sentences will be true for all precisifications, because either Andy has n hairs or he doesn't, for all n. Therefore, the sentence comes out supertrue -- this is the supervaluationist for accepting it as true. Its negation ("it's not the case that Andy is bald or Andy is not bald"), by the same token, comes out superfalse. The same will happen with every other vague sentence: the supervaluationist semantics validates LEM. Supervaluationism is a semantics that validates LEM but not PB. 

I don't know if it really answers your question but in physic there is something that might illustrate this. When you look at electromagnetic charge, it can be either positive or negative, so you have some kind of direct opposition. You have two possibilities, and when you add an electric charge to an opposite charge of the same intensity you are left with an electrically neutral object (like an neutral atom made of electrons and protons of charge -e and +e). But when you look at strong interaction, the quarks can carry three different charges, and they are called color charges (it's not like real life color, but it's a good analogy). In a proton for example, you have three quarks, and they have three different colors : blue, red and green, and the result is a "white" proton, which means that the proton is neutral in regards of the strong interaction. So we could say that the opposite of one color charge is the sum of the other two. The cool part is that this is how every proton and neutron are made, so this example is everywhere around us. Actually, you have also anticolor. For example, pions are light particles made of only one quark and one antiquark, and they can carry for examples red-antired or blue-antiblue, so that, again, the result is neutral particle. The assumption here is that the opposite is defined by : the summation over opposite charges is zero. And I feel sorry that all the answers are either about math or physics. 

The reason some empiricists (most notably Popper) have denied that we can verify an empirical hypothesis is that they were thinking of universally quantified statements such as 

Inductive inference. All humans have died so far, therefore (in all likelihood) all humans die at some point. You are human, I take it, so there you go. 

It comes from Popper's work on falsification. Popper's idea is supposed to apply to all inductive knowledge. For what it's worth, most philosophers of science (as opposed, maybe, to scientists with an interest in philosophy) take Popper's views on confirmation to be wrong. 

This statement, the argument would go, cannot be verified: regardless of how many ravens one observes, there is always the possibility that the next raven will be white. Now, it can be falsified: finding one white raven is enough for this. The problem with your suggestion, namely falsifying 

A more idiomatic paraphrase of is: not everything is a bird. That is, of all things, some are not birds. That is: . You say 

is meaningful under the following interpretation: would be a plural constant designating a certain plurality of kids; a plural constant designating a certain plurality of plants, and designating the relation of shouting as above. Under this interpretation would be as well formed as , when used to mean that Socrates is a man. For the notions of plural constant and plurality see this. 

I'm not sure about your definition of the theory of evolution. You can find plenty of them on internet, so I won't copy them here and try to give my feeling about it : Information about living entity are in the genome. The important thing is that gene can change, mutate, resulting in differences in some element of the species. If the mutation give an advantage to one individual, he is more likely to have children, and will give the new gene to them. After several generation these gene might become common, and share by a majority of the species, resulting in some evolution. But these process take a really long time. So in my opinion it doesn't mean nothing bad will ever happen to a species. Being able to feel some fear can help you to survive, and not be eaten by a predator. Still, to much fear can be bad for you. Some aggressiveness might help you to survive in a dangerous world. Also a individual that really want to have sex, even at the cost of raping other in the species have more probability to reproduce and have children. All these behavior might not be adapted now, but if some gene of aggressiveness are present in the population they can't disappear really fast. My explanation would be : mankind has redefined really fast the environment, faster than evolution could do. People with bad behavior due to gene can still reproduce and have children that will share these gene. Evolution doesn't guarantee that people will be good and nice to each other. It just selects individual able to survive and reproduce. Being a social animal goes further than that. We are able to make people survive even if they have small defects. Evolution is just a logical consequence of the diversity of gene and mutation. 

The most immediate reply to your worry is that, for every relevant application of the notion of common knowledge, what counts is the potential beliefs of agents. There is an infinite hierarchy of potential beliefs of the kind you consider, but only a finite (indeed, small) number of them will ever need to be entertained by actual agents in actual situations in social life. For much more on this. 

All of these views were challenged by a number of immensely influential papers and books during the 70s. The two most important ones are Kripke (1980) and Putnam (1975). 

This is classical logic at its simplest. [EDIT: As Mozibur suggests, one might want to argue that a path is, necessarily, susceptible of being trodden. I am not sure about that: consider a path inside a flooded mine, for instance. Anyway, if paths are to be practicable of necessity, then there is a contradiction in that sentence.] 

Therefore A. EDIT: I see by your comment below that you are interested in question-begging arguments in general. 

I know nothing about the Tao Te Ching, but the sentences you quote are not (logically) contradictory, or paradoxical: 

There was a moment in France, where all the philosopher tried to use some psychoanalysis in their works. Lacan was one of the really, most famous psychoanalyst, and was known to be really difficult to read. Actually, a lots of peoples start to speak like him, and a lot of philosophers were really influenced by this. One of the main point was to use a lot of references to science and a lot of analogies. I am trying to give you a decent, not opinion based answer but it's difficult. If the first comment talks about obscurantism it's not meaningless. Some people started to criticize the postmodern philosopher. Alan Sokal and Jean Bricmont published a book, "impostures intellectuelles" (intellectual imposture, or fashionable nonsense), which ... well the title says it all. They receive some supports. Michel Onfray also published some works against psychoanalysis, for reasons closely related to obscurantism. I have some doubts for some of this author. I don't think all of the work they have done is bad, or not interesting. For what I understand it was some sort of fashion, a way to act, to appear smart. Onfray : Twilight of an idol (Crépuscule d'une idole) Sokal Bricmont : Fashionable nonsense / Intellectual imposture (Impostures intellectuelles) I just found also that there is a wikipedia page on this topic : $URL$ Apparently Noam Chomsky is cited here. By the way I don't know if you read them in french or a translation, but even for french people it's really hard to read. 

In any event, that we can think and talk about stuff we are not (in Russell's turn of phrase) acquainted with is unproblematic: we become competent users of a singular term that refers, say, to Socrates (whom neither I nor anyone I know have ever met) by becoming a link in a chain of speakers that takes us all the way back to people that was acquainted with Socrates. We are, as Gareth Evans puts it in "The Varieties of Reference", introduced to a name-using practice. You may want to check Mark Sainsbury's "Reference Without Referents" for a more contemporary discussion of these ideas. In Sainsbury's version of the theory, a name-using practice can exist even in the absence of a referent -- think of the unsuccessful name 'Vulcano', that tried to refer to a (nonexistent) planet between Mercury and the Sun. This would be an example of speech (and thought) without an entity we are thinking or talking about. Believers in God, hell, and the like, I take it, believe that we have been introduced to name-using practices of terms that refer to those entities: think Moses, or Christ, who were, the story goes, acquainted with some of those things. An interesting case is our apparent ability to refer to abstracta ("the number 2" successfully refer to the number 2, it seems). Here, of course, acquaintance or causal contact of any kind is impossible. One idea that I find attractive is that we don't really refer to such entities. We merely make believe that we do; we fictionalize about them. For the best worked out theory along these lines, read Kendall Walton's "Mimesis as Make-Believe", or the latest papers by Stephen Yablo on the philosophy of mathematics.