As far as I know there is issue with SQL Server 2014 upgrade advisor, it sometime hangs when analyzing the workload for migration. What you can do is download SQL Server 2016 upgrade advisor which is now called as Data Migration Assistant V 3.1. As per Microsoft the upgrade advisor 2016 is deprecated and is replaced by Data migration assistant. I am not quite sure but I believe MS folks knew about this that is why they moved to much better tool data migration assistant. This does not comes inbuild with SQL Server installation media it is a separate download. 

I have a hunch that you changed system date to workaround with evaluation period expired message and then you forgot to change it back. After this you did edition upgardea and this some how changed registries to incorrect value. As per logs the system has been upgraded with but problem lies with SSMS. SQl Server support team has written article to overcome this issue please read the article. I am posting a snippet which would help you, but before proceeding please read complete support article 

You should not ONLY rely on buffer cache hit ratio it does not accurately measures or give signs of memory pressure the reason has been shown by Jonathan Kehayias in this Blog. The reason is concept called as Read Ahead in SQl Server. Due to read aheads more than required pages are brought into memory every time a single scatter gather read happens and this mostly keeps buffer pool populated with pages giving indication that their is no memory pressure due to churning out of pages. If you read the blog you would find other important counters to look for memory pressure. 

Moral: If you are not seeing any anomaly after enabling LPIM I suggest you leave it as it is but before doing this speak to your VMware admin and make sure the VMware configuration is correct 

Apart from above I have not seen any reason for transaction log backup to fail. Its very robust you can rely on it. 

You cannot rebuild index when database is offline, the database has to be online to rebuild the index. The widely accepted parameter for rebuilding is if fragmentation >30 % rebuild it and if fragmentation lies between 10 and 30 % reorganize it. You can use your own script, maintenance plan or Ola Hallengren script or My script. If you have time I would suggest you to create your own. 

The article written by Paul regarding backup internals is excellent one and you must read it. Adding to what others have said and emphasizing on specific part of your question 

No you cannot have SQL Server agent feature in express edition of SQL Server. To get that you would have to upgrade to licensed version of SQL Server like Enterprise, Standard, Web and Developer editions. Just so that you know you can see the SQL Server agent services in express edition but that cannot be started. If you want to use scheduling to schedule jobs you have to rely in windows scheduler From SQL Server 2014 onwards the developer edition is free to download and use and this version has SQL Server agent feature. The only limitation is you cannot use developer version in production, you can ONLY use it in development and testing environment. 

First of all there is no need to use its undocumented and way bad you can loop in using simple cursor. Regarding error you are trying to change recovery model of all database but you cannot change recovery model of tempdb neither you can perform any backup operation on it that is why you got this error message. This is not allowed by Microsoft. Please read more about operations you can do on tempdb 

Every transaction in SQL Server is logged in someway or other depending on recovery model. fn_dblog and fn_dumpdblog both undocumented command would give you nice view what is present in transaction log but the result could be massive. What I do is I run whatever transaction I need to do within begin tran and commit/rollback and then only capture logs I need to using below query 

Full backup does nothing to transaction logs in any recovery model. In full recovery model when you take transaction log backup then it truncates the log. Please note if a long running transaction is still there holding the VLF's or as per Brent's explanation still needs the drawers other transaction cannot re-utilize the drawer or in technical terms it would not be truncated so that it can be re-utilized. It also does not shrinks the transaction log. For shrinking the logs you have to use command 

I would start by saying Task Manager is not a correct place to gauge SQL Server memory consumption, it will not tell you correct value when SQL Server service account has Locked Pages in Memory(LPIM) privilege. This is because normally task manager tracks Process Private bytes memory which is pageable and allocated via VirtualAlloc() function but with LPIM chunk of memory allocation is done by AWE API which is NON pageable so task manager does not tracks it and this can lead to incorrect value. For percentage thing which you are looking is actually not the complete memory and it does not provide any relevant information so just stop looking at it. It is quite normal for SQL Server to utilize memory allocated to it and to know how much physical memory SQL Server is using please use query 

So I suggest to suppress regression you enable it. solved your problem because if forced SQL Server to use old optimizer. So basically you are using SQL Server 2014 but not new CE which comes with it. makes sure the optimizer is using all changes/fixes made to SQL Server optimizer since SQL Server 2005. From this support article 

Download SQL Server 2012 express setup again Make sure you meed all Hardware and Software requirements specially related to .net framework. I strongly suggest you to read the article before you again proceed with installation Make sure you always right click on file and select Make sure account you are using to run installation has full permission on system drive C:\Windows\ 

A simple way to identify the backup is by running restore headeronly command. Like Look at the output and look at the column . Below are types and there corresponding backups Backup type: 1 = Database 2 = Transaction log 4 = File 5 = Differential database 6 = Differential file 7 = Partial 8 = Differential partial. If you have access to SQL Server and have rights to access SQL Server catalogs you can run below query to get backup information for . This is the query source, I have modified the query a bit 

Yes simple way to temporarily stop Logshipping is to disable all the jobs related to Logshipping, since LS is basically backup of transaction logs and restore you have control over it. You need to disable Backup, copy and restore jobs. Please also make sure you disable LS_Alert jobs because they would fire and unnecessarily give you false alerts. Caution: If you stop the jobs for longer duration your database recovery stands exposed so be careful with that. You also should keep in mind that the transaction log backup which would be done after you start the job might be big in size and it would take time to copy it and restore it. If the size is too big you might get some out of sync alerts so be ready for it. 

I agree with every fact that Sean mentioned. The simple answer is this is not an issue UNLESS you show me out of memory condition. This is how SQL Server behaves. Like I mentioned in thread you took reference SQL Server memory management is dynamic. If you see more pages for particular database then its being used frequently by queries or other wise it will be aged out. Database engine is not fool to favor memory to particular database. You can do a test. This might put load on dataabse(so careful) but just to prove memory allocation is dynamic and is allocated as per needed. create a new table in Tarmac42 database start inserting records in it may be million at the same time run select * on some different table with large records you would see memory allocation increasing for database Tarmac42 and decreasing for SupervisorP database.