It is important to remember that much of the routine work in every military unit is deliberate, and quite sensible, make-work. This is necessary to provide both the training and the command and control redundancy required to cover casualties once combat starts in earnest. Military forces that neglect this, such as the Austro-Hungarian Infantry in 1866, rapidly deteriorate under even the mildest of combat stresses: 

In summary, Rome in the guise of the ministers of its Emperor, Honorius, determined that it had no need of 30 thousand experienced veteran loyal troops because only Christian were suitable to defend the Empire; and divested itself of the services of those loyalists. So there were Legions a plenty, loyal and veteran, but they were at least in this instance told to go stuff themselves. Update: Only volunteer militias are loyal to home and country; professional standing armies are only loyal to their commander and their paymaster, and all of Rome's legions had been professional standing armies since Marius' reforms. This is a key reason for the US Military's standing order that POW's are forbidden to give parole to a captor - by forbidding parole (and continuing to pay them while POW) the military continues to be their paymaster, and thus continues to command their loyalty. As noted in the quote above, because they were manned by pagans Honorius's ministers reneged on the contract to pay the Legions, thus effectively bequeathing them on Alaric, who was willing to pay them without any qualms about their beliefs. The Legions were always there, willing and perhaps even keen to remain loyal, but were rightly miffed at such repudiation. For a comparable more modern example, consider the causes of the Sepoy Mutiny in India in 1857: 

The most likely means of transport from Duke of York to Missouri would have been by personal tender on the morning of Sep. 2 - the crewmen of which would have been entertained by the Missouri crew until Fraser was ready to depart again. Most, if not all, senior naval officers with commands either ashore or on nearby vessels other than USS Missouri would most probably have been transported to Missouri in the same fashion on the morning of Sep. 2. Celebration notwithstanding, they weren't on holiday - they had commands to run and other tasks to execute. All such naval officers were probably hosting visiting officers, of a roughly equivalent rank, from other services or countries, who would have arrived with them that morning. 

I'll lead with Sacagawea (May 1788 - December 1812), the guide/interpreter for Lewis and Clark who clearly is both objectively famous, and lacks both an entry in the 1911 Encyclopedia Britannica and even a mention in the article for Meriwether Lewis. Update: - from Sacagewea Dollar - Initial Design Selection on Wikipedia (my emphasis) 

NYC CSA (Combined Statistical Area); LA CSA; Chicago CSA; Washington-Baltimore CSA Boston-Providence CSA San Jose- San Francisco CSA Dallas-Fort Worth CSA Philadelphia-Reading-Camden CSA Miami-Fort Lauderdale CSA Atlanta - Sandy Springs CSA 

You are attempting to distinguish between the Latin term for the individual who governed a province in place of the Republic's Consuls, Proconsul, and the modern English functional term for such an individual, Governor. Such a distinction is meaningless; The terms have an identical meaning when referring to individuals who exercised consular power in a province of the Roman Republic on behalf of the Republic's Consuls. From the Merriam Webster Online Dictionary: PROCONSUL 

Your question is underpinned by a key misunderstanding of the course of an ancient or medieval battle: the slaughter occurs in the pursuit (or endgame if you will), not what might be termed the battle proper (or midgame). Prior to the invention of artillery, and breech-loading and automatic rifles, very little death is dealt out during the main course of most battles. Battles were about slowly eroding the endurance and will of the opponent, so that they were the first to decide that the legs were too weak to power a blow, and the arms too tired to hold the shield up or parry. At that point the opponent has lost morale and breaks; and the pursuit begins. Over the course of a long or large battle, both sides typically would have opportunities to rout, and inflict significant casualties on, small portions of the other side during this jockeying for advantage. Heavy cavalry was used to push an already tired opponent over the edge through the psychological effect achieved on the enemy. As the charge closes to within a hundred yards and the horses enter their gallop, the very ground quakes to such extent that the facing infantry are physically shaken, their knees forced to wobble by the very movement of the earth. Tired infantry, experiencing this for the first time, can be physically thrown to the ground like a landlubber in his first storm at sea. When the charge has been properly timed, the infantry breaks and the pursuit begins; first by the heavy cavalry to prevent a reforming of the infantry, then by the light cavalry to complete the slaughter. If the charge has been ill-timed, the horses pull up about 20 yards from the infantry, and the combination of frame saddle and stirrups enable the riders to comfortably remain mounted. Lancers can now engage in a little square-breaking unless the infantry is either similarly equipped; or supported by either missile infantry or friendly cavalry who can readily target or counter charge the (now slow-moving) enemy cavalry; During the European Medieval Period infantry was nearly always either a conscripted levy or mercenaries; only the latter would have the discipline, training, and experience to withstand the morale shock of a heavy cavalry charge. Consequently the end-game exploit of a heavy cavalry charge moves up in the order, and can be executed very early in an attempt to either immediately rout the opponent, or gain an advantageous position for one's own archers. It is this arrogance on the part of the French knights, understandable in other circumstances, that leads to the English victories at Crecy, Poitiers, and Agincourt due to premature charges. With rare exceptions due to exceptional training, morale and equipment, only when cavalry is able to find the flank of its target, utilizing its speed and mobility, is a charge ever carried home against a formed opponent: 

Certainly from at least the time of Hammurabi and his Code of Laws, circa 1780 B.C., as the excerpt below readily shows (translated by L. W. King): 

Only the Upper Class was given the honour of execution by beheading - for commoners hanging and burning at the stake were used instead. Consequently beheadings were infrequent, and the executioner often inexperienced. A swift beheading required a calm sure swing, and the custom of having the condemned prisoner both forgive and pay the executioner was undoubtedly for the privilege of such. It was a finicky process to do right, and often wasn't. In 1541 Margaret Pole, Countess of Salisbury, required 11 strokes in front of 150 witnesses to die, for many of which she apparently had to be dragged back to the block kicking and screaming. The first blow only nicked her shoulder. 

Note that both these two articles are directly, and bluntly, aimed at the long established intent of the English colonies to impose English Common Law on les Habitants of Quebec. These intentions were never lost on les Habitants, who consequently had the strongest desire to resist incorporation into the United States. So while the concept of Manifest Destiny would not be enunciated until 1845, the purchase of the Louisiana Territory by Jefferson made clear the unspoken intent. The United States would always have been glad to incorporate any and all of the territory of Canada, including those regions governed by the Hudson's Bay Company as Rupert's Land, but the inhabitants of those territories never shared the same enthusiasm. 

When we think of foreign beer today anyone not from Canada (and it's bizarre panoply of inter-provincial alcohol regulations and taxes) usually thinks of imports from other countries, or even other continents. However the people of Leeuwarden simply wanted the freedom to purchase beer brewed a few days horse ride (150 km on todays map) away, their national capital of Haarlem. It would appear that the local brewmaster(s) of Leeuwarden was unable to compete on quality and or price, and instead sought a legal monopoly. His potential customers didn't have the same zeal for local brew. Numerous craft breweries around the world now celebrate this day, as an excuse for patrons to enjoy locally-brewed craft beer; which seems as good a reason as many, to me, to enjoy a local pint. As an exercise for my studies of Dutch, I will continue to look for any Dutch sources that might be able to substantiate the claimed details. Update - from Het StadtFries by K. Fokkema, published 1937, page 9: 

With the madness of King George III, and changed priorities following the French Revolution, the dividing issues between the parties became Parliamentary reform (Tories initially pro, then later con) and continuance (or not) of the war(s) against The French Republic and Empire. Although the old party names continued in use, many important members of both had re-aligned. In the years following Waterloo, and triggered by Wellington's refusal in 1830 to support any Parliamentary Reform, the Tory and Whig parties splintered to be replaced by the new Conservative Party and Liberal Party. Many senior members of the Conservative party continued to think of themselves as Tories, and to refer to themselves as such, such that the appellation is still in common use today: 

You have confused the very real changes that occurred to the borders over the 170 years from roughly 1520 to 1700 with the concept that the borders were vague throughout that time. That span of years encompasses both the Thirty Years War in Germany, the Eighty years War of Dutch Independence, the War of the League of Augsburg, and several smaller conflicts. As a consequence of the Battle of Pavia in 1525, suzerainty over Northern Italy(which had long been under French influence though technically part of the HRE) was transferred from Hapsburg Austria to Hapsburg Spain, transferring it out of the HRE. The Peace of Westphalia included a ratification of independence of both Netherlands and Switzerland. The Treaty of Ryswick included a ratification of the loss of Franche-Comte and Alsace (including Strasbourg) by the Holy Roman Empire to France. Other than in Italy, the Rhinelands, and Low Countries as outlined above, the border of the HRE between the two maps (and time periods) is unchanged from Bremen east to Danzig, south to Trieste, and west again to the Swiss-Tyrol border. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina is a second largely Muslim state in the Balkans, with most ethnic Bosnians traditionally professing the Muslim faith. However the Bosnian, Serb and Croat populations in this area are densely intertwined historically, aggravating racial tensions in the Bosnian War of 1992-1995. The Ottoman empire was not (through most of its occupation of the Balkans) a strongly proselytizing empire. For instance, though the Serbian Patriarchate was abolished in 1463 following the death of Patriarch Arsenios II it was re-established by the Ottomans in 1557. This disruption was thus less than 100 years. Further, forced conversions were not generally required of the subject populations in the Empire, rather non-Muslims suffered from additional taxation and the loss of some rights making them second-class citizens. Your chronology is also exaggerated. Although the bulk of the Balkans was conquered by the Ottomans in the half-century immediately preceding and following the capture of Constantinople in 1453, much of that area had again obtained independence less than 400 years later. Greece obtained independence by 1832; Moldavia and Wallachia were independent by 1821 and 1848 respectively and unified as Romania in 1859. Serbia was abandoned by the Ottomans by 1867. Update: Interestingly, the reason for the conversion of the Albanians to Islam remain unclear. What is agreed is that the conversion primarily occurred late in the period of Ottoman rule; Catholic Albanians mostly converted in the 17th century, and the Orthodox Albanians mostly followed in the following century. Primary source documentation is scarce, hindering research efforts to determine causes and motivations. The country itself is today 59% Muslim, 17% Christian, and the rest other. 

The simultaneous invention of the caravel by the Portuguese (The first vessel combining the capacity, maneuverability, and upwind sailing ability of a dhow with the robustness to withstand Atlantic storms.) combined with the recognition of global wind patterns as illustrated below to allow reliable access to any location along the coasts of the world