Regarding the bonus question, contemporary variants of spoken French, for instance the dialect of French you would expect urban dwellers in their 20s or early 30s to speak, is arguably topic prominent, with the subjects and/or objects rarely sitting in their canonical position but rather in right or left dislocated positions. This preeminence of subjects in topic positions fits very awkwardly with the syntax of standard French, which rigidly requires a subject for any finite verb, so the usual result is that the subject is left-dislocated and a resumptive pronouns shows up right next to the finite verb, usually in a morphologically reduced form. It also features clause-external topic NPs, as in TKR's answer about Ancient Greek. Written examples are by nature hard to find for these spoken constructions, but the official title of the number one hit of the summer 2006 is a good example. 

This is obvious, but well-worth being pointed out nevertheless. Minimalist assumptions affirm the independence of syntax from the interfaces. If there existed a language whose syntactic rules depended on phonology or for which, for instance, island effects would show up only for meaningless or unclear questions, then minimalist syntax would disappear. A less trivial potentially false (in fact, again, prima facie absurd) conclusion occurs when this principle is taken conjointly with morphology: as soon as one attributes some overt morphology phenomenon to hierarchical position in minimalist syntax, then one has to assume that all languages exhibit (possibly abstractly) the same morphology effect in the same hierarchical position.This would be proved false, and put minimalist syntax in serious trouble, if for instance a language was found in which licensing of DP by nouns and by verbs were identical. 

People working on language evolution in the intellectual tradition you describe believe the following things (I limit myself to give an accurate rendering of their positions; as none of the opinons described below are part of the scientific consensus). 1) Language is a core human faculty, fundamentally different from animal communication; which they take to be an analogous organ but not a homologous one. The genetic encoding of this faculty is very simple. 2) This core human faculty evolved rapidly, probably only once in the Homo Sapiens evolutionary history at least 20,000 years ago but probably at most 100,000 years (this they believe because on the one hand the ability to learn any human language shows no genetic diversity between populations which separated 20,000 years ago at least and on the other hand there are few indisputable archeological artifacts with a symbolic meaning dating from before 100,000 years ago). 3) Crucially for your question, syntactic structures are fundamentally very simple, in fact as simple as they could be, and exhibit (at a fundamental level) only very small and trivial cross-linguistic variations. For them, these three simultaneous opinons are mutually reinforcing and present a coherent picture. For instance, if it is true that 2) the human faculty for language evolved once and relatively recently, then its genetic encoding is in all likelihood very simple, so 1), and so should be its expression 3). Conversely, if you believe 3), then the question of why all human languages should be fundamentally the same naturally arises, and the null-hypothesis would be a combination of 1) and 2). I should say that they also firmly believe that 4) Evolution of the human capability of language is for the moment way to hard a problem, as is already in fact evolution of immensely simpler cognitive faculties. To answer your precise questions. [Do they] conclude that the language of our ancestors 1 million years ago already had the capability to construct recursion? Absolutely not. They very strongly believe that our closest ancestors at that time scale lacked the current human capability of language. The time scale they propose is an order of magnitude lower. Is the information about language encoded in some other way (which way?)? Much simpler biological phenomena show a delicate interplay between genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors, so the null-hypothesis is that the same should be the case for the language faculty. In view of 4), they would probably say that this question is (way) too hard for current science. What else solves my apparend misunderstanding? Actually, your reasoning was quite parallel to theirs, but you took as a premise the fact that linguistics structure are complex (to quote from your question with my emphasis "so within a few 100.000 of years, the information about complex linguistic[s] structures is very unlikely to be encoded into the DNA"). They would agree with your assessment if they considered linguistics structures to be complex, but they believe they are simple. Sources 1,2 

I agree with the premise of the question that the first task of a scientist is to devise a framework that makes potentially false predictions, and thus that looking for false predictions is good scientific practice. It is important to note though, that this game is better played towards one's own favored scientific theory, if only because this game is embarrassingly easy to play already for the most advanced of the exact sciences (just ask a physicist what dark matter and dark energy, which are supposed to constitute some 96% of the Universe, are supposed to be) and so becomes almost inane for a field in its infancy, like linguistics (anyone with a theoretical framework in linguistics should be able to produce on demand ten phenomena the framework cannot explain at all at present, otherwise the framework is simply not serious). Criticisms of other theoretical frameworks can be valuable, but should be done by proposing competing analyses, not by pointing out defects in actually existing ones (so to continue the analogy, by explaining the motions of galaxies and galactic clusters if one does not believe in dark matter). With that in mind... Core assumptions of minimalist syntax Usual core assumptions and goals in minimalist syntax are as follows. 1) There exists an early stage of syntactic computations (narrow syntax) the objects of which are constructed by repeated and recursive applications of a binary operation (Merge) in a bottom-up fashion. 2) The only operation beyond Merge allowed on these narrow syntactic objects is the operation Agree (that is features co-valuation) and both Merge and Agree are subject to strict locality conditions. 3) There exists specified and definite domains of computation (phases) the completion of which triggers transfer of the narrow-syntactic object somewhere else (the interfaces) with no return possible. 4) Everything else is interface conditions. Potentially false predictions following from these assumptions There are tons of them, because the assumptions above are extremely counter-intuitive, in fact worryingly so. Here are a few examples. 

The proposal is complete science-fiction. Not only is it too far in time (and it is, by almost an order of magnitude, as the proto-language we know the most about was maybe spoken in 3500BC whereas the most studied recent Hominid group, Homo neanderthalensis, disappeared roughly 35,000 years ago) but the correct analogy would be to ask someone who is completely colorblind to find a slightly reddish ball in a mass of orange balls: the best we can do at present is trace (with great difficulty) the variation of Neanderthal's DNA in human populations. From this kind of data, it would already be extremely hard to get non-trivial results on the movements of populations leading to this distribution of Neanderthal DNA (especially as East Asian populations have the highest rate of Neanderthal DNA, quite counterintuitively, see for instance here). Of course, tracing the evolution of a delicate and transient cognitive and cultural phenomenon such as language is immensely harder than tracing population movements (for which we might at least hope to find archeological evidence). Not to mention the fact that questions on mutual influences between well-recognized family of languages (such as indo-european and uralic for instance) are already far beyond the scientific consensus on the historical evolution of languages. To recap: even considerably easier problems both in the study of the influence of other hominid groups on Homo Sapiens and on past mutual influences in languages are currently totally out of reach. The project described is presently about as scientifically credible as reaching the speed of light with a steam engine. 

Gloss: People of our generation TOPIC it is always the fathers FOCUS 3rd-plur-have difficulties to communicate with. People of our generation always have difficulties communicating with fathers. Listening to any French radio marketed to youths or watching contemporary French movies will yield dozens of other examples. 

Yes, if we are speaking about basic mathematical concepts, like integers and basic spatial relations. It is now well established, for instance, that infants already possess a concept of number. A good place to start reading about this is the work of Stanislas Dehaene. 

If you are convinced by this proposition, then it follows that such sentences are not clear cut violations of Principle C, just like 

Why yes, for basic reasons of natural selections, we would expect our basic sense of number to provide a description of the external world which is congruent with our other senses. 

I am slightly puzzled by the fact that you seem to know Rizzi's work but not the answer to this question, but anyway. This answer entirely presupposes the framework in which L.Rizzi is working. Rizzi's aim is to describe the articulation of what he calls the complementizer layer CP of a sentence. He remarks that this part of the sentence (typically found at the left periphery of the clause, and universally so if one believes in R.Kayne's antisymmetry principle) may contain several projections which typically differ in syntactical properties and semantic interpretation. Among them, the one he calls Topic hosts topicalized elements (for the moment, by definition). In Romance, a characteristic property of an element in that position is that it is left-dislocated and replaced by a coreferential clitic pronoun.