There's a nice explanation in the Khemaka Sutta below. It has the analogy of the scent of a flower, and its lack of direct relationship with the flower's constituent components. A similar analogy based on music and lute can be found in the Vina Sutta. 

Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu - former moderator of Buddhism.SE and is based out of Canada. His videos include in-depth discussions of the Dhamma. Resources: 

This article describes the celebration of Vesak Day or Wesak Day 2015 at a Thai Buddhist temple (and therefore of the Theravada tradition) in Malaysia, near the capital city. The author provides an example: 

How could this be interpreted in any other way? Or do Secular Buddhists doubt the accuracy of the translation of this sutta and all the other referenced suttas? Or do Secular Buddhists doubt the authenticity of this sutta and all the other referenced suttas? 

It appears that devas (a type of god) and humans live in the happy sensuous destinations, while there are brahmas and devas (types of gods) living in the fine material world. Brahmas are superior to devas. Those who have reached the level of non-returners (anagamin) would be reborn in the upper five realms of the fine material world. After this, they gain enlightenment there and would no longer be reborn, after passing. All beings, whether formless beings or gods or humans or animals or ghosts etc. are not immortal. The gods like the Maha Brahmas may live for a very long period of time, that they may assume that they are immortal, according to DN11. All unenlightened beings would face death and rebirth, while enlightened beings would no longer be reborn after physical death. The Buddha is said to be the highest type of being of them all, who is enlightened and has psychic powers allowing him to teach gods and humans in the fine material world and sensuous world. But even he is not immortal or permanent. The only thing that is not impermanent is Nibbana. Udana 8.1 describes it as: 

Based on the above, it looks like the stories of the Buddha's past lives from Jataka are merely commentarial, and not canonical. However, I found one possible story of the Buddha's past life as told by him in MN 83, which is part of the Sutta Pitaka, but outside Jataka. Being part of the Majjhima Nikaya, I take it that this is canonical. It's a story about the just and principled King Makhadeva who started the practice of retiring from the throne at an advanced age to become an ascetic. He practiced the Brahmaviharas, and was reborn after the break-up of the body, after death, in the Brahma realm. He established and passed on this good practice to his descendents who carried on doing it, till King Nimi's son Kaḷārajanaka who stopped this practice. The plot twist is when the Buddha tells Ananda: 

Eternalism (sāśvata-dṛṣṭi in Sanskrit) was rejected by the Buddha's original teachings on the Middle Path, as described by Ven. Dhammananda Mahathera's article (from here) excerpt below: 

You can read about the Dharma Wheel or Dharmachakra in the article "The Dharma Wheel (Dharmachakra) Symbol in Buddhism" by Barbara O'Brien. In this article, it is stated that the Dharma Wheel is a chariot wheel and it is most commonly depicted as having eight spokes, representing the Noble Eightfold Path. What happens when a chariot wheel is turned? The chariot moves of course. In this case, I suggest that it symbolizes that the chariot of humanity starts moving towards the end of suffering, towards Nibbana. 

If it is possible to escape suffering through death, the Buddha would have taught suicide. Basically, the Noble Eightfold Path becomes redundant without rebirth. Rebirth is actually not the important point. The important point is that it is not possible to become free from suffering through death. 

The last type of motivation for questioning usually applies to the Buddha and Arahant teachers toward their students. Pañha Sutta (AN 4.42) describes 4 ways of answering questions: 

Further on, he recommends development of virtues starting with the five precepts, and also moderation in eating, sleeping and entertainment. Beyond the five precepts, virtue (sila) also includes Right Speech, Right Action and Right Livelihood. This answer would also be helpful with regards to the cultivation of virtue. He continues: 

Theravada monks have to follow the 227 Patimokkha rules and the Vinaya Pitaka from the Pali Canon. But how is it for monks from the other traditions like East Asian Mahayana, Zen and Vajrayana traditions? I read online that Tibetan monks have dinner after 5pm, which is clearly not allowed by Theravada rules. They don't seem to have to do alms rounds, and they can take Tuesdays off. In certain traditions, can monks receive raw cooking materials and cook food themselves? Can they grow their own food? Can they manage the finances of their monastery? And why are they different? Do different traditions decide for e.g. that the rules should be made more relaxed, more strict or more adapted to their local circumstances or to modernity? 

Disease, ageing, bodily decay and misfortunes are unpleasant situations. After the unpleasant situation is gone, you would be happy. But can you be free from unpleasant situations forever? No. As long as you're in samsara, unpleasant situations can come back. If you are free from one disease, you can still get another disease. When any unpleasant situation comes back, would you be unhappy or unsatisfied? Yes. Therefore, that which is impermanent, regardless of whether they are pleasant or unpleasant, always (eventually) cause suffering. 

The five precepts are training rules undertaken to abstain from the above five. The four factors of stream entry are: 

You need to eventually face this suffering due to your attachment. Such attachment is usually deep seated. But what may be helpful is to contemplate on anicca or impermanence. For this, you can take A Walk in the Woods with Phra Khantipalo. Also, read the story of Patacara in Dhammapada 113. 

If the Buddha came to you today and offered the blue pill and the red pill like in the movie The Matrix, and by swallowing this blue pill, you will get instant Nirvana, would you accept it? The answer is that 99.999% of serious Buddhists will not accept it, because they are not ready to let go of their attachments right now. Even if they accept the Buddha's teachings, they are not mentally prepared to leave everything that forms their reality. They don't want to be "saved" right now. They might ponder about their loved ones, material possessions, career etc. They won't be ready to let go of their personhood. But they may want to get there progressively. 

The Buddha recognized in the Ayacana Sutta that the masses who delight in attachment, excited by attachment and enjoy attachment, would not easily understand the Dhamma. 

On the other hand, another researcher, Indian Studies Professor Helmuth von Glasenapp wrote in "Vedanta and Buddhism: A Comparative Study" that all Buddhist schools without exception uphold Anatta: 

Think about it. How can the silent witness witness anything except through one of these media: eye, ear, nose, tongue, touch or mind? There was never a time, when there was consciousness being aware of something except through the eye, ear, nose, tongue, touch or mind. There is therefore no independent consciousness. Consciousness is dependent on and conditioned upon these six media. It was a "aha" moment for me when I read that, and realized that the Buddha's analysis of consciousness is more accurate than Advaita's. The correct view of what happens when one attains Nibbana is found in SN22.85 below. Rather than asking whether the enlightened one ceases to exist or exists, the right view is that suffering has ceased. 

"Ceasing the will to live" sounds depressingly suicidal. That's not a good description. Dhammapada 203-204 describes Nirvana as the highest bliss. You could say that the craving to enjoy life and, the craving to do or become something in life ceases. When you look at your remaining years of life, and think that "in the next years or decades, I can travel to many countries, spend more time with my family, enjoy different types of food, build a career, become successful, raise my children to be successful etc." - well, that kind of thinking and emotions cease after enlightenment and is replaced with the peaceful bliss of the moment. 

You don't have to pursue enlightenment. You can just continue as you are. According to Buddhism, while you maintain your craving for life, you will be reborn endlessly. You won't remember your past lives, yet you will always possess something of them. Even after the universe ceases after hundreds of billions of years or more, it will come back (for another aeon), and you will be reborn too. And you can be reborn in various realms, from hell, to animals, to ghosts, to humans, to angels (devas) and more. It goes on forever. But it's not all adventure. According to the Buddha, all of these are impermanent (no everlasting happiness) and all of these are also suffering. Existence is suffering. Why? You are born, suffer from diseases, suffer consequences of actions, experience roller coasters of emotions, lose all your loved ones, grow old, and die. And repeat. This goes on forever. This is not a pessimistic or morbid view. Yes, you can live life to the fullest. You can embrace and look forward to all the happy moments and time spent with your loved ones. But it will definitely not last. Unhappy moments too will come and go. And you will experience these endlessly without break. But this only describes human lives. In other types of lives, the outlook could be different. If you don't see existence as suffering, then you don't have to seek enlightenment. But if you do, then for you, enlightenment would be the ultimate death of suffering. If your concern is regarding what lies ahead, in Nirvana, then Buddha has explained that too in Samyutta Nikaya 43 as "the unfabricated (unborn?), the uninclined, the truth, the far shore, the subtle, the very difficult to see, the unaging (eternal?), the stable, the unintegrating, the unmanifest, the unproliferated (nippapancan), the peaceful, the deathless, the sublime, the auspicious, the secure, the destruction of craving, the wonderful, the amazing, the unailing, the unailing state, Nibbana, the unafflicted, dispassion, purity, freedom, the unadhesive, the island, the shelter, the asylum, the refuge, the destination." Nirvana holds the promise of a secure, peaceful, permanent refuge which is free from suffering. 

At the same time, in the Mahaparinibbana Sutta, the Buddha advises the sangha to take full refuge unto the dhamma and depend on themselves. 

I feel that this is not the best possible translation for this paragraph of the sutta. Please explain what it really means. 

In other religions like Christianity (like this song) or Hinduism (like this song), music (both lyrics and melody) is used to boost one's devotion to God, and could be uplifting too. However, in Buddhism, this is against the seventh of the Eight Precepts: 

The faith follower basically has faith and conviction in the Buddha as the teacher of the path to the end of suffering, the Dhamma (teachings of the Buddha) and the Sangha (the 8 types of individuals on the path). The faith follower would normally take refuge in the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha, as well as vow to undertake the five precepts. That's merely the first step. The guarantee of not being reborn in lower realms (hell, animal, asuras and hungry shades) is the result of achieving stream entry (or higher). For all others, there is no guarantee. According to the Vera Sutta: 

So, you see... every scientist can propose something, anything. Then they have to try to prove it. One published paper may conflict with another. There may be a consensus among scientists, but that does not mean they are right. But they keep doing their work, and they keep updating their understanding over time. In the 80s to 90s, they said fat was bad, but now they say fat is OK and carbohydrates are bad. Things keep updating. I would say as a man of integrity, either you should prove Buddhist teachings to scientists using the scientific method, or otherwise respect that scientists have their scientific knowledge (at whatever level it is as of today) based on the scientific method, while you have your Buddhist knowledge based on the Buddhist method. Agree to disagree. Accept that an orange is an orange, while an apple is an apple - the two are similar in the sense that they are both fruits, but they will never become the same fruit. Similarly, science and Buddhism are both empirical in their methods, but they have different goals. 

The monkey needs to let go of the rice in order to free himself from his suffering. The way to end his suffering, is to end his craving for rice. But in order to end his craving for rice, he must first understand how his hand is stuck inside the coconut. When the monkey overcomes his ignorance about how the trap works, he would let go of his craving for rice, and release his clenched fist. With this, he would be free from his suffering. Also you can say that the monkey's suffering originated with his ignorance of the trap. 

Disconnecting the chain reaction above by watching your thoughts heedfully is one solution, but the other, is to gain compassion out of empathetic understanding or empathetic insight. Why did someone insult you? It's because he did not have control of his mind, because he is deluded. This way, you can grow compassion towards other people and tolerate their shortcomings. However, this method is only applicable when there are other people or other sentient beings involved. You cannot grow compassion towards a splinter. 

The first precept forbids taking of a life. The ability to freeze, store, transport and sell meat later was not possible in the time of the Buddha. Questions: 

I agree with @ChrisW. In addition to his answer: Here is a quote from the Sigalovada Sutta that supports investment in business. 

The YouTube video "Ask A Monk: Pornography and Masturbation (and Addiction in General)" by Ven. Yuttadhammo may be helpful to you. He discusses "interior causes for such lust" from the perspective of Dependent Origination in the video. He says that we can break the cause of the arising of lust through wisdom. One way suggested by him is to mentally take apart and analyze the parts of the body (the so-called contemplation on unattractiveness or asubha). You can find some info in this question and this question. But also see this answer - this type of contemplation should be replaced with the mindfulness of breathing if it triggers negative thoughts of suicide. The other technique he proposes is to watch your mind for triggers and observe how lust arises in the mind and recognize it (basically insight meditation). You can find more info on this in his chapter entitled "Daily Life" of his booklet "How To Meditate". In any case, this summary that I wrote, does not cover all the details discussed in the video. So, it's better to watch it completely.