Religion is not reducible to faith, belief, ethics, or philosophy. Religion does not necessarily have anything to do with "gods" in whatever sense. "Miracle" is an extremely narrow and specific type of event that is properly limited to Christianity (though arguably also to Judaism and/or Islam); it is again not generalizable. "Magic" is a well-nigh impossible category, even worse than "religion," and as such there's no way to make blanket assertions about their intersections. The "war between science and religion" is a 19th-century invention, principally American; there is no intrinsic conflict. There is no generally-accepted scholarly definition of religion, nor is it likely that there ever will be. 

An alternative approach could hinge on anti-Catholic sentiment, plus a dash of anti-Semitism. One classic objection to women in the priesthood comes from an early exegesis of a Levitican definition, which says that priests must be physically perfect. That is, no deformities, including also certain skin diseases conceived as equivalent to leprosy. In the exegetical text, they enumerate all the minimum criteria of wholeness, including "two fully-descended testicles." Women don't have those, so no woman priests, QED. Now if you spin this as typical Roman Catholic superstitious nonsense, based on Jewish nonsense, you could elevate a woman to the priesthood in England around the time of universal suffrage. From there, you just need a bio of a truly extraordinary woman who rose during the War and became Archbishop around the time Elizabeth was crowned. 

The current structures of power in the more advanced nations of the world are difficult to infiltrate quickly and a lot of the world is indoctrinated into notions like democracy or patriotism that are hard to turn around in even a timeframe of the likes of 25 years. No one person could unite the world through politics and I also doubt an Alexander the Great-type figure could unify and maintain that unification of the world through conquest. Paul's main way to power in the modern world is through corporations. Money talks and Paul is more than capable of starting up businesses and creating profitable ventures in a realm that nobody would question or be able to significantly oppose a rapid rise. Once his organization reaches international levels, he can dictate policy and use his influence to shape things in the direction he feels things need to go. As to the types of business his companies engage in, there's no reason that he can't acquire R&D and work on defense tech (also a good way to get in tight with various states). There's also opportunities to form private military companies that could be prepared to double as a defense force in 25 years. Given Paul is the adept person that he is, there's also no reason that he cannot secretly engage in some of the other activities mentioned by other answers. The right approach is to have many eggs in many baskets, so he shouldn't just start one cult, he should start many. Alien hoaxes would be a great way to galvanize defense spending that can be spent on his companies, while media influence could subtly prepare people for invasion. One of biggest opportunities others seem to have missed, however, is attempting to duplicate himself. If others were to have the same Handwavium experience, we can assume we would be creating instant allies with similar capabilities. Even without the vision, having more people on his level could do more to overcome the resource problem he has as one man. All that said, I don't think Paul's chances are all that good- we already have plenty of olympians and geniuses and excellent thinkers in our time and yet the world is in the state that it is. Paul's new capabilities alone will not be enough to make the difference he desires- when the aliens come, Paul is going to need some luck to turn things around. 

To extend from the multiple types of answers already given, you might consider dipping into Judith Butler's profoundly influential book Gender Trouble. In this book, she makes a remarkable argument about the now-common distinction between "gender" and "sex." In short: the usual view (post-second-wave feminism) is that "gender" is a cultural or individual or whatever choice or interpretation or representation that is or is not directly correlated with an underlying biological substrate; and "sex" is the biological substrate, divided into two. Butler argues that, in a large number of ways, the claims and assumptions about the biological absolute duality of sex are problematic. As several answers and comments have already noted, there is extant evidence of sex not being necessarily dual. For example, if we grant that "male" includes several distinct expressions of chromosomal material, yet we accept that these are all "the same thing" because they all come out functionally "male" with penises and whatnot, then we're imposing a preconception of binarism on what we know about the biological substrate. Conversely, when we encounter examples in which material is expressed in a very unusual way, we label these "abnormal" and therefore insignificant -- thereby reaffirming our preconception that there are only two sexes. If that's the case, then the claimed absolute link between "sex" and objectively-existing biological substrate is ideological, in which case the difference between "sex" and "gender" is that "gender" is required culturally to bind itself to the absolute dominance of "sex" because of the power of the cultural presupposition of binary sex. Which is to say, "sex" and "gender" differ principally on the basis of who's got the power. I am not saying that Butler is necessarily entirely right or wrong about any of this, but reading her work may jolt you into dramatically different ways of thinking about your question and the results you're trying to get in your worldbuilding project. 

If you could twist and/or rotate space-time in a fashion then you could have the rotational effects without tearing the planet apart itself. How you achieve that rotation is beyond known science and discovery, but non-flat spacetime is a very real aspect of physics, so it's not a huge leap to other manipulations, whether natural or artificial. If it helps, visualise a plastic ball floating on a drain in a large bathtub as it empties. The ball will spin with the water and rotate. Relative to the draining water the rotation is quite slow as the ball is spinning with the water but relative to the rest of the standing water in the tub the rotation may be much faster. 

Due to the laws of physics, my instinct is that the destructive power of weapons will always exceed the defensive potential of armour and other defensive technologies. Therefore the escalation towards bigger, tougher ships is avoided and instead the priority is on nimbleness for evasion over tanking the damage. However, on the flip-side of this is the problem of speed. FTL travel or no, you will likely require a much larger vessel for logistics and viable long-distance travel. More generally, there will always be tasks that favour one property over another, so it's difficult to favour one specific attribute as the one 'future' of space war. It's far more likely to develop a combined arms approach that uses a variety of archetypes. The simplest one would be a combination of carriers/hive ships that provide all the qualities that favour larger sizes, combined with unmanned drones or nano-ships that encapsulate what's desired from smaller vessels. 

Energy By dint of a fair bit of calculation and some judicious estimates, I have found that, taken in large aggregate, naval warships of roughly 1800 tended to produce an average muzzle energy of about 16Kj/rated pound. That is to say, a 24-pounder ball departed the gun with nearly 400Kj of energy. [Note: This average is not especially accurate cannon by cannon, though it does work passably for 24-pounders, but when you spread this across the total metal of a variety of different military vessels in ordinary distribution, it works pretty decently.] Now in a heavy engagement, you’re firing between 2 and 3 broadsides per 5 minutes. The length of an engagement can vary tremendously. The amount of firing that happens in an engagement varies a great deal as well: sometimes there’s a lot of yardarm-to-yardarm smashing, and sometimes it’s hours and hours of long-bowling with 9-pounders. Usually there’s something of a mix. In addition, of course, whatever energy is dumped into the sea by this magical system will dissipate pretty quickly, because the ships are moving (not especially fast if they’re really going at it, but still) and the sea is so darn big. So I calculated like this: For a heavy engagement I took the Battle of Trafalgar, measured by broadside weight and total number of ships and so on, figuring this was such a large engagement that it would average out pretty decently. At Trafalgar, there were 47 tons’ broadside weight firing, spread across 60 ships. This means that during the hot parts of the battle, when they were really going all guns blazing, they were putting out some 2Gj muzzle energy per 5 minutes. For the water, I spread this incredible sum across the displacement tonnage of the combined fleets (again, a combination of research and judicious estimation). I estimated the total displacement tonnage at 96,000 tons. For the temperature change, I simply dumped the energy in joules into the water in grams, since 1J will cause 1g water to increase its temperature by .24K. My result is that, if armor systems like I’m proposing had been in use at Trafalgar—and in fact generally for significant ship battles—you’d find that during the hot parts of the battles the sea temperature would rise about 5 degrees C. Guesses Now I had to make a number of much more problematic guesses to get this result—more problematic in that, while they sound kind of reasonable to me, I don’t actually know what I’m talking about, and I don’t know how to figure out whether I’m full of it. 

There are all sorts of energy sources in the body, an excellent article in Ars Technica from a few years ago covered a few main contenders according to the current science of the time: a nanowatt from electrical potential in the ears, a microwatt from kinetic energy, 40 microwatts from a biocell using the blood's own glucose, while sweat and tears also have some potential. Can a device do all the things you want? Sure, depending on the implementation. Depending on the sophistication of an implant, it may require far more invasive implanting to monitor all actions. Computing power and/or transmission power required for tracking may be minimised by having an extensive network of receivers instead. However, the reason to not do this is simple: there are better alternatives. Wanting to deliver a shock requires stored energy for a quick burst of power rather than relying on a large amount of continuous energy, so it would make sense for your devices to have a battery, and this makes sense for the other challenges too. Even the batteries of the near future may be quite compact and capable of high-speed charging, so having a long-term battery in the implant that is discretely recharged through various techniques (mainly thinking wireless charging) is probably the way to go. If a battery gets below a certain minimum, dispatch agents to brush a charger against the unknowing citizen at an appropriate time if you don't already perform "checkups" on the implant on a regular basis. The battery then acts as a buffer to the same problem: if it isn't charged, can it use body heat as a backup? Sure, but not for continuous function if it's demanding high-power features such as transmitting its precise location in the middle of nowhere. At this point, the device can go dead and build up a charge for spurts of continuous function, or act in a more limited manner by giving 'pings' on a regular basis, such function could even be remotely selectable. 

The short answer to your question is "yes, of course." Two societies that come into contact, assuming that they are able to communicate, will necessarily have an exchange: communication requires this. To put it in Star Trek terms, the Prime Directive is idealistic but utterly impossible: the only way not to influence another society is not to let them know you exist. On the other hand, there is no reason that one has to think of such contact in catastrophic terms. To be sure, the history of European colonialism is not a pleasant one, but that needn't be the sole model. Consider, for example, the many, many tribal peoples of the Americas, prior to the arrival of European invaders in the wake of Columbus (let's ignore the Vikings here). They talked to each other, traded with each other, sometimes fought and sometimes didn't, for an extremely long time. As a result, we can spot remarkable affinities among myth-cycles all across the Americas. If we had better longitudinal data than we do, we could chart how customs and such moved; in some cases, we can do this to a degree, especially when it comes to material culture (pottery, beadwork, etc.). You cannot possibly model all of this, of course: it's ludicrously complex. But there are a few points that could perhaps be useful in a fictional worldbuilding context. 1. Variable Usage and Interpretation Suppose one culture has a big thing about hats, where there are all these incredibly fine variations and gradations in hat shape, style, material, color, and so on, and these are a complex sort of code having to do with social station, age, sex, place of origin and/or residence, and so forth. (At various times China has had some of this kind of thing going on.) Now along comes the other culture, and they do some peaceful trading for a while, and this other culture takes home pictures and souvenirs and stuff in addition to actual trade goods. Now at home, they might end up with a big fad for "alien hats," and suddenly the millinery industry is going through the roof. Of course, this culture either doesn't understand the hat-code system, or doesn't understand it well, or just as likely, sort of understands it but doesn't really care: the alien code doesn't apply, but the hats look cool. 2. Reinterpretation But maybe that second culture, after a brief fad about the alien hats, finds itself in a situation in which everyone is wearing weird hats all the time. They have the concept of the alien social hat-code, but it's an alien system that doesn't match their own life-patterns. It could well happen that, over time, this society develops a way of coding hats that does match their life-patterns, particularly if they're constantly trading with the original hat-wearing aliens. 3. Rejection as Adaptation And then a new thing sweeps our society: hat-coding is an alien thing, and it's contrary to what we're really all about (because of the gods, or pride, or whatever). So people stop wearing hats entirely. Before alien contact, they sometimes did and sometimes didn't wear hats, but it didn't mean much: it was a fashion thing, or maybe a way to keep the rain and sun off. Then there was this fashion surge, and then this new hat-code, and now nobody ever wears hats. I realize that this may seem like a silly set of linked examples, but the point I'm trying to make is that cultural contact and adaptation is both extremely complicated and to a significant degree non-catastrophic. While it is obviously possible for "contact" to mean "convert them at swordpoint and then enslave them," it usually doesn't work that way. Usually what happens is that objects, customs, images, and so forth are exchanged, and then each culture has to make sense of the new stuff in its own terms, which in turn changes that culture -- but not necessarily to make it any more like the one it's exchanging with. Here's a final example, in this case from real history: Melanesian cargo cults. Cargo cults are (mostly were) complex and varied, but the basic phenomenon is revealing and helpful for the question at stake. To give a highly simplistic account of one type: During the Pacific War, the American navy (especially) sometimes provided various goods to local Melanesian tribes. In essence, the idea was to get these people to be friendly to Americans, such that they could be enlisted to assist against the Japanese; for example, they might tolerate an airstrip, or they might tell Americans about spotting Japanese ship movements, or whatever. Now when the war ended, so, pretty soon, did the providing of free stuff. Now the problem is, a lot of Melanesian societies base their economic systems in social exchange. Think of it sort of like The Godfather: if I'm a big powerful dude, that's not because I have a lot of goods, but because everyone owes me favors. And to retain and increase that power, I have to keep people owing me by giving them stuff and not letting them pay me back. For my birthday, I'm going to throw a huge party and invite everyone, and I'm not only going to feed them but I'm going to give them all presents. This both demonstrates and increases my power. So for these Melanesians, the American goodies represented a problem. The Americans gave them stuff, but didn't accept anything back. So this meant that the Americans were incredibly powerful. But when they just stopped giving stuff, what were the Melanesians supposed to do? They owed favors, but now the folks to whom they owed the favors wouldn't talk to them. So in these cargo cults, you'd get a millenarian religious movement centering around the Americans and their stuff. People built wicker airplanes, put on wooden headsets, and generally did anything they could to force the American "gods" (loosely speaking) to restore the relationship, not necessarily because the Melanesians wanted or needed the stuff as such, but because this gross absence threatened the whole system of exchange itself. If you do a little research on cargo cults, and think about what's happening on the two ends of the exchange, you'll end up with a very wide range of ways to think about cultural adaptation. 

As a melee weapon, this actually doesn't really confer much effect. Unlike hot temperatures which can go to the extreme and create almost instant incinerating effects, cooling is a lot harder to do and requires a mixture of prolonged contact and/or a cascade of coolant (e.g. immersing in a stream of liquid nitrogen rather than a pool) to achieve a rapid effect. At best your blades might have a cauterizing effect that may make their wounds less severe. Arrowheads or bullets, on the other hand, if they continued to suck the heat out of their target by simply resting inside them, could be very dangerous indeed. A handwavium splinter-based weapon, even more so. Your rabbits might have more luck turning their cold handwavium to superconductors. Temperatures like that enable fun magnetic manipulation that could lead to giant electromagnets for countering metallic armour (especially in a siege situation), maybe primitive coil guns, or if you want to be fancy, multi-piece blades that are held together with magnetic fields or telescopic spears. 

In the history of magical or occult thinking, one finds that things are rarely taken as themselves: they tend to be in relation to other things. When we say "correspondences," this is really what we mean -- a correspondence is properly a relationship between two things that is embedded in a larger system or web of such relationships. Thus object A is like object B because both share property C that is considered to be a quality, aspect, effect, or sign (or all of these) of principle D. As a result, the real question here is about classification. While it is true that Nature herself does not classify Australian and European plants together, that's because Nature herself does not classify anything. We do, as observers, on certain more or less defined or formal bases. For example, we classify some plants as "grasses," and there are complex and serious reasons for doing so, much debated and so forth across the last couple of centuries. Under that system, there are "grasses" in both Europe and Australia. Either those plants are or are not "really" connected in terms of your magical correspondence system, which leads to a deeper matter. It appears, from the description of power level allowing looser correspondences, that correspondence classification is an intersection between the magician-subject and the natural-objective phenomenon. This means that there is some way in which things are or are not "really" linked, at an underlying, natural, non-cultural sort of level. And there is also some way in which that kind of linkage is actually forged, created, signified -- in a word, made -- by the human observing subject. If this is correct, then there is no absolute sense in which two things do or do not correspond: it's a matter of interpretation and knowledge. In which case, to resolve the difficulty within a fantastical world of your creation, you may need to come up with a formal conception of "natural correspondence," i.e., that type of relation that preexists within nature just because, and which is in some fashion a prerequisite for magical manipulation. 

If you look at the evolution of warfare, certain features tend to crop up repeatedly, such as the importance of logistics or mobility and manoeuvre. Using Centaurs as shock-troops might seem effective, but it seems like a waste compared to what they're capable of. Their size might make them ill-suited to the task as defenders would be able to generate a much larger volume of fire in return. Cavalry (centaur or not) are large units that can't pack in nearly as well as people. Instead, their horse half grants them increased mobility compared to your standard issue human, which makes them excellent skirmishers. They're capable of carrying large amounts of supplies and crossing large distances which also lends them towards reconnaissance. Neither of these roles really lend themselves to heavy weapons. However, if you want to make the most of their abilities in a heavy battle, you might consider arming them with a Gatling gun. A pair of centaurs could carry ammo on one and the gun, mounted on a swivel, on the other. Like this, they could perform shoot-and-scoot type manoeuvres, placing very heavy fire onto flanks and being able to reposition without any time needed to setup or tear down the weapon. A Gatling gun also doesn't have the recoil issues that you would have with heavier artillery like cannons. 

It strikes me as possible but unlikely, if we're talking about more-or-less humans on a more-or-less Earth-like world, barring some of the catastrophic introductions suggested in other answers here (nanites, peculiar bacteria, etc.). If "civilization" has developed and then collapsed, presumably this means that multiple relatively large-scale cultures have developed. While it is certainly possible that one or more of these do not build much by way of structures, or build from perishable materials, surely it's unlikely that absolutely nobody is going to attempt long-term permanence in stone, worldwide. Think of Stonehenge and the Nazca lines: these are extraordinarily long-lived creations because they were done in the local permanent element. The reasons for making these probably are almost entirely unrelated, but nevertheless, people do tend to build stuff and it does tend to remain. There are ancient traces of ruins all over the world, created by vastly different groups of people in vastly different terrains. If you want to eliminate every possible "ruin," or trace of prior civilization, you either need an external catastrophe or a very, very long span of time. The earliest traces we have found date back something like 30,000 years (that's for cave paintings). I would suggest that the best way to eliminate every possible trace of human cultural constructions is a deliberate, systematic attempt -- probably by humans -- that for some reason lasted a good long time. Perhaps a sort of purge? That way nothing has to escape: once everybody just automatically destroys any traces they stumble on, as a matter of habit, it's not going to take all that long to wipe everything out. That's one of the things about humans: whether we are building or destroying, we are remarkably effective and permanent about it, all in all.