I would tend to characterize Machiavelli as 'amoral' rather than 'immoral'. One must be careful to specifically indicate whether one is assessing the ethical character of an historical person retroactively with modern ethical meanings or with the ethical meanings of time. My understanding of Machiavelli is that he advises a ruler to be utterly pragmatic, because the ruler cannot afford the luxury of ethical equivocation without putting at risk the very power that enables and supports the ruler in their position. Such a deliberate blindness to ethical limitations would be "amoral". 

It is incorrect to assume that a belief that some things in the universe are designed necessarily implies a belief in a Designer. According to some (see Daniel Dennett's "Darwin's Dangerous Idea" as an example) evolution provides an automated process of design that does not require any oversight. So it does not follow that a belief that there is purpose and intent (taken to be expressed in designed features) requires a belief in in a "Designer." On this account, evolution automatically drives a process of design for the "purpose" of making creatures better able to survive and reproduce themselves. Thus one can believe in design and not be a theist or pantheist in any recognizable sense. 

In the 17th discussion of The Incoherence of the Philosophers, Al-Ghazali attempts to explain how a certain view of causality (which we can see is quite certainly intended to be that espoused by Avicenna) fails to meet his four requirements for an acceptable understanding of causality. However, both Avicenna and al-Ghazâlî seem, at least to me, to argue for different strengths of Occasionalism, and it is not at all clear that Avicenna's view fails to meet the four requirements put forth, at least to me. I don't really understand al-Ghazâlî's explanation as to why this view is rejected, can someone explain how the position is incompatible in a simpler manner? 

There were some links to explanations of topics like 'logical positivism' in the original that are not preserved here, since they aren't strictly necessary. The linked youtube video is an excerpt from an interview with Mr. Hitchens where he talks broadly about how women should stay home and raise children and men should go get jobs. At one point he says "No. I'm not having any woman of mine go to work." The interviewer then says "You know you're going to get in trouble if you go down there" (Mr. Hitchens tries to say something over this about halfway through her talking, but I'm not sure what. Possibly "No, no they-- no, they-- I don't--". In any case, I think he's just trying to interrupt and the line I can't quite make out isn't critical). Mr. Hitchens then says "No, they don't need to work. They can if they like, but they don't have to". The interviewer then says "You are joking, aren't you?" to which he replies "No, I'm not. No, I would expect her to take care-- Well, you can work if you want, but you don't have to." 

I believe that the nearest one can get to an argument against solipsism is that it is hard to account for a deep sense of either surprise or mystery when dealing with others if they are a creation of one's own mind. One may, of course argue (as the creationists do about evidence for evolution) that things were arranged so as to permit surprise - but the further you pursue that line of reasoning the thinner the sense of substance to the stance gets. One eventually arrives at the point where the stance has no explanatory power because of all of the extraordinary wherefores and whereas's which must be included to keep the solipsist stance meaningful. 

missing the point is proving something different than what was sought. false cause is asserting a predecessor statement that is not required to arrive at the desired conclusion. 

The quantum mechanics distinction is not between "global" variables and "local" variables, but rather between "distant" variables and "local" variables. Bell's inequality proves that quantum effects cannot be accounted for by locally acting variables not yet understood. Because "entangled" particle pairs share quantum effects (I am mangling the quantum mechanics description a bit for brevity) at a distance (farther than a light speed message can travel in the time under consideration - what Einstein called "spooky action at a distance") in ways that cannot be predicted except in a general statistical manner we are left with no ability to specifically predict the behavior of the entangled particles, nor can we expect that the unpredictability is due to current ignorance of some effect that will surface in the future (no hidden local variables). This lack of predictability does not appear to me to relate in a meaningful way to what I understand to be the issue in determinism - namely, does will have a role in determining the future. The fact that we cannot predict an outcome does not lend any support to a thesis that outcomes are determined by will. Casual readers are often led astray by the terminology used in quantum mechanics. Terms such as "observer" and "measurement" appear to open the door to will having a causal role, but that is misusing the terms - in no way do these terms imply willful control of outcomes, they only specify times when unpredictable outcomes might become known. 

In order for a thing to be potentially 'unethical' (here defined as a thing which ought to be done in a given circumstance), we only need to show that it ought to be done in even a single circumstance. That is, if we can show even a single example where thinking something contrary to societal norms (as we have thusly defined immoral) is good, given the context, then we have shown that thoughts can be potentially 'unethical'(again, remembering that this is here defined in a manner more akin to how 'ethical' is usually defined). We have not, for the purposes of this question, defined moral goodness, so for the purposes of this answer I will be using the following definition1: 

I believe this to be a reasonable definition for this question's purposes as you give examples from a Judeo-Christian background, though it is possible, given your very unusual choices for the definitions of other terms, that this is an error in premise. 

Your question reminds me of the Korean nun Daehaeng, who I read about in Park's Makers of Modern Korean Buddhism. She emphasised that son (zen) is grounded in our teartment of others. Wikipedia says e.g. 

Another example may be the idea, and I'm sorry but I forgot who to cite, that we're not alive for so much of the existence of the universe, reality, that it makes no sense, and the odds are we alive for more of it than we think. Or perhaps the idea that the universe or multiverse is so huge that the odds are that our minds will repeat or re-occur someplace else. Is this a class of paradox? 

How does that leave arbitrary rules, and conformity? If everyone disobeyed, for any reason at all, an arbitrary rule, that I constructed from seeing people behaving as if they were obeying it, would the rule still exist to be disobeyed? If it would not, I wondered if it would fail the universalisability principle, because if everyone disobeyed the rule, no-one would. How does Kant's ethics cope with that: am I morally obliged to e.g. not disobey a rule to walk up the street like others have. 

Of course It's not so bleak, though. So, you and the people you are speaking with here seem to be defining 'faith in something' equivalently to the belief that there exists intrinsic value; that is, to have faith in something here seems to mean that one acknowledges the intrinsic value present in that thing. Deific adoration, then, presupposes faith, since it is necessary to acknowledge God's intrinsic value to worship Him. Moreover, though, faith 'in something else', if it is to be differentiated from the ordinary faith of expectation, is most reasonably understood as a holding of that 'something else' in the place of God (c.f. idolatry). Since to take something as God requires the attribution of the intrinsic value due God, this, too, seems to map well. Given that that is the definition we are dealing with, it should be no surprise that faith is necessary to avoid perceived meaninglessness; indeed faith is definitionally that which is necessary for meaningfulness! So, the statements made by these speakers are true, but vacuously so. They don't really reflect on the nature of Man's relationship to God nor Man's need for that relationship, and neither do they say anything which legitimately concerns mass shootings, depression, or the other Scary Social Things that they mention. They merely say "If you believe that anything has intrinsic value, then you don't believe that there is nothing of intrinsic value", and also "If you believe that there is nothing of intrinsic value, then you don't believe there is anything with intrinsic value", both of which are obviously true. The problem is that the speakers are trying to imply things that may or may not be true via other meanings and implications attached to the specific words employed. Essentially, those points which are argued by implication ('suicidal acts of violence are the result of not having enough faith', for example) are argued only via equivocation. 

Does this later, scientific, Marxism really make sense, given the relative obscurity of Marxist ideas? Seems to me that it's only in a blend of the so called "humanist" and "scientific" Marx, that we can say that Marx's communism may be realisable, as that would rely on different forms of argument, and observation -- is the working class still a potential catalyst for revolutionary change in humanistic terms. 

Is it OK to argue that what is hugely more likely to occur is in fact the case? There seems to be a class of paradox that relies on the idea that what we think is the case is in fact much much less likely to occur by chance than some other scenario, usually highly counter-intuitive, the suggestion being that we should reject the former is in fact the case. e.g. Boltzmann brains: 

Does 'the quantum mind' solve the hard problem of consciousness and how popular is it among philosophers of science?