I have a exam which involves lots of writing 50 pages 3 hr , nine times in 6 days. I can increase my speed by simply writing practice, but is there any Gym exercise so that my writing muscles will be stronger and enduring? 

I am doing barbell shrugs as dumbbells has maxed out, but i am finding doing same weights with barbell is bit difficult as compared to dumbbell as my hands are in front. Is there any science behind it? 

What is difference b/n walking fast and running, which different muscles get activated are they different for both? I am asking cause I found my calves getting tightened more while walking fast while running does not cause this? 

I am doing dumb bell pullover as shown in excercise Except that i lie down completly on bench, when I bring DB up i kinda feel twitch around my delts , is it normal , does shoulder also involve in this one? 

When doing wrist curls or reverse one should dumbbell should move in plane perpendicular to ground or should it follow normal curved path as ulnar is shorter so weight moves toward ulnar side naturally. Which form is perfect? 

When I am walking i observed I have two mode, in one I am walking normal way with all my body felling no tension, other one is in which my torso fill bit of stiff, it is feeling like walking by someone forcing me. Which muscles are getting worked out in both scenario? I hope other people also experience same. 

I am able to do dumb bell curl with 25 pound but if I don't do exercise for 3 weeks, i am still able to curl 25 pound but now with pain afterwards, i am assuming hypertrophy, This repeat hypertrophy y loss of muscle and gain of muscle ,Will it help muscle easy hypertrophy in future? 

I was doing decline bench press with dumb bells, and after exercise i put dumbbell on my chest and tried to lift my body but middle back felt pain middle of thoracic , my body was not lifted enough for hip extension muscles to be activated, so why I got pain. Which muslce got activated in back wrongly? Was not abs supposed to lift my body initially? 

There are number of articles saying some hip flexors inflexibility cause stress on spine and hence cause pain in lower back due to crunches or leg lift or even squats. What can i do as exercise which will prevent my back from injury due to performance of these exercise? please suggest safe exercise which wont need an expert to do correctly. As i understand hip flexor and extensor weakness is responsible for Psoas major activation, but to strengthen flexor extensor more pressure will come on Psoas. It is becoming a catch39 situation. Reference 

I am doing this excercise for back. But what I felt was that my biceps were getting more tensed than my back, what is I am doing wrong? P.S. my trainer is worst, dont teach much , but office gym so I have to cope. 

I see lots of recommendations of drinking enough water. Another usual fitness recommendation is getting a decent amount of sleep in order to help muscle growth and tissue repair (precious testosterone and growth hormone secretions are well known to happen mostly during deep sleep in adults). But nobody says anything about how to reconcile both things there where they collide: drinking water immediately before going to bed will make you interrupt your sleep in order to go to the toilet. The only way I can get eight hours of continuous sleep is by avoiding drinking any liquid two hours before bedtime. I drink water often during the day (specially immediately before and after exercise) but if I maintain my usual water intake until bedtime, then my sleep gets interrupted because I have to go to the toilet at least once. From the way I fell the next morning, I am not sure which strategy is best: less continuous sleep but well hydrated, or 8 hours of sound sleep but thirsty. I guess low hydration must not favour much the natural anabolic processes in your body. I once saw a recommendation in a Navy Seals fitness video in youtube. A military physician recommended high water intake before going to bed, no matter how many times that made you go to the toilet. But in the other end of the spectrum, interrupting sleep for going to the toilet often is considered a health condition (Nocturia). I would like to hear how the more experiences athletes here manage that equilibrium. 

I suggest you build up strength gradually by doing leg presses but pushing with one leg only (of course, alternate legs, although the strongest one will not benefit much until the weakest one catches up). I mention the Leg Press because it is the closest thing there is to a basic, compound leg exercise like the squat, but with the leg press machine you can easily set the load low enough, so that you can work safely with one single side and gradually build up. There is a description in EXRX of the single-leg version of the leg press so it is probably not a bad idea (invented exercises can be dangerous, you know). One-sided exercises are usually recommended to athletes with lateral imbalances, and the typical example is the bench press and shoulder press with dumbbells, in order to force both sides to work equally and independently. Take this with a grain of salt because I am neither an experienced athlete, nor a physical therapist. And this answer is likely going to receive a shower of downvotes because I mentioned a gym machine (oh my God!) and the trend now is "either barbell or nothing". But I think machines can be very useful under certain circumstances, and yours seems to be the case. Since you cannot do a single-leg squat without pain, I don't think there is a better alternate than the leg press machine. Additionally, I guess you have already tried lunges, although they are not a 100% single-leg exercise. If lunges are painful, you may also try a reverse lunges, I have found them somewhat easier on my knees. In any case, I don't think it is a good idea to be messing around with lunges with knee pain. The leg press machine is safer because you can set the load as low as you want and build up from that point. And be sure to have your therapist clearance in order to attempt anything.