You can eat as many eggs as you want, as long as you eat other kinds of food as well to balance out your diet. Here's why: 

I'll share my personal experience with you, since I've been in a very similar situation. When I was around 18, I weighed 130 pounds and went to the gym 3 times a week, not gaining any weight for years, no matter what. I took protein powder, had 6 meals a day, the whole deal. It didn't work. Now I've figured some stuff out, and I've gained 30 pounds since then (the majority of which took me a few months only). My insights: 

The dilemma is that it's very hard to gain muscle and reduce fat at the same time. Most people choose to improve their body in cycles, gaining weight for a while, then cutting fat for a while, then starting over, and so on. Personally I have found that high-intensity interval training is a great way to reduce fat while gaining muscle at the same time. It has been proven to be more effective for fat loss than moderate-intensity exercise (cardio), even though it burns fewer calories. There is no general consensus as to why this is the case, but it has been confirmed over and over. The difference in fat loss between cardio and HIIT is so dramatic that it makes you wonder how many people are wasting their time on treadmills at this very moment. Anyway, if I were you, I'd try to continue eating as you did before (assuming your nutrition is well balanced), and start doing some HIIT between your workout sessions. 

So there's no doubt that exercise slows almost every aspect of aging. Is exercise also associated with increased risk of injury? Yes, but injury is something you can control and prevent to some extent if you're smart, while the creeping effects of age-related decline are not (unless you exercise). The "wear and tear" kind of injury is mostly associated with excessive exercise, such as running the length of one or two marathons every week of your life. It's entirely preventable by moving from low- or moderate-intensity exercise to high-intensity exercise of shorter duration. But that's a different topic. 

I know your situation very well. I'm 24 yrs old, height 5'11", and 2 months ago my weight was 63kg. Today it's 72kg, with zero fat gain. So I gained about 1kg of muscle per week. Before that I've tried gaining muscle many times, and failed just like you. People told me to simply be patient, but they were wrong. I went to the gym 2 times a week, for 30-45 minutes at a time. I'm still skinny, but not quite as much. So what did I do? 

I think what you may be referring to is that when you build extremely large muscles, and then fail to maintain them (so they shrink back to normal), the skin around them may appear stretched. The same happens for pregnant women, or obese people who lose a lot of fat. Obviously the skin will appear stretched afterwards, and may never become as tight as it once was. That said, you only have to worry about this phenomenon if you plan to grow your muscles to positively gigantic proportions. If you simply build your body to look strong and masculine, but not exactly like the Hulk, you won't have anything to worry about. If you do want to look like the Hulk, I fear you'll have to live with some sagging if you ever abandon your training completely. 

If it's low-intensity, the workout won't have any relevant effects on the blood test. Even if it was a high-intensity workout, the test results might be influenced by it, but probably not to the extent that you'd get a false positive of any abnormal indication. There are countless other factors which influence these tests, such as time of day, amount of sleep, nutrition, temperature, altitude, immune status, and even psychological stress, which is why blood levels are given as a range, not a fixed point. There's no point trying to balance out all these influences – it's impossible. That's also the reason why blood tests are only be relevant if their result is pathological, that is, far outside the normal range. Where exactly the result is within the normal bounds is important to analyze for research purposes, but generally not something your doctor will be interested in. Your doctor can only tell you whether there's something seriously wrong with your blood – he can't distinguish between a "barely healthy" person and a "perfectly healthy" person, as both will be within the normal bounds. HDL/LDL cholesterol might be one exception to this, since few people are in the optimal range, but nevertheless it holds true by and large. 

To me this sounds like an inflammation of the Achilles tendon, which is very common for people who pick up running after being inactive for a while. It usually does not occur with regular walking, but due to the obesity it may well be the case for you. Usually the key to overcoming a sore Achilles tendon is simply to rest for a few days, then try again, rest again, and so on, until the muscles adapt to the increased tension. In your case, this may be difficult as it sounds like you simply have to do this walk every day. Nevertheless, if you do not get enough rest, the pain may not go away as your muscles won't have a chance to repair. If your budget allows it, I would recommend taking a cab for two days, then trying to walk again and see if it's better. Rinse and repeat until the pain is gone. Also, make sure you don't walk much on the weekend, so your tendons have time to heal then. As for exercises to prevent the strain, wall pushups and hamstring stretches are generally recommended to prevent strain on the Achilles tendon. They shouldn't be done too ferociously when the tendon already hurts though, so this is more of a prevention technique. Getting new shoes is a good idea as well; a decent pair of running shoes will definitely alleviate some of the tension during your walks. Just to state the obvious though: Your obesity is the main reason why a simple walk leads to symptoms most people would only experience after an intense run. 

If weight training is an option for you, there are lots of exercises, for example pullups, deadlifts, and barbell rows which involve gripping a long barbell and are an appropriate challenge for your hand muscles. The advantage to this is that you train your overall strength at the same time as your grip. If you don't like weight training, you could simply get a gripper and use it regularly to train your left hand in isolation. Of course there are hundreds of other exercises for grip strength, but those two approaches are the ones I would recommend. 

I'm not sure this question really counts as fitness-related, but hey, here you go. Fitocracy seems to have a pretty obvious programming flaw which allows you to see the names and descriptions of all quests even if you aren't supposed to see them. Log into Fitocracy, then open another browser tab and request this URL: $URL$ If you replace "3" with other numbers, one after the other, you get the HTML snippet with the quest, and it doesn't check whether you have access. So that way you can see all quests in the system. If you're really passionate you could write a robot which does this, parses the HTML and puts the info into a CSV or database or whatever. But there aren't that many quests anyway. Achievements are all visible to anyone, apparently, so no point repeating them here. I'm pretty sure the Fitocracy people will see this post, so I hope they'll see it as a favor to them and fix it. Source: Competitive intelligence work for startup companies. 

It doesn't matter how much time you can invest, there's simply no point to it. Your body grows muscles while you're resting, as long as there's a sufficient impulse. Maintaining that impulse does not require a lot of time. The reason many strength programs are not 5-day programs is not because most people don't have enough time, but because it can actually be more effective to train less. And I do not mean more effective per time investment (that would be more efficient), but more effective overall. When you train what you do is you strain your muscles to the extent that your body needs to repair them (just like a small wound). This repair process overcompensates so that your muscles are larger and stronger than before. The repair process is what grows your muscles, and it takes several days. Now of course you don't have to wait for the repair to finish completely (otherwise you couldn't train more than once a week or so), but you need to wait long enough to make sure that muscle growth is maximized. If you continue to damage your muscles too early during the repair, you risk losing strength instead of gaining it, and your risk of injury increases.