Calculate your TDEE based on your activity level and substract at least 25-30%. This will be your caloric goal. Buy a food scale and start measuring -if not to the gram, at least roughly- the food that you intake every day to make sure that you stay as close as possible to your caloric goal. You can get one for about $10 in Amazon, so no excuses. Eat whole foods with nutritional value and avoid processed crap. Keep your protein high. Find a gym with a squat rack and olympic barbells, and pick a proven beginner weight-lifting program. Starting Strength and Stronglifts are staples here. Do not quit. If you've followed all the previous steps for a month or two, the results will be so obvious that it will be very hard for you to stop. 

I'm using a power rack to squat and press. So far I still haven't missed a rep (I started Stronglifts a few weeks ago), but I'm wondering what exactly would be the safest way to release the bar into the safety pins when squatting. For bench press I can imagine myself just lowering my chest so that the bar doesn't hit me when I'm releasing it. However, I have no idea what I'd do if I was at the bottom of a squat and couldn't go up. Letting the bar roll through my fingers seems like it could break some of them with enough weight, and laying my whole body backwards until the bar hits the safety pins seems even more dangerous since my neck or head would be absorbing the force. I have seen videos of people dropping the bar in different manners. What is the safest way? 

Eat. The reason why you're having such a hard time getting rid of that last bit of fat is that you have almost no muscle for your body to maintain. Given your stats, eating under maintenance is that last thing you need to do. My advice would be to eat above maintenance (which I'd guess in your case is around 2700-2800 kcal), adding about 500 kcal to your macros (so 3200-3300 kcal), though that may be too conservative. I would up your protein and fat intake by 50% and 100% (so 150g and 100-120g, respectively) and fill the rest of your daily calories with carbs. Keep lifting just like you're doing now, making sure to challenge yourself. Do this until you've gained 10-15 pounds. Then you can start worrying about losing that bit of fat (which will be very easy to do, given your much increased muscle mass). Sadly, there are no shortcuts. 

You do not need to do lots of cardio to burn your fat, as long as you are willing to eat much less than you've been doing previously. Based on your preferences, this is what I would do: 

Get a pullup/chinup bar. You can get one for about $20. Buy a couple of parallel bars where you can do dips. If you have a couple of sturdy chairs, they will do. Pullups, chinups, dips, pushups, planks, bodyweight squats are all great exercises that could make up for a very decent routine. 

1) Whenever you feel like it. For however long you feel comfortable doing it. As you get into a routine, your stamina will increase and you'll be able to exercise for longer and at a higher intensity. 2) There's not, as it's something totally dependant on an individual and his/her specific conditions. But the more that you run, the faster that you'll be able to do it after some time. 3) Sure, but do it too much and it may end up bothering your stomach. 4) They are important in the sense that if you run with some awfully uncomfortable $5 sneakers that end up destroying your feet after each run you may not feel like running again for a while. I would not advise a beginner to buy any $100-$200 shoes until they know for sure they like running and will be doing it consistently. 

I'm not sure I worded the question right, hope I can explain myself better here. If someone can help, please edit the title and remove this. I suffer from APT and have been trying to fix it for months. I've seen a lot of improvement from foam rolling, static stretching and simply trying to keep a good posture at all times. However, since I started a new job I've been sitting 8+ hours everyday and don't have as much time as I used to to perform the stretches, which all together has deteriorated the condition again. I'm not asking for stretches or exercises that will help fix the APT, as I know those already. Is there anything that would not be considered an exercise that I can easily do either at the office or at home and will help fix my APT? I'm talking about things such as sitting cross legged or with wide open legs (probably one is better than the other, although I don't know which) or sleeping in a certain position. 

I recently learned that good, safe squat form could change based on body proportions, specifically the factor femur/spine length ratio. How exactly does one measure them both (from where to where, I mean) and how should squat form (width of stance and angle of feet, mainly) change based on these proportions? 

Cardio is not necessary for anything. It's just good for you (up to a certain point). Apart from that, it burns calories so usually people use it when they're trying to lose weight. If you're trying to gain weight but still want to take advantage of the benefits of cardio that Sid pointed out, simply eat more so that the calories you burn doing cardio won't affect your bulking phase. 

I have been working out at home for a few months with mostly successful results. I just came back from a shoulder injury that I'm pretty sure was caused by improper form in both bench press and dips: I was pushing my shoulders forward during the movements instead of pulling them backwards having a scapular contraction. I'm going to come back to the gym after my injury and this time I'd like to make sure that I don't mess my body up again doing anything wrong. At this point, it's not completely clear to me if I should have a scapular contraction while bench pressing only, or also while doing dips, OH press, DL, rows, and pretty much any exercise. In other words, is there any exercise where having a scapular contraction is actually advised against? 

Keep doing what you're doing if it's working for you. You don't need to lift heavier (in fact, you'll probably have a pretty hard time doing that on a deficit), just keep your routine in order to tell your body "Hey, see these muscles I've been using for a while? Don't get rid of them, I still need them". 

Don't change what's working out for you. Keep your lifts (or as close to it as possible) and eat slightly under maintenance, and you'll lose fat almost exclusively. 

Physically, and as long as you don't starve during your break, the negative effects will be negligible. Mentally, I can't tell you the amount of people I know who took a short break after just a little while going to the gym and never came back. 

Cutting in general will result in loss of muscle. However, as long as you continue lifting at a similar level and don't go overboard with the cutting part (keep a 20% caloric deficit at maximum), most of what you burn will be fat. If you want to minimize the muscle loss you'll want your deficit to be as small as possible (maybe 5% or 10%), although of course that means it'll take longer to burn the fat away. The type of cardio you do hardly matters as long as you control your calories. And if you can keep adding weight to your lifts constantly in a cut, either you're a beginner and your deficit is very, ver small or you're probably eating more than you think. 

Explaining all of this in detail will require whole books and not just a few paragraphs, so I'll try to be as brief and concise as possible. Think of your body as a machine that requires energy -which we count in calories- to function. Give it exactly the energy it needs, and you will neither gain or lose weight. Give it more, and you will gain; less, and you will lose. BMR, or Basal Metabolic Rate, is the calories your body requires to survive in a comatose state (that is, doing absolutely nothing but basic vital functions). It depends on things such as your age, gender, height, weight and body fat percentage. Since most of us are not in a coma, we tend to care more about TDEE (Total Daily Energy Expenditure), which as it name indicates takes into account physical activity. Take a look at this simple example: John works in an office as a programmer 8 hours a day, drives to work and back and spends the evenings at his couch watching TV. One day John gets fired for spending way too much time on StackExchange. He has to sell his car -so from now on he will walk everywhere- and finds a new job in construction, working 12 hours a day. John is the same person that he was a couple of weeks before, and his BMR remains unchanged. However, his much increased daily physical activity means that his body will require much more energy, and thus his TDEE will be considerably higher than before. So if his diet remains the same, he will more than likely lose weight. Eating less calories than your TDEE is called caloric deficit, and it will make you lose weight. Eating exactly the same calories as your TDEE is called being at maintenance, and you will neither gain or lose weight. Eating more calories than your TDEE is called caloric surplus, and it will make you gain weight. Regarding fats, the are not bad for you. In fact, they're necessary for your body to function properties. As seen above, eating fats will not make you fat, being at a surplus will. The reason why most people identify fats with getting fat is because they're very caloric (1g of fat equals about 9 calories, compared to 4 for protein and carbs). Extreme example: if your TDEE was 2000 cal and all you ate everyday was 1800 cal of pure fat, you would lose weight. PS: Weight supplements are irrelevant. Go to the gym. 

No better way to get better at an exercise that doing that exercise. I would only advise using rubber bands as assistance or doing negatives if you can't do a single pull-up. Since you can do several, keep at it and you will get better. 

Calories burned are directly correlated to heart rate, which on its own, is directly correlated to a bunch of different factors as the ones you mentioned (age, sex, weight, physical shape of the individual). To illustrate this, imagine a young, female and very small marathon runner, jogging for 10 minutes at a very slow pace around the block. She isn't going to be very tired and will barely make a sweat. Now think of a very obese, older man who hasn't done any exercise in decades trying to do the same thing. He will burn way more calories than her, since (1) he's much bigger and the energy required to move his whole body from point A to point B is higher and (2) he's so out of shape that the littlest exercise will get his heart racing. 

You are putting yourself at a higher risk. There's always the chance for injury to happen whether you slept for 12 hours or none. What most likely will happen is that you'll feel tired sooner and won't be able to lift as much as you usually do.