An ecologist named Chris Thomas thinks we should give up on trying to save the environment because humans evolved along with other life forms, therefore, all our actions are natural. What notable philosophers or philosophical doctrines would either support or not support this view? (I think we assume the monotheistic religions would support Thomas, but I'm not sure about "eastern religions.") 

I just learned about Sheldon Kopp on this forum, and I love his list of "eternal truths." Of course, I don't yet understand all of them, including this one: 

Judging by some of the discussions I've seen on this and other forums, most modern philosophers are hardly "pragmatic." In the political arena, they tend to be typically plodding thinkers at best, and many are strikingly right-wing. Case in point: I'm a big fan of emotion and revenge (when properly challenged). However, both appear to be dirty words on this forum. 

What do you mean by "philosophical implications"? Like whether the 9/11 attacks were justified? Whether the response to 9/11 was justified? Whether 9/11 was actually a "false flag attack"? There must be individual "philosophical figures" who are willing to "debate" just about anything. However, I'm not aware of any significant philosophical 9/11 groups comparable to Scholars for 9/11 Truth, etc. I just discovered a book titled The Impact of 9/11 on Religion and Philosophy. There's also a book titled Philosophy and the Return of Violence. I'm not sure if it focuses on 9/11 or if it just includes a chapter on 9/11 ("Philosophy after 9/11"). Personally, I'm skeptical that 9/11 is really such a big deal in philosophical terms. It was one of the most significant events in modern history. It was more or less the justification for the phony war on terror, which has ruined the lives of millions of people. It changed the United States; this isn't the country I grew up in. But, practically speaking, how is it really different from past wars, false flag events and other conspiracies? Good and evil, power and greed are hardly new concepts. However, the author of the second book disagrees with me. He claims 9/11 changed the very nature of philosophy. Though I've only read very brief excerpt, it sounds like he blames 9/11 on Muslims, making me wonder if his book is really just propaganda. Scientists, political activists and philosophers all have to wade through an ocean of disinformation and propaganda, and it isn't surprising that some philosophers (or pseudo-philosophers) are contributing to that propaganda, just as pseudo-scientists are supporting the government in its war against science (e.g. Neil DeGrasse Tyson and Bill Nye "The Science Guy" stumping for genetically modified food). In summary, you asked a question that includes the word "or," and the short answer appears to be YES, there are indeed philosophical figures who are "debating" 9/11. 

My view would be that there is certainly a close connection between 'Eastern' thought and early 'Western' thought. This is clear from our inability to separate the two before a certain period. I would see Socrates (from what we know of him) as endorsing Buddhist teachings (roughly-speaking) but it would not follow that he knew of them. It would not be necessary to know Buddhist teachings to conclude that they are correct. I can vouch for this. Whether he knew them or not his teachings are usually bang in line with them. (So are those of Lao Tsu, say, and he definitely did not know them). Heidegger blames the Greeks after Socrates for the loss of the idea of Unity from philosophy and this seems a justifiable idea. For me the natural successors of Socrates were Parmenides, Heraclitus and Zeno, not Plato or Aristotle and certainly not Democritus. This may be reflected in the common idea that that Western' philosophical thought begins with Plato and scientific thought with Democritus. It seems perfectly possible that Socrates knew something of Indian religion and it would have been odd if he did not. We cannot know his philosophy since we are dependent on Plato for information which is sketchy and untrustworthy but I would disagree with the idea that he is one of the fathers of western thought and prefer Heidegger's assessment. This is not based only on S's ideas about immortality, of which we have only a vague idea, but on his ethics, epistemology and general approach to the issues. 

Jean-Paul Sartre described the Latin revolutionary Che Guevara as "the most complete human being of our age." What did "complete" mean in Sartre's philosophical belief system? Or was he simply speaking in layman's terms, effectively saying "Che Guevara is cool"? I understand Sartre was a political activist, so he may have felt a bond with Guevara outside of his philosophical beliefs. 

(It's Official: Fish Feel Pain) Are you aware of any philosophers who have applied this rationale to people? Many people have very poor reasoning skills, and there may also be a technological/cultural gap. For example, no one could have expected Native Americans or Australian Aborigines to understand the people who invaded their lands. Of course, we don't expect children to have strong or mature reasoning skills. In summary, humans are generally treated as different than other animals because we are supposedly alone in having consciousness and/or reasoning skills. Yet not all people have good reasoning skills. It's hard to put this into a question form, so let's go with this: What are some major philosophers or philosophical doctrines that treat humans and other animals similarly? Buddhism is an obvious example, but I'm particularly interested in knowing about notable Western philosophers who have come to similar conclusions. 

I would endorse Schopenhauer's explanation. John Mathews writes: "In the Foundation of Morality, Schopenhauer asks the question: How is it that a human being can so participate in the pain and danger of another that, forgetting his own self-protection, he moves spontaneously to the other’s rescue? How is it that what we think of as the first law of nature - self-protection - is suddenly dissolved and another law asserts itself spontaneously? Schopenhauer answers: this is the breakthrough of a metaphysical truth - that you and other are one, and that separateness is a secondary effect of the way our minds experience the world in the frame of time and space. At the metaphysical level, we are all manifestations of that consciousness and energy which is the consciousness and energy of life. This is Schopenhauer: “The experience that dissolves the distinction between the I and the Not I … underlies the mystery of compassion, and stands, in fact, for the reality of which compassion is the prime expression. That experience, therefore, must be the metaphysical ground of ethics and consist simply in this: that one individual should recognise in another, himself in his own true being … Which is the recognition for which the basic formula is the standard Sanskrit expression, ‘Thou art that’, tat tvam asi.” John Mathews Joseph Campbell and the Grail Myth in At the Table of the Grail, Ed. John Mathews Note that this does not propose pure altruism. It proposes that is NEVER not in our own interest to help someone else or care for another sentient being. As ever for the Perennial view when it comes to distinctions, the distinction between altruism and selfishness is transcended. Altruism would be indistinguishable from selfishness for someone who is aware that all sentient being share the same identity. 

If you exercise free will in a deterministic universe, you will probably be better off than a person who is apathetic or blindly obedient to the status quo. We might argue that such a person is destined to succeed. If you do NOT exercise free will in a deterministic universe, you are destined to fail. If you exercise free will in a random universe (is that the correct term for non-deterministic universe?), then you CHOSE to succeed. If you do NOT exercise free will in a random universe, then you chose to fail. 

I may have answered my own question... I was going to edit my post again, adding the phrase "shooting the messenger" to make it a little more familiar. I then typed "shooting the messenger" + fallacy into Google and followed one of the top hits (Shooting the messenger) to an article that says, 

I think it pretty much boils down to the fact that many people believe that humans have a soul and other animals don't. There's also the problem of deciding how a terminally ill person (or one who simply wants to be released from suffering) should be dispatched and who should make that decision. I almost forgot to mention the most important player: the state. I think it's safe to say that most governments believe the power to take a person's life is the state's, not an individual's. War and capital punishment are state functions, and euthanasia generally is as well (though medical institutions can make some decisions regarding the latter). On a personal note, I agree with you. I would never want to be kept alive on life support. P.S. Yikes, I forgot yet another thing...the damage suicide especially can cause to friends and loved ones. Some describe suicide as a supremely selfish act for that very reason, though I would argue that denying one the ability to commit suicide - or criticizing those who have done so - can also be selfish. Still, suicide is something that should ideally not be done in haste. 

It's hopeless trying to sort these things out within Christianity since, as famously noted by Whitehead, it has no widely agreed metaphysical foundation and thus has limited means for settling disputes. Which Christianity are you studying? If it is one for which significant doctrines and teachings have changed over time I'd view it with great suspicion. If you are interested in the Christianity of The Mystical Theology, A Course in Miracles or The Gospel of Thomas then these teachings never change and are in accord with what the mystics call 'True Religion' thus with Buddhism, Taoism, Sufism and so forth. The metaphysics of this religion are well explained and this allows us to derive judgements on issues such as LGBT and euthanasia. The modes and methods of religious teaching must change along with society, language and culture but a plausible religion cannot change its doctrine at a structural level. If you examine the perennial philosophy, which as the name suggests never changes and never will, and examine the interpretation necessary to bring Christian teachings into line with it then the parallels might convince you that this is the correct interpretation. This is a common experience for many people. I feel you should most definitely interpret the Bible in your own way but only after you have reviewed the most common interpretations and are able to make a well-informed judgement. Given the variety of current interpretations you're unlikely to decide there's a need for another one but each person has to decide for themselves which of those that exist is most sensible and plausible. The Roman Church does not have a monopoly on interpretation and some would say it endorses the wrong one. Examining the options would be a serious responsibility for a would-be Christian and getting it wrong would mean misunderstanding Jesus and developing an groundless set of beliefs. Best to treat interpretation as a work in progress and not set anything in stone until you feel strongly confident you're on the right track. It seems sensible to stipulate that any interpretation should stand-up in metaphysics and if you take this view it will be a great help to you in identifying unworkable interpretations. 

Life itself is subjective. For example, in the political arena, there are people who believe in capitalism and others who believe in socialism, as well as those who believe in something in between. It's virtually impossible to say that one particular economic theory/philosophy is right and all the others are wrong. But if we reject all economic philosophies, then we're left with nothing. We might further argue that certain economic systems work better in some situations than others. In this spirit, subjectivity gives us the flexibility to adapt to diverse problems. 

One major flaw with this scheme is that it doesn't account for ethics. An unethical person could exercise free will in exploiting or torturing people or waging war. Looking at it from another perspective, we might say the problem lies with how we define "succeed." Some might define success as victory on the battlefield. It has also been argued that Pascal's Wager encourages sloppy thinking. Why try to prove or disprove something if you can instead cover your bets by simply believing? Yet the question of determinism almost forces us to make one of two choices. Doesn't it make sense to make what most people would probably consider the better choice? Pascal's Wager also erred in focusing on the Christian God, when the dead could just as well be judged by a Hindu god - or a panel of gods. Again, this variation limits us to just two choices, determinism vs free will. Aside from the problems mentioned above, do you think this variation of Pascal's Wager is an improvement? In particular, are all the fallacies inherent in Pascal's Wager also inherent in this variation? Can you see any other fallacies? 

Buddha in Brahmajāla Sutta didn't say there there is four alternatives about World's finiteness, he says that some recluses and brahmins have have such and such opinions. Difference is, that Buddha describes other's opinions, and not stating his opinion. In this tetralemma position is nothing particularly Buddhist, this is just Indian logic at the time (see Catuskoti). Why it's fourfold and not twofold (as is usual in A and ~A). Because, it is logic of natural language and not formal logic. In formal logic we have rule of identity to be also represented in language, so we can state that what is written as A is always meant as A (and vice versa), so there is only ~A possible as alternative (in formal writings). In natural language, we don't have such important convention, so it is possible to write that thing is A (in some sense), and in same time not A (in other sense), where sense of such writing should be derived implicitly. Non-formal writing would look contradictory if we miss context (i.e. if we misinterpret it). As a consequence, there is four alternatives instead of two to cover all possible 'syntax'. 

Good question. The 'empirical' answer seems to be no, since there would be no way to know what lies outside of our experience. But there is a subtlety in the question, which is the meaning of 'our experience'. Analysis shows that the only certain knowledge is knowledge by identity. We can know what we are, being identical with our knowledge. But those who seek to discover what they are regularly come back to say that our experiences are some sort of illusion. They say that when we discover who and what we are we realise that we transcend time and space and thus even experiences. Experience require an experiencer and an experience, and they say that these two must be reduced for an ultimate view. Thus the Upanishads ask 'Who is there to understand the understander?'. Likewise, who is there to know the knower, or experience the experiencer? They also say that there is nothing to seek outside of the present moment, that everything we could ever need is available right here and now. But we humans like messing about in time and space and our potential to transcend this life and death lies buried underneath our monkey-minds. You'd probably be wrong to say that every concept we have of reality is an experience although not entirely. For sensory experience our theory-laden system invents much of it. We judge it pleasurable, painful, etc., but these are not experiences in the present moment. In the present moment there is not enough time to have an experience. We think we experience time passing but this is just memories and anticipations. We do not actually experience it passing. You ask, 'Is there any definition of truth which doesn't rely on the definition of reality? If you say that truth is something you know to be true then no definition of reality is required. However, a knowledge of reality would definitely be required. As that knowledge could only be acquired by identity what we seek must be in the present moment and it must be identity with reality. Hence Yoga is the 'art of union with Reality', and lot of emphasis is placed on paying attention right here and now. F 

Why it does not permit so? Just assume electron can have both positions and voila, it's permitted. Logic does not say that if electron have position A it can not have position B (it does not know anything about electrons). It's you saying that. If we put not valid propositions into logical inference it will produce not valid conclusion. It is not guilt of logic, because logic is method for avoiding mistakes in inference. Logic warns you to take correct propositions before inferring, so, if you put object which can have two positions and then assume it could have only one, this is your fault, not of classical logic. If you can not construct mental object for which A=A is true, you can not put it into logical inference, because you breaking identity rule. Logic can not infer anything you would wish, it can only infer some valid things if you obey it's rules. Logic also does not vary. Why there is multiple Logics then? Because this is multiple formalizations of logic and not (variance) of logic itself. And finally, if A is bigger than B and B is bigger than C, is A bigger than C? When you know this is it empirical to you? 

Here is Tobias Dantzig, one of Einstein’s favourite mathematicians. "Herein I see the genesis of the conflict between geometrical intuition, from which our physical concepts derive, and the logic of arithmetic. The harmony of the universe knows only one musical form – the legato; while the symphony of numbers knows only its opposite, – the staccato. All attempts to reconcile this discrepancy are based on the hope that an accelerated staccato may appear to our senses as legato. Yet our intellect will always brand such attempts as deceptions and reject such theories as an insult, as a metaphysics that purports to explain away a concept by resolving it into its opposite." He goes on... "The axiom of Dedekind – “if all points of a straight line fall into two classes, such that every point of the first class lies to the left of any point of the second class, then there exists one and only one point which produces this division of all points into two classes, this severing of the straight line into two portions” – this axiom is just a skilful paraphrase of the fundamental property we attribute to time. Our intuition permits us, by an act of the mind, to sever all time into the two classes, the past and the future, which are mutually exclusive and yet together comprise all of time, eternity: The now is the partition which separates all the past from all the future; any instant of the past was once a now, any instant of the future will be a now anon, and so any instant may itself act as such a partition. To be sure, of the past we know only disparate instants, yet, by an act of the mind we fill out the gaps; we conceive that between any two instants – no matter how closely these may be associated in our memory – there were other instants, and we postulate the same compactness for the future. This is what we mean by the flow of time. Furthermore, paradoxical though this may seem, the present is truly irrational in the Dedekind sense of the word, for while it acts as partition it is neither a part of the past nor a part of the future. Indeed, in an arithmetic based on pure time, if such an arithmetic was at all possible, it is the irrational which would be taken as a matter of course, while all the painstaking efforts of our logic would be directed toward establishing the existence of rational numbers." These words come from the second reference here, all three being worth reading on this topic. Bell, John L, ‘Hermann Weyl on intuition and the continuum’. $URL$ Dantzig, Tobias, Number – The Language of Science, (Pearson Education 2005 (1930) Weyl, Hermann, The Continuum: A Critical Examination of the Foundations of Analysis, Dover (1987)