It doesn't seem like this matters, since the company president did communicate with the owners on your behalf. Whether or not your colleagues are complaining doesn't really matter. You already have the company president on your side. Try to be understanding and patient as long as the owners are being responsive to your complaints and seem to be honestly working towards a solution. If you find yourself (meaning both you and your company) going through this cycle multiple times, then it's up to you and your management to decide whether to pursue legal action (in many countries, landlords have a legal obligation to maintain their leased properties), or consider finding a new office space. If at some point your management stops advocating for your health and safety, then the entire situation changes. Right now, it's basically a landlord vs. tenant issue since you and your higher management are on the same page. If that stops being the case, then it's you vs your management and that's an entirely different question that I'm not going to attempt to address here. 

First Step Before making this decision, consider talking to your point-of-contact at the company you signed the contract with. They may be willing to let you out of the contract. Respectfully communicating your desires upfront may make this a non-issue. If that doesn't work... If they let you out of the contract, great! If not, then you'll have to consider the potential effects: 

You're currently on your second trip through this, stuck on step 2 - the latest "fix" isn't complete yet. I don't think there's much else for you to do at this point. If the building owners are currently in the process of having their maintenance people look at it, then you just have to wait and see if it actually gets resolved. In the meantime, you could also ask your manager if he/she would be okay with you working remotely, if possible for your line of work, or at least temporarily moving to a less affected area of the office. You noted: 

You report problem Owner "fixes" it You confirm that it was effective If the problem really is fixed, thank the building owners for their help. If not, return to step 1. 

My team recently hired a couple of interns, and I was the point-of-contact for the hiring process. I made the unfortunate decision to include my work e-mail address when posting the opening to my alma mater's job boards. The positions are closed, but I am now receiving random e-mails from students asking if there are any openings. I don't particularly want to receive any more e-mails when there is no job opening, and our company has a jobs site where current openings can be viewed (which is where they should be looking). I don't want to be rude to the job seekers, because: 

I know it is a tough spot to be in, because I have been there too. Unfortunately I think you're stuck there for now, and that the best way forward is to leave it off so you can explain it in person when asked. When compelled to provide it on an application, be upfront about it. If you can write a killer cover letter, you may be able to overcome it sooner than you expect. 

This early in your college career, I would suggest simply leaving off the GPA. If you are required to provide it (as part of an online job/internship application, for example), I would stick with the cumulative GPA, without rounding up. I know it doesn't look as good, but it doesn't look as bad as being misleading, and if I were a recruiter, that's what I would consider both of your "make it look better" options to be: 

Your school's job placement office is a good start, although your comment indicates that they may not be helpful, so this may not apply. Don't forget to check with your major's department as well. Many universities and departments within those university have separate job services. Careers sections of the websites for companies your interested in. You might as well start here, because they will be easy to write cover letters for if you have a genuine interest in the company. It also makes it easy to answer the popular interview question, "Why do you want to work here?" Career fairs, whether they're put on by your school or local community. Other local resources - chamber of commerce, city job placement services, local business groups and industry trade groups. Job placement resources for any honor societies you may belong to. Lastly, cast a very wide net - online sources. Try to stick with the ones that focus on your profession, if they're available. If not, go as broad as you can with jobs like careerbuilder.com, indeed.com, or monster.com. I would suggest you only apply to positions you're interested in, and not just post your resume and contact info on those sites - when I did that, I got bombarded with job listings that were completely unrelated to my field and skillset. 

Getting Hired Unfortunately, there's no shortcut. You're facing the same issues that every college graduate faces when they first start looking for work or internships. The normal advice for job hunting applies: 

One note first: it seems like your question title and the question body don't quite match up. The title asks how to find internships, while the question body is asking how to actually get hired for them. I'll address both. Finding The Internships Try these places (I have put them in my preference order, but you should be doing all of them at once): 

You are correct that references should not be on a resume; keeping them in a separate document is correct. Contact the company and ask them how they would like to receive them. They should be able to point you to the correct online dropbox, an e-mail address, or some other place to submit them. Within the online application site, there should be a "Contact Us" or "Help" button that you can use to talk to the right person. If this doesn't exist, look for an "About Us" or "Corporate Info" link at the bottom of the page and start by calling the company's general number, and ask for human resources. 

TL;DR Is it reasonable to condense a series of short and very similar jobs into one entry on a resume? Details I am now in graduate school, and would like to make room on my resume for some recent (awesome) academic projects. I have four different internships on my resume from my undergraduate years that are very relevant to my current work search, but that had very similar projects. Would it be reasonable to condense them into one entry to save some space? I'm thinking something like this: 

Press for Specifics Next time you discuss it with your manager, ask for the specific reason(s) he thinks you don't meet the criteria or that he doesn't seem willing to approve the transfer. If he provides some details, then that can be the start of a more meaningful discussion about creating a plan to meet his requirements to approve the transfer. If this is unsuccessful, check other company resources: HR, or possibly the next level of management if you're willing to risk creating more tension between you and your manager (which may make both the internal transfer and having him as a future reference more difficult). Move On If those are unsuccessful, you may not have much recourse besides polishing up your resume and seeking work elsewhere. 

I wouldn't necessarily go straight to HR with this yet. I would follow up with your boss and try to work with him to create a standard rubric or guideline for assigning performance rankings. It sounds like they're arbitrary right now. If he is unwilling to do so, then consider going to HR. Throughout the process, try to emphasize that you're pursuing this so that you can learn how to improve, not just for the sake of a better "ranking." 

This is something that could be fairly easily resolved by just talking to your immediate supervisor about it. If he says he doesn't want you working on other people's tasks, then you can tell them no without guilt. If he says that's fine, then you can work on them without feeling awkward when your supervisor walks past and sees you working on them. Find out what your supervisor wants you to spend your time on, and do that. 

First step: make sure that "personal interests" is an approved internal transfer reason, according to HR and company policy. Just because you think you've met the criteria doesn't mean that you have in the eyes of your management. If you can get confirmation from HR (or even the same manager) that your transfer reason meets company standards, you have only a couple of options: 

I remember being in their shoes and feeling somewhat desperate for a job. I was the one that stupidly put my contact info out there where students could get it. 

I would only include it if it's relevant to the position you're applying for, especially since you are at a low level for two out of three of the languages. Most employers will be looking for more common terms (beginner, intermediate, proficient, etc). If you want to highlight your language skills for a position that does not request the certification levels, it is best to stick with these general descriptions. 

Rounding Up As mentioned in the comments, rounding up from 2.XX to 3.XX represents a whole grade letter higher, on average. That is much more significant than the two-hundredths of a point really is, but that's how people interpret GPA numbers. Use Major GPA You only have four credits in your major. That is hardly representative of your academic abilities, or broader abilities in the field. It just isn't enough to base a judgment on, and I think it would be quickly identified as the attempt to boost your "stats" that it is. Bumping your GPA from 2.98 to 3.0 has a greater impact than someone rounding from 3.38 to 3.4, and this may get your application tossed. 

No matter what you decide, make sure your desires are clearly understood, in as positive a way as possible. Make it known that you are willing to stay in your current position for a while to train your replacement and properly hand off your duties. 

Though this may be difficult, I would suggest you not focus on his criminal background. It was your company's decision to give a convicted criminal a "second chance," not yours. What you can do, however, is focus on the inappropriate comments he's made. The "fruit salad" and "nice little nose" comments are clearly inappropriate. I see a few options immediately available to you: 

You should definitely go. It demonstrates a strong interest in the company. If you run into anyone there that ends up interviewing you, then that means you get two opportunities to leave a good impression. This is an opportunity! Treat the visit as if it were the interview (dress appropriately, etc). It's also an opportunity for you to gather some information that can lead to good questions to ask in the interview. "Creepy" interviewee behavior would be contacting employees outside of official channels (social media or in person off company property) or calling/e-mailing too often. These kinds of "open" days are invitations for the public to learn about what the company does. For now, you are part of the public, so the invitation includes you. I don't know of any managers that would look negatively on someone who attended before an interview. Lastly, it gives you an opportunity to learn about the company from people other than your interviewers. When you're considering where to spend 1/3 (or more) of every workday, it helps to get multiple perspectives on the candidate companies. You may even learn something about the company that makes you think it's not where you want to work that wouldn't have been mentioned in the interview. 

Contractual Find out what you're on the hook for if you break the contract. Were there signing perks you have already received and will need to return? Will you be barred from future employment at that company? Any other gotchas? Look over the contract terms carefully and seek input from a lawyer if necessary. Other If the technology industry in your area is anything like the area I live in, a lot of people from different companies know (and have worked with) each other. There is a chance that future potential employers may find out about the broken contract while researching you as a candidate. If it does, it would certainly reflect poorly on you. However, if you don't follow through with the contract, then the company won't be on your resume, so potential future employers would likely have to have a personal connection with the company to even know what happened. Also, the negativity may be offset by the shiny publication you get to brag about. 

Consider Giving it More Time In my experience, it certainly can take a couple of months to really settle into a job. The work you're doing now may be giving you good background experience that will be required for the job you were hired for, or your supervisors may be starting you with slightly different work and evaluating your performance. I would give it a couple of months before escalating your concerns further. If There's Still No Change It's good that you've spoken to your supervisors this early. They should definitely be the first stop for something like this. If nothing changes in the near future, they should be the first ones you talk to then also. If your company is large enough to have an HR department, you could also make a stop there and talk to them about it to. No matter who you're speaking to about this, make sure you have very clear descriptions of the job you were expecting and of what the job currently entails. If you can find it, consider taking a copy of the original job posting with its description into these meetings so you can substantiate your claims. Unfortunately, if neither of these outlets resolves your concerns, it may be time to start a new job search. I know that leaving a job after only a few months may reflect poorly, but in interviews you should be able to explain that the job wasn't what you expected without it being held against you. Just try to keep a positive spin on it. Emphasize good points of the job and lessons you learned from it. You can also use it as a way to start a discussion of exactly what you are looking for to try to prevent it from happening again. Other Complaints Regarding the unfair work distribution, that is an entirely separate issue that should be handled separately. Try to leave that out of the conversations about the types of duties you're being assigned.