In your position, i would launch performances measurements with the windows tool performances monitor You will be able to see what process use yours disks and/or use your network ressources. You can launch a test just after a reboot and during a long time. I always record performances measures during several weeks. EDIT : If you can, you would launch the perfmon during the high latencies events. Because, if you launch before and if the responsible process is not yet started, it will not be loggued in the counters. others questions : 

is the version of snmp the community the output options By default, snmpwalk return the result of the system MIB. 

Apache's mod_roxy is for proxying HTTP traffic, you're not going to get VPN traffic over it. If you need to set up a VPN to an external VPN server, you're going to have to setup a gateway to route the traffic out from the private network to the external world. It might be possible to get the box that's doing the proxying to also act as a gateway. 

Actually, in this case since you're just moving the domain registration, I'd recommend against following the usual advice of lowering the TTL. If you're going to keep the email and apps pointed at Google, raise the TTL to as high as possible! If you can put it at 259200 (three days) or more! Any decent registry should be capable of putting the records on their NS servers more or less immediately, so downtime should be minimal. The claimed downtime of 48 hours is ridiculous. 

I have a Windows server running for development and I noticed that on my local machine which uses the local network to communicate to the server I get non-detailed error messages from IIS. For example, when my ColdFusion server throws an error, I get the standard IIS 500 error. I figured out how to enable showing detailed errors, but that shows detailed errors for all clients. Is it possible to only enable details errors for a single subnet (192.168.34.0/24) and show the non-detailed errors for any other client? 

I need to migrate a bunch of data from an Access database to a MySQL server. I wrote a migration in ColdFusion, but when I went to create the ODBC connection on the CF Administrator, I got an error. The exact error is: 

This will find all files in the public_html directory and change the permissions to 644 which is a lot safer than 777 on a shared system!! If the above command throws an error, replace the + with \; 

You can get Apache to pipe the custom log to a script. So for example, change the CustomLog entry in the vhost to: 

Why do they have to authenticate with their own server? Give them each a user and pass for authenticating against the Postfix server doing the proxy and let that act as the outbound relay? 

My own personal preference would be ipsec or Openvpn VPNs, but this might be overkill. OpenVPN tends to be easier to deploy, and works on every version of Windows that I've ever tried. 

For dumping the memory of a process, you can try via the task manager with a right click on your process and Full memory Dump Moreover, if it always fails, you can do a dump of all your RAM. For that, you can use DumpIt, I regulary use it and it never fails. But, the size of the dump will be the size of your RAM. You will be able to work on it with volatility or other debugger 

So you can export this key, edit it and apply yours modifications. When you are ready, you can plan a scheluded task which will run a last robocopy and import yours new keys the sunday. Like this, the next monday, you will have yours files up to date with corrects share and NTFS permissions. 

There is a command line component to wireshark called tshark which would do what you need. There's better instruction available here. Unfortunately, endpoints seem to be only available in the GUI. Another alternative might be to use X Forwarding to run Wireshark at the far side and forward the GUI to your local desktop. Without knowing what OS you're using on your desktop, I don't know how possible this will be. UPDATE: More detail added as per comment request. 

You need to lookup SPF records as these allow you to specify what hosts are allowed to send mail on your behalf. In this case you need something like the following added as a TXT record on your domain: 

I was able to fix the problem by adding to my my.cnf file. I hadn't tried that before, because I didn't see it setting the format there, but when I added it near all of the other binlog settings and restarted the service, it worked. 

I have a MySQL server running on Amazon EC2 in a VPC instance. I had to change the instance type of it to handle load and when I brought it back up, the socket didn't exist anymore. The file /var/run/mysqld/mysqld.sock doesn't exist and nor does the directory. I have no idea where it went, but it is just gone. So is there a way to fix that? If so how? The server is running Ubuntu 10.04. 

The easiest way to complete this would probably be to direct the MX record at the Linux server and have it forward the mail for the users in question onto the Exchange server. This can be done either using an .forward in the user's home, or in /etc/aliases if the user doesn't need to exist on the system. For this to work, you need to have the Exchange server listening for an alternative domain, for example user@exchange.company.com or user@company.local. There's other ways to do it was well, for example putting a smart smtp proxy server in front of both, but that will just add to the complexity. 

When I tried to create the ODBC connection in the Windows ODBC management tool, I found that I didn't have the driver. I assume that the driver not being there is the root cause for the CF Admin error. I am running Windows Server 2008 R2 x64, and I was wondering if anyone could point me to the ODBC driver for Windows? 

I have multiple VMs that often times run at the same time. The two most common are a Windows 2008 server and an Ubuntu server. The reason is for developing open source applications that can be expected to run in both. When I boot my Windows VM, it being Windows, slows my system to a crawl when I have to do something in both my VM and my host Mac. I know that part of this is RAM usage. The server has around 2GB of RAM and my Mac has 8GB, but I was wondering if processor could be part of it. Currently I have a 64bit version of 2008 installed in the VM and I was wondering if I could install the 32bit version and get better performance when I need to perform operations on both systems? Edit: Looks like it was actually Firefox that was wrecking my system. Switched to using Chrome and everything runs fine even at VM startup and shutdown. Awarded answer to Rig because he offered the best advice and the answer to my actual question 

Sheer speed probably isn't the only thing you should be looking for. It's very possible that your ISP will show as better if you're testing from a connection on the ISP's network, where as your Hosting provider might have multiple servers local to various exchanges that would make their DNS servers faster over all! Are the DNS servers in different separate network segments? Are they using technologies like Anycast/Heartbeat to ensure redundancy? What's the management interface like? What kind of monitoring do they have? It's relatively easy to set-up DNS servers like Bind, NSD, PowerDNS etc. these days to be very fast on benchmarks like given by Madboy, but there's lots of other factors to consider as well.