John Wells' Lexical Sets define a FOOT vowel /ʊ/ for words like 〈full〉, 〈look〉 and 〈could〉, and a STRUT vowel /ʌ/ for words like 〈cub〉, 〈rub〉 and 〈hum〉. However, I am from the North of England and do not have the FOOT-STRUT split and am having a hard time identifying and hearing the difference for words in each group. I can look up each word in a dictionary to find that e.g. 〈hundred〉 has the STRUT vowel, however I want to be able to identify the STRUT vowel when people are speaking it (e.g. on recordings of Public Domain books on LibriVox, or on TV). According to Geoff Lindsey, in Standard British English the STRUT vowel is actually [ə]. In his blog post on the STRUT vowel, he notes that old RP speakers (esp. Queen Elizabeth) use [ɐ] for the STRUT vowel. I can recognise the difference in the more pronounced examples, but not generally. Lindsey transcribes 〈governing〉 pronounced by Kasia Madera as [ˈgəvnɪŋ] and 〈up to〉 as [əp tə] on his STRUT vowel page. Here, I can recognise the [tə] in 〈to〉 but am having difficulty identifying the STRUT vowels as [ə]. Is this because they are actually shifted slightly toward the [ʊ] vowel and thus harder to identify as [ə] (e.g. when comparing COMMA and STRUT vowel pronunciations), or is it my brain being trained to think that 〈up〉 is pronounced [ʊp] so does not hear the [ə] as a [ə]? For the TRAP-BATH split I can identify when people exhibit this and use [ɑː] for BATH. Is this because the FOOT and STRUT vowels are closer together than TRAP and BATH, thus making the difference less noticeable? Is it because there isn't any (or marginal) free variation/difference in the BATH vowel sound, making it clearer and more consistent? How can I learn to recognise where people are using the STRUT vowel? 

Ranging position. The syllable. This number tells you how often this syllable can be heard when one million words are spoken (which means, that frequent words are repeated many times and therefore theirs syllables are counted more often) Take a dictionary of all German words, where flexions of the same lexeme are distinct words (run, runs, ran and running would be listed as four different words). Count how often the syllable appears in this dictionary (the dictionary itself contains 365.530 different German words.) 

Addendum 2 (March 2018) I think I better tell you the context. (What do I want to do with this list?) I am writing a fantasy story. There was a small group of aliens traveling through space, and they got lost. They had technical problems and they stranded on a planet that turned out to be our planet earth. This happened thousands of years ago, and all humans on earth are descendants form this small group, and all languages spoken on earth today derived form the language of this small group of invaders. I want to construct a language, that could be the proto-language of the first humans on earth. My second goal is to make this language as easy to be pronounced by everybody on this planet, as possible. I want that people from China find it as easy to pronounce as people from Saudi Arabia, from Russia, from the USA, from Namibia, and so on. I think that i don't need a set of common phonemes to combine, but a set of very common syllables, because even wide spread phonemes can be hard to be pronounced, when you use unusual combinations. I want to try to build an artlang that is made of common syllables, and this is why I am looking for the most frequent spoken syllables on earth. btw: When two syllables are similar, I want to count them as identical. For example the english words "I, eye, ay, aye" and the German "Ei" are all the same syllable (/aɪ/). 

It is not really any given language that is hard to translate. The problem is contextual words or phrases that mean different things (either in English or in the language being spoken). This includes colloquial phrases, cultural differences (e.g. the boot or trunk of a car). There are also domain specific differences (e.g. "International Phonetic Alphabet" in linguistics and the navy). Consider the phrases: 

Another factor is whether it uses specialist words in a given domain (including archaic words), or meanings for the words. The more of these there are, and the more obscure outside the given field they are (e.g. electricity vs quantum chromodynamics), the more complex the sentence is to understand. The same goes for abbreviations, slang, accentisms ("Aye, tha' be t'one ah war lookin' fer."), or even pulling in words from other languages ("That is no bueno."). Another factor is whether the sentence uses non-standard word ordering, either for poetic effect or for something like Yoda speak ("Go, you must."). Another factor is if the sentence uses the incorrect form of a word (its vs it's) or the wrong homophone (their vs they're vs there) or the wrong word (e.g. via spell checkers or predictive texting for technical or uncommon terms). Another factor is mixing or using a different spelling (British English, American English, text/SMS, leet (e.g. l33t), archaic, ...) to what the reader is used to. 

One approach would be to look at the volume (amplitude) of the audio signal at each point in time. If the signal falls below some configured level (accounting for any noise in the recording), treat it as silence. Then, if the silence occurs for at least a configured duration (e.g. 10ms) mark it as actual silence with the start and end times. That will not give you the start/end of each sentence, but of each utterance (i.e. when the speaker decided to pause). This will tend to correlate to phrase-terminal (comma, etc.) and sentence-terminal (full stop, etc.), but not necessarily. For example, a speaker may pause before a conjunction ("and", etc.). To provide better results, you need to perform full speech recognition on the audio with the text as a reference to match against. A simplistic approach here would be to match a few words around the sentence terminal, but you need to be careful to avoid word sets that could occur within the sentence itself. Speech recognition is complex, and is harder to do when you don't know what is being said. This is because of accent differences, like the don-dawn merger in some American English acccents, suprasegmental features changing phonemes between words such as with the linked r sound (e.g. in "China and Taiwan"), and changes due to normal/informal speech. Due to these problems, knowing what text is meant to be spoken can be used as a hint to the speech recognising algorithm to help guide its internal models (e.g. recognising 'atom' instead of 'Adam' for an American English speaker). This is still complex, because speakers may rephrase parts of the text, repeat some words or phrases, or introduce words such as 'er' and 'um'. I don't know what software is available to provide the above functionality. 

If you already know X-SAMPA, you could use my X-SAMPA ↔ IPA Converter. There, you can type in X-SAMPA, then convert to IPA. For example, if you type , and press , it yields . 

Human speech is noisy, and speech recognition must be able to find patterns in the noise. Phones have a series of articulatory attributes: places and manners of articulation, tongue shape, etc.; which cause voice resonance and distortion. All of those variables are continuous, and a continuous change in one of these parameters produces a continuous change in the produced phone. There's a spectrum of sounds between [a] and [i], for example. Different languages make different distinctions between sounds, and some attributes are more important than others. For example, the distinction between voiced stops and voiced fricatives is significant in English but not in Spanish; similarly, the distinction between plain and aspirated among voiceless stops is significant in Hindi but not in English. So yes, it's a subjective distinction. Also, not every English speaker pronounces yes and no the same way. There's a general pattern that makes a yes or no word recognizable, and a system could be trained to recognize these distinctions. On its most basic form, you only need to be able to recognize "yes" and "no" from everything else, including ambient noise and other words. In fact, this might be a much easier problem to solve than a general speech recognition system, since you don't need to tell "no" from "know" (a context-dependent distinction) or lone "yes" from "YESterday". You still need to be able to recognize the "yes" and "no" said speakers other than yourself, and that will require training your system with a decent amount of speech recordings. 

Here, the number of vowel sounds (syllabic or not) in the last two examples does not match the syllable split. A () has been inserted between two of the consonants. Does this pronunciation pattern change the syllabification rules to align with the number of spoken vowel/syllabic consonant sounds, or is it more a pattern of speech to smooth over adjacent consonants that do not flow easily together (e.g. the pair in )? With , should this be considered a prefix like , and others are, and be considered a syllable on its own -- that is, should it follow the syllable pattern of ? If should be considered a syllable, is the the nucleus? If so, does that make the phoneme syllabic? 

$URL$ -- Using Speech Synthesis to give Everyone their own Voice) -- This gives a high-level overview of the different techniques. $URL$ -- Speech Synthesis by Kim Silverman -- Note that he gives some inaccurate information (e.g. he criticizes a pronunciation dictionary for having different phonemes for the comma and roses[1]). $URL$ -- "Electronics - Digital Voice and Picture Communication" (NPTEL) -- This has various videos on Linear Predictive Coding. 

Look at the associated references (e.g. in the Klatt program and the Festival documentation). These reference the different papers published on different text-to-speech topics. [1] John Wells' Lexical Sets only has a commma set. The roses lexical set is needed to differentiate accents where <-es> is pronounced as '[əz]' or '[ɪz]' in sibilant fricative contexts, and <-ed> is pronounced as '[əd]' or '[ɪd]'. 

However, র BENGALI LETTER RA doesn't appear in Unicode as precomposed with NUKTA, as RRA, RHA and YYA are. It could be that RA and ব BENGALI LETTER BA are independent letters. Edit: This table shows the evolution of the Bengali script since the 11th century. 

That “dot” symbol is called BENGALI SIGN NUKTA (U+09BC) in Unicode, and is used “for extending the alphabet to new letters”. Other Indic scripts also have nukta signs for the same purpose. The following are examples of its use. The last three are precomposed characters in Unicode. I'm using Unicode names. 

Nasals consonants are occlusives, just like oral stops; this means that in both cases there's no air escape through the mouth. When it comes to ordering pulmonic consonant sounds by manner of articulation, it makes sense that similar manners of articulation appear close to each other in the table. Also, the possible places of articulation in stops and nasals are almost the same (apart from the epiglottal and glottal stops, which have no nasal counterpart). By that logic, fricatives are put next to approximants, flaps/taps next to trills, and laterals are also grouped together. 

This is implemented using language files. To support a new language, you won't need to update your code, just add a new language file. For example, The DHTML Calendar has a set of language files already available, published under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License. For example, Calendar._SDN has the following values: 

I found a copy of the PDF available for download by selecting the Download tab and passing the CAPTCHA. It's probably a widely pirated English lesson from koolearn, which other websites copied and pasted without taking care of the IPA symbols. The following is the full mapping. There are other symbols between brackets but they appear as is in the PDF, not mapped by the braindead font. 

There are various aspects of disordered speech that cannot be expressed using IPA 2005. This is why, e.g. the ExtIPA chart was constructed. This covers things like: 

Imperative programming languages perform the instructions in the order you specify. Procedural languages (e.g. C) are imperative languages that allow you to group instructions into named blocks called functions or procedures. Object orientated languages like C++, Java and Python extend procedural languages with additional features. Prolog works in a completely different way to imperative languages. With prolog, you define facts, e.g. . You can also define rules that infer things from other things (i.e. define relationships). These then allow you to perform queries on an input given the facts and rules in the system. A use case for Prolog in computational linguistics would be in constructing syntax trees from a given sentence. The facts would be the part of speech classification for each word, and the rules would be how the parts of speech group together in syntax tree constructs (e.g. noun phrases). Prolog (and related languages) are popular for a type of AI approach called an expert system (of which the syntax tree construction above is an example). Expert systems have been applied to different domains, e.g. medical diagnostics, to varying degrees of success. The reason why languages like Prolog are popular for writing expert systems is that they are specifically constructed for writing expert systems, so you don't have to write a lot of boilerplate or repeated code as you would in another programming language. In computer science, this is an example of a domain-specific language -- kind of like how different fields define their own words and their own terminology for things. 

I'm not interested in the 4th column. English: $URL$ This list has only 3 columns, where #1 and #2 are identical with the first two columns of the German list. Columns #3 is the same as the German col#3, but in the German list you have counts per million, in the english you have percent, which is just another representation of the same thing. How would I use those lists to create an all-language-list? In the english list I would convert the numbers in column 3 into counts per million like in the German list. Then I need the number of native speakers per language. Such a list can be found here: $URL$ As you see, English had 360 million native speakers in 2010, and German had 89 million native speakers in the same year. So I multiply the (converted) english numbers by 360, and multiply the numbers in columns #3 of the German list with 89, and then merge both lists. If there are syllables used in english as well as in German (like [ɪn]), I add both wighted numbers. Then I sort this list again by those numbers. The result is a list of the most frequent syllables of the German and English spoken part of the world. And because I am interested in the most frequent syllables, it is safe to ignore rare languages, among which you will find all languages, that not have been studied. And to give you an example what I am not looking for: $URL$ There you find numbers of digrams and trigrams, but this are not phonetic syllables!