The shi were placed above the other three groups because they were the "glue" that held the rest of society together. These were landed gentry who could arrive there in one of two ways. 1) They were successful farmers (nong) who amassed large amounts of land, and became landlords. One example in modern times was Mao Ze Dong's father (who was then able to give Mao a good education). 2) Being a bright boy that was the son of, or at least sponsored by, another shi, getting an education, and passing the national examinations in philsophy and ethics. Successful candidates were given land grants by the emperor to support them, because they had qualified to fulfill roles in the bureaucracy, judiciary, etc. In time, the second kind of shi were seen as more "legitimate" than the first kind, because they had the education as well as the land. 

A "letter of marque" protected a privateer only against his home state (the one that issued the letter). In effect, it was a "peace treaty" between the two; the privateer "lays off" the ships of his sovereign, who then promises not to prosecute, provided the privateer confines his depredations to the vessels of other countries. It provided no protection against other countries, who would regard the "privateer" as a "pirate." Perhaps the most famous privateer was Sir Francis Drake.The king of Spain asked Queen Elizabeth I for his head, but she knighted him instead. 

The Taisho era saw a limited "democratization" of the selection of Prime Minister. For instance, there was the 1918 appointment of Hara Takashi, the first "commoner" Prime Minister, because of the pressures on the nobility caused by the "rice riots." Hara was a "meritocrat" who had served at various levels of the bureaucracy, as well as in the legislature. At the time of his election, he was the President of the most powerful political party in the Diet, which was the basis of his selection. After he left office in 1921, the Japanese society became more fragmented, and it was hard for any single party to get a parliamentary majority, so the result was a series of coalition governments. This led to a scramble for power, which opened up opportunities to some men of rather different backgrounds than the old Establishment (genro). Basically, the Taisho era was the first in which common people exerted a voice in government. After the establishment of the Japanese Diet (only) in 1890, laws were established by the common consent of the Emperor and the Diet; each had a veto power over the other. This was true even though the Emperor technically had the right to appoint the Prime Minister. But the Emperor Taisho was a sickly and weak-willed man, who tended to yield to the Diet after he became Emperor in 1912. His predecessor, the Emperor Meiji, was a much more forceful ruler who could control the Diet, in part because he was the "founding father" (e.g. the George Washington) of modern Japan. Taisho's successor, Hirohito (1926), was an "intermediate" case who "took back" and exercised some of the power earlier yielded to the Diet by Taisho, but did so in a more moderate fashion than Meiji, because he was not as strong a ruler. 

The question breaks down into two parts: Why a swordsman instead of an axeman, and why the swordsman of Calais. I now believe that the answer I posted earlier was only partially correct. This source offers a more likely answer, that "Henry did not care about Anne's feelings," and that he chose the sword as "the symbol of Camelot, of a rightful king." On the other hand, Anne didn't seem to mind the substitution. According to the article" 

One of the most troubling things about the Carthaginian army at Zama was the fact that Hannibal's "veteran" troops from his Italian campaigns were non-Carthaginians. And the Carthaginians in his army though enthusiastic and well-trained, were non-veterans who were basically enrolled for this one battle. There was a third group, non-veteran mercenaries from Spain. Thus, the Carthaginians did not have anything of a "home court" advantage that one might expect. The Romans on the other side, were "native sons" (to Rome), and mostly veterans of campaigns against Hannibal in Italy, or other Carthaginians in Spain. There was one group of non-Romans who were even more "native" than them to North Africa, where the battle was fought. These were the Numidians, from a country bordering Carthage, whose cavalry decided the day. Although not Roman, their country in fact had the most to gain from a Roman victory (specifically Carthaginian territory). It's possible that another group of cavalry with less at stake would have failed to win the battle for the Romans, allowing the Carthaginians to win. 

There is a Chinese saying (in pinyin), "Hao tie bu da ding, hao ren bu dang bing." (Good iron is not used to make nails. Good men do not become soldiers.) For most of Chinese history, soldiers were vilified, rather than honored. Hence, they would not generally be regarded as members of the upper class, which was occupied by landowners and philosophers. Most of Korea, whose culture is more similar to China's than Japan's felt much the same way. 

"Eugenics," unfortunately, was a subject that was "accepted" if not popular at the time. But "pro eugenics" was not the same as pro-Nazi, even though there were some overlaps. One Roosevelt ally who was also a believer was a man named Winston Churchill, who was clearly not a "Nazi sympathizer." Most eugenicists advocated "protective" measures toward the "unfit" for the benefit of the rest of society that fell far short of the Nazis' "elimination," and were horrified by the German version. Apart from his connection with eugenics, Osborn was a member of the establishment. He was a successful Wall Street man (like Joe Kennedy, another suspected Nazi sympathizer). He was an active member of one of the "pet" foundations of the Rockefeller family. Partly "immunizing" him from charges of being "pro-Nazi" (as opposed to pro eugenics) was the fact that some of his closest associates had names like Strauss, and Schiff, and Warburg, and could vouch for him. Finally, he was a member of the Carnegie Corporation; a fellow member was Henry Stimson, Secretary of War, and former Secretary of State, who ultimately nominated Osborn for the Army posts Roosevelt appointed him to. 

At their peak, the slaves numbered approximately 100,000 men, more than Hannibal's Carthaginians. Having enjoyed over a century of freedom from invasion, the Romans could not conceive of such a large force on their soil, never mind one built of slaves. Crassus was one of Rome's most capable commanders, who had trained under a famous Roman general, Sulla. He later formed a "Triumvirate" with Pompey and the greatest of them all, Julius Caesar. Crassus was a ruthless man who performed the act of "decimation," killing every tenth man, of a unit that displayed cowardice. He re trained the Roman army into its later form (the one that Caesar used successfully) with throwing spears and short swords. He declined to fight the hard fighting rebels, when possible, preferring to outmaneuver them. Finally, he was reinforced by Pompey, another capable general, who brought his legions from Gaul. 

The Post War II treatment of Germany was relatively mild, and aimed at "rehabilitating" the country. (Germany was a recipient of Marshall Plan aid, and the Allies organized the (West) Berlin airlift to supply the city with food when the Soviets cut off land-base supplies). It was after the FIRST World War that Germany was treated like a pariah, through the Versailles Treaty. This, unfortunately, led to the rise of Hitler and World War II. The Allies appear to have learned a lesson the second time around. 

A Confederate death knell in the Civil War was the capture of Atlanta by the North's General William T. Sherman. Arguably the turning point of the Atlanta campaign was when Confederate President Jefferson Davis replaced General Joseph Johnston, regarded by his opponents Grant and Sherman as the South's best defensive general, with the more offensively-minded John Bell Hood. Johnston had started the Atlanta campaign outnumbered nearly 2 to 1 by the Northerners. After a "fighting retreat" from the Tennessee border, through northern Georgia, Johnston arrived in Atlanta outnumbered less than 5 to 4, because his policy of defensive attrition had cost the South fewer casualties than the North had suffered, and because Sherman had to detach troops to guard his lengthening supply lines (Johnston picked up a few thousand troops on his way back to Atlanta.) Do other historical examples suggest that Johnston was "winning" or at least "doing well" when he arrived in Atlanta with an army nearly as large as his opponents', meaning that President Davis snatched "defeat from the jaws of victory" in replacing him? Or did Johnston miss better opportunities to stop Sherman further north? Or do other historical examples suggest that Hood's policy of attacking against odds of 4 to 5 was a better strategy than trying to defend against those odds? 

When one thinks of "partnership" commands, one may think of the Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene. Perhaps Hindenburg and Ludendorf in World War I Or Robert E. Lee and "Stonewall" Jackson. In each case, the senior commander was older than the junior commander. I can think of only one military "partnership" where the senior commander, Villars, was younger than the junior commander, Boufflers. $URL$ These were the men that opposed Marlborough and Eugene at Malplaquet. In civilian life, such a "dual command" might consist of Warren Buffett (aged early 80s), and Charlie Munger (aged late 80s), Chairman and Vice-Chairman of Berkshire Hathaway. I'm not talking about situations with a senior commander and a "random" (but older) junior commander, in the ranks, but ones where the junior is "next to" the senior and is effectively the senior's "alter ego" or even "Mini Me." To take the example's I've given, Churchill described Marlborough and Eugene as "one soul in two bodies." Lee referred to Jackson as "my right hand." Munger has been referred to as Buffett's "Doppelganger." Were there many such situations in history? 

She is better known as Mahidevran Gulbahar, which is why she is hard to find in wikipedia. She was sent into forced retirement after her son's death, and her disgrace, initially in poverty. After her rival's influence waned, she was "rehabilitated" after a fashion with a monthly "allowance" for living expenses. This rival died five years after her son's death in 1553, the Sultan died more than ten years later, but she survived until the early 1580s. 

A manor was a basic feudal unit of land, granted by the king to an underling and to his successors in perpetuity. Once it was granted by the king, it did not need to be re-granted every time it changed hands. As you noted, a seigneurie was a title and coat of arms, with a piece of land attached. This title (including the land title) could not be transferred without the consent of the king, meaning that every prospective successor would have to "reapply" to the king for the title. 

The first thing is that medieval cavalry charges were made possible by the stirrup. That was a metal frame attached to the horse that riders put their feet into. The stirrup largely prevented the riders from being thrown from their horses and into the crowd. The second part of the "physics" is that riders would seldom charge directly into the infantry masses, which, as you pointed out, would be "mutually assured destruction." Instead, riders were looking to "hit and run," that is, charge, cut down a few infantry, ride off before the latter could retaliate, and charge again. Such tactics were often successful, but mainly in flat ground and good weather. In hilly ground or mud, the horsemen often could not "disengage" and were often slaughtered after the first charge. The Battle of Falkirk was an example of how cavalry won. After an initial failed cavalry charge, the introduction of archers sufficiently disrupted the Scots formations for the cavalry charges to succeed. 

Basically, it was a race between the effects of unrestricted submarine warfare (USW) and U.S. intervention (USI). If USW had been instituted earlier, the Germans would have come closer to starving out Britain. But USI would also have happened earlier, with the U.S. providing more food to Britain, and soldiers on the Western front earlier. Given that the Germans did not come as close to winning the war by starving out Britain as by the 1918 "superoffensive," a case could be made that USW was resumed too early. If it had been deferred until say, early 1918, maybe the Americans would have been ready to arrive in France in force only in 1919, after the Germans won the war in 1918. 

My recollection is that Krakow was Poland's capital for much of the Middle Ages, having moved there from Thorn(?) shortly after 1000 A.D. My understanding is that Warsaw, a newer city, became Poland's capital in the 16th century, largely because of the Union with Lithuania (which then included part of Latvia, Belarus, and much of the Western Ukraine), and because Warsaw was at the center of what was then the combined country. But when Poland was reconstituted after World War I, and again after World War II, "Lithuania" was not part of it. So had Warsaw had lost its raison d'etre? Why wasn't the capital moved back to Krakow? (This stands in contrast to Germany, where after World War II, Bonn served as a provisional capital of "West" Germany. But the capital was moved back to Berlin after the reunification of east and west.) 

The Russian-American Company was founded under the auspices of the Tsar. Hence, it was not really a "private" company, but what we Americans would call a government sponsored entity (GSE). Think "Fannie Mae" or "Freddie Mac." In fact, the original founding merchants were soon displaced as shareholders by nobles and aristocrats, particularly government officials. Thus, an employee of the company had two allegiances; to the company itself, and to the Russian government. While "salaried agents" were representatives of the former, the Commandant of Okhotsk was a "local" representative of the latter. He may have overstepped his bounds by demanding that the employees pledge allegiance to him personally, but basically, he was doing his job by "overseeing" the Russian-American Company and its employees. As this note to Fort Ross (California) explains, the Russian government sent soldiers to protect what were technically commercial, rather than military, ventures in its far-flung "outpost" regions. From the Wikipedia article: 

The Romans were able to "conquer" large parts of Germania, briefly. They were unable to HOLD it for any length of time. The reason stemmed from the region's "backwardness." There was no central government or central power through which the Romans could operate. There were no cities (except the ones the Romans built). There were few roads, and the country was broken up by large forests, through which it was difficult to "project" power. Hence, the Romans would have to control the country on a tribe-by-tribe, village by village basis if they could do so at all. That is a tough exercise. (The most recent modern example is the United States in Vietnam.) 

The New Economic Policy was Lenin's version of China's "capitalism under Communism." Under NEP, state control was relaxed in certain areas, and individuals were allowed to have private ownership of "small" enterprises (of up to 20 people), while the state maintained control of the economy, banking system, and larger enterprises. Similar reforms were instituted in agriculture, with "collective farm" peasants being given small private plots. The problem with the New Economic Policy was that it was "neither fish nor fowl," and therefore displeased people on both sides of the debate. That is, "capitalists" thought that it didn't go nearly far enough, while hard-line Communists resented giving up any party control to independent owners. What was missing on both sides were what William Penn called people with "moderate expectations," who would be happy with a little of one and little of the other. It was "advantageous" to the Russian economy, insofar as it allowed that economy to improve relative to its former (Communist) self. But as a capitalist, I'd say that it didn't go nearly far enough. 

The Zimmerman Telegram was a diplomatic message. As such, it could be routed through London, and from there, to the German embassy in the US. Of course it meant that the British could intercept it and disclose the contents if they broke the code. Per wikipedia: 

As another answerer pointed out, the context was the difference between the willingness of the British and the French to carry on the struggle against the Germans from their overseas (e.g. African) colonies, and specifically on during Operation Torch. The differences were best summed up in Wikipedia article on France's Descartes: