agreement matters not one iota to truth value. there is a vast difference between hermeneutics and epistemology (the former "what is to [you;me;us;them]" and the latter heuristic), and that, short of the exception noted above, any evidence presented in support of Pullman's claim that, for example, Blake supported panpsychism, would be a matter of interpretation. 

Searle is not arguing "that a program cannot make a computer 'intelligent'" (and this in whichever sense you mean program, intelligent or computer). Searle's Chinese Room demonstrates that semantics are not intrinsic to syntax. Big difference. The Chinese Room Argument is a refutation of the computational theory of mind, not a refutation of "artificial intelligence". Searle is very clear that he is only arguing against what he identifies as "strong AI" and not "weak AI". Furthermore, he points out that we are biological machines in a sense of the words. As we know computational machines today (i.e. Turing machines), they are insufficient for anything more that syntactical manipulations and do not (read: can not) achieve semantic content. To understand Searle's argument, you will need to familiarize yourself with the distinctions between observer-relative and observer-independent, the epistemic and ontological senses of first- and third-person objectivity and subjectivity, as well the ambiguity of concepts such as "artificial", "intelligent", "information" and such. To broaden your understanding of counter-arguments, first start with the actual argument you seek counter to: Searle, John. R. (1980) "Minds, Brains, and Programs" 

There may be no epistemic merit to faith and merely ontological acknowledgement that a particular belief has been stated and the faithful agree with it (or don't), but consider also the words of these thoughtful fellows: 

Therefore, if it is empirically verifiable, then we can know it. It is, however, logically impossible to know the past for if we could empirically verify the past it would be present. The world owes humanity no explanation and for all we know it is much weirder than we imagine, it could very well be infinite and without beginning or end. That we may be dreaming or deceived by some demonic agency with ill intent may wreak havoc with the outliers, but we land men on the moon, replace human hearts and build bridges across vast expanses with our imperfect empirical knowledge. So we do not know enough to adjudicate conclusively with any certainty regarding certain ponderable historical or cosmological mysteries - what is certainty except a mood? Consider Wittgenstein's assessment of language's relationship between humanity and what is. From a collection of his aphorisms, "Culture and Value": 

Yes, concepts have no color. It would be a category mistake to describe them as so, else it is poetry. Unlike color, which is prismatic range, concepts do not exist - they are only to be found in language. Is the list of all cats a cat? No. Is the list of all lists a list? Yes. Is the list of all lists that don't list themselves a list? That's a question worth answering in letters... 

Proof is merely a means of evaluating conjecture as truth. If by "philosophies" you mean "ways of looking at things" then I can only offer that if philosophy were a way of looking at things, then an oasis and a mirage would have epistemic and ontological equivalence. They do not. 

Identity politics regarding what one considers themselves aside, the agnotic position lacks knowledge regarding deity. The virtue of obtaining knowledge (read: philosophy; trans "love of wisdom") demonstrates that we are not without knowledge of deity. For example, deity is an incoherent, non-falsifiable, unverifiable and imponderable abstraction and abstract ideas do not exist, they are only to be found in language. Where is the love of wisdom in claiming a lack of knowledge regarding imponderables when it is empirically verifiable that imponderables are just that: imponderale. Furthermore, lacking belief in deity and believing in deity are moods - temporary states of mind. If an atheist bemoans sincerely, "why god, why?!?" they might not necessarily believe in something which will answer their cries, but the use of term is meaningul even if undirected. Lastly, atheism and theism are only two beliefs regarding deity, see also igtheism, apatheism, pantheism, etc. To consider them the only two options is to consider a false dichotomy. 

In this case, if the authority issuing orders is not authorized such that their authority is inherently lawful, then the declaration is begging the question. For example, if the manager at Chuck E. Cheese's pulled this on their subordinate employees and used it as a justification for ordering them to hand over their weekly cash tips it would be an example of petitio principii argumentation (i.e. assuming the initial point). 

How? Easy, same mechanisms by which people have any emotion. We just don't have an adequate causal account to say or know much more than that. What does "truly" add to being happy? Is the being or the happiness any less sincere if it is motivated by what others consider tragic? How would you verify a distinction between happiness and true happiness? By agreeing with the "truly happy" persons claim that they are truly happy? This is not verification of a knowledge claim. This is simply agreement with sentiment, opinion, perspective and such. The self simply cannot be rationally assessed. An individual can feel "truly happy" and sincerely state they are truly happy and that individual can even know that it is "true to them" that they are truly happy at the passing of a loved one, but self-knowledge of what is "true to you" is distinct from empirical knowledge of what is. Note as well that "truly" is an adverb and what exactly is it adding when happy is not a verb? Certainly adverbs can modify adjectives like 'happy', 'sad', etc... but I would posit that "truly" adds some grammatical confusion to "happy" or otherwise is just an emphasis like "really happy" or an unecessarily overstated qualifier like "sincerely happy" (Do we have any reason to be skeptical of this sincere happiness?) Can you be happy and despair at the same time? Certainly. There is no law of non-contradiction governing the emotions. The death of a loved one is not necessarily a time for despair. For some death is a release. For all we know there's just composting after death but for all we do know, after you die it might just be amazing. That said, if you are grieving the loss of a loved one, please accept my sincere regards and may they rest in peace. 

I'm nowhere near UC Berkeley's Moffit Library Media Center, but I understand they have a copy there...? 

AleksandrH, the distinction of dreaming and waking, whether either is vivid or otherwise, is, of course, something you could likewise be dreaming... In short, if you cannot distinguish "between sleep and wake" then the answer is simply, "no". I find it very doubtful, however, that you are incapable of telling the difference (by which I mean literally: "use your words"). Consider, however, that a proof is just a convincing argument. If you are looking for certainty then consider that certainty is just a mood. Doubt, whether in the form of an evil genie deceiving us or hallucinatory permanence, is an inevitable consequence of conscious consciousness. Note that tho doubt may have been a useful tool to DesCartes in concluding cogito ergo sum he did not conclude dubito ergo sum. How then to address the doubt of external realism? 

Well, it's not the same as having a premise demonstrated to be false. First of all: "X's status change has made Y (proponents of X's status change) do A" followed by "Citing reports of Y doing A" is not demonstration of a causal relationship nor can a falsifiable hypothesis be formed to verify and advance from. Correlation is not causation. That is one mistake. To demonstrate causal correlates conclusively for a meaningful sociological conclusion a preponderance of examples may imply an accurate conclusion that Y does A because of X's status change. It must also be demonstrated, however, that these pattern examples could not otherwise be attributable. Again, tho - not a matter of deriving a truth value from premises which are either true or false. Note also the different "becauses" at work here: Q: Why are you shivering? A: Because I am cold. and Q: Why are you putting on your sweater? A: Because I am cold. Two very different "becauses" To entirely dismiss a position over one dubious source of verifiable data is just intellectually disingenuous but only when all other reports are not only verifiable but have been verified. If an example is shown to be false, the thing to do if you want to maintain the position is to find another example, verify it and present your research for peer review. The thing not to do is to find examples which support the position by limiting your research to only finding data which agrees with your assertion and rejecting that which counters the position. 

First things first: like the term "christian" you do not need to capitalize "philosophy" unless it is at the beginning of a sentence. 

Certainty is a mood. Doubt is a double-edged sword blunted only by the recognition of unilluminating appeals to skepticism as logical fallacy. Knowledge is fallible, imperfect, incomplete, and not absolute. Despite this we land men on the moon, build skyscrapers and bridges across vast expanses, and replace human hearts with humble, imperfect, uncertain empirical verification of what is. 

Restating a false claim does not make it true, nor does restating a true claim make it false. Furthermore, the truth or falsity of the claims used as premises is not due to the form of the argument. Truth is a condition of statements which is satisfied when what is claimed corresponds to what is the case, irrespective of the statements use in an argument. Imagine your "All A is B" claim were false, for example, "All vegans are carnivores". The falsehood of this statement is self-evident as "vegan" is a term for someone that does not eat meat. For the sake of argumentation, we can express this falsehood as "All A is B" such that A stands for "vegans" and B stands for "carnivore". This claim also has a truth value of (F) for "false". If an argument takes the form: 

Seeing as Cognitive Science makes no mention of ontology until page 361, it is no wonder they present a confused account of consciousness and you are left wondering how to distinguish cognition and qualia. Qualia and quale are just plural and singular terms for first person subjective ontological states, i.e. what experiences are like, e.g. what it is like to drink a beer, or do your taxes, or cast out nines in arithmetic, watch the sunset, etc. Cognition is either: 

Yes, you need to read any authors work to understand them. The entry on Aristotle's logic in the Standford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is as good a synopsis as any. You could do well to read more than one translation - short of becoming a scholar on ancient Greek if you seek to understand what Aristotle thought. Consider, tho that he did not write much of what is attributed to him: 

Yes. While he does not give her name, in his third lecture on philosophy of mind (the lecture available on youtube) Professor John Searle mentions a Swiss philosopher who (purportedly) maintains the positions of atheism and substance dualism. His comment starts @2m36s and continues until around 3m15s when he mentions meeting her. You could email him and ask who he was referring to and research their work (if any) on an atheist substance dualism. Mostly tho, Searle's point is that this is "a rare view amongst professional philosophers". As for leveraging an epistemically grounded concept of an ontologically positive "free will" out of a stultified materialist v dualist dichotomy, you might enjoy Searle's articles, "Why I Am Not A Property Dualist", "Free Will As A Problem In Neurobiology" (the copy @Jstor is available to read for free!) and "The Phenomenological Illision". He is an atheist and proposes "Biological Naturalism" (a naive or direct realism) as a framework to advance knowledge claims about consciousness, language, society and the world. Oh, and iirc he's not a substance dualist proper, but Thomas Nagel is a dualist atheist... 

Soliciting and articulating viewpoints has not one iota of relevance to philosophy, i.e. love of wisdom (read: respect for obtaining knowledge). I am not saying that reading intelligent literature about imponderables such as the meaning or purpose of life is not a worthwhile endeavor. Philosophy, however, is heuristic and does not issue imponderables. When analyzing imponderables, philosophizing is, in the words of Ludwig Wittgenstein, rejection of false arguments. I would recommend that instead of focusing your philosophy club upon opinion, sentiment and weltanschauung - no matter how well reasoned, how sophisticated the rhetoric or convincing the argumentation - you instead focus your club on the fundamentals of philosophy: logic, reason and rhetoric such that your students may engage the domains of philosophy (epistemology and ontology) that their resulting studies bear the fruits of knowledge instead of opinion. Such then can knowledge based verstehen be utilized for verifiable and ponderable erklaren. In addition to a curriculum based upon the Trivium, a foundation for the virtue of obtaining knowledge are the three classic "laws" (or principles) of thought: 

That's nice. You are free to imagine whatever you are able, however, consider that often times the mind believes it is thinking while merely passing from one metaphor to the next. 

You might enjoy Harry Gensler's book, "Introduction to Logic." He also has a free software application for doing drills and practicing analysis of syllogisms and such, LogiCola. And here's an article about validity and soundness. 

Per: $URL$ the 'internal' or 'divine' sign is "the name by which Socrates calls his genius, or the spirit that dwelt within him" (noun 2.1) Alternative translation of Republic Book VI, 496c, by G.M.A. Grube, rev. C.D.C. Reeve: 

Consider some alternative translations to proposition 5.6 in Wittgensteins Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus: 

All that said, "Aristotle's philosophy" is no different than anyone else's philosophy as philosophy is "love of wisdom" (read: respect for obtaining knowledge) and philosophy is neither a matter of personal outlook nor a way of looking at things (the world, the case, states of affairs, what is). It is, in fact, misnomer to use the word philosophy to describe a view of what is, beliefs, credo, ideology, a school of thought, a way of looking at things or any "-ism". Love of wisdom requires knowledge, not opinion, sentiment, personal view, etc. Do you need to read the Organon to understand philosophy? No. Do you need to read the Organon to understand Aristotle? Yes. 

Well, definition is only part of the story when it comes to meaning and use of terms is just as important. The same sentence made of the same words in the same order can have different meanings depending on use and context of use. For example "flying planes can be dangerous" may mean the act of piloting a plane, or planes in the air can be dangerous. 

How? By disabusing yourself of the notion that philosophy is other than love of wisdom. Philosophy has nothing to do with "thinking critically" (whatever that may mean to you) nor does it have anything to do with "the humanities". Philosophy is love of wisdom. It's purview is logic, rhetoric and reason, it's domains ontology and epistemology, it's toolbox analysis and it's pastime the rejection of false argument. The translation of philosophy from the Greek has stood 2500+ years despite the term misused to mean "a way of looking at things". "Love" in the context of initial utterance was used like we now use "virtue" "respect" or "reverence". To the point, what is respected with philosophy? Wisdom. Some say wisdom is the intelligent application of knowledge, but intelligent according to whom? No. Wisdom simply obtains knowledge and that is all. What is it that is obtained? Knowledge is empirical verification of what is (else how do you know what is?) What is (i.e. the world, the case, states of affairs, et cetera) is that which is empirically verified. Statements regarding what is (the world, the case, states of affairs, etc.) are either true or false and this has nothing whatsoever to do with perspective. Perspectival (and situational) statements are "what is true to [you; me; us; or them]". What then is truth? Truth is simply a condition of propositions (statements, assertions, etc.) which is satisfied when what is said is corresponds with what is (the case, the world, states of affairs, etc.) Again, respect for obtaining empirical verification of what is (read: philosophy) is not a way of looking at things. If it were then an oasis and a mirage would have epistemic and ontological equivalence. They do not. If a way of looking at things were adequate for determining or even merely stating the case then the world would be flat and you could sail off it. You can not. Ways of looking at things are to be either agreed or disagreed with like so much gossip, sentiment and opinion. Solicitations to agreement with perspectives are often offered as if they were philosophy. They are not. For yourself and your friend, consider the instrumentalist ethos: tell any would-be philosopher that if after opening their pie hole you cannot be assured of knowing something that you did not know before, or, failing that, that you cannot at least be able to assess whether what they say can eventually lead to something you did not know before, simply tell them they have no philosophy.