From my interpretation, religion is a school of thought that encourages or rather demands that we believe in something on faith. Faith is to believe in something because we have been told that it is true and we must believe it without any proof of its existence or proof that it's the right way to think. Our parents teach us this, our society confirms that we must follow this teaching. I think that's all common knowledge, nothing to argue about there, but this next thought is an idea that I'd like to question. I'd like to know if my following idea makes sense logically or not, and why: 

When you're raised from childhood to believe in faith, its unlikely that you will grow to think outside of that faith, especially if your religion implements a system of repetition where you verbally confirm that faith daily and weekly. You constantly repeat it, everyone around you confirms it, it makes you feel at peace, makes you feel safe, why would you want to think in any other way? My thought about this is that there's a fundamental problem with this way of thinking. Because it seems as a society, by condoning this kind of thinking, we make our population as a whole highly susceptible to extremist and non-tolerant ideas derived from religion. An example: Islamist Extremism, where women and homosexuals can be put to death for pursuing their personal freedoms, and people believe certain cultures should be attacked, that certain people should be killed. If people were not raised with a religious background, I don't see this issue as being possible. It seems to me that this is proof that religion or "believing without proof or logical reasoning" is problematic, that it damages logical decision making in society. Is this an accurate and logical assessment, or am I looking at this information the wrong way? 

Yes, they should care about emotions. Emotions give us purpose. Emotions, feelings and desires are at the core of what used to be called morality. Morality disappears after analysis; emotion will not. The following is an excerpt from Bertrand Russell's "What is an Agnostic." 

There is a another distinction between 利 (/lee/) and 用 (/yeong/), which is pretty much lost in modern usage. 利: the means, the instrument. 用: the end, the usage. The morale is something like this: 

People actually fear a lot things more than their own deaths. A soldier who has lost appetite for war nevertheless goes to war for fear of facing military justice can't be said courageous. A military justice that makes soldiers choose between hazardous duty and legal consequence is basically assuming that soldiers are bigger cowards who fear jail time more than their own death. On the other hand, a general who clearly foresees his military defeat then abandons the city he is supposed to defend can not be said to be a coward; on the contrary, there is courage in his flight. Kutuzov was such a character; he was called a traitor and a coward till his last day; it took a Tolstoy to restore his name half a century later. In Tolstoy's view, Kutuzov was the only person in Russia who clearly foresaw the course of events. A general, who foresees defeat but has nowhere to escape then decides to surrender on favourable terms, can't be said to be a coward; he is actually an unsung hero who prevented a massacre of his city. There are countless unsung heroes like this in Chinese history. 

I'm not enough of a philosopher to properly analyze this particular argument, but I'm curious about it and I'd like to see it dissected and explained. 

I've been thinking about government assistance, and on one hand, I dont want to let people die, but on the other hand, I dont want to let them live by taking advantage of my generosity. For example, if a capable person refuses to work, what would logic in favor of humanitarianism suggest that we do? Let them starve? Feed them anyway? Both choices seem to lead to frowned upon results. If too many people take advantage of a system in which all people will be fed regardless, it seems that the society may weaken or collapse. And then there's a matter of fairness, in regards to the people who work, and have their earnings taxed to feed those who wont work. Is there any philosophy which addresses this problem? I'm looking for a citation of any philosophy on the subject which wouldn't be considered "highly" controversial. I'd narrow my question to a single philosophy, but I haven't heard of one which covers this problem. 

The simple, fundamental answer: "Logic" is fundamentally just mathematics. A + B = C. But our ideas as humans are so complex and so subjective, they don't fit into any math equation. Our brain has developed in such a way that can calculate the logic of these ideas, but it's not by any means a truly logical calculation, but more of a rough estimate. Engineers working to develop Artificial Intelligence, I'm told, are having a big problem figuring out how to get their algorithms to work because they can't figure out how to teach a computer to make the "correct decision". They're trying to calculate "right and wrong" in binary and it wont work. To solution will be to stop trying to calculate "right and wrong" because it doesnt exist. Only our personal emotional interpretations exist. As a society, and as cultures, we have had to unify our "personal interpretations" of right and wrong in order to live in harmony, but logical decision making will always be just a rough estimate, a very imperfect calculation because logical thinking is purely relative. 

The reason I think this question interesting is that it eventually asks what the word "understand" means: what does a person feel when he understands a situation? When an object-word is understood, the listener's mind forms a mental image similar to the one which that word expresses. If that word is "fragrant" but the listener has no sense of smell, the listener will not understand it - i.e. he will not associate a noise with an olfactory sensation. To understand how a steam engine works, a series of percepts are necessary, and mental images are the ultimate results. It follows that mental images - feelings, sensations, desires, etc. - are most likely the ultimate results of understanding. To understand another person's problem presupposes common feelings, and common feelings are the ultimate results. If a person has no sense of smell, he will never be offended by BO and will not understand why BO is a huge problem in the office. It follows that, if a person has no sense of smell, his opinion on BO is much less weighty than that of a person who can smell. Similarly, the mother will never understand why the son is so attracted to a certain woman while the father virtually agrees with the son on every aspect. It follows that a mother's opinion on the son's girlfriend should not be taken seriously. It follows that men's opinions on issues particular to women are very likely to be less credible than women's own opinions. Being unable to understand does not necessarily imply lacking concerns for the sufferings of others. Civilized western men's attitudes towards women are nothing but admirable. Being able to understand does not automatically imply compassion. An evil man is capable of exploiting your vulnerabilities for his sadistic pleasure; he may justify it by some karma yoga philosophy, which only reminds you of the kind of fine phrases used by a 20th-century saint to excuse himself for sleeping next to naked young girls. 

Maybe this can't and shouldn't be altogether answered in a "yes or no" format without pulling from subjective opinion, but perhaps there is or is not invalid logic or circular reasoning or perhaps it's a perfectly acceptable logical argument, so far as structure is concerned. 

Obviously copyright infringement, under every main stream school of thought is wrong. You put work into creating something, such as a video file that is a movie that you spent millions of dollars to produce, and you therefore have, according to every main stream school of thought, the right to sell that video file for a profit. I'm clarifying that I understand this, and that I realize it's common sense, but I have the sneaking suspicion that if I were to question one of the leading proponents of copyright infringement, for example an operator of The Piriate Bay, and member/founder of a pro-copyright-infringement religion, Kopimism, I would receive some form of very thoroughly thought out philosophical reasoning for supporting copyright infringement. Unfortunately, I dont have the privilege of being able to have a discussion with such a person, in order to poke and prod for logical, fundamental reasoning for such support. I'm very curious though, to discover and dissect the arguments behind this school of thought, so I ask: Does anyone know what philosophical arguments / logic copyright infringement supporters, use to defend and promote their position? 

In philosophy, a lot of original thoughts began with a feeling of itch followed by frantic scratches on the outside of the boot. I guess your question involves the following questions: 

Patriotism: love of one's own country. Nationalism: love of one's own people. The difference is between country and nation: a country is a political entity consists of a territory and some peoples, who may or may not belong to the same nation. A nation consists solely of peoples who share the same cultural habits. Nationalism is often more inclusive than patriotism. German nationalism, for example, transcends German, Austria and Switzerland borders; Slavic nationalism transcends Russian, Polish, Ukraine borders; white nationalism transcends European, North American South American borders. From a white nationalist's point of view, WWI is a civil war and is not worth fighting. It is ironic that some white nationalists idolize Hitler, who killed millions of whites and was responsible for the decline of white civilization more than anyone else. 

Mathematical models to the physical world are topographic maps to the actual terrain: the former are just approximate representations of the latter. As precision increases, the smoothness of the representation disappears. Large-scale maps reveal rough terrain; hight-precision measurements result in jagged curves. Take Ohm's law for example: anyone who studied electronics long enough will realize that Ohm's law is not a law at all; it is a rough description of a very special kind of conductor. High-precision measurements reveal that most conductors are better described by I-V curves. The question that naturally follows is this: how much of today's particle theory is based on mathematical models whose own premises remain rough and unexamined? A physicist should always be a geographer first and be vividly aware of the chains of inferences and the assumptions behind a mathematical model. Probably a generation of physicists brought up in the Russellian school is needed in order to sort things out.