One of the most overlooked Soviet achievements of WWII was evacuating its industries away from the advancing Germans and to the Caucuses or behind the Ural Mountains out of reach of German bombers (and also highlights the German strategic error in not investing in a heavy bomber). This is a feat unparalleled in world history and caused unimaginable hardship as entire populations were moved thousands of miles and forced to create cities and factories in the middle of nowhere. Despite having a large portion of their country overrun, the Soviets maintained industrial output through the war. 

All through history, people needed fair, repeatable measurement of physical quantities. How much grain am I buying? How much land do you have (so it can be taxed)? How much flour and water do I use for my bread? Since most trade was local, they used whatever system they came up with. So long as the people nearby understood it, and it was based on some objective measure, it was good enough. And they built tools around those systems. When the need for globalization came around in the 19th century, it was a mess with competing systems and a large base of existing tools that would have to be scrapped in order to change. This is part of why the US is still not on the metric system, they didn't have their infrastructure wrecked in two world wars. Unlike precision measurement, the need for precision time of day was introduced late into common use. While units of time existed (for example, the Chinese kè), they weren't needed by most people. For most of history, clocks were expensive and inaccurate, most people didn't have them and simply told the time by the Sun. If you needed to be more precise, ring a bell when it's time. Then two things happened. First, the British Navy kept getting lost. You can figure out your latitude from the Sun, but to figure out longitude you need a very accurate clock. In the mid-18th century, John Harrison introduced a series of accurate clocks for navigation. Later trains became a thing. With trains came a need for accurate train schedules, and that meant accurate time keeping. So every train station needed a clock. The clock spread with British ships and the train. The need for a universal system of timekeeping came pretty late. It happened after global trade and communications were a thing. The need for it was spread by Western technological inventions which would all be using the system we know today. And, unlike other measurements, there wasn't a large install base of existing time keeping devices. As to why time didn't go metric along with everything else, they tried, but base 12 time was goo enough. Unlike the dizzying array of nonsense numbers in the Imperial system of measurement (12 inches to a foot; 3 feet to a yard; 1760 yards to a mile... or is it 8 furlongs to a mile... and those are the easy ones), time was already divided into fairly regular base 12 (some would argue superior to base 10). Even France quickly dumped decimal time. 

Because the Sahara desert goes all the way to the Atlantic coast. The Romans were not great seafarers and required the support of coastal towns to cover long distances. The Western Sahara represents a break in that chain, over 1000 km of inhospitable coastline. Even today, Western Sahara is one of the most sparsely populated areas in the world with an estimated 2.25 people per km2. It gets 50mm of rain a year and is almost entirely desert. The climate might have been better back then (would love to see if there's research on that) but it never seems to have been particularly peachy. Western Sahara features no natural resources the Romans could exploit. The coastline faces no trading partners. Along with asking "why not" we have to first ask "why". There's an implication in the question that the Romans expanded just to expand. No, they expanded with some purpose in mind. Spain featured rich natural resources. Advancing north pushed the barbarians back to give the Italian peninsula a buffer zone. Everything around the Mediterranean, including the North African coast, was interconnected by sea and coastal trade. Even if they went all the way down to the better areas around the Senegal River, why would Rome want to spend the considerable effort to establish a city cut off from the rest of the empire? 

I traced down the particular edit which added the phrasing, but couldn't find an explanation. This is a Wikipedia edit, not an authoritative source, so I wouldn't put too much thought into it. ... so let's put too much thought into it. It turns out it leads to some interesting background on the Three-Fifths Compromise. It could be a reference to a similar debate over the status of slaves proposed as Article XI to the Articles of Confederation. Only this time the issue was determining wealth for the purposes of taxation. There was an idea put forward that states should contribute to a common national treasury according to their ability to pay, and that this ability to pay would be determined by their population. 

As for the evidence, presumably someone, somewhere has the original ratification documents in storage. Probably the US National Archives or the Iowa State Archives. Here's an example, Tennessee ratifying the 19th amendment, that was put on exhibit. 

Source You'll see modern US soldiers almost universally with their chin strap on. The current US Army Advanced Combat Helmet is a little heavier, but it benefits from modern ergonomics and materials. We also now have lots and lots of data about where and how soldiers get wounded, and modern combat involves a lot more shrapnel. Soldiering is long periods of boredom punctuated by moments of extreme violence... or if you're far enough behind the lines, just more boredom. In those long periods of boredom you're hauling around all this very heavy and uncomfortable equipment. Many soldiers will make modifications which might reduce their combat effectiveness in order to be more comfortable in the hours, days, weeks, and months between combat. Whether the justifications are valid doesn't matter, if the soldiers believed them that's what matters. Sources: 

I can think of a list of things which either excelled at the time or were feats not matched in the whole war. 

This isn't a denunciation of fascism. It isn't a call to arms to overthrow dictatorships worldwide. It's defining how the liberated nations and minor Axis powers will be treated after WWII. The goal is "to solve by democratic means their pressing political and economic problems". Someplace like Romania, Hungary, or Bulgaria, Axis belligerents who were devastated by the war. Or Norway and the Netherlands who had puppet governments installed. These countries needed their governments replaced, economies rebuilt, and social order restored. Spain, in contrast, was neither conquered by the Axis nor allied with them. They never declared war and they never allowed either power to move troops through their country (to the great relief of Britain and Gibraltar). Spain had a working, independent, if fascist, government. They were untouched by the war. By the scale of the rest of Europe they had no "pressing political and economic problems". 

I don't know what was done with the network, but the Germans developed a number of guided weapons and experimented with television guidance. The Henschel Hs 117 and Hs 293D were both TV guided, but fortunately the war ended before they could be perfected and put into production. 

With a slightly broader definition of "slave" to include conquered peoples who were used as slave labor, we have the Osttruppen of the Wehrmacht (German Army in WWII) made up of soldiers from areas of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union overrun by the Germans. Some were volunteers either pro-Nazi or anti-Stalin or just looking for a decent meal. Others were POWs conscripted or coerced into serving. By late 1943 there were almost half a million Osttruppen fighting for the German Army shoring up their ever increasing manpower shortages. The most famous example in the West is the 439th Ost Battalion defending Omaha Beach on D-Day. Many surrendered as soon as their defensive position was compromised, while others were held at their posts by their German sergeants. Many Allied soldiers were surprised by "Germans" speaking Russian or Polish. 

The comments brought up the issue of who "wins" a war. Determining who won or lost a war often covers up a complex situation and a lot of historical detail with squabbling over a label. War isn't a game. You don't get more points by blowing more stuff up and "win". Wars have goals, victory has to be worth those goals. And wars have aftermath that must be dealt with. The Vietnam War is a good example of militarily "winning", yet losing the war. In terms of damage inflicted or casualties, the US "won" the war hands down, but what were their goals? I don't know that was even clear to the US at the time. If it was to defend South Vietnam they clearly lost, and why were they defending a dictatorship? If it was to "contain Communism" then they fought in vain. Domino Theory was incorrect. North Vietnam wasn't fighting to spread global Communism. North Vietnam fought to expel the foreign armies which had occupied Vietnam for generations and to reunite the Vietnam. The US could have gotten the same result by not getting involved in the first place. Sometimes nobody wins, the War of 1812 is a good example. The US intended to stop the British from impressing sailors and annex Canada. The British wanted to set up a Native American buffer state in what was the American Northwest. The US was repelled from Canada. The British stopped impressing sailors, but only because the Napoleonic Wars were over; the US could have achieved that without a war. By the end of 1814 the war was getting too expensive for both sides to press home, so they negotiated a peace that put everything back the way it was. Sometimes one side decisively wins the war only to find themselves saddled with a messy aftermath. In the Iraq War the forces of the Iraqi government were decisively defeated in just two months. Yet the US found itself in a messy insurgency for years and years to come.