The reason you need to know those three things is because then it can be determined what clues there would be to find. Think of it like writing a murder mystery; you, as the author, have to know who did it and how they did it so you know what clues there would be for the detective to find. Same principle. 1. Nature of the Appearance How did the building appear: is it the building itself, or did a volume of ground get displaced along with the structure, replacing what was there previously? How big was it? If the building appeared atop existing ground, then there will be minimal disturbance below that would wave an obvious warning flag and the clues would be correspondingly small. If the disturbed ground is limited to the building's foundations and slightly around it, then the clues are going to be slightly more significant, but easily overlooked. If the the manor appeared because, as in the Ring of Fire example, a larger volume of material around and underneath was swapped out, clues will much larger and easier to find. 2. Type of Ground The second factor is type of ground the existed there previously. A manor that is purely on top of a rock outcropping isn't going to leave a lot of clues indicating it doesn't belong there. If the local ground was glacial till and the ground that came with the manor also came from glacial till, then again a geologist could notice clues but they'd have to have a reason to look more carefully than normal. On the other hand, a manor built on solid rock (that arrived with the manor) that looks different from the solid rock around it would be very noticeable. 3. Where did it really come from This links to both above; you have to know where the manor came from and what came with it, if anything, in order to know what it interacts with the ground where it appeared, and thus what clues it generates. If you can provide the answer to those three questions than a geologist, such as myself, could tell you what clues there would be, and how obvious they were, for a geologist to figure out something was odd. Without that information, the question can't be answered. All the existing answers here as I type this have been based on assumptions the poster have made and are dependent on the scenario they've postulated individually, not what you've provided. They aren't universal answers applicable in all circumstances because they can't be. 

Realistically, given the parameters you cite (exploiting resources), then no, not really. The problem, as others have mentioned, is ship technology. In order to exploit the resources you have to have the capacity to transport them in reasonable quantities with reasonable safety and in a reasonably short period of time. Heyerdahl's "experiment", which was mostly based on a nonsense understanding of history, only demonstrated that a one-time transit in one direction is possible, but that's a far cry from demonstrating that someone would intentionally set out to do it. A Roman ship hugging the coastline of Spain and France to reach Britain could get blown out to sea and, theoretically, the crew could survive and end up in the Americas, but that's a far cry from the Romans being able to intentionally create a trans-Atlantic route on purpose. The earliest would likely have been in the 1300s or so, when the carrack started being developed. 

Major cities will tend to be located where they'd logically make sense, taking into account when the cities were founded. As an example, New York City is located on a natural harbour with the Hudson providing access to the interior. Montreal is located the furthest an ocean-going ship can go up the St. Lawrence river (without canals or locks), with the Ottawa River providing access to the west and the St Lawrence continuing further to the southwest. London and Rome were founded where the Thames and Tiber respectively were narrow enough to bridge, allowing both sides of the river to be used by one community. Quebec City was founded where the St Lawrence narrowed enough that cannon on one bank could dominate the entire river and a steep bluff provided a defensive position. Kansas City grew from the fort established at the confluence of the Missouri and Kansas rivers that had three major trails to the west converging nearby, and so on. The location of your capital, however, is very much a case of your country's history. In a case like London or Rome, it's where the most powerful (economic or military) community was that kept that role as the nation grew. In a case like Paris, it's because it's where Clovis I established his capital, and subsequent rulers kept it there. Ottawa was chosen for Canada in order to have a place roughly midway between the major population centers of Upper Canada and Lower Canada and also further away from the American border for defensive considerations. Washington DC was chosen due to political compromise that took into account everything from geography to slavery. Ankara became capital of Turkey after World War I when Constantinople was occupied by the Allies (and they originally planned to keep it) and Ataturk based his resistance movement out of Ankara and made it the capital even after they won. Brasilia was specifically built as a new city to be the capital located more centrally than the existing major cities. If you were to rewind history on Earth to the point where there was some change so an alternate timeline developed but things like technological progress and population growth were roughly the same, you'd see cities in large part where you'd see cities now. The capitals of the different or changed nations that exist, however, will show a significant variation because of that changed history. If the Treaty of Sèvres hadn't partitioned Turkey, Istanbul probably would have remained the capital. Or Ataturk may have based out of Erzurum instead of Ankara. Without the American Civil War and the American attacks on Canada in the War of 1812, the capital of Canada may have ended up being Kingston instead of Ottawa. Change Peter the Great's fixation on sea power, and you don't get the Russian capital moved to Saint Petersburg. Make Lenin less concerned about foreign invasion, it doesn't move back to Moscow. Have someone take less of a risk than Tokugawa Ieyasu did in trading away his home province to Toyotomi Hideyoshi in exchange for the Kanto area, Kyoto might have remained the capital of Japan instead of Tokyo. So, TL;DR, your cities will tend to be where you'd logically expect cities to grow. Your capital city is where the country's specific history puts it. 

Can't be done once you get a significant number of devices hooked up, and here "significant" means "really low". Forget the grid for the moment, and just consider your house. If all the electrical devices, everything in the house has to be in series, what happens to all the food in your refrigerator when someone forgets to turn off a light before going to work and the bulb burns out? And if you live in a colder climate, that's also the power to your heating system, which in winter means the possibility of a frozen home, burst pipes, and all other sorts of joys. Now moving up a little, what happens when your neighbour has a bulb burn out, or someone a few hundred kilometers away? I don't see many customers for a system where someone in Chicago can suffer extensive damage to their home because someone in Detroit had a burned out light bulb. What's more, how do you identify where the problem is? In the system we have now, if a grid goes down, say due to a storm, you can bring parts of it up and the parts that don't come up isolate where the remaining problems are. But with a system of thousands, or millions, of devices, how do you find what the single one causing the grid to go down because it broke the circuit is? Edit One issue separate from all of the above is how does such a system develop in the first place? Even if people can develop super-fast (on the order of nanosecond) switches that's not going to happen--barring Alien Space Bats--for quite some time long after people have figured out parallel and series electrical systems and using them. Without those super-fast switches, parallel systems using constant voltage are so much easier to deal with for all the reasons given in other answers that there's going to be so much infrastructure in place that there's going to be no advantage to switching to a more complicated system with greater points of failure requiring more complicated and expensive wiring for no benefit. 

Highly unlikely. For a practical demonstration, take a look at videos or pictures of pillow lavas being formed in Hawai'i. The divers are within meters of lava emerging into the water, and while the water in contact with the lava is clearly heated, the divers only a few meters away are in no immediate danger. An example: 

There'd very probably be multiple other symptoms of syphilis that would be observed long before anyone got the chance to get to the skeleton. The other thing about the infection is that the symptoms can imitate a number of other conditions, so one can't merely look at the effects on the bones and be certain just based on that that the victim has syphilis. 

Graham Hancock, crank pseudo-historian and writer of crap "history", had a theory that the concept of winged angels arose from an advanced people in Mesopotamia (who were totally not Atlanteans) that wore capes made from feathers which the other, more primitive, locals mistook for wings. The supposed totally-not-Atlanteans disappeared when their totally-not-Atlantis homeland was destroyed in a natural disaster. 

Trivially, as long as they avoid military or other restricted airspace. Civilian radar depends on transponders to track aircraft and aren't as powerful, so a small aircraft will easily avoid detection by them. As long as they avoid doing anything too suspicious (such as turning off the transponder before they clear their origin airport's airspace), they're pretty much guaranteed to be able to do it. 

Sure. Gems such as diamonds, corundums (ruby and sapphire) come from igneous sources. It's possible that one could have a diamondiferous kimberlite blast through a gold or silver ore-bearing formation, or an intrusive dyke that produces rubies or sapphires to penetrate into a similar formation. It's unlikely, given the relative rarity of the two different commodities, but certainly possible. As an example that was a near-miss (on a continental scale), the Jericho kimberlite in Nunavut (mined for a few years) is only about 30 kilometers from the Lupin gold mine, and there have been kimberlites in that same area found even closer to the mine. Amethyst, as another example, is just coloured quartz, and quartz veins provide the source of gold in some mines. I'm not aware of amethyst specifically being found in any gold mines, but it's at least theoretically possible. For 17 years I was involved in writing agreements concerning minerals rights and royalties and those agreements had provisions to cover the possibility of gemstones being found and produced at a mine for a different commodity. 

Why not simply use an iris or retinal scan to match it to an ID? The patterns in the iris and capillary system in the retina are unique: not even genetically-identical twins have the same patterns, and an individual doesn't even have the same pattern in both eyes, which by definition comes from the same DNA and developed in the same conditions. Fingerprints would work as well, but eye scans can be read at a distance, are harder to fake (since you can beat a fingerprint scanner by duplicating someone else's print) and are subject to fewer issues such as scarring that can affect fingerprints. Hell, use both iris and retinal scans to reduce the possibility of error and potential duplication. The downside is that you need to maintain a database linking the scans to clone IDs, but that should be fairly trivial thing to deal with if you're at the point of mass-producing clones, and such would be necessary for the option of coding in the DNA anyway. But as an upside, you don't need to do anything to generate the unique identifier: nature does that for the clone already.