My choice was getting a ukulele. Small, light, has a soft padded case which I sometimes wrap in a plastic bag (or put the uke in a bag and then in the case), and I can easily attach it to the main backpack I have (not hanging loose like a guitar & its case would). Might not be as challenging/fun as the guitar, but it is definitely easy to learn/play/carry around. 

Disclaimer: I am from Romania, my answer is a bit tailored to this corner of the world. This issue is very common in Central/Eastern European countries and in the Balkans: not only the household dogs in villages, but stray ones (even in cities), and especially the shepherd dogs. Might be a bit repeating the other answers, but I really must point this out, as it has been the source of many accidents, attacks and (yet unsolved) disputes on law inforcements. Shepherd dogs are bread to be aggressive: whether assertive barking when turning the hundreds of sheep, giving alarm of an intruder or scaring away bears. The herds can be met literally anywhere (I met them near my hometown, or also at 2200 m altitude in the mountains), and if you approach them they most probably become aggressive. Methods of staying safe: 

In addition, it isn't only the gun itself you should worry about with steel shot. For instance, my turkey plug is only for lead shot. I believe my shotgun can take either, but the specific plug I am using for turkey specifically said no steel. For additional maintenance, I don't think there would be as much extra lead residue in your barrel (obviously), but you will probably find more residue from the powder to get the higher pressured shot out. Check with the manufacturer of the gun to see what they recommend for that particular model. If is it really old, then definitely consult a gunsmith or someone whose job it is to know more about guns than us common folk. 

Out of some wonder, the peanut butter in our area comes in plastic jars, meaning that it is lighter than a normal jar. I save these plastic jars during the year and use them later on hikes. Also, in the local grocery stores I can buy some dairy products which come in plastic buckets and boxes (like this one, this or this) - I save these for trips and hikes: they can be easily packed into each other, or I can fill them with other objects (berries I pick from the forest, socks or anything else) after they get empty. They also hold liquids quite well, although I use a plastic bag to be sure there would be no leaking. Also, in case they become redundant I am not so sorry to dispose them as if I would be for a tupperware box. 

I wear hats and try to cover most of my body when going through thicker brush. I personally don't like when burrs, pricker bushes, or any of the other a-hole plants out there lash out on my head. Hats allow me to charge head first into some of those in order to help shield my face from them as well. Plus, depending on the climate, hats are good for both keeping me warm and keeping sweat out of my eyes. I also prefer brimmed hats for sun protection since I don't often wear sunglasses while trekking through the woods. Then, there are a select group of people who always wear hats. As in, they never go anywhere without one on. Whether they just like the feeling or they're trying to cover up some balding, they're a group of people manufacturers aren't likely to forget about. 

Although I cannot provide numbers on the nutrition facts, I would still share my experience; before leaving to a week-long hike with three friends we prepared small bags of instant porridge: 

Once it happened that we were camping in the middle of a pine tree forest: weather was clear, no wind... After waking up we found a 20 meter long pine tree fallen down right between two tents. We had sheer luck for the tree falling in the "right" angle + being slowed down by the other trees around it. 

Try starting a discussion on the couchsurfing page of the given Swedish region saying that you would like to do this or that type of trekking, for given period and difficulty, preferably include what gear would be needed; this way locals and nearby travelers may contact and join you, but beware: there is no warranty that the potential trekking partners would match your experience or expectations. Also, check out the local scout troops: if they have the rover/adult age category, you would most probably find people interested in trekking. 

I find bows are more challenging. Plus, in Ohio for whitetail deer, the archery season last from end the of September through February. The gun season lasts only a week and then an extra weekend. So comparatively, there is a lot more time you can spend in the woods if you're an archer. For the pricing bit of archery vs guns. Well, my bow (Matthews Z2) cost me 2x what my shotgun (Remington 870 express) cost. Of course, my buddy just bought a turkey shotgun that dwarfs my box cost so that part is all a matter of preference. Arrows themselves are probably about 2-3x the cost of each sabot shotgun slug. Then you need to tack on another $10-20 for broadheads for your arrows. Now yes, arrows can be reused where slugs cannot. Accessories are probably similarly priced for each item when all accounted. I personally think it is all a matter of preference and how long your seasons last. Plus, it is fair easier (and cheaper) to do more target shooting with a bow than it is with a gun. Even if you're reloading rifle ammo, you're still gonna surpass the cost of arrows rather quickly. People may be recoil sensitive so they may go archery instead. Others may be felons and not able to buy a gun. We have background checks for guns, but you can pick a bow off the shelve here. As for the noise part of it, should you really be looking to fire multiple shots? Guns make it easier for multiple since they're quicker (mostly), but I don't think you should go into it with the notion that you'll want to fire multiple shots. 

If any of the children/youngsters has an alternative we are glad to hear it and ready to implement it within our possibilities and money limits. When camping in the same place in nature for more days we still met some constraints: no opportunity for storing raw meat or eggs for a longer time; if we wanted to cook some meat, someone had to go to the village in the morning and get it. We learned to deal with this by using canned food + spicy, saucy recipes which take the attention away from the can's taste. Also, we introduced days with more "fun" food for the children, such as pancakes or something they like: this is always a pleasant surprise for them. These remain as highlights, so they never mention that one time when they had pea mash (something less popular). When they really choose not to eat, then we give them one alternative: bread with some spread - not chocolate or marmalade, but something average. At the end of the camp we make a feedback session, and then usually we hear things like "next time don't cook this or that". If there is a general argument against a food, we will take it off the list. Same worked out on biking trips (2 week long with 35 people). When we had resting days we cooked more interesting foods, which was fun and rewarding too. 

Here in Ohio we allow both rifle/shotgun and bow hunting. I think part of it comes down to the power in each of the two items. We have 40 pound minimum draw weights on the bows here for hunting. So these bows should be able to pack a bit more of a punch when they hit. Couple that with a larger cutting surface, and the game should go down after a while. Now, this after a while bit is probably where compassionate lawmakers disagree. Hitting a whitetail with a bow has many different recommended times to let the deer scamper off and bleed out. I think the minimum recommended time to go chasing after it is approximately an hour. In that time, the deer may be bedded down and bleeding out. Some people may cringe at that thought. Now let us transfer over to the gun part of things. Guns pack a good bit of power in them. I have seen a well place shot drop a whitetail in its tracks. From initial stun to death in mere seconds. I am not saying that 100% of the time gun will beat out bow though. It is all in the hands of the hunter. We assume everyone will be ethical about it. Let's not try a bow shot of 100 yards or let's not try 200 yards on a shotgun. Both can be made, but not by all hunters. I think lawmakers take that into account somewhat. I would assume the terrain would also play into it more as well for safety reasons. For example, we're only allowed straight-walled cartridges in Ohio for hunting. We are not as isolated though and a 30-06 round might end up going a bit too far for safety reasons. Lastly, another reason to only allow bow/gun or gun could be related to hunter safety. I don't particularly mean hunter shooting hunter as anyone donning the blaze orange knows that is a distinct possibility. I am meaning when hunting predatory game like bears. I have seen YouTubers do it, but I would not want to try to take a bear with my bow. I can guarantee that if I shot a bear with my bow and angered it, I would not have enough time to get another arrow and draw before its upon me with all its fury. Of course, there are others different than I, and they would gladly accept that challenge. These are just reasons off the top of my head why one might allow only certain items for hunting. The main thing to remember is that laws apply to everyone, regardless of skill. So, you really need to take that into account like the lawmakers hopefully did. You might get lucky and be able to find some write up by the legislative or judicial bodies as to their justification in certain laws or decrees.