There are a few monolithic granite rocks around my city. These are rocks with gradient of around 30 - 40 degrees. None of these offer a technical rock climbing opportunity. It's mostly about hiking up these monolithic structures in around 3-4 hours. Hence, what kind of footwear should one wear while hiking up granite rocks structures with a gradient of 30 deg? PS: I had tried with my heavy trekking shoes and they gave very little grip on the rock surface (I guess due to the hard sole). I felt that a flexible rubber sole would be better as it would grip the rocky surface better. I am not much worried about ankle twists or similar things. More concerned about a proper grip. 

On a lighter note, once when I was on a forest survey, I met a fellow who felt his swiss multi tool knife could provide him sufficient protection against wild animals. So yeah, for some, it might give some mental strength as well :D ;) EDIT: What a normal knife can't? That would be a very selective list. And probably one could argue that pretty much everything could be achieved using a normal knife with sufficient skill. Personally I do not use a bigger knife for delicate stuff like removing a splinter ;). Also, I've met folks who do not carry a knife (mostly those going for guided treks) and prefer multi tool instead. I also believe that the human tendency to feel more comfortable with more options has to do with this somehow. 

On some of my Himalayan treks I've seen people who wear shorts or wear single layer of clothing and shiver due to the cold weather (most of these people live in a tropical climate). When I've asked what they've been up to, the answer I've always received is that they are getting their bodies used to the cold weather. While I personally have felt this is foolishness (and I always end up wearing multiple layers), are these people really onto something? Does it help to help to expose yourself to the elements thereby help your body to get used to the cold weather in a short period of time? If not, is there a way one can prepare beforehand to get used to the cold weather? (based on a comment, maybe take cold showers everyday?) 

A bear feels that the human is a threat to its cubs or itself. A bear is startled by a human. An incentive - say food carried by humans (Most common when camping in bear area). 

We have tried a couple of things. I'm not entirely sure that all would agree up on these measures, but let me state them none the less. 

Dividing loads between your trek-mates is a good idea. A better one would be to pack light. In case you want to collectively gain by individually reducing the weight, then my suggestion would be to go by the comfort level of the individuals involved. A strong person might be able to haul more load. But the same one might not be able to perform the same way the next day. The division of labor changes dynamically during treks. For example: I am used to carrying heavier backpacks during my treks. I usually carry over 15Kg over treks spanning 7 days or more in the Himalayan regions. Whereas, during a weekend trek, with a backpack of just over 3Kg, I whined like a baby (my bad). Hence, when deciding on dividing your backpacks, think about the current day and the stronger person(s) on the given day. DO NOT go by weight or gender. That never works out. Happy trekking! 

A hat. Or a cap with a sun shield. It covers the back part of your neck and ears from harmful sun rays. Also, make sure that the cap is UV protective. A simple hat might not do the trick of blocking out the UV (It might protect you from direct sun though). One disadvantage of a hat is that it blocks your peripheral view (i.e if the hat droops on the sides). But for me, the advantage of protecting your neck and ears from severe sun burns outweighs the vision aspect. 

The best suggestion of moving towards a higher camp would be to judge the spirit and the Real health conditions of your group. The above mentioned points can be taken into mind before you take your call of sending people down or moving up the mountain. I would always suggest that you prepare your group to prevent AMS as much as possible. I'm pretty sure that you know the following set of points, but in the interest of the community, let me put them forth anyway. 

There's always a difference between required and excessive. A lot of these multi tools have specific purposes. Do I require a screwdriver on a trek? Mostly no. Will I use a knife, a pair of scissors or even a pair of tweezers? Mostly Yes. So do I recommend carrying a multi tool to a trek? Yes. But having said that, there are multitude of these tools out there. What one needs to look at is the one which makes sense for a trek. I have multitools which have the basic knife-scissor-tweezer-pin combination and also another one with a screwdriver-plier combination. I do not carry the screwdriver ones on treks. They are heavy and pretty much useless. What all have I used my multi tools for? 

I have found them in still water. They dwell on the ground hunting for prey. They can climb up trees barks and search for the heat signature of animals. They are found only in regions with considerable wetness. 

As a general rule, all evolved beings (the ones with a brain) can end up with mental health issues. There are multiple resources which document these. Pet birds are known to get depressed and pluck their feathers. Birds are known to show aggressive behaviors as well. In case of the reasons for why they might develop these, there could be multiple reasons. Stress, loss of companions, not finding companionship during mating season, loneliness, trauma et al. Many of the pet birds can end up with issues due to neglect and abuse as well. Here are some of the resources that talk about these: 

My personal view: I do a bit of calisthenics (which doesn't require a gym and could be outdoors as well). I hike a lot which would in a way act as an outdoors sport and used to be a volleyball player in my younger days. What I've realised is, my workouts in gym (calisthenics in this case) actually benefits my outdoor pursuits. And overall, both in different ways help you to stay fit and have an active lifestyle. EDIT: Based on the comment, how does one complement the other (some of the scenarios): 

Your concern about headache is a valid one. But also keep in mind that headache is very normal at higher altitudes. Almost everyone does go through this during the initial times of acclimatization. Usually the headache goes off as one gets used to the thin air. HAPE and HACE are life threatening conditions. Usually HAPE is the only one known to affect people at relatively lower altitudes (3000m). HACE is known to affect people around 4500+ meters. The symptoms of HAPE have already been given by Liam. Things to remember: 

I've to agree with @Dakatine on this. What also matters is how you descend. The gait and the positioning of the foot matters a lot. I've changed my gait over a period of time to avoid the knee pain. Now, I use more of my thigh and calf muscles. Apart from what Datatine wrote, here are a few more tips to reduce the impact on knees: 

I was recently watching the IFSC world cup held in Meiringen. One of the interesting observations that came across (made by the commentators) in the semis was that the routes were much easier for a shorter climber than the taller ones. And in the finals, the routes for the women turned out to be much easier than the ones set for men. So, is there a standard followed when it comes to international sports competitions regarding the routes set? Are there minimum difficulty levels that need to be matched by the route setters? 

In many of the mountaineering expedition books that I've read, there are references to cutting of snow steps on slopes. What is the advantage of cutting snow steps? Why not use crampons and do a front pointing cramponing with additional support from the ice axe? (Side stepping also seems reasonably safe on non vertical climbs). Is there a specific situation which calls for snow steps? 

Distribution of weight is a very important aspect that you have to consider while trekking for a longer duration. Ideally, the heavier things should be closer to your body and the lighter ones away from you. The logic being, the center of gravity will shift awkwardly away from your body if the heavier stuff is too far away from your body. Having said that, ease of access is also important. I have learnt over the years that there is no right way to pack to meet all your criteria. One thing that I do to allow for better organisation is: 

The bird you are listening to is a northern mocking bird. I am not sure why it’s making the calls in the middle of the night. Mockingbirds in general are known for their intelligence and their ability to learn new calls. That’s why you’ll mostly hear it making a lot of different types of calls. EDIT: After some research I found the following reasons why a mockingbird would sing at night: 

Elephants are a major threat in two situations (not that they are not a threat in other situations): 

Are there any possible risks of exercising (body weight, calisthenics only) at high altitudes? I'm talking of altitudes above 4500m. The whole premise is not to lose muscle mass. Background: I'll be trekking in the Himalayan region for a couple of months this year. Most of the treks are in the range of 4500m-5900m. Since I'll be on many long hikes, I do not want to lose the muscle mass by not doing my regular workouts (all calisthenics, no weights/machines involved). Please assume that I will have a good source of proteins. The question is purely on the any possible risks of high altitude workouts. EDIT: Please consider a fit middle aged person with zero medical issues. Who is well acclimatized for the given altitude. I'm not worried about specifics of a person. I'm more interested in how high altitude workouts could affect a person. Mostly due to oxygen deficiency. 

Always remember that when you carry a backpack, it's the whole of your upper body that has to take the weight. If the weight is only on the shoulders, you will eventually end up with with a painful back or shoulders irrespective of how strong you are. For this, the first thing is to make sure you are carrying your backpack properly. Few things to consider: 

In the first scenario, the protective instincts of the herd can cause the herd to be aggressive. In the second scenario, single males are known to be temperamental (especially during mating seasons, also called as elephants in musth). Things to look out for: 

Use your 70L backpack: Carry only the essentials for the hike while you dump the rest in your hotel room. Pros: 

I've come across a lot of articles talking of breathing techniques while running. However, I've not come across any which talks of breathing techniques for tough hikes (tough in terms of inclination and distance). Are there any breathing guidelines/methods that help during tougher, high inclination, long duration hikes? (I'm assuming a high altitude hike might end up having simlar breathing techniques along with the requirement of slow ascent for acclimatization) On one of the hikes in the himalayan foothills, one of the locals told that they synchronize their steps with their breath and that helps them to keep going on for long. Note: This question talks about breathing while bouldering. It addresses specifically the issues faced while bouldering (beautiful answer as well). 

Milam glacier falls under the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve limits. In case you want to enter a national park limits, you will need a permit from the forest department. Additionally, since parts of NDBR fall under the protected areas act, you'll need a protected areas permit to enter the Milam glacier section. The PAP can be obtained from the MHA, Dehradun. The other option is to contact the forest department of Uttrakhand and see if you can get the permit from some other source. Ideally only a PAP should cover both the protected areas permit and the forest department permit. If not, you'll have to additionally get the forest permit from Joshimath or Dehradun. Most of the national parks in India mandate a guide as this would prevent the tourists/trekkers from wandering off the set trails. I do not see why this would be any different in NDBR (Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve) as this is a UNESCO world heritage site. Most of the guides for the NDBR are located in Joshimath. The other option is to directly contact a trekking agency in Joshimath and allow them to arrange for both the guides and the permit for you. Also, please note that the national park is open only between May and October. 

Is there is an official way of grading, or an agreed set of attributes within the trekking community regarding the same? EDIT: I have removed the reference to Annapurna trek aiming to keep the discussion generic to trekking and not specific to treks from the himalayan range. Second Edit: Removed the part where I referred to a trek being classified as easy/difficult. Now the question is more focused on the criteria of grading a trek and nothing more. 

I have personally faced the second issue where the shoe fits perfectly and has great comfort on level/uphill trails but on a downhill trail, my toes would end up painful due to the slight shift of my feet inside the shoes (this is despite the shoe being tied properly and securely). Is this a trend followed by all the hikers? Or is this a pure comfort based choice? Also, please add in any additional reason why one would go for a larger shoe size when it comes to hiking shoes. Additional (interesting?) info: Last time I bought my hiking shoes, the person there made me stand on an inclined plane and jump up a couple of times (so as to allow my feet to shift). The logic being, while on a trail you would often come across inclines and the backpack would force your weight down and shift your feet a bit inside your shoes. And after this small experiment, if my toes hit the front of the shoes, I had to go for the next size. That was the criteria the person used to judge the size of the shoes I had to buy. (The laces were tight all the time and there was absolutely no way you could just slide your feet inside the shoes unless you did the jumps) 

Others have already spoken about trekking poles and the zig-zag walks. In both the cases, keeping a bent knee and using the knees as a spring helps. 

Apart from all these, some of the key things in climbing which are often neglected by non-professional climbers are: 

For the dead woods, this would be similar. To add to it, each trunk of a dead tree you come across might be hosting its own mini biosphere. The insects feeding the dead trunks/branches would be feeding the birds. Which in turn might be prey for the larger prey animals. Having said that, these changes are really difficult to observe. Even for a scientist, unless she/he carries out an extensive survey, they might not notice the subtle changes that are the results of the removal of dead/decaying trees. The effects might be seen many years later or they might not be seen at all (the ecological balance might get restored due to some other factor for all you know!) So in short, removing the dead branches/trunks from the forest might not be a great idea. Instead displace them from your trails (need not be to the base of the trees as some trees might suffer due to excessive moisture). Move them around rather than removing them completely.