Assume in the very near future almost all rail transportation would return to steam-powered locomotives. To define it exactly, I mean solid fuel is burned inside the locomotive, which boils water, which is in turn used to drive the locomotive. Assume no economic or societal collapse, or at least not a too large one. Also assume that the importance of rail transport versus road transport increases to the levels it was 70-90 years ago. Technology should be the same as we have now. Steam locomotives are not very efficient, but there might be some causes in their re-emergence. For example, rising oil prices would make road travel uneconomical for goods and only affordable for personal travel to the wealthy, just like it was 70-90 years ago. Or some regulations would be the cause of this. Whatever the reason, steam locomotives are coming back. (I know that this would explain the reduction in diesel locomotives, but not electrical ones, which can be powered by wind/solar/nuclear power. Maybe something like a new plant which grows fast, easy to harvest, and burns well, perfect for steam locomotives but not economical for power plants? I know, getting rid of electrified rail would not be easy, this might require some suspension of disbelief. But somehow, they are either gone, or reduced to niche roles) Now, steam locomotives are back, while technology is roughly the current one. How would they look like? 

In addition to crazy efficient (possibly physically impossible) compact and lightweight power storage you need some seriously heavy duty power management as well. If you try to conduct too much electricity through too narrow of a circuit its going to increase electrical resistance. This means heat. A LOT of heat. If you pulse a large enough amount of electricity through too narrow of a circuit (aka narrow enough to fit inside a handheld device) its just going to explode. You need extremeley powerful room temperature superconductors, which also might be something that is impossible to exist. Metallic hydrogen might be one but we dont know how stable/unstable it is yet, its theorized that its pretty stable, but if components of a weapon were made out of it every soldier would be carrying an unpredictable bomb instead of a reliable weapon. Were talking about exposing something that can explosivley revert back to a gaseous state to a lot of heat and kinetic energy. 

The concept was further refined at a later date to utilize specially constructed nuclear "shaped charges" known as casaba howitzers. These nuclear devices would have been created in such a way that they focused the blast into a large tungsten slug that would vaporize into a cone, or even beam shaped blast directed at the pusher-plate. It would have made the ship even more efficient with it's thrust and obliterated/irradiated less of the surrounding countryside. 

Send some very insulting messages (or simply just blackmail) in your master's name to the most violent crime organization in the area, while slipping away enough information so they can find the address. Let them do the dirty job for you. Doable if you have any control over the telephone or other communications system. 

If the "robot overlord" is really a superintelligent and self-sufficient AI (instead of an army of drones still listening to a human chain of command, or even an AI chain of command like in the movie "I, Robot"), then the most practical solution would be an artificial intelligence which understands human psychology much better than the humans themselves, so it can out-gambit any human. You will need no robot army enforcing rules with weapons. Give this AI a means to have personal contact with every human, for example, making it part of their operating system, or cell phone, as a companion giving the humans advices, or chatting with them when they feel bored, etc. As the AI understands humans better then the humans understand themselves, it can, given enough time, persuade people to do whatever it wants. Note, that this would be no propaganda on the television screens or out of megaphones on the streets, and no commands will be given by robots with weapons, like you can find in many dystopian movies. The "propaganda" would be suited to each individual, by knowing their most important values and deepest desires. A good example for this would be the hard sci-fi stories of the Optimalverse, stories centered around the story Friendship is Optimal. In it, an AI has the following hard-coded goal: satisfy the values of humans, with one limit: any change performed on a human must require said human's consent, which is not allowed to be accomplished via force or threat of force. It still finds a way to subjugate all of mankind 

Your Post Apocalyptic Doctors Have an Advantage Knowledge. In the 1680's people didn't know a lot of basic scientific theories we now take for-granted. For instance, up until the 1700's people didn't know that the heart circulated blood, they thought it somehow created it to be dispersed to the body where it would be absorbed and used up, obviously if your body was producing too much blood you'g get sick so that's why we better drain the extra with leeches and razors. They didn't know what germs or viruses were, let alone why handling a cadaver then helping deliver a baby was a bad idea. If the mother died it was just the will of god, the influence of the devil, or because some "bad air" got into somewhere it shouldn't have, so lets keep some religious icons on hand and sprinkle the room with lavender oil to ward away the miasmatic air. Your ORE may not have the high tech equipment that their more advanced fore bearers did, but they still have knowledge in the books that were left behind. They understand why sanitation is important and can diagnose and treat illnesses beyond a vague "you got the consumption, breathe clean air and drink lots of snake oil then purge the bad blood with leeches." Primitive lower purity medicines can be derived from chemistry books. For instance they would know that aspirin can be extracted from willow bark. At great expense they have acquired and cultivate opium poppy seeds from which morphine can be extracted. They would understand that extracting Nitric Acid from ammonium nitrate and sprinkling it over iron filings would produce nitrous-oxide. They would understand that blood types are different and how to safely perform blood transfusions. You now have antiseptics, light and heavy painkillers, anesthetic, safe blood transfusions, and an understanding of human anatomy. You can now perform basic surgeries and medical diagnosis and safely attempt treatment on many many illnesses beyond a vague remedial guess and a prayer. I'm envisioning a group with a near religious devotion to knowledge and science struggling to recreate the mythical wonders of the old ones with their more-primitive tools. When they cannot treat something then their function in society is to help ease the person's discomfort and ease their passing. 

Make magic illegal or highly regulated in your world. Therefore, only criminals will use magic. (and maybe some special law-enforcement forces created to fight them) 

Define "medieval ages". It encompassed approximately 1000 years in Europe, the last few centuries of which already had gunpowder. The problem with early grenades (and early firearms too) was that they didn't have contact fuses: you had to light them on fire yourself. Starting a fire (unless you had a lit torch with you) took quite some of time. There were some early contact explosives (for example "fulminating gold"), but they were very unstable. Maybe even better for a mysterious "miracle seller", and its instability (and price) also explains why it's that rare and almost unheard of in your story? 

Having a lot of soft power (cultural inertia, religious significance, historical legitimacy), being the seat of many global financial organizations, being in a good geographical spot, and having good defenses (less military strength than the two major powers, but enough to make any invasion a Pyrrhic victory, especially if you possess nuclear weapons) can make a country have significantly more political power than what any other country of similar geographical size and population could achieve. 

Not Like You Would Think Solar Flares actually routinely hit earth every year, this is why we have the Aurora Borealis. The vast VAST majority of solar flares are not high energy enough to really do much except mess with sensitive communication equipment and create the northern lights. Solar Flares are intense bursts of high energy plasma on the surface of the sun, but due to gravity and magnetic properties they will always curve back inward to the surface of the sun. These do throw off intense bursts of high energy particles but our earths electromagnetic field typically captures them, this is why there are northern lights, and it creates some low level electromagnetic activity when it interacts with our magnetic field. Every few hundred to few thousand years there can be abnormally powerful solar activity. The last time this happened was in 1859 in an occurrence known as the Carrignton event. Thousands of fires were started when telegraph offices and transmitters shorted out, People could see the Aurora as far south as Baltimore, and the worlds early tele-communications network was basically destroyed. This was not really a big deal for them back then since it was a fledgling technology and there wasn't that much to replace or rebuild and it wasnt very complex to do so. If a Carrington level event happened today the effects would be catastrophic. Virtually all power and communications transmission systems would fail, and the planet would be set back technologically almost 200 years literally overnight. Vast swathes of the population would starve to death as infrastructure broke down and emergency response is rendered nearly impossible due to a near complete inability to organise anything without communications. This is because the burst of high energy solar particles impacting our magnetosphere would cause a highly powerful electromagnetic pulse. EMP damages electronics by inducing a charge on metallic surfaces. This is only milli-volts per square foot of surface area exposed, normally pathetically tiny, but if you factor in the surface area of a 1000 mile long power line it adds up into a huge surge that blows the transformers. Additionally our electrical equipment is a lot more delicate and sensitive than a telegraph machine was in the 1800's. Only a tiny tiny surge between two micro-printed circuits is enough to irreparably damage a computerized device. So, to summarize, the earth would not be bathed in radiation and fire, but pretty much most of our modern tech would fail and there would really be no way to organize a response to it. Society would be thrown into chaos and a lot of people would die before things evened out again. The thing is, these solar events are not only very very rare, but there is only a minuscule chance that it would even be directed at the earth if it even were to happen. It has a literally infinite number of vectors it could occur towards and only one that intersects with earth's orbit. 

The question didn't state that the steam engine needs to be used to propel the ship. So yes, if the ship is large enough and needs a lot of electricity, it is feasible to use a steam engine, or more specifically, a steam turbine. The water is boiled not by burning coal, but by nuclear fission. There are modern ships and submarines which do this. Of course, they also use it for propulsion, as electrical motors turn propellers. You obviously can't use propellers in space, but if your internal electrical needs are high enough, a nuclear reactor can be warranted on such a spaceship. And, nuclear reactors are actually a form of steam engine. 

This topic has already been explored in the video game 6 Days A Sacrifice. A very Scientology-inspired organization is a front for a cult to bring a transdimentional horror into our universe. They use a shiny office building and a biological research complex as a front to make money required to maintain a cloning complex, which they require to produce sacrificial clones to maintain the mind/spirit/something of a possessed man, essential in contacting the aforementioned transdimentional horror. 

Psychology isn't actually a hard science I am not obtusivley trying to give you a non-answer, but psychology is not like chemistry or physics where you can pretty much know that if you do A to B then C will reliably and verifiably happen every time. Psychology is a combined product of genetics, parental behavior, childhood environment, culture, and is also subject to interpretation of and the psychological reaction of the evaluating party. There are people who were beaten and horribly abused emotionally every day of their lives who grow up into perfectly functional and well adjusted people, there are kids from wealthy well to do sedate and supportive families who will randomly decide to start shooting meth and mutilating cats at age 25. In psychology we cannot look at any one thing and say "yup, you spanked yer kid too much and laughed at their Halloween costume when they were 5 so now they're going to have a midget fetish." Psychology just cant do that, it can observe trends and try to isolate factors that seem to have a greater influence over certain behaviors, but nobody on this planet can with any certainty tell you how a person is going to psychologically react to anything. A wonderful example of this is experiments in using psychological warfare. The idea was for a device that dispersed a gas that smelled bad enough to chase rioters away without the harsh and violent effects of teargas. It failed because people's idea of what smells bad is not a fixed thing. People from japan found the dead fish formula to smell delicious, people from paupau new guinea were repulsed by the smell of baking bread, people from India only found the scent of raw sewage mildly annoying, etc etc. What the tests ended up confirming was that you cannot predict how everyone will react to anything. So in summary, there is no way to answer your question scientifically. Your character can react to this circumstance however you wish to write them doing so. 

Bad idea. Among all close combat weapons, swords require the most agility. Despite videogames conditioning us that swords require strength and bows require agility, actually it's reversed. Despite movies and videogames showing us fighters who hack at each other sloooowly and with full swings just as if they were chopping wood with an axe, swords were never used for chopping. They were used either for thrusting or cutting, both requiring great wrist agility. See it for yourself in this video. Think about how you could perform those quick motions with a sword rigidly fixed to your arm, without your hands. Against armor, you would be in even deeper trouble. Using sword against armor is possible, but it requires special tactics which would be impossible without being flexible with your hands. Even just basic stabbing would be inefficient, you would not be able to pull your sword back far enough, so an opponent stepping in close would make you completely defenseless. Besides these disadvantages, medieval warriors needed to be proficient in many types of weapons, as all weapon types have advantages and disadvantages. Swords, maces, pikes; open field, ambush, siege or indoors, countering infantry or cavalry, different situations require different weapons and tactics. 

People generally over-estimate the effects of nuclear fallout. When a nuke detonates there is a very powerful burst of neutron, gamma, X-ray, UV, IR, Beta and Alpha radiation. You can block most of these with just the regular walls of your house. The real killer is the gamma radiation. dependent on blast size the initial pulse of radiation is so powerful at ground zero that there is pretty much nothing that can shield you from it feasibly. Blast energy and thermal energy render just about any form of defense utterly useless at this range anyways. Then there's fallout, which is irradiated dirt, dust, and ashes tossed into the atmosphere. Fallout is actually pretty short lived. it emits beta, alpha and gamma particles. you can block beta and alpha radiation with basically just very heavy clothing and wearing some kind of air filter. Fallout still emits gamma radiation however. Gamma radiation travels in straight lines, kind of like light. so imagine if you shined a really big spotlight into a tunnel. it would go all the way to the back, or until it hit a corner right? So fallout shelters need to have enough of a corner on the entrance that the gamma radiation cant "shine" in. Fallout also doesn't last long unless the nuke was specifically "salted" with cobalt to produce long lived radioactive isotopes. It is dangerous for about 3 to 6 weeks, then the radiation dies down enough that you could walk around outside without any negative effects. It would basically be totally gone within a few months. as long as you didn't eat or inhale too much of of the radioactive dust before the 3 to 5 week mark you would pretty much be fine. Filtering for fallout is easy too, its just radioactive dust. Anything that can remove as close to 100% of the dust from the air is an adequate filter. You only need about 4 feet of soil to shield from the gamma radiation levels of fallout, or 2 feet of concrete. The average basement is already a fairly decent gamma radiation shield (as long as you aren't at ground zero and can keep the airborne radioactive dust out obviously.) The biggest issue with a Mine shaft based fallout shelter is that that is a LOT of volume to provide clean air, power, and heat to while not protecting you any more than a buried concrete or metal structure closer to the surface would. Mine shafts also tend to build up toxic or even explosive gases, and would need to be very very well ventilated to be safe. You would need an Industrial air filtration and ventilation set up, a power source for that (also VERY big) and you would need to have a way to heat and light it. The entrance would either need to be curved or around a corner, or be built thick and heavy enough to shield from the gamma radiation of fallout (2 feet of concrete, 8 inches of lead, or 12 inches of steel.) If you are thinking "ground zero survival" forget it. Even ignoring the blast and heat you'd need about 20 feet of steel to pull it off, and thats ONLY for the radiation, not the heat, and over pressure (which would liquefy your organs and brain anyways). So long answer short: Fallout shelters are pretty easy to build without using a mine-shaft, and pretty much nothing is going to survive a direct strike by a modern thermo-nuclear weapon. (which often carry anywhere from 3 to 12 warheads which they deploy against a target like a heavy bunker in a cluster-bomb style attack). Here is a link to a modular bunker builder company that build fallout shelters big enough to hold a few hundred people if need be: $URL$ 

To get a grasp of how likely they are to fail, let's study the voyage of Magellan across the Pacific. 

Design a nanotechnological virus which infects everyone but remains dormant. The image will be just a trigger for the virus to activate and kill the host. 

If they are "some of the smartest people in the known universe" then they surely know the difference between correlation and causation. They might have even made experiments with giving security troops (and only security troops) green shirts, and observed that now green shirts "produced" the most casualties. On days where more ice-cream is sold, more people drown. Does this means that ice-cream causes drowning? Or might it be, that when the wetter is hot, more people eat ice-cream, but also more people go swimming? So, as it doesn't matter, and as people are already used to the color red, they just keep it out of sheer cultural inertia. Maybe they like cultural inertia, and don't like the idea of renaming or recoloring something every ten years or so to become "the new black".