Distance is an ambiguous term that can mean both centre-centre and surface-surface depending on the context it is used. 

As two objects revolve around each other, they would make two waves per orbit,resulting in a double frequency of the system's rotation. 

The Earth is a very smooth sphere, and the Sun even more so, with only minor fluctuations. I am wondering: are larger stars even rounder? Intuitively, that seems self evident, but I am not so sure. For instance, the hydrostatic equilibrium causes larger stars to be much less dense than red dwarfs. So what is the most important factor for how round a star is, a higher mass, or less activity? The most prominent cause of irregularities is of course the rotation rate of the star, which is pretty much independent of size. Ignoring that, do larger stars have smaller a deviations from the ellipsoid relative to their size? Edit As it seems like the "other than rotation rate" criterion is not really meaningfull, I now terminate it. 

Having a Jupiter size planet is certainly not unique, and plate tectonics we know nothing about for exoplanets. 

Actually, hydrogen can have as many electron levels as you want. However, they only exist at specific energy levels, with the potential energy given as: $$E=-\frac{R_H}{n^2}$$ Where $R_h$ is the Rydberg constant, and $n$ is any integer. When electrons are exited to a higher energy lever, they will fall back after some time and emit photons (not protons, by the way). So how many levels do they drop? Well, in the case of hydrogen, it will eventually go back to the basic energy level, but this is not guaranteed to happen in one jump. This may or may not take multiple jumps, that depends on probability. For a simple atom like hydrogen, those probabilities may be possible to calculate analytically. For more complex atoms however, this becomes an extremely difficult task, usually approached by simulations. 

Yes, GW has Doppler shift too, as they are travelling at a finite speed, but no, there are no emission or absorption lines we can detect it from. In EM radiation those are caused by the fact that light is quantized, such that certain wavelengths can be absorbed or emitted by atoms. As far as we know, gravity is not quantized, or the effect is too small to be measured. Any irregularity in the signal is then going to be continuous, and not wavelength specific. Detecting a spectra in gravitational waves is unlikely, but would strengthen the theories of quantum gravity and the graviton. 

The ninth planet can absolutely be a "virtual", in the way you describe it, meaning observed data indicating the gravitational influence by an object is not actually caused by such an object. A simple visualisation of this is the case of a two-body system, where we observe two objects orbiting a common barycentre. From the observed data, one can get the impression that there is an object in the barycentre, pulling both of your observed objects against it.1 However, a barycentric way to explain the observations gets less likely as you add more bodies. Be aware that the current indications of "planet 9" is based on a mere correlation of some not-so-accurate data, from a small sample size, heavily biased by observation constraints. 

My understanding is that there is a gravitationally stable region between the Sun and Mercury where asteroids could - in theory - orbit for long periods without being perturbed. However these hypothetical vulcanoids are seemingly non-existent; it being likely that their orbits decay through other means besides the influence of a planet, such as the Yarkovsky effect. We also have trojan asteroids, which share the orbits of planets such as Jupiter but spend their time in the leading and trailing Lagrange Points, keeping their orbits stable. If a Hot Jupiter such as 51 Pegasi b were to host trojan asteroids, would their proximity to the planet allow their orbits to remain stable for longer, or would their orbits decay regardless? If a Hot Jupiter migrated inwards towards its star, is it more likely to have swept away any possible trojans? 

Honestly, I hadn't heard the term 'zero age main sequence' until this question came along. The Wikipedia page you linked mentions the zero age term and provides a link to an explanation. Zero Age Main Sequence refers more to a specific point in a star's life. When determining the age of a star, astronomers will sometimes start counting from when it joins the main sequence (so it would be 'zero years old' when it does so). Before this time in this case, the object would be considered a protostar. 

Some of this might stray into WorldBuilding StackExchange territory, and 'when' will be tough to approximate as galactic rotation and stars going through different phases of their lives can make constellations and reference points obsolete with time. As StephenG mentioned, pulsars, owing to their (usually) unchanging and detectable rotation periods, can be used as reference points. The plaques attached to Pioneer 10 and 11 provide the solar system's location relative to nearby pulsars. Pulsar coordinates were also added to the Voyager Golden Album too. The alternative would be to adopt relatively fixed locations on your 'local' celestial sphere and determine your position relative to them, and therefore where your destination is. This assumes you know where your destination is relative to your reference points. The galactic core's location, the direction of galactic rotation, the Magellanic Clouds or other extra-galactic sources could be your reference points. They would hardly be accurate but if you are attempting a Voyager-esque journey through the Milky Way, it's a start. 

Mercury's surface was virtually unknown until Mariner 10 flew by and Venus is covered in clouds. Of the terrestrial planets, that leaves Mars. It was likely Christiaan Huygens in November 1659 who first realised Mars was rotating when he tried to map it. His estimate of roughly 24 hours was fairly close. I believe Galileo's earlier observations on Jupiter were with a telescope not powerful enough to resolve smaller 'surface' features (like the Great Red Spot), which may have either proven that Jupiter rotates, or at least that something on the surface is moving across it. 

To terraform Mars, broadly speaking would make it more like an analogy of Earth. As you say, it might be a little colder, but we would expect a terraformed Mars to have oceans, snow and maybe some imported plant life. How would Mars look from Earth? A good starting point would be to see it the opposite way around. Here is how Earth looks from Mars. Like Earth from a distance, a terraformed Mars would likely appear as a pale blue or white dot. If you want more snow or ice than water, it would surely lean towards white rather than a deep blue.