Well there are more than one meaning to the lotus image. It is a multi-layered symbol. $URL$ the meaning of the muddy waters, physicality being the ground out of which the nirvana experience grows. 

I have never seen a zombie. Is this an invention of human fear? If I told you that I have dreams about flying cows, would flying cows have a Buddha nature? What keeps us from seeing Buddha nature is the concept of self that we entertain in our hearts and mind. If the cup is empty, it can be filled. If the cup is full of muddy water, you can put nothing in it till you empty out the muddy water and wash the glass. A koan in Zen is "Does a dog have Buddha nature?" Some masters say yes and some say no. It is unanswerable unless one uses it as a koan. More on this here. $URL$ 

Dogen tried to demystify the practice of meditation and put things in an experiential reference point. One must choose a path that is inclined to the ways that are your own inner orientation. Both of these examples offer evidence of the Buddha and Dogen being free of being firebrand preaching in favor of sticking to the plain, essentials of the path. This question remains open to various interpretation as long as no reliable sources exist directly from the time of Buddha. However, Dogen's life is well documented and may give us clues to the Buddha's style and intensity. 

In the same vein as ChrisW's answer, I would ask you, "You and I live different lives. I do not live your life. Is it appropriate for me to give advice?" The answer is generally "yes," especially in the position you have chosen to put yourself in, asking us for advice on this forum. =) So what is the difference between me giving you advice on a life I don't live and a monk giving you advice on a life he or she does not live? One may argue that it's a level of differentiation, but that immediately begs the question of what level of differentiation is appropriate? Indeed, is it not reasonable to seek advice from everybody? I know that, in my culture, we prize the ability of children to see things through their young eyes and reveal what we cannot see ourselves. Of course, we aren't obliged to follow their advice either. If we were, my toddler would have far more cookies in her diet! You point to the title of "venerable" as an object of concern. Alan Watts had a line of reasoning in one of his lectures that addressed this issue. He focused on the concept of the teacher, and asked "From what does the authority of a teacher come from?" What gives a teacher the right to tell you what to do. The answer he offered: "The authority of the teacher comes from the student." If someone wishes to learn from another, they might say "hey, tell ya what. I'll call you teacher, and you call me student," and from that the authority stems forth. As you say, they are fallible. But they have also devoted a tremendous amount of time to seeing the world through eyes very different from your own. If they are willing to share their advice with you, that should be seen as a blessing. I can call myself "venerable" if I want. It's just a word. Whether anyone wishes to act upon my claim is entirely up to them. However, as a general statement, we find that the lay society has decided that when a monk or nun is called "venerable," we really mean it. There is something special there. You obviously don't have to take my word for it. I have no authority. But the fact that lay society accepts that monks and nuns can and should be given this title is something worth noting, and you should decide what to derive from it. If I were in a position of authority, I'd argue that it indicates that your peers have found their advice is worth heeding, but as I stated, no authority here besides that which you give me. 

Seems like the Buddha may have seen some pride in the perfectly straight back and some dogged determination in the slumping monk. Others say don't worry, meditate walking or standing on your head. Presence. 

Seon for the most parts goes through fewer changes then either of its "parents." Now Gihwa enters the scene after centuries of decline in Seon in Korea and tends to revitalize and refocus Seon. Here is a little of his biography. Gihwa (1376-1433) 

Thich Nhat Hahn is the only one I have read who attributes a significance to smiling. It may have to do with the challenging times he has had to endure. $URL$ The interview with him contains much of his practice, but here is an excerpt about smiling 

In the sense that Shunryu Suzuki uses "beginner's mind" there is no losing the beginners mind. It is our natural beingness. Being lost to it is believing there is something in this world of appearance that can fulfill us or satisfy our longing to be in "beginner's mind". Here is one quote that talks about our natural beingness: $URL$ 

Fear can lead to anger and can also lead to lashing out at others in order to "protect" our self, as though it is vulnerable to another. And here are some of the precepts to deal with and overcome anger $URL$ 

In my own search, as a non-Buddhist, I have found that logical questioning is useful, but it has limits. In particular, it is reasonably effective at identifying paths that cannot lead to enlightenment once you have decided on characteristics of enlightenment that are important to you, and reasonably effective at identifying the general direction towards enlightenment in many situations. It can be a useful tool to assist you in your search alongside the advise of those teachers you respect. In particular, it can be a powerful tool for upsetting existing assumptions in your own mind. These assumptions can be dealt with in other methods but sometimes logical thought can arrive there faster. If you go far enough down the path of trying to apply logical thought, you'll eventually come across Gödel's incompleteness theorems or Tarski's undefinability theorem. These theorems demonstrate limits in mathematically rigorous thought when dealing with self-referential systems (such as nearly any religious statement including the word "I"). They demonstrate that, for a large body of questions which are highly related to enlightenment, logic simply cannot provide the answer. Often it can barely even phrase the question. From experience, I can also provide a warning: if you rely too heavily on logic, once you reach its limits you can feel lost. Always try to find a happy medium between logic and the more traditional approaches such as meditation and vipassana. Also be ready for that ideal balance to both change as you grow and to be extremely difficult to quantify using the logical and mathematical part of your approach. 

What seems to be stressed here is not the value of what one gives but the intention of the heart. It no where mentions cutting off a part of your body and offering that. If the tiger is a smart tiger and in a suitable environment, its needs will be fulfilled. Carnivores clean up the dead and sickly. Feeding wolves or lions or tigers does not serve a great a purpose as dedicating your life to helping others. The physical body is only on loan. If we can make no better investment than feeding wild animals, how can we claim buddhahood as our inheritance? To claim buddha nature, we must express buddha nature in its many aspects. An act of suicide, throwing your body to wild animals does not express the highest qualities of the Buddha, and goes against the principal of doing no harm. Doing harm to one's own body or not taking care of it goes against this precept. It cannot be dana under those circumstances. 

On the other hand, if you want to experience whatever is in consciousness, Buddhism is a path to awakening consciousness. The problem is what you think is a black hole now stands in the way of your experiencing it in meditation. If you think of a black hole not as a vortex as it is often depicted, but as part of the dark matter and energy that scientists say compose 96% of the invisible universe. So Buddhism can lead you beyond the 4% of the visible to the 96% of the invisible and possibly unknowable by intellectual means. However consciousness has no such limits. So getting back to your question, if you want to study black holes scientifically, then other sites and practices would be better. On the other hand if your curiosity is even bigger to experience all there is in consciousness, then Buddhism offers you a way to get there. Meditation is the most likely tool you would want. Here is one type of meditation that you could practice $URL$ If this seems suitable to you, then I would most definitely read a few pages a day of Shunryu Suzuki's treatise on meditation that goes even beyond concepts of Buddhism. $URL$ If you want just the meditation, mindfulness could be a useful practice: $URL$ For whatever sincere reason you have to start practicing, I heartily endorse your entry. If it is right for you other doors will open. And in any case you will learn the most basic practice of being alive through being aware of the breath.