The games of cricket and baseball are similar and can be looked at in an evolving type of way. Games similar to cricket were developed and the sport progressed as the rules and concepts changed. Over the course of hundreds of years the sport of baseball was created. To be correct Cricket may have not have even come first. See this reference to Rounders. There were other English games that went by similar rules to cricket and rounders. These games had many different names and variants. From Origins of Baseball 

Cricket Cricket can be dated back to 1550 but games very similar to cricket had been developed in the 13th century. Baseball The following is excluding the myth that Abner Doubleday invented the game of baseball: Quoted from the baseball wikipedia page: 

At that time there were tons of institutions called "Notre Dame", so it is pretty hard to find. According to French Wikipedia, first communion was at age 7-8 in 1910. Not sure about before, but that might be from a école élémentaire (or the equivalent at that time). Your best bet is to find similar anchors in this list of city blasons, and check whether each city had a "Notre Dame" school. The city of Berck has a anchor in its blason, and has a school+college named Notre Dame. There might be others. 

The following statement is my own conclusion and should be regarded as such: It would seem that America adopted baseball instead of cricket simply due to the fact that cricket was not established a "professional sport". The game continued to evolve and the many variants ended up leading to the game of baseball. By the time the evolution of the game caught up with the need/want of a professional sport baseball had the upper hand. EDIT: Who gets credit for baseball Also from the origins of baseball Link Congress has credited Alexander Cartwright (An American) as the inventor of baseball and he is honored in the Baseball Hall of Fame. But there are plenty of myths (See the Abner Doubleday Entry, as well as this quote) -From the origins of baseball page 

What are these Kottabos players holding in their left hand? It is seen in a lot of similar pictures. It is as if the player refills the kylix from it. Is it a skyphos? Any info on this? 

Wikipedia: The Unification Flag is a flag designed to represent all of Korea when North and South Korea participate as one team in sporting events. Still according to Wikipedia, in recent years the North Korean government is using this flag outside of the sport context, at highly political border events. 

Since 1948, Israel's Official Gazette has detailed all of the bills and notices of Israel's government, making it a mine of historical information. The website of the Israel State Archives says: 

Once freed a Gladiator would become a Rudiarius and would be given a rudis which was a wooden sword that symbolized their freedom. Some gladiators stayed near and with their rudis were able to take up training of other gladiators. Others were even offered coin to return to the arena. 

Due to the fact that the first published rules of baseball were written in 1845 by Alexander Cartwright the game of baseball (similar to the one we know) would not have existed during the colonial times and would not have been promoted anyway. Adoption of Cricket in America Source (also included a great timeline of colonial cricket The first recorded American Cricket match was in 1751 in New York and was popular among colonists before that time. However the Revolution came around and had an impact on all things British. From the timeline on the above linked page. 

Written by Ben Gurion, the first issue is also known as the Proclamation of Independence. QUESTION: Can the Official Gazette be seen online? It does not seem to be readable on the website of the Israel State Archives. 

Section 411 of the USA PATRIOT ACT of 2001 (8 U.S.C. § 1182) authorized the Secretary of State, in consultation with or upon the request of the Attorney General, to designate terrorist organizations for immigration purposes. This authority is known as the Terrorist Exclusion List (TEL) authority. The TEL list has not been update since 2004. Is it still used for any purpose? Has it been sort of superseded by the FTO list (which has a different definition, but is updated regularly)? 

Extra Interesting Info: He did debunk the myth that the first casuality for the south was that of soldier from North Carolina. 

Just to back up Wladimir's post of the inaccuracy of the numbers. Josh Howard a North Carolina Historian stated in this article 

By the time the Allies were set to enter Munich the city was already in shambles. It had been bombed a few times and an air battle occured over the city about a year prior. The city was ruined and was basically easily taken. According to this article a US soldier received his orders to enter Munich early in the morning on April 30th, 1945 and by 2PM he was standing on the central square and by the end of the day the city was for the most part captured (There was a pitched battle the next day at the Munich Airport). For a more in depth view see the section of the article called "Liberating a semi-deserted city" All in all this quote from the article sums up the capture of Munich 

I could find some info about it in Russian, but not in English. How is this organization known as in the English-speaking world? Google Translate says "Islamic Jihad - Jamaat Mujahideen". 

Russia's list of designated terrorist organizations contains a list of names that are easily identifiable, except this one that I can't identify: 

The referenced page which states that Napoleon required a guarantee from employers that workers wages would remain high. It merely says that "[Napoleon's] police sometimes prevented employers from lowering wages as part of a carefully calculated balancing act". Also, it can be imagined that wars caused a labor shortage which raised wages. (based entirely on comments from Clint and Steve) 

As for the Roman Military they used a gladius you suggested as their main fighting tool. To back up my answer this site has pictures and summaries of roman weapons etc (None of which seem to resemble a scimitar). There are two types of these: The first being the original shorter Gladius Hispaniensis. The second being the more pointier Gladius Pompeianus The Roman Military was also outfitted with a Spatha which was a much longer sword. With neither of the swords in the picture resembling a gladius in my opinion the only option could be a spatha. A quote from the above linked site. 

Maybe Stakhanov could be what you are looking for. Persistence: He broke mining records several times. Constent improvement: Even though his character might be mythical (probably forged by propaganda), he really improved mining techniques as an engineer, via the separation of tasks. 

Extracts from Kayla Theresa Natrella's Witchcraft and Women: A Historiography of Witchcraft as Gender History mentioned in rougon's answer: Main claims: Jules Michelet: 

I have heard that blue identified with Saint Martin, and red with Saint Denis, but the Wikipedia pages of these two saints do not mention these colours, so I have doubts.