Taking inspiration from the elder scrolls, imagine a world that is composed of gods. There are twelve planets, each of which is the body of a god that gave up part of their power to create the human inhabited world. The laws of physics are the 'bodies' of gods that sacrificed their forms completely to form the world, with those gods existing in a state like a coma. The world itself is both forged from the donated 'pieces' of the 12 gods and earth-like, with animals similar to earth. There are two moons, believed to be two minor gods. Humans are the only sentient species and have technology equal to our own. The 12 gods are revered by most cultures, however their names and roles are undefined. Given all of those are known to humans, how would people approach the study of science? Would there be an overlap of the priesthood and researchers? How would an average person of faith view scientific study? 

Imagine a person who has 'passive' precognitive abilities. During sleep, they dream of random future events-these can range from events that will happen in a few hours to events that will happen in a million years. During their waking hours, they 'remember' events that will happen in the next few days. They can force the ability to get a glimpse of the future, but it causes headaches and cramps that can seriously ruin their day So for example, take Alice. On Monday night, she dreams of a future catastrophe where a massive meteor slams into the earth, from the point of view of a random person on the street.Next day, her friend Bob mentions a job interview and Alice sympathises on how badly it went for him- only for him to say it isn't going to happen until Saturday. She then tries to find out why it'll go badly, catches a snatch of their conversation and ends up with a nosebleed and a migraine. What kind of effects would that have on a person's mental health, if they have the ability their whole lives? Assuming that the forward remembrances happen a couple of times a day and that the future is fixed- Bob's interview is going to go badly and he can't change that. The longer the time they try and look forwards, the longer and worse the pain- looking more than 10 years into the future causes fainting and can take over a week to recover from. 

Nothing Magic Nothing strategic (compared to the nearby pass) Nothing Religious Near (or possibly slightly in) mountains 

Now let's talk explosives. 1kg of tnt is equivalent to 4 million joules of energy. An aim-9 sidewinder missile's warhead weighs 9kg, and I'm willing to be it's got more than tnt inside it. But let's just assume that our aim-9 missile can output some 40Mj of destruction. Allowing for our 2% efficiency from earlier, we need an electrical source providing 20Tj of energy to deal the same amount of damage. The engine from a 777 airliner outputs 83,164 kW, so to fire our weapon we have to be running that airliner engine for around 67 hours. An airliner burns tonnes of fuel per hour. Needless to say, the extra energy required to manoeuvre those tonnes of fuel vs carrying 10kg of high explosive? So how about nuclear reactors then? It's very hard to estimate how heavy a reactor is (and in space, it's all about how much it weighs). The RTG's flown on existing spacecraft are measured in the 100's of watts, so you'll be charging your guns for years. However, if we have a pair of nimitz's nuclear reactors (550Mw), then we can squeeze off a shot every twenty seconds. Still, two A4w reactors aren't light-weight, and one shot every 20 seconds is pretty pitiful. In short: you can stock a lot of missiles for the same mass. 

As I see it, the main problem with ramming another ship is that both ships would have to slow down enough to allow one of them to ram. The reasons for this are two-fold. First, it's extremely difficult to ram another ship that is just in a stable orbit going at orbital speeds. This is due to orbital mechanics being extremely complex and spaceships being very small compared to space. Second, if both ships were going at orbital speeds, then one of them hitting the other would destroy both. Not a good outcome for either of the crews. :( And when I'm talking orbital speeds, I mean everything from Earth orbit, to the various solar orbits needed to get from planet to planet. To help in imagining the damage a ramming space ship can do to itself and the other ship, just look at the accident reports on an interstate highway during icy conditions. Often times both cars involved in a collision are totaled, along with the people inside them. 

Have you considered a steam-powered exoskeleton for the human. The exoskeleton could have a larger steam reserve than an unaided human could carry, plus it could absorb the forces that hitting something with the hammer would produce. Oh yes, lots of gears and flywheels. The hammer would basically be a large hammer with a long handle (for leverage). The handle would have a thin hollow area for steam to go through, and one end of the hammer would have a steam rocket to accelerate this hammer faster than humanly possible. The human would be protected by the exoskeleton from the forces that would otherwise break his arms. By putting some light armor in there, he would also be protected from concrete chips and pieces of brains that would be thrown back by attacking a concrete wall or a human respectively. And if swallowed by megafauna, the boiler could be made to explode, at least giving it indigestion. 

The police do have methods for dealing with unruly people without firearms. From batons and riot shields to high-power-water-guns, police have trained in non-violent ways to keep the peace. The first step is talking to the people involved - most people in society are honest when directly confronted. Pulling out a weapon to kill someone is a sign that all other methods have failed. I will also add that your situation works both ways. If normal clothing stops a bullet, then your "bad guys" will also struggle to kill anyone. 

When Atlantis was sinking, the residents knew about it only slightly in advance. Being sensible people, they rushed into their basements and shut the doors. One atlantis had sunk, they dug between the basements to form a network of underwater/underground rooms. They somehow figured out how to get air down there (and how to build airlocks), and decided there was no reason for them to move. Over the past thousand years, the sea gradually destroyed all of the buildings. If you know what to look for the doors aren't hard to find, but the lack of above-sea-floor structures make it almost impossible to locate on sonar. 

So how to generate it? A nuclear reactor and an electromagnet is one way - but that'd be power hungry. However you would have to constantly feed power into whatever magnetisation system you're using. Each particle it turns away from the ship will weaken it slightly. [work = force * distance. Force != 0 (it turns away), distance != 0 (the particle is moving while force is applied) therefore work != 0. If work != 0, then energy input is required]. Probably more efficient than a nuclear reactor and electromagnet running all the time is to use the reactor/electromagnet to magnetise a bar of iron. Then you can turn the reactor off until the iron is demagnetised to no longer be useful. You remagnetise it, and off you go again. 

Even if there were such a crop that could allow humans to survive, I only have to think of the Irish Potato Famine to see how bad an idea this is. At least in reality - in fiction it might add a lot to your story, but I wouldn't plot it this way. Depending on a single food source also means that anything that hurts the food source causes famine. The Irish Potato Famine, or the Great Famine occurred between 1845 and 1849. About 1,000,000 people died and a similar number emigrated. If there is magic, then perhaps this magic could be used to cleanse the toxicity from other crops for the vitamins and minerals that the main non-toxic crop can't provide as well as providing a back-up food source. Mankind has survived on toxic food in many places. Sometimes it is prepared with specialized cooking, such as boiling it multiple times to remove the poisons. Sometimes such as the Fugu fish in Japan chefs are trained to cut out the poison glands, however people still die from eating these fish, and much as I like seafood, I think I'll skill this particular fish. 

This is even worse. You are having character go back in age. The only way this makes even a little sense to me is if they truly go back to that age. This means that they have no memories of anything beyond their younger days and don't realize anything has happened because for them it hasn't. In other words, why should their bodies be extremely selectively changed merely because they've go to a universe with a different rate of time? 

200 years to reach technology requirements, 700 years to reach your city count and 1000 years to reach the population count. So you can reach your target faster if you have cloning technology. 

In the comments, Madlozoz notes that antifreeze protiens can't melt ice. This is because they work by inhibiting crystallization when ice starts to form. Instead he proposes alcohol, which may well make the plant be favoured by local wildlife.... Other than that, some types of sugars may work. At any rate, there are some plausable sounding options for antifreeze. Take your pick. 

So if you can hand-wave a good powersource that isn't more destructive by itself, then you can have your particle guns. (Is a fusion reactor powered particle accelerator more destructive than a fusion warhead? How about an antimatter reactor vs antimatter warhead?) So where might a particle accelerator be useable even on the large scale? A large space station will have several large reactors powering it's internal systems (eg heating). In a period of combat, the life support can be turned off (everyone get's into their spacesuits), and they power up some particle accelerators. 

Unless magic allows understanding of the science used to create something, then they will be unable to understand it. If they do get it running (eg it's a tablet and has battery power) they will probably assume it's magic - the "technology" they know. Can you reverse engineer a computer by looking at it? I sure can't. I think anyone would be at a loss if ordered to "duplicate that black box that produces non-magically powered pictures on the screen" even in the modern age. Even with magic allowing them to see what is happening inside, the tiny feature size on modern computers, and the use of so physics far in advance of the time would render it useless. I imagine if you took a current laptop back to the 1990's, the would recognise it was technology, and that it was simply a more advanced version of what they had. But there is no way they could replicate it (14nm silicon manufacturing technology? Eh, nope, in the 90's they were three orders of magnitude off). I doubt they'ed even understand it properly. Todays CPU pipelining and architectural designs are so far advanced that even after I studied them for a year, a modern CPU is still mostly a box of "magic".