There's not a set, single tension that works for all bikes. It's just trial and error. You need to pull it pretty tight before clamping it to the derailleur. Probably as tight as you can. Usually I find that's still not tight enough, so I screw the barrel adjuster down all the way before putting the cable in and then open it up until the tension is correct. Assuming that you do in fact have everything else set up correctly: if the derailleur is rubbing on the outside of the chain, you need a little more tension. If it's rubbing on the inside, you need a little less. Also, if you've swapped any parts out, you may be having some compatibility issues. Derailleurs have minimum and maximum chainring sizes. If you're just a smidge over or under those sizes, you're almost sure to get some rubbing. If you can find it, it wouldn't be a bad idea to look at the owner's manual for your particular derailleur. 

When riding hills, weight is a huge concern because of gravity, as others have mentioned. Quite simply, it's easier to move a lighter object uphill than it is to move a heavier object up the same hill. When accelerating under any conditions, it takes more force to accelerate a heavier object than it would to accelerate a lighter object at the same rate. This is a huge factor because riding in the real world rarely involves cruising down a straightish road with no stops at a relatively high speed. Riders are constantly decelerating because of a hill, stoplight, or corner. Once over the hill, around the corner, or the light turns green, riders once again have to accelerate. Even if your assumptions were correct, there are other reasons to crave a lighter bike: A lighter bike feels better underneath you. A lighter bike feels more nimble and maneuverable. Even if all the geometry is the same, it simply feels like you have more control over the bike. Finally, there is the smugness factor. Light bikes cost a lot of money. Anything that costs a lot of money is a status symbol. And people like owning status symbols. 

One thing that is for sure, your chain is too short. My bet is that when you shift to the big-big chainring combination, something in your derailleur is binding because it's being pulled so tight. If you look at the last picture, it looks like there's a severe lateral bend in your chain where it exits the derailleur. My guess is that's the point where it's binding. It also looks in the second-to-last picture like your derailleur might actually be touching the chainstays. I don't think that would cause the chain to bind, but it's definitely not good. You might be able to scrounge up a few links and lengthen your chain, but it's not recommended for a number of reasons that I won't go into here. Suffice it to say, that if something goes wrong your chain can snap while you're riding. This is dangerous. It can also cause other things to break and be far more expensive in the long run. Buy the longest chain you can find. They're usually the same price regardless of length, so that shouldn't be an issue. Use the new chain to measure the correct length to use and remove unnecessary links. The venerable Sheldon Brown has a great article on how to measure the proper length for your chain. Basically, you wrap the chain around the two big rings without passing it through the derailleur and make sure that the chain overlaps by one full link. Keep in mind that a full chain link is two half-links, i.e., two pieces of chain. If you don't have a chain tool, or this seems beyond your mechanical capabilities, take it to a bike shop to have the chain replaced. Replacing a chain is trivial to a bike shop. If you buy the chain at the shop, they're likely to do it while you wait and labor will be very inexpensive or free. 

I think perhaps there is some confusion in the term "link." Here are a couple of definitions that seem to be in use: 

Sheldon has a chart that shows what width of tire fits on what rim based on the width of the rim. He also notes that people often exceed the recommended widths with no adverse effects. He also notes the possible problems with straying too far outside the recommended widths. It's also worth noting that tire width measurements aren't well standardized. Much like shoe and clothing sizes, some manufacturers' sizes may run a bit large or a bit small. They're really more like guesstimates. This is due to a couple of factors. Manufacturers are under market pressure to produce the lightest components possible. If they can shave off a few grams by calling a 24mm tire 23mm, they just might do that. There's also the fact that the rim width effects the overall inflated width of the tire. If one manufacturer is building a tire with the intent that it's mounted on 17mm rim and another builds the exact same tire but bases it on a 21mm rim, the resulting measurement will be different. Two millimeters over the recommended maximum is probably still going to be just fine. 

Frame and fork. Preferably one with horizontal dropouts - more on that later. Headset to attach the frame and fork. Stem - note: the fork, stem, and the headset work together. They can be threaded or threadless. They must match. Handlebars Seatpost. The seatpost must fit snugly in the seat tube. Seatpost clamp (Maybe. This is built into some frames.) Seat Front wheel. No specific requirements other than it fit into your fork without the tire rubbing. If you're using a front brake (and you should), you'll want the size for which the fork was intended. There are ways to make the brakes work on a wrong-sized wheel, but it's more hassle than it's worth. Crankset Bottom bracket. The crankset and bottom bracket must be the compatible with one another. The bottom bracket also be the same size and have the same thread type as the bottom bracket shell on your frame. Pedals. As others have mentioned, you want your feet attached to the pedals. Whether you use toe clips or clipless is totally up to your personal preference. Chain Tires Rear Wheel. This is where we start to get fixie specific. The rear wheel must have a hub that is designed to accommodate a fixed gear cog and a lock ring. Fixed gear cog Lock ring. 

Just look for any chainrings that have the same bolt circle diameter, the same number of bolts, and are designed for the same number of gears that you currently have and you'll be fine. Although you may find that it's cheaper to simply replace the whole crankset than to buy individual chainrings. 

If you're banging the boys against the seat even when it's low, it's the result of poor technique. The pros are using a of proper technique in conjunction with their suspension. Unfortunately, it's very difficult to learn proper technique riding a full suspension bicycle. The suspension does the work that proper technique should be doing and you just never need to learn it. It's not a technique that I can explain either. The best I can explain it is that you land in sort of a pseudo-manual and then simply set the front end down. The best way to learn better technique is to ride a fully rigid bike for your DH, street, etc. for a while. It's learned through muscle memory more than any cognitive process. When you land rough, you feel it in a way that you don't on a full suspension. After a few dozen rough landings, your muscles start to react and the landings start to smooth out. All of the sudden one day, you take a big drop on your rigid bike and the landing is fluid and you don't feel a thing. I know that getting an extra bike just to learn better technique is not a cheap solution, but it is the best one that I know of. 

Your only economically viable option is to get a new 6-speed rear cluster that has a wider range. Adding gears onto the front that bike is going to be almost expensive enough that it's probably not really worth doing. And adding more gears to the rear is effectively impossible. That's an overstatement, but it's waaay more money and work than you want to get into. To find a compatible rear cluster, you just need to figure out if your bike has a freewheel or cassette. The venerable Sheldon Brown has a great article about what the difference between the two is and how to identify which you have. Once you know which you have, just count the teeth on the largest and smallest rings. Then you can buy one with more teeth on the big ring and less teeth on the smallest ring. If you're really struggling on the hills, look for one with a "granny gear." Shimano markets them as "megarange." Basically, it's just a big gear that's a significant jump from the next biggest gear. It's not useful for much except for crawling up hills. It's possible that your new cluster will be too big of a range for your current derailleur. It's hard to find precise specs on your bike, so I can't say for sure.You'll have to consult the derailleur manufacturer's technical manual to figure out whether your derailleur will accommodate the wider range of your new cluster. It's also possible that your chain won't be long enough. I'd probably just put the new rear cluster on and see if you can shift through all the gears. If you can, great. If you can't get up onto the bigger rings, you'll need a longer chain. Sheldon Brown once again has an article on how to find the right chain length for your gear setup. Even if you need a new chain and derailleur, I'm betting that you could get the whole rear done with comparable parts for well under $100 US, probably closer to $50. If you just need a cassette or freewheel, it'll probably be under $20. If you're absolutely determined to get gears in the front, you'll definitely need a front derailleur, front shifter, and cables and housing. You'll also need additional chainrings. You can buy them individually if your crankset will accept them. However, it's probably cheaper to just buy a new crankset. You'll also likely need a longer chain, if you haven't already bought one for the rear. You may also need a new bottom bracket with a longer spindle, but maybe not. By the time you're finished with all of that, you're probably talking about at least $100 for just the front, maybe closer to $200. That's somewhere between a quarter and half of the cost of your bike. If you have to buy any tools or pay for labor, it gets even more expensive. If your bike's in decent condition, you're better off selling it and putting that money toward a new bike.