Varied types and intensities and durations of exercise will challenge your body more than consistent repeated activities. An activity that doesnt make you sweat is not much of an exercise. I would ride hard some days and easy some days, maybe adjusted according to which days you have time to shower :) Also consider intervals, different routes to include hills, and some days of longer rides or even walking/jogging. 

I assume you mean kettlebells. Kettlebell swings are a great full body exercise that involves explosive extending of the hips. Strengthening this group of muscles (the posterior chain) is important for running. 

I take a nap at work several days a week. Usually I lie on the floor, sometimes just rest my head on the desk. 

Deadlifts are a very good back and trap exercise. Although this is a pulling movement, the arms remain straight so there is little biceps involvement. 

I think off-road running is much less boring, since you have much more variety in running surface, elevation, obstacles, curves, etc. However that is often not enough for me, and when alone I will often find myself walking rather than pushing as hard as I should. Fortunately I have found two "games" or sport settings that make running a good workout for me. 

I'm worried this is almost too simple to be an answer, but I'll add more detail if you have specific questions. For a ketogenic diet I assume you would need to reduce the daily grams of carbohydrate to the low double digits, or <10% of total calories. Pasta and rice are obviously low-cost calorie sources and you want something that provides a similar amount of calories, without the carbohydrates and without spending more money. While cabbage is usually one of the cheapest vegetable options and is not heavy in carbs, I would watch the premade coleslaw as it usually has a lot of sugar added along with the cabbage and oil. You can swap out the pasta and rice for things like canned fish, fatty meat, eggs, cheese, cream, butter, coconut milk. Because of the high caloric density of fat and the current trend against high-fat foods, I think you will find these things will meet your caloric needs pretty cost-effectively. Nutritional balance is a different matter, but you can't go much worse than pasta and rice. If you are really into optimizing low cost and planning to meet certain nutrient targets, you could try this excel sheet: $URL$ 

As far as I know, the totality of research does not indicate any benefit of pre- or post-exercise stretching to recovery time or injury reduction. That is not to say stretching is totally worthless, because it can enhance mobility and range of motion, just to say that it doesn't matter when you do it in relation to your workout. I am not aware of research to support this, but there is a theory that stretching before weightlifting can impact your results, if you "loosen" the muscles you will be loading, and temporarily decrease your maximum strength. EDIT: The majority of studies that I have seen focus on pre-exercise stretching to "loosen up," and its impact on injury rates. This type of research does not address the question of soreness and recovery time. However, I have found a review study that showed no impact of stretching (before or after exercise) on post-exercise DOMS (soreness) -- Herbert et al 2011. More links are welcome! 

I have extremely flat feet and have been barefoot running several years, usually on dirt trails. Although I can't say that the flatness has been affected, I do notice less soreness and faster recovery than when I ran with shoes. At one point I had trained up to three miles at a stretch, then tried a ten mile race on pavement, which gave me sore achilles and calves for 24-48 hours. But while running barefoot I have never had any stress fractures, shin splints, knee pain, nor any cuts or puncture wounds for that matter. I highly recommend it, with a proper gradual introduction of course. 

Yes! Squatting -- as part of a proper regimen of exercise, eating and rest -- can lead you to lift huge weights, improve lung capacity, or reduce body weight. The squat exercises the body's largest muscles and is one of the most basic functional movements. Until the invention of sitting toilets, squatting was a daily necessity for all humans even into old age. The benefits you get will depend on how you squat. To name just a few variations, you can squat with a heavy barbell on your back, with a dumbbell held in front of you, or with just body weight; you can do a few reps slowly or many reps quickly. 

Maybe there are other ways to do it, but when I do high intensity workouts, I work as hard as I can. I don't think there is any point to worrying about heart rate or being in some particular "zone." As for rest, only if you are so tired that you can't complete the next rep, take a very short rest (e.g., 2-3 breaths) and get back after it. If you rest longer, you lose the intensity and are doing a different kind of workout -- try lower weights or easier exercises if you can't complete the workout without resting. 

Doing good controlled pushups from the knees is definitely a great way to start, because the use of muscles in the arm, shoulder, chest and core are almost identical to those used in real pushups. However, I would deviate from the other comments by adding that, as soon as you can do even one real pushup, start with that, then complete your set on the knees. If you keep up a good program doing this 2-3 times a week, soon you will be doing multiple strict pushups and you can build from there. I don't agree with JoaquinG that you need to start adding weight once you can do 12 reps -- for me the benefit of pushups is that they are a very simple no-equipment bodyweight exercise that can be done anywhere, anytime, and building up to 20, 40, 60 reps is fine and continues to pay off in both endurance and appearance. 

Many people are used to lots of sugar input to the bloodstream, via carb-heavy meals and snacks throughout the day. This can lead to a spike-and-crash cycle that leaves you tired, especially in mid-afternoon. Changing to a low carbohydrate diet and skipping breakfast can help condition your cells to maintain steady energy levels without glucose input from digestive sources. For me, intense exercise after a half day or longer fast also helped. 

NO. A calorie is defined as the amount of energy needed to warm 1 gram of water by 1 degree C. Lets imagine an extreme implementation of this advice - someone who eats a gallon of ice slush per day. That's about 4000 grams or 4 liters. If the H2O goes from freezing temp (0) to body temp (37), the energy consumed is 14800 calories. Since one metabolic "calorie" is actually a kilocalorie in physics terms, the amount (148 calories) is negligible, hardly close to the 1000 calories claimed. More like a couple eggs or apples. 

Protein provides two benefits to the body: calories and amino acids, and eating fat does not negate either of these uses. Calories from fat and calories from protein both provide fuel for movement; assuming complete digestion, the total energy available to your body is the sum of the fat calories and the protein calories. Amino acids from protein may -- when needed -- be used for building and repairing muscle and other tissue, and consuming fat does not prevent or hinder this. 

I recommend Starting Strength. It is three days a week, but the rest time is just as important as the lifting days. I am not sure what you mean by "contrived" but it seems to me that unless you are hunting zebras and climbing trees, any workout routine created by humans in the modern world is contrived. The developer of this program has extensive experience but I am not aware of any research in the clinical sense. There is nothing I can add that has not already been discussed on this site. 

I have been a runner for about 25 years and do not stretch before running. I use two types of warmup routines based on the type of running. 

I have no disagreement with Berin and Backinshapebuddy, but since you mention adding 30-40 minutes to every workout and you refer to the cost/benefit with respect to certain goals, this post is an answer with a slightly different emphasis. You list exercises ("pull ups, bench press, preacher curls, tricep push-downs") that focus on small isolated muscle groups - the "beach muscles." As other answers noted, the benefits would be much greater if you were to perform functional movements using the large muscles. But I'd like to add that, compared with someone who does zero strength training, adding these exercises at even a low dose will still get you fairly steep benefits to your goals (1) and (2). A strength workout of large muscles can be done in less than an hour. I would recommend one functional movement each for squat (back or front or overhead), press (pushup or bench or overhead), and pull (pullup or deadlift or clean). Three sets of five works well for me. This is a maintenance workout routine that I always come back to even when I'm busy and not in top shape for other things. Lifting heavy things even just a few times a month gives your body a hormonal reminder that it's a good idea to keep maintaining those muscle fibers and dense bones. 

A lot of people don't realize that you can exercise just fine through a lot of minor illnesses. However, given that you had severe flu, you body is probably in worse condition than it was the day before you got sick. The actual physical causes could be not only recovery issues from the flu -- such as dehydration -- but also loss of muscle capacity from five days of lying in bed. I am not familiar with the exercise program you mentioned, but if you are working on a schedule of progressively harder workouts, you should probably go back to the previous week rather than skip ahead to the next week. The schedule of workouts is designed to get increasingly harder as your fitness increases; you haven't kept up with the schedule, and if anything your body is probably behind. 

I am heavy (190lb) and have very flat arches. I used to run high mileage with heavily padded shoes that were marketed as being appropriate for someone like me. A couple years ago I switched to VFFs and barefoot running. At first I did barefoot sprint workouts on grass twice in two weeks, then upgraded to two mile barefoot runs on pavement barefoot. The biggest issue was skin toughness and callus buildup, which led to increased comfort and heat tolerance. Within 6 weeks after startnig I ran a 10 mile road race, at a moderate pace. The muscles were sore during the run, but there was no pain the next day. I now run barefoot whenever possible, and run in VFFs when I am not familiar with the area. I recommend this to anyone; it is not true that you need arch support or a long transition time. I suspect it is very important to have the proper barefoot stride and this may be the source of the problems some folks are reporting. 

Crossfit is high intensity cross training to develop unspecialized fitness. The most important goal of a crossfit training program is to improve "work capacity across broad time and modal domains." Work capacity is the ability to do work in the sense of physics, that is to exert moving force. Time domains refer to the duration and intensity of the work, and modal domains refers to the body movement(s) that is being performed. In practice, successful crossfit training prepares an athlete to perform well in unpredictable situations, and for this reason is often inappropriate for specialized athletes. When you know what actions your body will be required to perform on game day, you can train in a very specialized manner (e.g., run 100m, row 50km, deadlift 500kg, swing a golf club). For people who do not know what actions will be required, crossfit helps to develop general, unspecialized fitness. For this reason it is popular among military and firefighting communities, since they face a variety of physical challenges that are often unpredictable. Greg Glassman, one of the developers of crossfit, offers the following advice: "Practice and train major lifts: Deadlift, clean, squat, presses, C&J, and snatch. Similarly, master the basics of gymnastics: pull-ups, dips, rope climb, push-ups, sit-ups, presses to handstand, pirouettes, flips, splits, and holds. Bike, run, swim, row, etc, hard and fast. Five or six days per week mix these elements in as many combinations and patterns as creativity will allow. Routine is the enemy. Keep workouts short and intense." More information on the philosophy and practices of crossfit: What is fitness? What is crossfit? 

Barbell deadlifts require different form than dumbbell deadlifts, because the bar has to pass in front of your knees as it rises. Dumbbell deadlifts allow the knees to stay farther forward, allowing the use of more leg muscle and less back muscle than the barbell. The dynamics are similar to lifting with a hex bar. Dumbbell handles are usually closer to the ground than a barbell (~4" vs ~8"). This means that you would have to squat down farther for your hands to reach them. Unless you have very high hamstring flexibility, this will cause your pelvis to tilt forward at the bottom and curve the lower back. If the load is heavy (near or above your body weight) you should probably elevate them by placing on a stack of books or something. The bottom line is that lifting dumbbells is simpler than lifting a barbell. Position your feet about shoulder width apart, place the dumbbells at the outsides of your feet (and possibly elevated 4" above ground level), squat down with your arms straight, grip the bars, stick out your butt and lift chest(and try to keep that lower back curve throughout the lift). Take and hold a deep breath to tense the core, and as the weights come off the ground the weight will hang from your arms and shoulders causing a tendency to hunch forward; you resist this -- keeping the chest up -- to avoid injury to the lower back. Stand up to full extension, pause, and reverse the motion till the weights are on the ground.