You're right in being skeptical about all the "we must"s. It does seem, given how profoundly physical interventions can impact consciousness, that it is somehow physically implemented. And, therefore, it must be built out of something. But that does not mean that it's built out of elementary feelings. As an analogy, take a limit cycle. This is a mathematical phenomenon where a time-varying process takes the same path repeatedly where various parameters change over time, but cyclically. If you perturb the system away from that limit cycle, it will be restored back. If consciousness was anything like this, it wouldn't be built out of "elementary feelings" any more than a limit cycle is built out of stationary attractors. So to be honest, we must at least admit that we don't know for certain. We then may wish to entertain some educated guesses, and we may wish to consider what the minimal substrate would be for something that is sufficiently akin to what we experience as consciousness to deserve the same label. It does seem that some non-trivial machinery must be there to have not just a response to a perception but some secondary qualia associated with it. That it is like something seems to require both some memory and some pattern-matching capability or else the very notion of like cannot even make sense. So it seems very likely that there is some minimal complexity below which consciousness, as we understand the term, does not exist. However, you are wrong in suggesting that an amoeba could plausibly be as conscious as we are. An amoeba probably does not meet the minimal complexity required for consciousness, as it's doubtful that it has the requisite pattern-matching and memory capability. Furthermore, though it is not necessary that consciousness cause or regulate anything, one does at least suspect that if it were there, evolution would favor those organisms that tapped into that computation to modify behavior in ways that enhance survival. Thus we are justified in doubting (though not in concluding for certain) that animals like and have consciousness. They simply do not behave in ways that are consistent with the kinds of capabilities that consciousness might add. (In particular, again, there is no obvious pattern matching.) Drosophila, however, do seem to have all the minimally requisite bits, so I think we should be more open-minded about whether they might have something like consciousness. (Personally I rather doubt it, but this is just a hunch based on how abstracted consciousness seems to me to be, and a further hunch about the effective depth of the fly's neural networks.) Anyway, it's a difficult topic, and one where, sadly, people too often try to sweep all sorts of important and difficult concerns under the rug in order to try to make progress. I don't think this is progress--not on consciousness anyway--but rather misdirection (even if well-intentioned). I think that's what's going on in this case. 

Personally, I greatly dislike the notation, as it invites confusion--when you place something other than inside parentheses, is it universal quantification, or is it to show grouping? Therefore, I will use and to mean "for all" and "there exists" respectively so as to be perfectly clear what the variable is and what the predicate is. With this done, we have either , which makes no sense because is not a variable, or which makes sense and means "it is not true that there exists an such that ". In fact, in predicate calculus you usually define 

You can of course define "perfection"--consult a dictionary for an example. And it is easy enough to come up with an example of perfection: a "perfect square" has four sides of exactly equal length with all interior angles at exactly 90 degrees. Everything else is less perfect of a square (and the above is the mathematical definition of a perfect square, so there's really no relativity about it). Questions about what is perfectly good, however, run into all the problems that are encountered when asking about anything to do with "good", which is that people don't agree on what good is and generally do not manage to come into agreement via discussion. However, if you postulate a function that can evaluate how good something is, , you can use it to come up with a pretty natural version of what "perfection" means in that context, i.e. is perfect if there is no conceivable of the same kind of thing as (let's assume we know how to determine this) such that . This is essentially the notion of perfection used in Anselm's ontological argument for God. (Whether such a function is possible is another question. You probably would end up with a family of such functions, and then you would start talking about perfect-according-to Gk for a particular .) 

The article is moderately amusing but just misguided. I wouldn't read too much into the positivism espoused there. The issue is not that scientists are cautious with "X is causing Y" because of a cultural fondness for a strict form of positivism. Rather, the point of science is to say just how likely it is that various factors are playing a role in various phenomena. And there, if anything, I'd say climate science is not Positivistic enough in that there's a lot of speculation that serves primarily to bias the objectivity of the researchers without improving our understanding of what's happening. Even the scientific method is only faintly able to resist the pressures of political controversies; as societal pressure grows, science tends to get sloppier and less objective. The problem comes at the interface between science and society. When you hear a scientist say, "It is highly probable that a majority of climate change is due to human influence," you should think, "We jail people and even execute them when we're way less sure than that!" That's not typically how it gets interpreted, though, so one ends up with a whirlwind of conflicting opinions and battles over funding and strong yet unsupported statements on both sides and so on. And the way to fix the problem has nothing to do with positivism per se. Of course you can have overly rigid (and invalid) concepts of what is provable/falsifiable and what is not, but in practice that's not what happens even if the scientific endeavor is essentially positivistic in nature. Anything which is too strict to produce accurate results is jettisoned because it just doesn't work. (The bigger danger is jettisoning things that are necessary because they are deemed too inconvenient--statistical tests with adequate power and which are aware of long-tailed distributions, for instance.) Science should be practiced in the careful reflective way that produces accurate results, and the rest of society should endeavor to listen carefully. Anyway, your characterization sounds more like a Popperian view of the scientific method than positivism. Wikipedia has a reasonable summary of positivism as employed in the sciences. (Basically: everything is physical, and you need adequate direct or indirect physical evidence to support every claim.) Note that Popper and other "critical rationalists" did not consider themselves positivists though they certainly had a lot of similarities in approach. As a final thought, fiction written by historians--even historians of science!--should be viewed with a critical eye when it comes to whether they're raising sagacious criticisms of the culture and methods of science. It can look really different from the outside than the inside, and it's the inside feeling that actually drives the scientific endeavor. (Save for availability of funding, which is of course driven by the outside perspective.) 

I'll post a very unpretentious answer, just to get the ball rolling here. It seems to me that there is an extremely interesting question hidden behind this one, a question that is very difficult to formulate, but that I believe can be formulated - if enough context is added, so that it becomes expressible. It wouldn't be a question that begins with doubt, for a simple reason. The common problem with all these exercises of doubt, is that there has to be some kind of self to do the doubting - even if there is no need for a subject to do the "willing". My reply to your second question is that if action (or will to act) required subjectivity, that would be a strong statement in favor of the conception of body and soul as distinguishable things. Not something to take lightly. On the other hand, if action (or will) does not require a subjective stance, what to make of responsibility (my way of phrasing your third question)? It can be argued that there is responsibility (and thus a self that is not empty or inconsequent) in how reality is reunited in concept ("bundled", if you will), and interpreted. There may be responsibility in judging what happened, and then taking a stand. Even if there wasn't anybody there at first, there will necessarily be someone right after the action took place, precisely as a (partial) result of the action that took place, able to contemplate where it came from, and own it. Some say that the ethics of psychoanalysis, according to Lacan, is derived from this assumption. What buddhists have to contribute to the problem of consciousness as illusion is a practice of abandonment. Not exactly a thesis, mostly a path. So that would be one important difference between these two approaches, in my view, and my (indirect) answer to your first question. 

In defense of what is sometimes called "obscurantism", particularly in philosophy, it can be said that reason proceeds sometimes by disruption, radical irreverence, noise. It is easy to see that not all said obscurantists are of the same caliber. The same can be said of the defenders of clarity. That said, this is not what the authors you collectively refer to as "postmodern" (a denomination that is, itself, quite... obscuring), particularly Baudrillard, are advancing in their work. They are writing at a time when their readership has largely assumed that consensus in philosophy has already failed as a project, so it can be said that criticism of their work as "hard to read" largely misses the point. Poetry was never a stranger to philosophical thinking. 

That would be my formula. You might say that this would be a futile endeavor, that to ask "what is...?" questions is as trivial as orange juice, and needs no justification, but I would have to disagree with you on that precise point. You may not believe me, but there was a time when the verb to be, with the meaning that it has today, didn't exist. It is possible to think without it, and without asking "what is...?" questions. At some point, to be became a part of some (not all) human languages. The ancient Greeks tried to understand what it means in a purposeful and systematic way, and the rest is the history of metaphysics. 

I do not dispute Conifold's answer, but would like to add a different perspective. As I see it, and according to what could be understood as a fundamental tenet of structuralist and post-structuralist conceptions of language, it is not just that what constitutes language is how people speak, but also that the human condition itself is created in and through speech. What still intrigues me about your question is the conjugation of objectivity and independence of manifestation. As was conjectured by the comment from David H, only in pure mathematical terms can these two demands be met. In other words, "facts or features of language that exist independent of anyone's actual speech" are a matter of logic, or, if you include virtual manifestations of language (as Peirce has proposed) of theoretical semiotics. In any case, linguistic realism is perfectly compatible with an empirical study of language, it actually would benefit greatly from the absence of Plato from the scene. 

The definition of the Church-Turing's thesis is an attempt at capturing the intuitive idea of effective computability or "things that can actually be calculated". It has been said that it is not something to be proven, or refuted, but important assumptions underlying scientific work in many fields of research rely on some version of the thesis, one important case being the linguistic assumption that the semantics of natural languages can be formalized in any significant way. Considering that it is unfalsifiable, should the Church-Turing's thesis be given such an important role in scientific research? EDIT: Thanks for the attention. In response to some of the criticism that the question has received, I'd like to add that, 

According to Fullerton, objective things cannot be merely sensations, as it is not by accumulating sensations that the brain is able to give identity/reality to a thing, but with the help of signs of reality, signs of existence, amongst which are the ones that come from "touch things", and the like: