Absolutely you should send in another application for the new job listing. It is perfectly normal for someone to send in multiple job applications to a company, if that company has multiple jobs that the person is interested in. There is nothing desperate about that. The hiring manager probably receives a lot of applications for each job listing, so he probably won't even remember that you applied for the previous position. You don't need to mention that you already applied for the other position. 

I've never heard of this situation before. Since you will be rescinding your acceptance, it wouldn't hurt for you to ask them for the reason, but you may not receive a truthful answer. The only thing I can think of is that right after giving you the offer, the company found another candidate for the position who indicated they would accept a salary 10% lower than yours. The company decided to lower your offer by 10%, knowing that if you decline, then they will just hire the other person. Whether or not it's ethical, be grateful that they decided to reduce your salary before you quit your current job. Imagine how you would feel if you quit your current job, got settled in with this company, and then they gave you a pay cut. 

Employment applications can ask for a variety of things of interest to the company that wouldn't be on a resume. These can include the following: 

Next time you walk by his desk and he's not there, look at the phone on his desk. If it has an LCD display on it, it might show his name. If not, it will probably show his phone number. Memorize the last 4 or however many digits you need to make an intraoffice call. When you know he's not at his desk, call his number and wait for his voicemail. (You'll probably want to make the call from a conference room phone so that his phone doesn't tell him he has a missed call from you.) Hopefully he will have customized his voicemail greeting to say his name. 

In short, don't. From your description it doesn't seem that your 'forced removal' from the group is relevant in this case. You've mentioned that the call was made to 'stand down' and then you ended up leaving after that; so the circumstances that came after that seem rather irrelevant unless there's further information that you believe changes the story here. The end of the project seems like a pretty reasonable reason to leave and a 4 month tenure seems to be fine if it's just a hacked together group in response to an emergency. Your first paragraph I believe explains your situation fine. 

I'll answer your actual question directly first... I would tell him that you don't want to give out that information in much the same way you've explained it here. Anything else would just be beating around the bush and isn't a surefire way to achieve your end goal of not disclosing the information. Example - "Sorry, I don't like to give out my Steam details as I like to keep my work life and outside life separate from each other" Then I'd perhaps explain that maybe you'd share your details with him once you get to know him a little better (if that's what you'd actually do). Now to avoid the situation in future If you really have no intention of giving out information to people regardless of how well you know them at work. Simply state that you don't have Steam or whatever else it might be that they're asking. If someone's asking if you have something like a social media profile then I can assure you that their next question is likely going to be a request as to where they can find your profile. An alternative to this would be to answer yes, but immediately state that you don't like to give details out to work colleagues. Regardless if you want to keep 2 separate 'lives', you're not helping your chances of making friends in the workplace which may hinder your chances of progression and unfortunately it's not what you know, rather it's who you know. 

For purposes of this answer, I'm assuming that you've provided correct and complete information and that there are no significant factors that you're not aware of. That is, that the technicians are in fact available -- they're working, have no other commitments, and could do the job if they were scheduled. And that your understanding of the rationale for not booking the technicians is correct -- the supervisor is trying to game the accounting so that revenue is booked in a later quarter. Yes, you are being asked to lie. When a customer asks you if a technician is available, they are asking whether the technician is working, not assigned to do anything else, and could do the job if assigned it. They're not asking about whether they can help your supervisor game your company's accounting. In the sense the customer is asking, they are available. You are being asked to tell the customers they aren't even though they are. The test of whether you're being asked to lie is simple -- would telling the whole truth accomplish the same thing as saying what you're asking to say? And here, it's clearly not. Now, the next question is how big of a deal this is. And to know that, you have to know what the supervisor is trying to accomplish. On the less awful side, they may just be trying to reduce the company's tax obligations by realizing income in a later quarter. On the more awful side, they may be trying to shift income to a quarter in which they are eligible for bonuses and away from one where they're not. This hurts the company because it means they'll have fewer technicians available next month and will likely produce less total revenue and they'll pay out undeserved bonuses. Also, this puts stress on employees like you, which hurts the company. But the most important thing is this: People are entitled to get satisfaction from their work and know that they are doing right by the people they interact with. It sounds like your supervisor doesn't think you deserve this because you have not been given sufficient information to know that you are doing this or, worse, are being asked to harm your customers and company so someone's numbers can be inflated. What you should do about it depends a lot on how much you care about things like this and what other options you have. 

Give everyone who would be reporting an issue a form to fill out or a template to complete before they email through. The issue here from the sounds of it is that you're not being specific enough. Provide information on exactly what you're after. Telling someone to describe the problem will not give you the information you're after. The reason for this is that I can describe a problem in a single sentence and I've fulfilled your requirements of describing the problem. Then when I get a response back from you saying I haven't described it, I'll think you aren't reading my emails because I've already described my issue to you, what more do you want? For this reason you need to ask the user "What steps did you take before the problem occurred?" or "What were you doing immediately before the problem occurred?". This restricts the user in what they can answer and lets them know what information is meaningful to you. They're likely under the impression that you can gain everything you need from the program log and any information they give you isn't that helpful. Never assume that the person you're receiving your log from knows exactly what you mean. As was mentioned in another answer, you don't offer mind reading as a service. However, I'm sure that the people sending you the logs don't offer mind reading either, it works both ways! Narrow questions will provide you more meaningful information. 

Similar to another answer here. State the facts. That is, your suspicion is just that, a suspicion and it doesn't appear to the reason why you'd choose not to hire this candidate. I think that the way you've summed it up already in this question provides valuable feedback to the candidate. Provide the factual feedback that you're not comfortable with the candidate's level of understanding of topics that they should know. Back this up with your observations during the interview. For example... Facts When I asked questions X, Y and Z whilst you were able to provide an indepth explanation but where unable to explain follow up questions that are designed to show a candidate's fundamental understanding of the question. Consequence Because of this I'm not comfortable that you have a sound understanding of topic A, B and C. Meaning that you have not been selected for the position at this time etc etc Resolution If you're looking to apply to a similar job in future. I would recommend you look into X, Y, Z so that you can answer questions more efficiently when probed for a deeper understanding. Note: Don't confuse your suspicion of this candidate googling answers to things as the reason why you've chosen not to proceed with them. Whilst it might be a byproduct of the candidate not understanding the topic you're asking about. Fundamentally it's the lack of knowledge that is the problem, not what they may or may not have been doing on the other end of the phone.