Chest guards works as the same of arm guards. It protects the archer from get the sting from the string. Although, when an archer shoots his/her arm, it's more likely it's related to his/her form while shooting his/her chest is a natural body shape fact. (not an actual problem, just as it is.) It's also very commonly used by girls for obvious reason but some guys with a slightly longer draw length might use it as well. 

I used to have a Subaru Forester Turbo. I crossed rivers, drove up on mountains covered in snow (no chains), 4x4 tracks where other "passagers" car would be struggle. Driving up the mountain to the sky field, people where parking down the mountain while a 4wd was picking up people and taking up to the sky field. I remember the guy saying, "you will struggle to get there" and I reply "that is enough for me" :) The bottom line is, I knew the car and what I was doing (mostly :) ) and I have experience with Utes off road. Driving off road, you go as far as you think you can. You will build up experience and go further next time. Just don't be silly to go to far and get stuck... It might be a long walk back. 

Print your faces and stick on cardboard. They last a lot longer. Waterproof paper might help if you're planning to shoot in not so fair weather. 

There it is. You get one of those and you can bake anything you want. I've used before and it's awesome. Edit --- Just updated with a link to MEC website. They seem to have it in stock Outback oven Below is how it works. 

Backpacks are primarily designed to be carried out therefore they need to be light. They also need to be tough so they can endure the trips the specified weights for a long time. Although we do get rained out every now and again no one plans a trip around raining days (Oh look, it's raining let's go hiking). So it's more "efficient" to keep the packs light using a lighter material and just put a simple rain cover in case of rain than make the packs heavier with waterproof material. There are waterproof packs in the market. I own a couple myself. My petzl portage 30 looks more like a drybag with shoulder straps but I use that one specific for canyoning. I also have a my hiking/trekking pack that uses c-canvas that is waterproof but then my pack weights 3kgs alone. Cactus Foray My wife has an Osprey Ariel 50 and it's a whole kg lighter than mine. Even if we compare a pack the same size as mine (70L), the Osprey one still a good 800gr lighter and that includes the cover that comes with the pack. So, in summary... 

The male spends the dark winter incubating the egg in his brood pouch, balancing it on the tops of his feet, for 64 consecutive days until hatching. According to Wikipedia. 

For hunting, I'd say that 7x to 10x should be what you're looking for. 12x to 16x if you're going for long range shooting like pest control (varmint hunting) but you might better go for a spotting scope instead of binos as you will be able to stabilize and have better view. Also, a higher B will allow more light to come in which helps during hunting at dawn or dusk. I could suggest you to try and 8x42 and 10x42. Those should work as an "all around" binos. EDIT--- For example, I have two optics. A bushnell legend HD 10x42 and a rangefinder sport 850 4x20. The legend is great for open fields but I need to rest it somewhere otherwise just the shaking of the hand interferes. The sport 850 is great in the bush and short distances as the movement does not interfere in the image. 

As other aspects of Archery, there is no rule of the thumb to choose release aids. I don't use trigger release but a back tension one. If we compare all types of release aids, you would have a few different options to try and choose from but narrowing down to thumb/trigger releases, I'd say the best you can do is to try a few different ones from friends that use them. Archery shops could also have a few to try. Personally, I'd go for the cheapest to start. :) 

I've tanned some hides before. I believe you want to do only half the process otherwise you lose the fur. Basically, you flay the animal (remove the skin). Then wash all the blood and stuff. Get it nice and clean and let it dry. I found direct sun dried is better. Also, if you can tie it up really stretched it will be better. It's not a very complex process but you need to keep an eye to see how it goes. It's kind of like cooking, after you get the idea you know when it's good. Practice takes you to perfection. :) 

There are table widely available to figure out the ideal spine for the archer/bow. I don't quite believe in the "bare shaft shooting" because as M'vy said, there are defects in shafts, vanes, nocks, points and even weight difference would affect the grouping. The best thing I find is to fetch them and shoot. Number your arrows and check which ones are off the group. I believe spines above or below the ideal wouldn't make much difference, at least for barebows or olympic recurves unless you're shooting in the olympics. I shoot barebow for Field and compound for target and, as a comparison, I don't spend nearly as much time working on my field arrows then I do for my target arrows (specially the indoors). There are also little tricks you can apply to your arrow tuning like heavier points with smaller vanes, shorter or longer arrows (always leaving some safety clearance) and so on. 

There is a definite danger of hypothermia depending upon the "type" of tent you choose to use. Eskimos live in -70F environments from one day to the next, so it is doable certainly. Native Americans as cited above have tents to provide for living in environments that commonly get to -50F (by keeping a fire burning inside the tent). A TeePee isn't what I would call portable; it's more of a temporary building (early mobile home). But if you choose a tent that does not deal with the humidity produced by your sweat and breath, you can drench your sleeping bag AND clothing while you sleep. Moist means loss of effective insulation. If looking for a semi-permanent place to live, learn from homeless people, or the traditional hobo. Solid walls make better wind barriers and newspapers provide excellent insulation if kept dry. But if you want to use a backpack style tent: Do not pitch a tent under trees. Branches falling can rip your tent. Flooding for a backpack style tent in the winter is of no concern. So resting in a depression can block the wind. I never started a fire; ever. I always used fuel just for cooking; really just heating food and drink. Separate water bottles for bathing and eating. You MUST have a closed-cell foam mat (or other non-compressible insulation like layers of pine needles) to lay on. This is NOT optional. Your weight will compress your sleeping bag. The warmth of your body will melt the ice/snow under the tent and 1) freeze you down, and 2) freeze the bottom of the tent and sleeping bag to the ground. This is NOT subjective, this is personal experience. I used to backpack in the winter and when I first started out, I had a few things to learn. My first night it was 10F and my breath created frost on the tent inside the tent, and when the wind blew it would shake the frost down over me while I slept (snowing inside my tent). My body heat caused the frost to melt and saturated my sleeping bag (actually just very moist, not really saturated). I began to get cold and woke up groggily. It was a bit before I had the awareness of potential danger. I was only about 5 miles from home, so I got dressed quickly, even though my clothes were very moist (I was sleeping with them in by bag anticipating the morning cold). Cold, I hurriedly put everything on and started moving quickly to tear the tent down; frozen to the ground. I left it. I began running to build up my body heat. My pack was lighter because of no tent and no sleeping bag. I didn't want to start sweating, so I walked/ran to try to build body heat controllably. Was more difficult because my feet started to sweat (get cold from lack of effective insulation) before my body was warm. Once I was "comfortable" again I kept a fast pace until I got home. Things I changed. Good Willed my tent. Fell in love with Gortex. Closed-cell sleeping pad. Arctic tent by Kelty (vented differently; Gortex liner lets moisture out and outer shell collects frost and slides down outside the Gortex liner). Gortex top sheet to lay over sleeping bag while sleeping (humidity out, moisture from frost stays out; a cycle of drying). Keep all my clothes hanging under the flap of my backpack at night (pull clothes in during morning to warm them up). Made lined Gortex tent bags for tent and poles, and wear these during the night for added insulation for my legs and feet (dual duty because weight is important; turn them inside out while hiking). Don't eat or drink anything within 3 hours of going to sleep. Evacuate before bed. During the day, even at -10F (coldest I've been in), moving, eating, Sunlight, insulated foot gear, and head gear make a huge difference. But at night, none of that day gear helps. I have almost always hiked alone. I prefer the winter because there are no insects. Sounds are softened. Water is clear. Fish are hungry. Animals are bold and visible. You can hike for weeks and not see anyone else. I stash supplies for long outings; for daily sustenance and for emergencies (keep hand drawn mylar maps of local area features and resources; cheap, and every trip it's something to do to keep the mind engaged). Bathing is a wash cloth, and a bottle of water you slept with the previous night. Hair gets washed with the same wash cloth; no soap. Every day a water source is found, wash and wring the wash cloth out and hang it on the pack to dry while walking. Wash your feet daily also. If you are sensitive about mixing your hair and feet, then I suppose bring two wash cloths. I keep a very small bottle of clear chlorine bleach in my pack. I put 2 drops in my bathing water bottle. This lasts for multiple outings. I use an ultraviolet sterilizer for my drinking water bottle. You can use soap when near a water source to clean the wash cloth. But your body is at-risk for hypothermia if you drench yourself. You can clean part of your body while the rest of your body is covered. Then when warmed up again, wash the other parts. At altitudes above 10,000 feet, do not bathe in water sources when air temperatures are below 60F. The higher altitude causes water to extract more heat from the body faster due to drier conditions and the related much greater evaporation. I cannot address the needs of a woman, I've never backpacked with a woman. I've only backpacked in the Summer with my father during fair conditions. My summer packs have otherwise been solo except for one trip to a high mountain lake in New Mexico.