These lime stone caves become enormous, currently the deepest cave in the world is know as the Dark Star, measuring 17km at a depth of 900m. The whole thing is lime stone and not even completely explored. It is known as the underground Everest. 

Planets are gods this one is a bit out there. Say that somehow all planets are sentient beings and can telepathically communicate with the populations living within their magnetosphere. You can describe away earth's monotheistic religions by explaining that was the planet directing humans but once they leave earth and discover more then each planet would be a diety, if to a small portion of the population. This would probably continue until we discover how they are sentient and spread across the universe, or the death star starts to blow them up. 

While one of the most highly upvoted comments states that swords aren't used for hunting, they are incorrect. Swords & knives are used for killing prey that has been trapped and is either so badly wounded / poisioned it is unable to fight back, or constrained to the degree that it is unable to fight back. Thus a good reason to attack a dragon with a sword or other melee weapon is that it is now safe to get that close; and one does not have a ranged weapon on you, or have the requirement to preserve ammunition. One might ask how the trap might be prepared to capture or poision the dragon, but this is somewhat out of scope of the question since one could use mechanical traps (eg nets / falling objects etc), poision darts or any other means; and the question isn't how to trap, but why would one be forced to use melee. 

Carbon Dioxide lakes happen at much deeper locations in the ocean than Brine pools. The depths typically needed are 10,000 ft below sea level as the temperature is low enough that liquid carbon dioxide is denser than salt water and can be collected in pools. There are other ways to make them, like volcanic underwater geysers that release CO2 into underwater holes. Fish take in oxygen rich water in order to breath, and I would imagine spells that allow breathing under water do the same thing, using CO2 lakes the raiders would suffocate underwater, just like they not able to breath with a spell. You would need to hand-wave some of this in order for them to form close to an island but both would work well for defending against underwater attacks. As added bonuses, neither should interrupt ship travel, so normal traders should never even notice it there. Also, due to lack of oxygen Iron weapons dropped by the raiders into either should stay in relatively good condition for collection later. 

After a breach like this, Facebook is dead. Other answers covered that already, so I'm going to focus on something else. Consider all the sites that use Facebook for login. Presumably, a hack like this would also allow the hacker to use any other site where they farmed their account authentication to Facebook. They would probably lose fewer users to this, but may have to completely reset backups on the accounts linked to Facebook and may have to completely rework the site if the only authentication method was Facebook. With that in mind, many of these sites allow Google+ authentication as well so Google+ market share would go up. Additionally, something that this question doesn't examine is the impact of making the actual Facebook site compromised. Luckily browser security is quite a bit better now than it was, and just visiting a site is somewhat less dangerous, but most likely whoever is doing this figured out at least a few zero-day exploits that work on browsers to infect anyone who goes to facebook.com, and additionally any site that links to Facebook's scripts. Now think of every site on the Internet that links to a Facebook "like" button. In the worst case scenario, every computer that connects to those sites before they remove the malicious code and doesn't block that code from running is now part of this hacker's botnet. That's a lot of news sites, blogs, forums, etc. In an even worse case, perhaps those sites use a server-side code to execute Facebook's API, which means all of their servers are compromised as well. In terms of longterm effects, my guess is that inter-site authentication/functionality will become less common, many more sites will download JS libraries to their site rather than rely on third party repositories, and in general hopefully people will become more concerned about security. Maybe they'll even stop posting their nude photos on social media sites (they won't). 

This would mean that to bread humans for meat, one would ultimately bin the idea of feeding them animal products, (other than waste) in the same way we feed chickens which would actually happily eat anything on the floor they can scavange. If one is attempting to do this secretly, the first step would be to try and make everyone a vegetarian, or pick a location where they are already. The other requirement would be a location where life is cheap. The cheaper the life, and the more common death to various illnesses or abuse, then the more likely you'll be able to get away with it. Also these populations are more likely to have a high birth rate; essential to your high output. Putting these requirements together, I'd consider India as a likely candidate; performing 200 abductions / day in the poor regions is probably going to be largely unnoticed, and at the very least unrecorded. 

Flex your brain muscles Humans have brains that evolved to do some thing well, like pattern recognition , and other things not so well, like risk assessment. Make your magic system use a piece of the brain that it just isn't good at, making your user devote greater amounts of resources to continue the practice. This is your system so you can hand wave an area your humans are poor at understanding and claim your magic requires that they do it. This also gives you the opportunity to explain why another race or species would be good at your magic. 

Many weapons made prior to the industrial revolution can be made out of organics. I will start at the bronze age and move forward as that is where metal really began to take hold in military use. 

There are very good reasons why humans pick beef/chicken/turkey as a primary meat source, rather than crocodile/lion/piranha. 

Nutrition: Herbivores have more fat as a rule than carnivores, meaning more calories per kill Risk: Falling into a pen of chicken vs falling into a pool of piranha's Cost: To feed the carnivores, one would have to first breed the meat they need to eat; making the process just that more expensive. 

During medieval England, there was a requirement for every man and boy to practice archery - should a war with France requrire additional soldiers. $URL$ The law stated that all boys from 7 to 17 would be provided a bow and arrows by the parents (to practice) and from 17 the boy would be required to provide his own (to fight). Training was required every week; and playing other games was forbidden. Assuming an even distribution of ages in the village, aged 0 - 60; and an age of 20-60 able to fight; this leaves 2/3 of the male population that can be called upon - leading to 2/3 * 1/2 * 25,000 ~ 8,300 men. Note that these will be just the archers that can be called upon, and more expensive soldiers with armour or horses will be significantly less. This also ignores any sort of morale impact - as calling every male from a village is likely to have a negative impact on the rulers ability to control said village. 

One thing people aren't considering is how much faster planes will likely travel than dragons. Let's say Dragons fly, travelling, at an average speed of 120 mph, which is much faster than any land animal and much faster than any dragon in fiction. The recommended takeoff speed for large commercial airplanes is around 200 mph, and the flight speed is around 550 mph (according to Google), so while the dragons might be more maneuverable and hear them coming, they may or may not realize that they have to move out of the way to avoid being creamed before its much too late, which considering the speed difference is likely a few seconds. The good news is that dragons probably won't bother flying at 35000 ft, so they'll mostly just need to be restricted from flying within a few miles of major airports or military airfields. This of course assumes the dragons are intelligent and realize the danger to themselves, if not the humans may have to develop environmentally friendly ways of keeping them away from airports (dragon whistles?), or failing that just shoot them down if they get too close and hope the rest get the message. If they were more like wild animals though, they probably would be mostly scared off by the sound of jet engines like real birds. 

you may wish to look into the "Barbary Coast" which was a collection of pirate city-states that operated from the 1500's until the 1800's. They raided the Mediterranean during this time. These city states were so powerful that deals had to be made with groups like France, and Britain just to avoid Piracy in the Atlantic. When the US stopped being a British colony, the Barbary Coast began harassing American vessels. It got to the point where Two vessels were captured and held for ransom. This was the primary reason for the first 6 American frigates being built by Thomas Jefferson during his time as a minister to France during George Washington's presidency. It ended with American Marine's capturing one of the Barbary Cities. I suggest looking into how these cities operate as they were primarily piracy states funded through bribes, piracy, and the slave trade while being ruled by the Ottoman Empire. EDIT: It was pointed out that I did not make a full explanation for their Industry. I will do that now. The Barbary Pirates were investments for many goverments and merchants in this location of the world and most acted as privateers without letters of Marque. This was made possible under Ottoman rule for the primary purpose of slavery. For those who may not know, in the Quran it states a Muslim cannot own another Muslim. This makes Christian Slaves very valuable. It is estimated that somewhere between 1 to 1.25 million Christian Europeans were sold into slavery in the Barbary Coast during this time. The slaving locations for these pirates went as far north as Iceland. Many European nations did as much as they could to prevent being raided. This included ransoms and tribute, where it was said 20% of US government annual revenues were spent to pay Barbary Pirates prior to the wars (we have no concrete numbers from other countries). Notice that I have not made mention of any other industries. That is because these cities had very little control over their own territories. in Algeria, one of the capitals of Barbary Piracy, over 69% of the land disobeyed Ottoman rule. They refused to pay taxes, ignored rule of law, and were not held by central power. These people added little to no economic activity for the Ottomans to consider. The governments were themselves encouraging this slave trade. The Barbary Coast was ruled by the janissaries. They were an independent military arm for the Ottoman Empire. They slowly came to finance the majority of the Barbary Pirates. 

In addition to the charing on the outside, mentioned in the other answers, the inside of the station will burn depending on how hot and for how long. Although the outside of the station may be the other side of the wood and where the heat is applied, the energy will still be transfered, and may reasonably ignite as it hass access to oxygen.* Alternatively, one could fire an oxidizing agent - for example nitric acid, at the hull, and it will burn perfectly well on the outside. *Until a hull breach or vent at which point the inside will no longer have oxygen to burn with