It is for speed- if you have your goggles on over your cap it upsets water flow, so the second cap over that holds the goggles safely on and streamlines the head. Sure, it's an infinitesimally small benefit, but at that level it is important. Additionally, some sports manufacturers make some specifically to be worn like this to reduce drag further. 

For sprint races, as per @Nij's comment it is easy. In reality, even in local leagues, most races are longer than 4 lengths (if we exclude children's races), so for longer races, there may be a bell or a visual indicator. Where those are not available, the swimmer does simply have to count. It is always an even number, so that does help, and it is an area where the swimmer can be very focused. 

One very simple solution - buy a set of balls in an uncommon colour. I have one set in neon orange - which I haven't seen anyone else use. Doesn't matter where they end up - I can see them. If you can't do that - you could try initialling them with a Sharpie. Golfers use marked balls - you can too. 

This is not actually a running specific thing, or specific to any festival. This also happens with events such as the Edinburgh Loony Dook on the 1st of January every year, and these are not associated with Saint Silvestre (who is relatively unknown in the UK.) Big festivals or celebrations such as New Year's Eve / Hogmanay / etc. have a few features that are interesting which make them suitable for large events: 

Generally the idea of picking a top score is to start with a "perfect" and knock points off for infractions etc., than to add points for "better" scores - as that could lead to boundless scores. As to why in your example the numbers are 16, 10, 4 rather than 8, 5 and 2 - the most likely is to provide space for forfeits, which, at 1 point each have less effect on the score than if points were awarded at half the value. Penalties have more of an effect under UK Archery scoring, which is 10 for the inner ring, down to 1 for the 10th, or outer ring. 

You will almost always have a slight rotation one direction or the other, and even if you don't, you can use whichever foot has best contact with the ice to start a twist as you fall. Then rotate your shoulders, wrapping your arms in to speed the spin as needed, so you can take the fall sideways, rolling rather than impacting. 

Two aspects I had not considered at all - where to prepare the rope for the next climb (if you let it hang it will catch, so you need to coil somehow, but on a narrow ledge your options are limited - go for hooking through a carabiner or over your fixed rope) and where to place your first clip on the next climb (this is important, as your 2 belay point anchors will not be set to withstand a fall from above) Another quick comment from outdoorsmagic.com advises thinking about where you stand at belay points depending on whether you are left or right handed to make rope handling as easy as possible on the climb. 

I think you are right: perfect form. But let's think about that for a second - why are you assuming perfect form is a single skill? It requires: 

We just used to disqualify them both in that race and send 'em home. There's no need for that sort of behaviour. Even in F1 you'll see they have taken steps ranging from fines and disqualification for that race through to bans and grid penalties for the next race. 

That's a bonus marker. A team who commits 7 fouls gives the other team a bonus - which gives a free throw with every foul from that point on. The second B on the second image indicate that a team has reached 10 fouls (in HS and college this is the double bonus and means that you shoot 2 foul shots from there forward instead of 1 and 1) 

Does each get a points handicap in order that there is one gold? Or is there a gold per category? In Athletics there are categories from 11 to 58 so this must lead to a lot of medals if there is a set per category. 

The single best thing you can do to get better at skateboarding is stop watching TV and go out and skate. It won't take you long to get the basics, but having played with various balance boards and decks I can confidently say that while they will improve your balance there is no substitute for just getting out and skating around, up and over kerbs, along streets etc. If you want to do it, give up a couple of hours of TV a day and skate solidly. It will work. I learnt at age 23, having never skated before, although I had snowboarded and surfed. What did it for me was using a board for my commute - after about 2 weeks I started feeling the movements correctly, and even began to dream about ollying! 

Most people I know who use them state that it is just to reduce all distractions to a minimum, such as light, movement etc. 

You are probably okay on the fast rallies because you get a lot of practice on them - it sounds like the high/slow returns are unfamiliar to you, or the sudden application of back spin is a contrast to the likely use of heavy top spin on a fast low rally. Simplest advice is to practice with a friend - get them to send you many high shots, especially with varied spins, so you can get used to the effects of backspin and side spin. Practice, practice, practice 

You could look into one of the fitness tracking wearables, like the FitBit (which is a very light wrist device) or some of the GPS tags, which can be the size of a key fob. 

The real reason for using O°°O or OO°O is to allow you to perform rail tricks more easily, and without grinding away the wheels so much as it allows the rail to touch the skate, rather than the rubber wheels. OOO tends to give you a shorter wheelbase, which can allow you to spin and change direction more rapidly. ooooo is quite stable at speed, and may allow you to accelerate faster, but is harder to turn. 

Gaining weight is easy - eat more calories than you expend. If you find it very difficult to gain weight, it probably means you have a high metabolism and are burning more calories than you consume. Gaining muscle is work - there are no easy ways round this I'm afraid. If you want muscle you need to persuade your body to make it, and that means using the muscle you do have hard enough that your body is forced to make more. For rapid muscle gain, it's even harder work - you really need to push hard, exhausting yourself is very likely, and you need to eat the right foods. And remember that your face may not be one of the places you will put on weight first - the waist is likely to be first for fat, and major muscle groups can bulk faster than small muscles. Carbs and protein are essential to protect yourself from damage and provide muscle mass, and keeping well hydrated is also key. 

It used to be that lanes 1 and 8 were considered slower due to reflected waves off the side, but modern pools have wave reduction systems so this is no longer the case. 

There seem to be a wide range of categories in the Paralympics, all with different tariffs for difficulty, but how are these actually balanced? For example, one of the simplest groups is Kayaking, with only 3 categories: 

In the UK we have various ways to gamble on sports - many bookmakers allow bets on horse racing, football, rugby, whether Christmas will have snow, whether a meteorite will fall out of the sky - in short, pretty much anything. This is a very strongly regulated industry - with a range of checks to ensure gambling rings don't influence individual players or teams. 

A sling between the two belay points with a central carabiner allows for equal weight distribution and safety. 

Have a look at this thread on the Airsoft forum and especially tmfreak's answer. Basically the airbrake stops the piston smacking against the end of the cylinder. It does reduce the speed of the projectile a little, and it isn't suitable for all airsoft guns, but worth looking at if the noise is an issue for you. 

The best way to learn how to use a boom vang is really by using it, but here are some guidelines that I have taught at Sailing Schools, and used to great effect when racing: 

I have been sport climbing for many years, both indoors and out, but have only ever tried single pitch climbs. I would like to learn multiple pitch climbing, but have no idea how you manage the transition. Do you get to a ledge and then belay your partner up then effectively start again on the new pitch? Or do you let your partner climb past you as the new leader? Do you need to do anything special with regards to safety as you change from being the leader to being the belayer halfway up a wall? 

I tend to hook it behind my front leg, but I do rest against the upright/cable with my arm/hand. This gives you more freedom to move the point of pressure, especially on a long/steep climb, and as I have damage to my spine from an old injury I need some way to do this, but it does preclude eating/drinking. As I don't eat or drink while on the board this doesn't bother me, but it might annoy you if that is what you like to do. 

This might sound very unhelpful, but really the only solution is lots of practice. Ideally, get a coach, who can help you improve more quickly, but either way, just be prepared to put in the hours. It will come. Get a good partner to send you shuttles at consistent heights and positions, and plan for specific targets (eg back left corner, or opponent's head :-) and keep on smashing them. Watch where you make the errors (this is easiest with an observer, or ideally a coach) but you can do it yourself. 

Having raced karts and cars for many years, the only crucial factors for motor racing shoes are that they can fit into what is often a very reduced space, and they can protect your fit from fire and other damage. A high top will offer more protection, but can be a little restrictive, which is why many opt for lower ankles. For karting the fire risk is low, and you tend to have ample space, so I would go with whatever is comfortable. 

Of the three major marathons I have run (Edinburgh, Paris and London) I would recommend the London Marathon as having the best atmosphere, and for being the classic marathon for amateur runners. There are tens of thousands of entry places for charities and the entire day is very supportive to those runners who aren't at a professional place. The Paris Marathon provides amazing scenery (42.195km in the most beautiful city in the world, as their site claims), and has one of my favourite sections - the Bois de Boulogne, where stalls are set up not with fruit or water, but with wines, cakes and cheeses - not conducive to a fast pace, but very pleasant for those last few miles before the finish. The Edinburgh Marathon is the second largest marathon in the UK, but is a very fast marathon (voted the fastest marathon in the UK in 2008), with a few hills, but nothing steep (they used to include a steep run up Arthur's Seat, but the pros complained about the pace...) - there is an amazing run all along the coast, which can cool you down on a hot day. 

In fact the the same sort of skills most sports require - which implies it fits very well into an Olympic competition. 

Monitoring of test tracks is actually quite well policed, and is quite easy, as it isn't a simple logistical exercise to get an F1 car track tested. What is harder to check for is testing of particular components, or windtunnel testing, by 3rd parties as these may not be obvious to the monitors. So instead what they rely on is that F1 teams will be punished if they push the rules too far. It is understood that F1 teams will try to exploit any loophole or push any rule to its limit in order to gain an advantage, but the penalties for actually breaking a rule are quite high so they have to weigh up the potential cost to themselves, versus the potential gains. Many agree it appears to work, but there are a fair few cynics who suggest that the biggest names may have ways and means that the smaller teams don't, including relationships with fluid dynamics teams, manufacturers, test suites etc. 

So if you have been used to a 30 pound bow I would suggest a 50 would be on the upper end of what you would want to move to. 

The main reason for people jumping off one foot is that they can convert their forward motion into vertical motion better, so you can actually jump higher from one foot. Additionally, you can convert momentum from the moving leg into additional vertical motion by swinging it forwards at speed and then up as you push up from the other foot. The record for the Standing High Jump (off both feet) is held by Rune Almén at 1.90m. 

This was handled the same way small local swim meets are handled these days: stopwatches. Okay, they may not always have been digital, but having two or three timekeepers per lane allows you to tinge each competitor and remove some of the human error. When it was a really close finish they would have to make a call - who looked like they hit first?