The middle of the 18th century was the height of the British nationalist movement. Examples of this movement include composition of Rule, Britiannia! and creation of the popular of cartoon character, John Bull. John Bull is a simple, jolly, content, country gentlemen who represents Britain and is often placed in opposition to France, Scotland or the popular American cartoon symbol of Uncle Sam. Uncle Sam may date back to as far back as 1775. He is mentioned in the song Yankee Doodle, which mocks American troops, but was later adopted by them. 

The pact replaced Germany's long running relationship with China before WWII. Germany originally felt closer to China when it opposed the terms of the Versaille Treaty giving Germany protectorates in China to Japan. China's civil war ended in 1949, but communism was a growing force in the country in the 1930's and the weakening of China's nationalist government translated into a gulf between China and Nazi Germany. So instead Hitler sought an alliance with Japan, which had also been undergoing ideological changes, who he saw it had more ideological similarity now. I don't believe racism was an important reason or other ideological reasons. Japanese ideology, often referred to as "Japanese fascism" in the past was quite different in many ways. The most important way is that it was not a workers movement, as it was in Germany. It was instituted by the elite in Japan to "improve" and speed up capitalism and industrialization through the monopoly control of industry. Here is a good article. 

Post-Revolution Well, I'll keep it short. There is an ongoing mess right now, and everywhere. Garbage is everywhere in the city, many roads are being ruined and not maintained any more, government services (health, transportation) are even worse, Internet is barely usable (have a 7mbs and get only 1mbs or less), Inflation is dreadful (food prices doubled comparing to pre-revolution). Worse, some government entities (like the local pharmacy for medicines) are being robbed and destroyed by "unknown" and their resources are taken across border (to Libya or Algeria). So that shouldn't be surprising for a Post-Revolution country. But the question is: With an uneducated/inexperienced youth, a corrupt government, a terrible infrastructure; what's the natural evolution/progress in this situation (based on history/other countries) and what's the very likely outcome? I don't want to overload the question with information, but if you need any other data/details to build explanations I'll be happy to add to it. 

Education 14 years ago, I started school (at age of 6). I remember that the system was pretty solid. I learned languages (French and Arabic), Maths, and some science. The teachers were quite old (50 years or older) but they had a great experience and also they loved their job. Moving from primary school, things started to change. The system was messy and also unfair. High-School was terrible and there were only a few old and good professors. I should call myself lucky that I had a great and free education. The system currently is pretty messy and unless parents have money to finance their children education, they are very unlikely to learn a thing. It's getting worse everyday. Higher Education Higher education is unbearable. I joined medical studies two years ago and I dropped this year. There isn't even the required equipments for teaching. Some professors don't even prepare their classes/courses. They steal it from French Universities (and sometimes it's plagiarism) and edit it a bit (and make many syntax mistakes on the way). I followed Medical studies because it's (the irony) one of the best higher education institutions in the country. The jobless Most of them are youth. They hold high-degrees from even worse universities. They don't have any formal/informal training. Few of them pursued other manual tracks (like becoming a carpenter) but most of them are protesting on the streets. Some of them are violent (block roads, prohibit governments institution from operating) and many of them rely on their parents for food, shelter and coffee. The government I have had many opportunities to visit some government entities (for paperwork, registrations and other things). It's a slow, painful, pretty corrupt institution. However, there is something that attracted me the most: It's very unproductive. We can get more productivity with something like 20% of the employees or even less. The government employs around half a million. The government wages are pretty low, but it's so far the best paying entity on the country. Here are some salaries (usd/month) 

There's really two questions here. How does propaganda work and what did the German's know about how it worked? What is Propaganda Applied rhetorics for the persuasion of mass audiences through the use of mass media for the purposes of commercial interests (eg advertising, public relations) or to persuade audiences to support a cause or to hurt support for the opposing side's cause (war-time, political, advocacy, lobbying) Different Avenues of Propaganda There are avenues of propaganda: white, grey and black propaganda. White propaganda is when the source of the propaganda is known and black is when the source is a lie. Grey is when the source unknown. Usually when we think of the word "propaganda" we think of black propaganda, but white sources are very common and also effective. Goebbels is an example of white propaganda. The White House press secretary is another example, although I'm not trying to draw a direct parallel. Advertising is another white source and quite effective. Maybe we don't think of advertising as "propaganda" but we know its advertising, and it still helps companies sell products. Therefore, propaganda absolutely does not need to hide its source to be effective. Title of Ministry of Propaganda Germany was ground-breaking in the field of propaganda in the early 20th century. America had a negative attitude towards it even during WWI and limited its use. American intellectuals developed a model based on a poor understanding of human behavior that envisioned propaganda directly entering the audiences thoughts and influencing them directly without any feedback or interpretation by the audience. Therefore the American interpretation of propaganda was as a very dangerous weapon that could destroy democracy. The German interpretation was not nearly so dire. Propaganda can also be seen as a tool to spread positive political ideas. We use propaganda today this way although we do not call it by that name due to the negative connotation. It might be best to translate Goebbels as the head of the "Ministry of Public Information" or "Ministry for Advocacy for the Interests of German Peoples" to understand how the German people would have understood him. 

I have a pretty limited knowledge in History but I want to know the future (or outcome) of the Tunisian revolution based on the development of current events and also on some data that I know/can provide. I'm not sure if the natural evolution of nations is toward progress or not; and that's exactly what I'm asking: Where are we going? First, I'll put some information about the revolution and political state to put you in perspective The roots of the revolution The revolution was led mainly by jobless/hopeless and kind of lifeless youth. They have little (or nothing) left behind them to care about; so they simply went to the streets to protest. The protests weren't armed but they were violent at first. 1 year after the revolution Joblessness jumped to 18.6% (and increasing), GDP dropped 1.8%. A citizens elected constitution started working, a constitution formed government has been in place for 100 days. Then, I'll draw some conclusion as someone who was born and lived for more than 20 years in this country. Feel free to ask for any other information you need