The company has every right to block access to sites that it sees as being non-productive for its employees. When you visit your personal email, read a blog or just about any website that is not work related, you are using company bandwidth, network connection, computing resources and of course, your time. These all cost the company and as such it has every right to block what it sees as non-essential. You say this is an issue of security, which it may also be, but from the description of what was blocked and what is now also blocked, I suspect it is a matter of perceived productivity and use of company resources doing personal things. What you need to do is accept that this is what the higher ups have decided. You can take this up with your boss on a higher level - that of what makes employees productive. A good point in favour of allowing access (not just for you, but for everyone), is that happy employees are more productive - restricting access in this way does not make for happy employees, rather the opposite - people get disgruntled, which is most probably not what the higher ups are looking for. Another point to make is that blocking such access does not mean that people will stop - they will simply put some energy into circumventing the technical issues (so, lost productivity right there), while still accessing these sites by some other means (personal smart phones and tablets with unlimited bandwidth for instance). In short, the way to handle this is not to ask for special dispensation (be honest with yourself - do you really deserve it? Over everyone else?), but try to change the mindset. If there are certain blocked sites that you find are making you less effective in your job, that's a good reason to get them allowed for you and everyone in your position. But you do need to make the case - you need to explain why having access to these sites makes you a more effective worker and increase your productivity. I most certainly advise against directly circumventing the different means - in particular if that means installing unauthorized software on company property. If (when) you get caught it could cost you your job. 

It is a good idea to calm your nerves before an interview. Using alcohol to do it - bad idea. Most work places have policies against drinking during working hours - drinking just before an interview would be a red flag to any interviewer. You may very well be dropped if the interviewer detects a hint of alcohol. Apart from that - there is the issue of impaired judgment whilst drunk. You may very well not perform to your usual standard or show impaired judgement while under the influence - these are also good reasons to not drink before an interview. Consider methods that do not include alcohol - meditation, clearing your mind, having a walk before hand - anything that relaxes you. 

You have not accepted a job until you and the company have both signed the dotted line. If you hold on to the contract with Company A and decide not to go through, that is your right. Company A will know this is a possibility - in some cases, candidates don't follow through even after signing a contract (for various reasons). Any reasonable employer will know this and accept this. You can minimise issues by being upfront - if you explain that you have another offer and you wanted to review both contracts before making your final decision, they should understand. 

Consider that a head hunter is unlikely to be intimately familiar with your field of work to actually be able to tell whether a person in that field is a junior, senior or expert. All they can do is make a judgement call based on what is on your CV - your experience and what you have listed on it. Even someone who is in your field of work will need to actually interview you, in depth, before they can make this determination. In view of this - take everything a head hunter tells you about your skills and level of expertise with a grain of salt. A head hunter is trying to sell you a job - making you feel good about yourself is part of that. 

It isn't that complicated. Your contract should specify what a "day" means. For example, it can be 7.5 hours + 1 for lunch. This will vary by company, as you can expect, as will the actual work hours (for example 9:00-17:30). From this you can calculate an hourly rate. If it doesn't say, do no sign the contract. If you don't have any overtime clause specified in the contract, you can ask for one to be added. Having anything from *1.5 to *2.0 normal hourly rate is usual (depending on how much overtime is requested) - for example - for 2 hours overtime *1.5 the rate, for every extra hour (or part of) over that, *2.0 normal hourly rate. Not having this (or explicitly saying that there is no overtime) can imply that overtime rates are normal rates. You may want to specify that overtime is by agreement of both sides. These all ensure that you only work overtime when you want to and that you are compensated for it. Managers will also think twice when they know it costs them extra. The important take away from what I am saying is - contracts are negotiable. If you don't like something in a contract, don't sign it - get it amended. If you have a lawyer to look it over as well, all the better. 

You don't. That's what probation periods are for - to see how the person handles the pressure for real and if they don't then they do not pass their probation. So long as it is clear in the interview process what the work requires and that there is a probation period the result of depends on performance under stress, the person being interviewed will know what they are getting themselves into and the company insures itself against hiring someone unsuitable long-term. 

Essentially it means that the company will give you an option to buy stock in the company, for the current price of the stock. This means the price you can buy the stock for is the current price of the stock, with the option to buy the stock in the future for that price. Offers are usually limited to a specific amount of shares, vesting over time (for example, you can get 25% after 1 year of work, up to 100% of the offered shared after 4 years). The shares will not normally be worth anything unless the company IPOs (goes public) or gets purchased - at which time, the stock price may be higher or lower than the option price. In general - think of this as an incentive to stay in the company and make sure it is successful. One employer I had that offered an "employee stock option scheme" said that it should be treated like a lottery card. It may be worthless, but if the stars align can make you a bit of money (how much depends on amount of stock and the relative difference between option price and actual price). Word of caution - do not treat options as pay. Make sure your base pay is decent - stock options are a "bonus" that may or may not pay out. 

You don't need to go out interviewing in order to do that. There are online salary surveys, government statistics and some companies will detail salary ranges in their advertised jobs. So, you have options there - do some research on the job market to get some information to back up your request in a salary increase. Now, just by interviewing elsewhere, there is no guarantee that this will result in a pay rise. Even if you do come with details (such as a job offer or information from the suggested research above), there is no guarantee that would motivate either your manager or HR to give you a raise. You need to be prepared for such an outcome and decide how you want to go about it. 

This is difficult to answer, as each country has different employment laws. If you are working with these people as part of the same company (i.e. they are employees), you will need to comply with the local laws. Things are easier when working with contractors/freelance workers. 

Yes, a network administrator can certainly be doing such things. However - unless being blocked in this manner is interfering with your ability to work, there's little you can bring to management. You could possibly call this harassment, but, either way, you would need to prove the existence of the problem (possibly record the issues as they come up and have a colleague back you up on them). 

There are of course other issues - culture, different holidays and more, but these are secondary to the two major issues I outlined above. 

They can ask. They cannot demand. But it is your profile that you created to show your work. It is completely up to you - you can give them a mention if you think they deserve it - how prominent or not is also up to you (a short - outsourced via companyname, for example). Personally, I have had many jobs through recruiters/umbrella companies and such and most of these I have never mentioned in LinkedIn or my CV - they are not relevant to showing my career. In short - up to you what you do here. They have no legal basis to force you to do this. 

In general, you should follow what it says in the contract you have signed with the client. If it doesn't mention overtime, you should have had it amended to include an overtime clause that suits yourself and the client. Not having any mention of overtime in the contract puts you at a disadvantage, legally speaking. Unless you can prove overtime (invoice sent, timesheets approved detailing the overtime), the client is under no obligation to compensate you for the extra time you had decided to take onto yourself. Your best way forward is to discuss this issue with your client - with the person that oversees your work and signs your timesheets. You may be able to reach an agreement where you charge your overtime as some of the vacation time you have taken. 

With all the information you gave here, there is more than enough material for a good entry in your resume: 

Frankly, doing what you are doing now is not good for you and for the company, even if you think it is. You are burning yourself out - people need to a change of pace to recharge. There are studies showing that this is indeed an issue. If you feel you truly can't do that and that you must continue doing what you are currently doing, you need to talk this over with your manager. Talk about the amount of time you are putting into your work, extra and over that required by the company and ask about the possibility of being compensated for it. Don't be surprised if your manager does nothing - after all, you've been doing this without compensation for a long time, and the company has no incentive to change the status-quo. 

You need to determine for yourself which of these would be most beneficial for the company - perhaps discuss this with your manager. In some ways, learning new tools and techniques is more valuable than looking back, though there is much to be said about introspection and retrospection - learning to avoid the mistakes of the past. 

A greenfield project is simply a new project, not building on anything existing. The analogy is to building on a green field - there are no existing buildings or infrastructure. This is opposed to brownfield projects - which would involve changes and maintenance to an existing piece of work. The term is not unique to IT. 

or would be a good heading. If you expect hiring managers not to understand these are personal projects or projects you contribute to on your own time you should add a short paragraph before the listing explaining that, unless this is clear from the context of the listings. An alternative is to have a single paragraph in your cover letter with a link to these projects. 

Yes, it is. It is normally expected that you lookup documentation and learn more about the craft during working hours. This includes learning about and trying new tools (libraries, IDEs and other tools). 

I call these "fishing expeditions" by recruiters. They may or may not have an actual job, but with this kind of wording I tend to think there is no job and they are fishing for candidates - that is, people that they can sell to clients once jobs come up. It is a way for recruiters to have a pool of people to search for - the more the better as far as they are concerned. Personally - I ignore such requests and sometimes mark them as spam.