All one needed was a map of Europe and the German propaganda reports on the fighting (and maybe some pins to mark places). Official German radio reports about fighting included names of cities that lay in the vicinity of the combat and rivers that were crossed. The reports were heavy with propaganda-speak, blurring losses and denying defeat. But if one filtered out all the phraeseology and just concentrated on the cities that were mentioned, he could get a good overview of the back and forth motion of the general frontlines. Completely lying about the course of the frontline would have been impossible. Too many men were soldiers, and they went on home leave occasionally. Wikipedia says that approximately 18.000.000 men served in the Wehrmacht [Wikipedia]. It was impossible to prevent them from talking to people at home. I don't know how the reports differed with respect to information content between radio, on-screen, and the newspapers. 

Germany and Austria are to mainly blame for the outbreak of World War I. The reasons are: (1) The "carte blanche" Germany gave to Austria for attacking Serbia. (2) The German "Schlieffen-Plan" - attacking France via neutral Belgium and Luxemburg, without declaring war on Belgium. (3) The German long-term economical and political aims that were to be achieved by the war. Austria is to blame for taking the murder of the successor to its throne by a Bosnian Serb as a welcome occasion to end the undermining of the multinational Austro-Hungarian state by starting a war. Source: Julikrise und Kriegsschuld, Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung 

Your question is legitimate and in fact the unique state of West-Berlin had much influence what would happen in the Future. 

As you see, Slavs were then Arians (Caucasians) and Finnish people were Mongols. Also the racists had heated debates which ethnicity belong to which race. So it was not really a problem to "adjust" the race if it suits your interest. 

Yes. No. The problem is the situation in which the Weimar Republic persisted. Germany lost the War and was in a very bad condition. 

Very good question where the answer is AFAIK still open and I think you also pointed out the discrepancies well. Some possible explanations: 

After Black Tuesday and the Great Depression it finally broke down. Unemployment rose to unprecended height. It was shown that the political system of the Weimar Republic was critically flawed. The Reichstag (parliament) was not able to work because both left and right parties had enough votes to stop progress. Hindenburg had the power to dissolve the Reichstag, elect the political leader ("Reichskanzler") and create emergency bills ("Notverordnungen"). And he abused this power to its full extent. If someone wants to insist that Germany in the last three years from 1929 to 1932 was a stable democracy: Ferocious streetfighting between communists, nazis and goverment supporters was a daily occurence. In fact, each of the factions had their own hit squad: The KPD had its "Rotfrontkämpferbund", the goverment its "Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold" and the nazis the "SA". While the German election at March, 5th 1933 was during the time Adolf Hitler was already in power and the opposition was hit hard by the draconian persecution for the alleged arson of the Reichstag (and therefore the election cannot be called "fair" by any means), the NSDAP got 43,9 % and the DNVP 8% with a voter turnout of nearly 89%. They build a coalition and were therefore able to get the absolute majority with nearly 52%. They persuaded the Zentrumspartei to push the Enabling Act through with the necessary 66% majority and legally installed the dictatorship. 

The two officers behind the man in red look like they are wearing French Gendarmerie uniforms. Also, are those mountains in the back? I'm not sure the guy is English, despite his red jacket. The soldier in the far back wears a heat with a red hackle. The French Garde Republicaine wears similar hats with red hackles. $URL$ 

Terminal train stations were built in continental Europe because many railroads connected only two cities in the early to mid 19th century. There were not many rail lines, and the stations built were terminal stations. As the railroad network increased, the terminal stations could not be converted to passthrough anymore. 

Frederick II. was in opposition to the popes. Stories presenting him in bad light are nowadays attributed to the popes' propaganda. 

The Hague Convention of 1907 on the rules of land warfare, ratified by the US a few years later, prohibits the following (Section II - Hostilities): "To declare that no quarter will be given" (quarter is the military term for mercy). On the treatment of prisoners of war, the following is said: "Prisoners of war shall be subject to the laws, regulations, and orders in force in the army of the State in whose power they are. Any act of insubordination justifies the adoption towards them of such measures of severity as may be considered necessary." This implicitly refers to the Lieber code. Compare this to the administrative document mentioned by Pieter Geerkens, the Lieber code. If the Lieber code mentions "no quarter will be given under such and such circumstances", then this section should not be binding. Source: $URL$ 

Mariusz Paździora, Wikimedia Commons, CC-BY 3.0, 2008-01-01 you will see that the former Austria-Hungary contains apart from Austria and Hungary many of the countries and ethnicities which were independent later: Czech Republic, Croatia, Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bosnia and parts of Romania including parts of Romania including Siebenbürgen (Transsylvania, yes, it really exists) which had a 10% German minority. Given that Austria-Hungary existed for a while, you had many people from several groups marrying together and the bureaucracy was not as well-groomed as in Germany where you could easily identify the people you want to identify. 

From a German perspective I also think it is unfair to paint Chamberlain as a pacifist who would avoid war at all costs and was unsuitable for the job. He declared war together with France on September 3th, two days after the invasion. If people are unhappy with the "Phony War", I would like to ask what exactly do they imagine what England and France could have done. The border between France and Germany was heavily fortified. So Germany has a very good defendable and prepared choke point with a fully equipped modern army. For people who did not experience war it should be pointed out that most people remembered one of the worst wars 20 years earlier who killed many of their family and friends in the horror of trench warfare and were therefore for a good reason not eager to another war. Moving heavy mobile units or massive infantry was considered impossible in the Ardennes. (which was the reason that Germany's attack was so successful). Moving through Belgium or the Netherlands to attack Germany would violate their neutrality as long as both countries do not agree. This would in return paint a big red target on their chest which a neighbor who defeated the stronger Poland in weeks. Using force would not only make the Allies the aggressor, it would make the "The Rape of Belgium" propaganda of the Allies in WWI ridiculous. The Soviet Union also invaded Poland and shared it with Germany. So the obvious partnership excluded a very advantageous two front war and it also allowed Germany to be supplied with goods. Blockading the North Sea is much now less effective. All points on the western front were also valid for Germany, as France had also strong fortifications and invading the Low Lands again would offer opportunities for France and England to countermoves. So I do not think replacing Chamberlain with Churchill would have any immediate effect and therefore Chamberlain could not be blamed for the inactivity. 

Germany was perceived as the aggressor and cause of World War I by the Allied powers. It gave a "carte blanche" to its ally Austria, which was about to declare war on Serbia just because the Austrian successor to the throne was killed by a Bosnian Serb. The Germans attacked France executing their "Schlieffen-Plan" which required they march through Belgium which was Allies with Great Britain. The German situation in late 1918 was rather hopeless on the front - Germany had no ways to counter the tanks, which made trench warfare obsolete, and the United States had brought fresh troops to the war. 

Apart from Jews only Sinti and Roma have suffered worst from the Holocaust ($URL$ I can't think of any other ethnic group which endured anything similar under the Nazis. The holocaust was extended to include them. There was a plan for the Holocaust at least starting with the Wannsee-Conference in 1942 ($URL$ One can argue that it had always been Hitler's intention. 

The weight (an average) soldier carries has increased from World War I. If you look at the respective article for the equipment of a World War I soldier, you can ask yourself which items you consider dispensable. This article probably gives what an average British soldier carried in World War I: 

In addition to the other answers I would add that Antarctica is well protected by the Westerlies, a zone of westerly winds surrounding it from 30-60° S. These bands are named "Roaring Forties", "Howling Fifties" and "Screaming Sixties", try to guess why. Apart from mostly bad weather with regular storms of hurricane force and freak waves you must cross the oceans with continously decreasing temperatures and fields of pack ice. The only land near this regions is Patagonia in South America which is also quite inhospitable. Under these circumstances it may be not so surprising that Antarctica was untouched until the l9th century. 

I will add following reasons to sds answer: Ability to move back If your sails only allow courses before the wind, relying on wind alone is a death trap. Noone wants to be pushed away from the safe coasts into unknown waters. So the first ships were galleys which were able to move in any direction, but had virtually no resistance against bad weather. So galleys were forced to move along coasts to reach land in case of a storm and need to replenish their food and water because of the heavy workload. If you look at the distances, an Atlantic crossing with a galley is practically impossible (and has been AFAIK never achieved). So both the Romans and Phoenicians were not able to build up a connection. The vikings longships were the first ones which were able to sail at least perpendicular to the wind and were therefore equipped for longer travels. Food (Scurvy) It is not sufficient that you have food supply, you need to have access to fresh food to prevent scurvy. As the reason for scurvy was not understood (until the 20th century; Lind was in the 18th able to deduce that you need citrus fruits, but the missing knowledge of preserving Vitamin C meant that the British Navy gave out lime juice which was cooked and runned through copper pipes destroying the vitamins), there are only few options. The first one is to make the ship as fast as possible because scurvy needs time to develop. The second one is to make the ships big, so big, that fresh food can be cultured. This was the reason for the successful attempt of the Zheng He expedition. Ship craftsmanship You need a vessel that is able to ride out storms, have enough cargo room for enough food and water, is able to move at relevant speeds and can be effectively steered. This requirements could not be planned and tested, but must have been acquired by a long sequence of trial and error. Navigation To be frank: Even the atlantic crossings by the Europeans caused horrific losses of life because even with a latitude there were always severe problems because captains were not able to decide if they needed to be careful (reefs), were forced to move into storms or had no idea how far they were away (replenish food). 

[Source given in Wikipedia is Zamoyski, Adam (2001). Holy Madness: Romantics, Patriots and Revolutionaries. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. p. 45.] 

"Dark History" doesn't give a source for this supposed order from Hitler. I don't think the site is credible by itself, since it's just a blog. From what I've read and heard about the topic (I can't give references either, since I didn't write the books and tv shows down), the Nazis just used the means of execution that had already been in place at these prisons before during the Weimar Republic. I'm not aware that the courts gave verdicts specifying the means of execution. 

Over the centuries, the equipment has looked like this (there is also World War I British equipment displayed): 

This is one man's subjective view, albeit a professional's. And the guy was riding in a Tiger tank with an 88mm gun (or was it a "Jagdtiger" with a 128mm main gun?). And then he might just have faced infantry or inexperienced fresh units. At the beginning of the war in the Soviet Union, the Germans captured hundreds of thousands of soldiers, until the Red Army adapted it's tactics and training.