Looking at the BLB Mosquito it is marketed as a "race" saddle which in the world of leather saddles seems to be short hand for narrow with the expectation that your cockpit setup has lots of handle bar drop (handle bars below saddle). Depending on the width of your sit bones, these saddles can be uncomfortable in a more upright position, as I have learned. BLB Mosquito Race - side view 

Tires blowing up in hot cars is a common occurrence, especially for high pressure road tires which are often already inflated to the specified maximum pressure. Heat expands the air inside the inner tube, as the pressure builds eventually something gives resulting in a rupture like you experienced. (Typically the tire bead comes off the rim, the inner tube escapes out, and without the reinforcement of the tire casing it expands until it ruptures.) Pro tip: if you are storing a bike in a hot car, reduce the pressure in the tires. Carry a floor pump to reinflate the tires before you ride. 

NOTE - There may be scepticism over how 'doable' this type of experiment is. If the type of information I am looking for doesn't already exist and there is sufficient interest, I am willing to draft up my planned methodology and post online for review (perhaps at a different and more appropriate venue). I do have expertise in both statistics and experimental design so I believe I would be up to the task. 

I would suggest removing them. Studs are only useful for steep hike a bike scenarios on loose dirt or clay (something that the spikes can bite). These were really intended for XC race situations, where some climbs are too steep to ride so you need to throw the XC bike on your shoulder and run like you stole it! In all the tours I have never done, including dirt road tours, I have never found a need for studs. The bikes are often too heavy to push up inclines steep enough to require studs. Walking on the asphalt, studs are slippery and could cause you to slip at an inopportune time. For example, when you put a foot down while on the saddle, you will be on your toes. Pushing off on the studs when on pavement could be difficult. About the only situation where I think you might find them handy is if you encounter a ruby scrummage. Here toe cleats are a must! 

The flood of cheap 10 speed knock-offs entered the market in the 70's and 80's. The explosion of MTB bikes in the 80's and 90's (which featured flat bars). 

Others will argue that this is a difficult method, or that it only tends to work when the damage is already very visible. Typically, I would tap with a solid object (e.g., smooth end of a screw driver), with a consistent force. Tapping with your fingers might not work well. There may also be pitch changes where the underlying material has change (e.g., many frames bond aluminum to carbon at places such as drop outs, steer, etc). The tone to listen for is a dull thud. As suggested by David Richerby you could compare and contrast the sound of the potentially damaged area against the other fork leg (which I assume does not show any signs of damage) to see if are any notable differences in sound when tapped. Another technique I have been told to try when inspecting used frames was to squeeze in the area around suspected damage. If the carbon feels "softer" it is a sign of structural damage. None of these techniques are definitive, as it requires you to essentially "read tea leaves" some can do it, some miss signs others pick up on. The definitive answer would be to scan the carbon (e.g., X-ray) to look for anomalies or damage. This however would likely cost more than the bike is worth and requires access to a skilled technician who can correctly interpret the results. Thermal scanning may be another option in this realm, but I don't know the availability of this technique, or whether it has been validated. Ultimately, you may need to send the frame into Trek's warranty department and allow them to assess and replace if required, they do have a good warranty department. 

The shifter cable come in two parts, the cable housing (outer) and the metal cable (inner) that slides inside the cable housing. The adjuster on the down tube acts as a "cable stop." It stops the cable housing (outer) from passing through, but has a small hole to allow the inner metal cable to pass through and continue to the rear derailleur, where it enacts shifts. The adjuster is threaded so that screwing it in it out changes the effective cable housing length, which in turn changes the tension of the inner metal cable allowing fine tuning of index shifting. If you are able to pass the inner metal cable through, then everything is working as it should. In no way should the black cable housing pass through. If you cannot pass the inner metal cable though look for blockages (as suggested in other answers) or replace the downtube adjuster (they are inexpensive). 

In all honesty 56cm sounds like a small frame size for someone who is 6' 1'' for some context I am 5' 8'' and generally find 56cm to be my preferred fit. All else being equal a 58 cm will likely give you more fitting options, as the frame stack will be taller. Most newer riders eventually complain of not being able to get the bars high enough, few complain they can't get them low enough (unless they are aiming for a particular aesthetic). (Your reach often lengths with higher bars so you don't have to fear a larger frame.) By swapping parts (e.g., stem, handle bars) and making adjusting it should be possible to get one frame size to fit like the other. The real difference between the two sizes is how extreme can you go. The 56 cm will be limited in how high (stack) you can get while the 58 cm will likely be limited in far you can shorten the reach. Also you can try even larger (e.g., 60 cm) as a reference point. It can often take many hours in the saddle before realizing one is a little too small or large (e.g., took me 1/2 year to realize one frame was too small causing me back issues). The best end goal I have found is finding a fit that leaves you balance - that is someone could quickly make your handle bars disappear you wouldn't fall forward while pedalling. The balance point will differ by some of your basic body dimensions and how aggressively you ride on average. Modern obsession with smaller frames For some reason many bike shops are obsessed with getting people on smaller road frames, but arguments can be made for sizing up (called a French Fit). If you plan on doing more endurance riding (or relaxed riding) then a larger frame can be easier to get into a comfortable position (i.e., taller stack and more reach). Smaller frames are generally considered for "performance" fits and tend to be pushed by many road shops these day. You combine a smaller frame with a longer stem to make up for the shorter reach. The idea is to get low and long. This is how the "pros" fit their bikes, and it is really intended for someone who is riding at a very hard effort all the time. When you ride at a hard effort your core muscles are constantly engaged and the force of pedalling supports most of your upper body weigh. Often you will need to get your upper body as low as possible to provide sufficient resistance to the pedal force as well as improving aerodynamics. As a result you will have little weight on your hands and you can get away with a lot of bad ergonomics in terms of how far you are reaching. In a race or a hard club ride I find this type of fit is great, and I typically find a smaller bike with a long stem (e.g., 54 cm + 110 or 120mm stem) works great for me. However, the moment I want to go on a slower ride with the kids or a friend I find this type of fit unbearable. When I was younger I could suck it up, but not so much anymore. Endurance fit Most do not want to ride at max effort everywhere. For an endurance fit (i.e., everyday riding), you want to be more upright and a larger frame. You are generating less pedalling force so you will not be able to support your upper body with your pedal force if you are leaned too far forward. A larger frame makes it easier to get your upper body in a more upright position (the stack will be taller so you have vertical height to work with) If you are more upright your reach will often length so the slightly longer reach of a larger frame will also work well here. If you need to go faster you will often use your drops more in an endurance fit. In a performance fit, many find the drops too low to use except in moments of all out sprints or pursuits. In contrast in an endurance fit I find myself in my drops about 50% of the time while riding a constant pace. Sometimes the larger frames can feel funny at first, but I find it doesn't take long before you get used to it and I think part of this is the result of too many people are on bikes that are too small chasing a "pro" look. Take Home