The advantages of describing something as physical is in falsifiability pertaining to the scientific method. that means in describing something as physical implies that it is testable through observation and experiment, and if the tool for describing it is correct you can observe results of experiments which conform to a descriptive theory which can predict the outcome of an experiment to a certainty every time it is performed. consciousness understood as non-physical is unfalsifiable, that is it can not be observed and experimented on as there is nothing physical to observe and experiment on. What it means to deny consciousness is physical is to say that, when looking for a cause of consciousness, that an answer will not be found by trying to reduce the causal steps back to a material cause, which is what materialism and science has tried to do by claiming that consciousness has its origins in a material brain, which is considered by some to be a flaw in the scientific method, that the scientific method assumes without proof that everything in reality has its origin in matter. 

I assume you mean the metaphysical status of propositions. The propositional calculus doesn't give much insight into determining what a proposition is--after all, it takes propositions for granted and attempts to develop a formal analysis of them. Similarly, mathematics won't tell you what a set is, but simply stipulate set axioms that are intended to model what we already understand a set to be. However, the question has been approached pretty famously by Frege, Russell, and many others--you may be interested to see the debates on the topic. While there isn't unanimity on the answer to the question, I would claim that the "intended proposition" of a simple sentence is the set of all equivalent thoughts which the speaker attempts to communicate; the "public proposition" actually expressed by a simple sentence is the set of equivalent thoughts that a linguistic community tends to agree are expressed by the sentence. To give just two important other notions of what propositions are: For Frege, they are abstract objects that refers to their truth-conditions. For modal realist David Lewis, propositions are sets of possible worlds. 

Socrates' personality was in some ways closely connected to his philosophical outlook. He was remarkable for the absolute command he maintained over his emotions and his apparent indifference to physical hardships. Corresponding to these personal qualities was his commitment to the doctrine that reason, properly cultivated, can and ought to be the all-controlling factor in human life. Thus he has no fear of death, he says in Plato's Apology, because he has no knowledge of what comes after it, and he holds that, if anyone does fear death, his fear can be based only on a pretense of knowledge. The assumption underlying this claim is that, once one has given sufficient thought to some matter, one's emotions will follow suit. Fear will be dispelled by intellectual clarity. Similarly, according to Socrates, if one believes, upon reflection, that one should act in a particular way, then, necessarily, one's feelings about the act in question will accommodate themselves to one's belief—one will desire to act in that way. (Thus, Socrates denies the possibility of what has been called “weakness of will”—knowingly acting in a way one believes to be wrong.) It follows that, once one knows what virtue is, it is impossible not to act virtuously. Anyone who fails to act virtuously does so because he incorrectly identifies virtue with something it is not. This is what is meant by the thesis, attributed to Socrates by Aristotle, that virtue is a form of knowledge. Socrates' conception of virtue as a form of knowledge explains why he takes it to be of the greatest importance to seek answers to questions such as “What is courage?” and “What is piety?” If we could just discover the answers to these questions, we would have all we need to live our lives well. The fact that Socrates achieved a complete rational control of his emotions no doubt encouraged him to suppose that his own case was indicative of what human beings at their best can achieve. So Socrates' view on free will, believing that the unexamined life is not worth living, was the wisdom and will for self-control, which for him required reflection or a conscience, in other words, for socrates free will is impossible without self-control, for people without self control arent capable of free will because being slaves to their passions they lack the free-will required for self-control. His view in the republic, (in the dialogue with Thrasymachus) is in conflict with the libertarian view, where people who are "slaves" to their passions have the right to self-determination, regardless of what their idea of the best life is, and the reason for his disagreement with libertarian free will in the republic is that justice requires reflection, and that the tyrant is a slave to his passions, does not reflect on his actions and believes he has the right to self-determination. i also find the stoic view (which they borrowed from socrates') on emotional self-control interesting, namely, that all emotion emerges from incorrect judgement and that the person with reason properly cultivated is able to control their emotions because they posses the wisdom to properly put the source of emotional conflict into the correct perspective or context, and therefore able to make the correct decision. 

I know of no such text, but I believe it would be invaluable--so this is a great idea. It should probably be restricted to philosophical topic, though, in the way that such mathematical texts are. 

Make a truth-table for the two propositions and see that they always share the same truth-values at each row. 

As has been noted, modal realism is a proposal that is not intended to be supported by observation. Instead, it is meant as a theory that explains, unifies, and performs other tasks for which theories are developed. (As one other respondent as said, it attempts to take the talk of possible objects literally.) The motivation for doing this is out of, for one thing, simplicity--which is a theoretical virtue. The meanings of expressions would be very unambiguous, under Lewis's proposal. In theories of modality that compete with modal realism, one always has to give a very complex and contentious story about what, exactly, they are suggesting modality is. Another reason that motivates modal realism is, as opposed to some other theories where abstract objects are given some kind of elevated ontological status, modal realism has a kind of "ontological parsimony" in that the only objects in the theory are physical objects. One final thing is that you can, to some extent, see modal realism in a different light: Think of it as making the point, "Why should you believe that everything that exists is spatio-temporally connected? That is a theory that comes bundled with a superfluous metaphysical commitment. Modal realism is entirely consistent with relaxing that commitment." Of course this doesn't get you to the conclusion that every conceptually possible, spatio-temporally disconnected region exists--but it does, perhaps, make it seem much less astonishing to suppose that they do. Now having enumerated some motivations for modal realism, you can perhaps see how people might argue against it: You may attack the motivations. Some argue that modal realism is not superior in its simplicity to some other competing modal theories, or they say that it is not sufficiently simple in comparison to make up for its theoretical vice of grounding all modal language in objects with which we have no contact. Others would argue that it is not as ontologically sparse as it claims to be since, although it can handily do away with abstract objects as well as any theory can, it still proposes far more physical objects than are necessary. If a modal theory can retain the feature that only physical objects exist, be adequately simple, and still not excessively violate desired features of our language, then this would be a devastating blow to modal realism. However, nobody has presented a theory which has convinced a large majority of philosophers that it has these features. Still, the general consensus seems to be: Yes, you may gain a lot of theoretical virtues by accepting modal realism. But those theoretical virtues simply cannot adequately compensate for all the vice that comes with them. 

Would human behavior be more or less ethical if decision making was devoid of emotional attachment? There are many different philosophical systems that argue either for or against emotional attachment like Buddhism, stoicism, Christianity, and the emotional attachment to the right to pursue happiness is at the center of much of the attitude of modern life as the most desirable goal. What would the implications be on ethical behavior without the desire to attain a feeling? Imagine a thought experiment of a simulated reality similar to the matrix except at any point you could hit the reset button and restart the simulation and every time you died it automatically restarted. It could be argued that living in such a simulated reality you would never develop an emotional attachment to anything (not even your own life as there would be no reason to fear death) or fear losing it because you could just hit the reset button every time an experience that you wanted to be extended or repeated ended. Inversely you would never fear any consequence to any act. In such a reality what would be considered ethical behavior. The idea of reincarnation would imply reality itself resembles this kind of simulation. 

In addition to jobermark's good and correct answer, I'll give a slightly more direct answer. However, I'll preface it with some warm-up. If your domain is U then define s(A(x)) = {x in U| A(x) is true} and likewise for s(B(x)). Then it follows that s(~A(x)) = A complement. It also follows that s(A(x) /\ B(x)) = s(A(x)) intersect s(B(x)). This is the connection between the intersection and the conjunction symbols, which we already kind of knew because the intersection is defined as the set of elements in the first AND second set. It also follows that s(A(x) \/ B(x)) = s(A(x)) union s(B(x)). In the above we associate open formulae with sets, but the pattern seems to get broken when we transition to subsets. After all, intersection and union are operations on sets, which produce new sets. The subset relation is not an operation, and only tells us how two sets relate. However, in logic the conditional is an operator just like conjunction and disjunction, so there is some dis-analogy here. But we can still say something to connect the concepts. Namely, s(A(x)) is a subset of s(B(x)) if and only if U = s( A(x) ⊃ B(x) ). 

What is the basis for believing that there is such a thing as human rights? I am all for human rights but it could be argued that the notion of human rights is imaginary and reducable to absurdity (that humans by virtue of being born are magically entitled to certain things) when trying to prove it scientificaly or logically. It also seems incompatible with evolution, where survival of the fittest would dictate, that you either have what it takes to secure the resources necessary to survive, or you perish if unable to secure said resources, evolution doesnt state anywhere that everyone is born with a right to a specific alotment of resources. Is it possible to reconcile these contradicting positions or is it more logical to conclude that human rights are a human invention? 

In the Republic Plato claimed that the idea of marriage was a "natural enemy" of the "commonwealth," aiming for its own higher unity. He thinks that a king should not marry nor should he engage in sexual conduct while he is king, as it is a distraction from the 24/7 job of ruling, and to lack the wisdom and self-control necessary to avoid sexual temptation is unbecoming of a man who holds the highest of stations. I dont believe he mentions queens and in his view they would be unnecessary, yet he doesnt explicitly discount the possibility of the rule of a sole unmarried philosopher queen. He does speak of a kind of eugenics where temporary marriages are arranged by the rulers, and an allowance of promiscuity at retirement as a reward for a lifetime of service to the republic. 

Note that your definition permits a substance to persist despite changes in its accidental features. If you count among a material thing's accidental features its state, as energy or matter, then it is still a substance even through these changes. After all, we say that the matter does not get destroyed but that IT changes into energy--it would be a bit of a paradox to think that the matter changed into energy without also thinking that there is some underlying, conserved substance which endured the change. A "change" without an underlying conserved substance is not a change, but an annihilation followed by a spontaneous creation. Now, exactly what is permissible to call "accidental" is a complicated topic, but I think nearly anyone would agree that it is a function of the level of description of the object in question. Certainly it is not accidental feature of a person's body that it is material and not pure energy. A change at this level of description would constitute a change in the nature of the object, and so at this level of description a person's body cannot change from matter to energy without destroying the body as a human body. Similarly being material is an essential feature of matter, trivially, and therefore changing from matter to energy violates or destroys the object's identity as matter. But if we refer to that substance which is continuous from the change from matter to energy or vice versa, it is not an essential feature of that thing to be matter or energy, so I would argue. It is at this level of description that we find a way in which it is at least plausible to suppose that there is an accidental feature (material state) of a thing that exists and persists through the change into energy or vice versa.