If it is possible story-wise, one approach would be to use an attack vector that, for whatever reason, cannot be used against the main hive but can be used to destroy any invaders that travel too far away. For example the alien hive could be in a cave system that protects them from surface attacks, but if they venture away from the cave system your aircraft can destroy them with simple depth charges. Or, perhaps, there is some sort of undersea plant life producing copious quantities of oxygen or microbes that break down toxins, but that these are localized around the hive so the attacks you list would be effective against any invader that strays too far. Or there could be strong currents in the area that wash away pollution and replenish oxygen too quickly for those techniques to be effective, but the currents are only right around the hive and heading out to sea. Your approaches could even be used to create an wall around the hive that kills anything that tries to cross it. There could be a localized magnetic anomaly that makes guidance systems for weapons too inaccurate or outright renders weapons ineffective right around the hive, but any invader too far away is easy pickings. This could be either naturally-occurring, the result of whatever brought the aliens to the planet, a leftover from some wreck or accident created by the natives, or even the result of a failed attempt to destroy the aliens. It could be that the natives' weapons aren't very effective in deep water, but work very well in shallow water. The hive is situated in deep water right off the city, but gets shallow very quickly away from the hive. It could even have been intentionally dredged for shipping, or be naturally deep. Either way this sort of deeper water is needed for a shipping port, which many cities are built around. 

The most straightforward solution would be essentially a single-use drawbridge. On the outer edge of the water, build the bridge and two towers. Anchor the bridge at one end, and use pulleys in the towers to first pull the bridge upright, then lower it across the water. Once the bridge is in place, the other end can be secured and (optionally) the towers and pulleys can be disassembled. Counterweights could be used for a particularly large bridge. If the water is too wide, a series of bridges between conveniently-placed smaller islands could be used. Since this is the same principles behind a castle drawbridge, which was a common defensive structure in the medieval period, the technology would be no problem. In fact the technology for lifting much larger and heavier objects vertically and lowering them back down was pretty common long before medieval technology was available, at the very least the Ancient Egyptians, the makers of Stonehenge, and the Easter Islanders could all do it. There are other similar solutions. They could rotate the bridge horizontally while supporting it with ropes. They could also just place two long tree trunks, either by lowering them with a simpler pulley system, rotating them, or if they are much longer than the water is wide just pushing them across. The planks could then be installed one after another, having the workers stand on the previous plank as they secure the next one. These sorts of solutions might be a bit simpler if the bridge doesn't need to be raised and lowered. A better question is why they would want to live there. You could argue that this is a mining town, harvesting some rich mineral or gemstone resources released by previous eruptions. You could say someone spotted the glint from exposed gold or gemstones, and that is why the bridge was constructed. 

What is more, as you can see from the 3D map below, not only are their inclinations different, they are bent in different directions, throwing the line even more off (which is why the angles on the Wikipedia page above don't seem to line up): 

Aluminum. Until modern times, it was essentially impossible to produce in any significant quantity, making it far, far, far more valuable than gold. It is also a useful metal in its own right, being strong and light. And it should break down within 500 years, so it won't leave any archeological evidence in the modern day. Price: free if you are willing to dig around in some trash cans. Candles. The candles affordable to medieval people were very smelly, and odorless candles were too expensive. Price: About 20 dollars for a box of 100 small candles or 12 big ones. Paper. Paper at the time was made from rags, and thus much more expensive. They probably wouldn't have much use for it themselves, but the nearest monastery would appreciate it, and the village would be eager to impress the Church. It won't last long, though, especially if you pick low-quality paper that degrades quickly. Early paper used cloth or animal skins that last much longer than modern wood pulp paper, especially cheap paper. It will seem good as long as you are there, but won't last a century not to mention 6-7 centuries. Price: About 20 dollars for a box of 5000 sheets. Salt. Salt was extremely important part of the diet that was hard to come by for most people for most of history. It was also critical for preserving food. Price: About 20 dollars for a 25 pound bag. Spices. Also critical for preserving food, but had to be imported from Asia and India. The crusades were largely fought over disruptions to the spice trade. Price: less than 5 dollars for a 5 ounce bag, probably good for dozens of meals. Dyes. The cheap synthetic clothing dyes didn't exist, and several colors (particularly blue, purple, and some shades of red) were extremely expensive to make. Price: about 20 dollars for a small kit with various colors. Silk. Although still more expensive today than other fabrics, it is much, much, much cheaper than it was due to modern western silk production. Price: Less than 15 dollars for a silk shirt. Fertilizer. You can buy it by the carloads and it would have helped their agriculture immensely, although getting them to recognize its advantages may take some time. Price: Less than 15 dollars for a decent-size bag. Pesticide (thanks Richard U). Would likely work much more quickly than fertilizer and is even more important. Price: Less than 40 dollars for a large bag of insecticide and less than 30 dollars for a large tub of rat/mouse poison. Perfume. Apparently at the time bathing was not popular in northern Europe, perfume was used instead. Price: You can easily get a probably several month supply for less than 15 dollars or air freshener for less than a dollar, although you would need to transfer it to some container than is appropriate for the era. Incense. Another thing that was used more in churches, but again pleasing the Church is always a good thing in medieval Europe. Price: less than 15 dollars for several months worth. 

Does it have to be in the open ocean? If it can be in an inland sea (such as the Mediterranean or Black Sea) or large lake, it might be easier to change the water level of the sea. You could divert rivers running into the sea or block waterways leading out of it to have pretty fine and rapid control the water level. 

The human will be able to hear a variety of additional, but largely unimportant sounds, at the expense of poorer ability to interpret important sounds, particularly speech. He will be much more aware of his or her environment, at the expense of difficulty with social interaction due to having a hard time communicating. The problem has to do with the issue "frequency discrimination". That is, how well can you tell apart two similar frequencies. Cats, having their hearing range spread over many more frequencies, are much poorer at telling apart two nearby frequencies. This is particularly important in speech, where such cues are critical for understanding what word is being spoken. This also is an issue for detecting where a sound is coming from. Due to our large head size, humans are much better-suited for picking out interaural time differences, which are differences in the arrival time of sound between the two ears. The catch is that ITDs are only useful at low frequencies. The human brain's sound processing is laid out in terms of frequency, so with no other brain changes the sound location system will be completely messed up and a large portion of it will be totally useless. Even if the brain was also changed, you still have the issue that your subject has less of his auditory system dedicated to the necessary low frequencies. This is a major problem, since being able to tell where sound is coming from is essential to understanding speech in noisy environments. Overall, your subject would have a really, really hard time understanding speech, especially at parties, or on the subway, or while walking near a busy street, to such an extent that he or she will likely avoid many social encounters. 

How plausible would it be for an asteroid impact to create a hole through the Earth's crust into the mantle? What sort of traces would such an impact leave behind? Would it be survivable by at least some animals and plants? Let's assume that we are dealing with Earth, or the third planet in a solar system roughly identical to our own, although the specific asteroid responsible doesn't have to really exist. Let's also assume the asteroid itself ends up embedded in the mantle, none of it remains on the crust. 

As you can see from the 3D map, if you include Pluto then the whole thing is way off, it has a huge orbital inclination of 17 degrees (depending on how you measure it) 

Fire can be used to cauterize wounds. Coming during a disaster, it can potentially be used to, for example, stop internal bleeding that no other technique can fix. Also during a disaster, it can be used to burn or melt through obstacles to get to people. If it isn't only fire manipulation, but also a fire sense, it could potentially be used to locate fires inside a disaster area, and maybe even the body heat of survivors buried under rubble. It can be used to clear areas of vegetation for building and farming. Not necessarily very environmentally-friendly, but commonly-used in the real world. I saw one scene in a movie ("The Gods Must be Crazy 2"), where a brush fire was bearing down on a group. One person grabbed a burning stick, carried it a few dozen yards away, then started a new fire. Once that fire had moved on, they moved into the area cleared by the new fire and were safe. Something like this could potentially be done to save people from some life-threatening fire, even a city fire if they can burn hot enough. Smoke signals have been used for long-distance communication in clear weather. The heat from fire can lift things into the air, and can create air currents that can blow away fog, smoke, pollution, or poison gas. Fire can be used to boil and thus sanitize water in areas where clean water is not readily available, either due to local conditions or a disaster. Fire can be used to sterilize surgical instruments. It can be used for light in areas where electricity is unavailable, either because a lack of power lines or because of a disaster. Fire is needed for creating pottery, bricks, and other ceramics. Fire is needed for metalworking.