DukeZhou, who ever finds intereset, reading the question, the answers and comments a little, looking for possible places to make a benefical share, possible correcting, possible filling lacks, possible provoking skillful thoughts, possible to proper perception of the path to release, and therefore possible leading to abonding, disenchantment, release: 

To give just some samples, yet not possible to count on statistic or to assume that they would have no potential to change as well for real great, worthy to follow and even assume them as inherent bad. Not knowing, not seeing, one thinks, speaks, does wrong. So it can be assumed, that "Buddhist"s probably teach such if becoming popular an "political" correct. Again, such, and they, should not be misstaken with Dhamma, the Buddha an his following disciple, since do base and intent for "political involvement and doing favors" for common sense. Avoid involved. 

Maybe good to know [the unruly eight kinds of men] (AN 8.14), to understand the usual approches of "Buddhists" generally. Right? 

This brings one to think about why one whould be touched if another bears unskillful thoughts against one. Why does one like others to love them? To get something? Expecting something? To give goodwill is very skillful, to expect goodwill from others, demant it, is that skillful? Isn't fear that drives? Someone not bound to me, not depending on me, not mine, not able to contoll, not listening to me, might not do what I want. That's why one likes others that they love him. But as we know, as we have possible tryst in, if we keep precepts, maintain a heart of goodwill torward others, not only fear has no ground and reason in us but we are also best protected. It's importand to understand goodwill (metta) well. It's not a thought that binds, but a thought that gives way, gives release and respect ways of others. "Like to hate? Hate, if you feel fine.", "Like to love. Love, if you feel fine." Having no possibility to (if feel the need, and have the will, to help) to explain the way to release: "May you find the way to happiness for you self with ease." Demand from others that they like one? Think just on the fact that you will have to leave on day, for sure, wouldn't those who possible even love you, like you very much, not terrible sad and touched, when they lose you? So why want them to love you when you knkw that you will not be there for ever for them? The Sublime Attitudes is a beautiful chant and "Mettā means Goodwill" a good teaching on metta. Don't make youself busy making other love you, that is actually very selfish. Act good, correct and with proper respect. When not taking side, beings see that, and naturally give certain respect in return. At least, not only that just oneself is to some extent able to chance his/her mind, you will at least not know if another really hates you. Think on a child that believes that daddy hates him, because he uses harsh words for his welfar. In your case here, it was even told by other. So what is the value to be greedy after honor an love? Be a rich person and give, especially the poor, those who are greedy after be loved, but take care that they do not really love you to much ;-) that's actually really a burden, since you are, that what they love, sighn, sound, smell, taste, touch, thoughts, getting from you, is not for sure, not secure that it can be lasting be provided. 

...was asked. On a level of materialism, outwardly appearance, that what science merely observes, it might look as reasonable, but in terms of effects on experiance level, there is neither a linear nor a instant pattern to be found. To understand the nondeterministic law of kamma, it's useful to give it a deeper read. 

Eggman, One starts to get free of addiction simply by keeping Silas: abstain, if there is no real penetration to right view (stress, cause, cessation, path). It is pointless to try again and again a "short-cut". And there is no such as gaining world and Nibbana together. All undertakings to build equanimity around the cause without removing it, lead to even bigger unpleasant results. Do the work to be done! and keep precepts. It has it's cause, it's reason, why one falls in bad realms, becomes a hungry ghost. If caught there, in the realm of hungry ghost, in internet: Use the practice of Mindfulness practice and meditation in Googlyana, starting with Silas. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other kinds of low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

So what is that all about with this paradox? How to explain that his disciples propably blame all others in certain ways and prais just the Buddha and his Dhamma, and his disciples with whole heart? Just a "Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi, or how should this statement be understood in a Dhammic way, so to posible do not react foolish like Upaka the Ājīvaka did? [[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose and other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

With much karuna! (and mudita) and as a "Bodhisatta" once explained: "How few understand what love (goodwill & compassion) really is,... : Wisdom and the work for it. 

Adam, enlightenment "certain realease or insight" should not be confused with "rightly awakening". As for rightly awakening there are generally four stages (which is not a religious definition but actuually) and it's gradual. In regard of release, see vimutti 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

no comprende, UUU, and those here possible interested, assuming it's asked for the purpose of release, for it's purpose this answer follows: Q: Are there other people, according to Buddhism? According to the Buddha and his Dhamma, there are all around, all the time, other people, and to hold the perception of the two governing principles arosen, in cases that the perception of self is current out of sign, is a very needed to be reminded to keep right effort arosen and to gain deliverence, so be sure that I or others see UUU`s, or your actions, know what you think, speak or do. Phenomenalical pondering and try to grasp this view or that are not conductive for release. One just will die, the arrow not removed. An what is right effort, supported by one, two or three governing principles, not having abound them, not denying them? 

Since certain prerequisites are possible missing, for one living at home: Development of the first six recollections/reflections can be done "no" matter how busy you are, if the busy is according to the Dhamma: AN 11.13 Since lack of stinginess is prerequisiten 

Especially objects in signs have the purpose to concentrate the mind. In regard of the objects of repulsion, they also give ground for transcendent form by focusing on it. The other objects are visualisations of virtues (of the Buddha, Dhamma, Sangha) or reflections on own virtues (generosity, conduct, virtues like Devas) and then there are certain other visualisations of thoughts to more directly "change" ones level of awarness. All, how ever, are used to gain certain concentrations used on one hand as proper dwellings, livelihood for the mind on one hand and as object of investigation for insight. Since the prerequisite to gain absorbed concentration is the (a good amount) abounding from sensuality, such as visualization of grave stimulating objects of form, beautifullness in form, form to identify one self with it or even such as "bodily sequences" are not found in the advices of the Buddha, with is also clear when remembering that to transcendent form is the very first step. Where ever such kinds of meditations are found,they can be content regarded as "this is not the teaching of the Buddha". It's pupose might be what ever kind of "illusion" one might objecting with it or what ever identification one tries to pursue with such, but certainly not for release, undinging, Nibbana. It might be also of use for wordily special powers. Again, if reflecting on Deities and Devas, one is encouraged to remember virtues one has (means there must be experians to be able to visualise) equal them. Form and material qualities are not regarded as graspworthy at all but obstacles for any useful one-pointness or for inside, aside of those giving disgust to it. A person, having grasped after seeing the Buddha in Form, when finally met him was taught clearly that seeking after form makes no sense, not lasting as it is: "Who ever sees the Dhamma, sees the Tathagata, who ever sees the Tathagata, sees the Dhamma." It should be clear, that this does not put into hope that lasting, real Form can be found or worthy to seek after. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

When the root of kamma, not-knowing (avijjā), is up-rooted, abonded, reminderless destoyed, with the lack of effluents of the mind (which is also the root for lobha and dosa), no more kamma comes into be. Note, since it is often misunderstood missinterprated. Such as "neutral (avyākata) kamma" is not all a kamma with no results. Kamma of a mind that is not released from not-knowing, even if neither skillful nor unskillful, does neither cause increase nor decrease not-knowing. Therefore, dwelling in a neutal mind-state (which has not abounded not-knowing) still has the quality of wandering on in the kammic circle, has it's effects. Dwelling in "non-action" which actually is not, therefore makes no sense for release. Skillful actions are required as base to uproot avijjā, to develop the path. So called Zazen or only samatta are no means for liberation in and off themselves. Even a "neutral" mind state (yet mind still deluded), dwelling on such stand, is conditioned, subject to becoming and all of which is originated is subject to decay. One seeks for kammic consequences which are cutting off, needs to cause a result of cutting off, come to a state beyound states, unbinding, release.