But then potentially revised upward in the case of a repeal through a reconciliation bill that leaves in place market reforms, because in a letter to the Senate Committee on the Budget, they add: 

However, according to the US Geological Survey and other geologists, Oklahoma's induced seismicity is mainly caused by wastewater injection, not by fracking. The distinction is important because: 

Sites that use the same method of oil extraction may produce different amounts of wastewater due to geological differences. For example, in Oklahoma: 

More recently, in January 2017 [7] the CBO estimated that first 18 million, then 27 million, and finally up to 32 million by 2026 would lose insurance (compared to the situation under the current law) if the ACA was repealead via an H.R. 3762-like reconciliation mechanism, leaving the market reforms in place: 

Federal debt as a percentage of GDP has been increasing slowly since 2002, increased much more quickly during and just after the 2008 recession, and then resume increasing slowly again (vertical range of graph is 50% to 110%): 

In addition to statements by representatives of the union cited in the New York Times and other media sources, statements made by United Technologies CEO Greg Hayes in an interview also confirm that only 800 of the (2100) jobs leaving Indiana have been "saved". 

In Israel, where there is a high level of alertness to threats and civilians are taught to act immediately if they see anything suspicious, there are multiple incidents of civilians identifying a terrorist threat before a policeman or other authority, with the threat being at least partially mitigated as a result. See e.g.: Passengers escape Bat Yam bus shortly before bomb explodes: 

Real median household income fell sharply during and after the 2008 recession, but has been increasing since 2012: 

Not only is there wide variation across these in terms of benefits of expanded insurance coverage, the authors of all these studies caution that "results may not generalize to other states" [2] (and identify specific variables in the states under consideration that could cause the benefits to be greater than or less than other states). For example, expanding health insurance coverage in a state where most of the previously uninsured do not have doctors or hospitals nearby, will not have the same effect as expanding health insurance coverage in a state with a much higher density of healthcare providers. A state with a higher baseline rate of insurance coverage before enacting reform will not see as great an effect on mortality rate after enacting reform [1]. Similarly, the Oregon paper [3] notes that a small-scale healthcare reform effort is substantially different from a large-scale healthcare reform effort, for better or worse: 

Next, let's consider the number of people who will lose insurance. This, too, is a subtle and complicated problem involving many variables. The Urban Institute brief claims 

The parts of the claim re: deputies laughing, or the dog's remains having been left there, are not mentioned in this article, or any others that I have found. The sheriff's spokesperson also confirmed that the armored personnel carrier rolled down the street and damaged a car: 

Another article (Murphy, Doug. "Sheriff's office seeks charges in house raid." Ahwatukee Foothills News. Oct 20 2004) also suggests that the deputies forced the dog back into the house: 

A third Obama official, Ben Rhodes, said in a series of tweets (1, 2, 3) that the "pipeline slowed and then picked up again" in 2011: 

which is already less certain than the Sanders tweet (which says 36,000 will die). They compute the 36k number based on: 

In February 2009, the University of Chicago Medical Center announced a change in the way it admits ER patients. As reported by the Chicago Tribune: 

Labor force participation is decreasing slowly since 2001, and more quickly since the 2008 recession. Note that the vertical range of this graph covers six percentage points, 62% to 68%: Workers' share of economy decreased sharply during and after the 2008 recession, but is now on an upward trend. Note that the vertical range of this graph is five percentage points, 42% to 47%: 

In response to the Washington Post article in 2008, Scott Gottlieb, a former FDA official now affiliated with the conservative American Enterprise Institute, said in a Wall Street Journal editorial (also full text here): 

In "Contraceptive efficacy of emergency contraception with levonorgestrel given before or after ovulation", 2010 [2]: 

An article in the Arizona Republic (Collom, Lindsey. "SWAT Called to Nab Suspect, Ahwatukee Peace Shattered." Arizona Republic. Jul 29 2004) offers a similar account, and corroborates the estimated cost of the damage to the house: 

I looked into the references from the other answers (and some more references), here is what I learned. The TL;DR version: 

but suggests that flag burning with intent to incite violence is not protected by the Constitution (unlike flag burning as political expression, which is protected): 

This account has been widely repeated by other news outlets. Senator Jeff Merkley, repeating the anecdote on the Senate floor, says the woman lost her home: 

And in "On the mechanisms of action of short-term levonorgestrel administration in emergency contraception", 2001 [6]: 

The sum of the weights of the 328 respondents who identified themselves as "White" and also answered "Muslim" to the question about whether Obama is Muslim is 332.8443. The sum of the weights of the 285 members of this group who gave Trump a higher rating is 295.5019. 295.5019/332.8443 = 0.8878082 That's where Klinkner got the 89% number. But, this number is based on 328 respondents, on a survey that was really only intended for testing new questions for another survey, and may not generalize to the rest of the population. Also note that 

(This 46% number is reflected on the Statistics Brain page under "Resolution maintained... Past six months). They do, however, note: 

The erroneous 10% number seems to have come from the New York Times, who in a January 13, 2017 story In the Shopping Cart of a Food Stamp Household: Lots of Soda mistakenly wrote: 

References [1] Mulligan, Adrian, Louise Hall, and Ellen Raphael. "Peer review in a changing world: An international study measuring the attitudes of researchers." Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology 64, no. 1 (2013): 132-161. DOI: 10.1002/asi.22798 [2] Ware, Mark. "Peer review: benefits, perceptions and alternatives." Publishing Research Consortium 4 (2008). URL 

An article in the Arizona Republic (Collom, Lindsey. "County SWAT Action Leads to New Policy." Arizona Republic. Aug 13 2004) also corroborates the part about the police (and neighbors) not having been notified in advance: 

Of course, "Only 8% of people are always successful in achieving their resolutions" is not the same as "8% of People Achieve Their New Year's Resolutions". The study by Shapiro has not been published in a scientific journal. 

The error was pointed out on Twitter. The current version of the NYT story has the correct 5% number. A correction notice at the bottom of the article says: 

An early version of the work she is referring to is published in the article: Miler, K.C., 2007. The view from the hill: Legislative perceptions of the district. Legislative Studies Quarterly, 32(4), pp.597-628. And the full version is in this book: Miler, K.C., 2010. Constituency Representation in Congress: The View from Capitol Hill. Cambridge University Press. 

They then compute the 36,000 number as: 29.8 million no longer insured/830 insured corresponds to one death prevented. This is a problematic calculation, because the 29.8 million number includes children, while the 830 number is for adults insured. But that aside, how credible are those numbers? First, let's look at the effect of health care reform on mortality. The only nationwide study that I have seen is a 2009 study [6] that looked at the mortality rates among the insured and uninsured. At the individual level, it tells us the increased risk of mortality that is attributed to lack of insurance: 

4. It is not clear whether levonorgestrel has any effect on pregnancy if administered shortly before ovulation, and if it does, it is not clear by what mechanism. Any remaining controversy (such as in [7]; note that this is published in the journal of the Catholic Medical Association) revolves around whether levonorgestrel is effective at preventing pregnancy if administered shortly before ovulation, and if so, by what mechanism. Levonorgestrel does not seem to prevent or delay ovulation ("follicular rupture") when administered shortly before ovulation. For example, from a study comparing levonorgestrel (LNG) and another emergency contraceptive, ulipristal acetate (UPA), "Ulipristal acetate prevents ovulation more effectively than levonorgestrel: analysis of pooled data from three randomized trials of emergency contraception regimens", 2013, [8]: 

In response to the 2008 Washington Post article, Senator Chuck Grassley from Iowa asked the hospital for more information about how they were serving the community. The hospital responded. The current position of the American Academy of Emergency Medicine supports efforts to redirect patients with non-urgent conditions away from the emergency room, and encourages referrals to alternative health care options: 

No. The original source of this claim is a satirical news site. This claim is from an article in World News Daily Report, which carries the following disclaimer in the footer: 

That's 800 jobs of the 1400 that would have been eliminated from the Carrier facility - leaving about 600 Carrier jobs still being eliminated (1400-800=600), and no change in the Huntington situation. Also in the same interview, Hayes says: 

Many point to this as evidence that Plan B inhibits implantation. However, it's not clear that there was ever any direct evidence that levonorgestrel affects implantation. The New York Times claims that at the time that Plan B was going through FDA approval, 

The following table shows the percent change in the number of crimes between 1990 and 1999 attributable to each of the explanatory variables listed above, according to the model: 

In a November 16, 2016 op-ed in the New York Times titled Donald Trump, Help Heal the Planet’s Climate Change Problem, Thomas L. Friedman claims: 

Food stamp assistance has been increasing since 2001, increased more quickly during and immediately after the 2008 recession, but has since plateaued and then began to decrease (note that the vertical range of the graph is $10 billion to $80 billion): 

You can register and then download the data yourself to verify the math that Klinkner did. You may refer to the User Guide for details of how answers to survey questions are coded. First, you can see that 875 respondents identified their race as "White". These are coded with a 1 for the variable in the data set. One of the questions on the survey (the variable in the dataset) was: 

In February 16, United Technologies said that 1400 jobs from the Carrier facility in Indianapolis and 700 jobs from its Huntington plant would be eliminated. Per the report in Indy Star at the time: 

Marist has been collecting data on New Years' resolutions since the 90s. They found the following self-reported success rates: 

In 2005, when the FDA reviewed Plan B in order to make it available without prescription in some cases, the manufacturer, Teva Pharmaceuticals, asked for the statement about implantation to be removed from the label. According to the NYT again, 

No. While the 2013 ABC report cites unnamed officials as the source, several named Obama officials have since spoken out to challenge this report. Furthermore, data on Iraqi refugees entering the U.S. in 2011 support their claim that the number of refugees admitted was lower than normal, but not suspended entirely for any six-month period in 2011. Jon Finer, an official in the Obama administration said that there was never any month in 2011 in which there were no Iraqi refugees admitted to the United States. There were periods in which there was a severe delay in processing of refugee claims: 

Home ownership had plateaued just before the 2008 recession, and has been decreasing since. The range of this graph is seven percentage points, 63% to 70%: 

Sanders shared this ThinkProgress piece on his Facebook page on January 5, 2017; it appears to be the source of his claim. That article claims: 

Philip Klinkner, writing for Vox, cites the 2016 American National Election Study (ANES) pilot survey as the source of this number. But, the stated purpose of the study is to test questions for future studies, not to draw general conclusions about the population: 

Another account can be found here (Murphy, Doug. "Sheriff's SWAT raid opens door to questions." Ahwatukee Foothills News. Aug 04 2004). This article includes a comment from a neighbor: 

Regarding that "areas of glandular atrophy and stromal decidualization" thing, they further clarify: 

Note that the date ranges of the graphs seem to be cherry-picked, possibly in order to create the appearance of a trend, hide a continuing trend, or make trends seem much more dramatic than they actually are. Here is what these or related images (i.e. sometimes using a different index for convenience) would look like if you use a consistent date range for all, beginning from January 1996 to January 2016 (or January 2015 if that's the most recent available). Recessions are shaded in gray. "Federal government; consumer credit, student loans" has been increasing slowly from 1996, then increasing faster after the 2008 recession: 

While many agree that the current peer review system is not as effective as people would like it to be, it is not true that there is "no evidence that pre-publication peer review improved papers or detected errors or fraud". Authors overwhelmingly say that peer review improved the quality of their own last published paper. In a 2009 survey of academics [1],