There aren't a lot of trick plays of this type that are still legal, and even fewer that an NFL team would want to try. Essentially, one of two things have to happen for ineligibility to be nullified; the opposing team has to touch the ball, or the ball has to be carried beyond the LOS by someone on the offense who legally receives it from the QB, then laterals to an otherwise ineligible linesman (such as your tackle hook and lateral example, which AFAIK is a legal play in the NFL). I guarantee you there's not a single play in anybody's playbook that involves the offense trying to make the defense touch the ball without gaining possession, just to give it to a guard or tackle. A not-uncommon play in lower leagues, and as far as I can tell not illegal in the NFL, is to "pull the guard"; instead of blocking, the left or right guard drops back and crosses the QB, who hands off the ball to the guard as he might to a running back. A tight end or big back would step up to fill the hole left by the guard, and the ball's out of the pocket pretty quickly anyway; anyone getting through on that side would have to chase down the guard. However, guards in the NFL are typically a bit too big (and too battered by that point in their career) to be good ball carriers, so I doubt an NFL guard would be fast enough to be able to turn the corner once the play developed. In fact, most of these trick plays require players that can be good at multiple specialized positions, so when you get to the NFL, where the people at each position are the best in the sport, they tend to end up too specialized at their position to work well at any other, especially when talking about offense. There are a lot of formations that can fool an unsuspecting defense into thinking a person isn't eligible. 2 tight ends, for instance; the formation puts all seven down linesmen in the center cluster, with the WRs lining up behind the LOS. Defenses are used to seeing the outside receivers lining up on the LOS, so if a defensive end or OLB isn't paying attention to how the outside WR on his side lines up, they might push right past an eligible receiver thinking he's a guard, making for an easy screen or inside slant. EDIT: Also, as was popularized with the Patriots' playoff run in 2014-2015, you can set up formations that specifically declare an otherwise ineligible player to be eligible. The officials and the other team must be made aware of the fact that a particular player is reporting as eligible. This led to a few touchdown scores by traditionally-ineligible players like tackles and guards, whose assigned blocks were instead handled by tight ends, slot receivers or backs. However, these players are eligible as of the snap of the ball; nothing really special or out of the ordinary has to happen during the play for them to legally end up with it. 

Well, part of the fitting is to determine what you already know; swing speed of various clubs. That in turn determines your position along a bell curve of player profiles that will indicate the type of clubs you should buy. Players with stronger, faster swings should use clubs with stiffer shaft flexes, lower lofts (or a wider range of lofts) and less draw bias or even a fade bias (a strong swing, properly executed, will torque the clubhead to the inside as the shaft releases its flex; however, most clubs come with a slight inside angle to the face at rest to correct for a natural tendency among amateurs to fade or slice shots). In addition, standing there hitting balls, your ability to be consistent will lead the clubfitter to recommend clubs of various construction. Most "beginner" or "casual" clubsets are designed for maximum forgiveness; they're heavily "perimeter-weighted" for distance and maximum sweet spot, higher in mass for a particular loft, with wide, deep soles to be more forgiving of "turfed" shots and to launch the ball higher (compensating a little for the "de-lofting" of clubs in this range over time, allowing players with slower swings to hit further). These are very easy to swing, but they emphasize making a straight shot, so it can be very difficult to "shape" the ball's flight path with an intentional variation in swing. Sets designed for more advanced players that need this ability to get out of a jam (instead of beginners who need clubs that help them avoid getting into a jam in the first place) tend to be more blade-like; narrower soles, thinner construction, etc. Still perimeter-weighted, but you'll definitely know when you're not hitting it well with a club like this. All this knowledge will tell you the type of club to go for; then you'll choose clubs or matched sets falling in that category, and take some demos to the bay to try out. Once you've found a set that works well for you, there are additional fitting steps that further match those clubs to your swing. First and most important is shaft length. Players naturally bend over more or less at address, which affects how "thin" or "deep" their average shot is. Players who bend over a lot, and don't want to change, can shorten their club shafts to avoid "turfing" the club (hitting the ground before the ball; reduces launch speed and distance, causes inconsistent launch directions, and really pisses off groundkeeping staff). Players who stand straighter can use longer shafts to avoid "thinning", "skulling" or "topping" their shots (hitting low on the face causing a lower launch, or in the extreme hitting it with the club's leading edge or even hitting over the top sending the ball down into the ground). Once that's sorted out, the next most important thing is lie angle, which is the angle the sole of the club makes with the shaft, and therefore its angle to the ground at impact. Simply stated, the center of the sole of each of your irons should contact the ground first. If the sole contacts the ground closer to the heel, that rotates the clubface so the ball will launch left, and it's true in reverse if the toe contacts first. To measure this, the clubfitter will place a piece of pressure-marking tape (similar to what's used in some receipt printers; at high pressure it turns from white to blue) along the sole of the club, then have you hit a few balls off of a rigid surface placed over the turf in the bay. The tape will be marked where the club hits the plank, and the fitter will bend the hosel of the club to compensate for the club hitting off-center. Of course, all of this requires you to have a consistent enough swing, both from swing to swing and day to day, that the data produced by the fitting process is indicative of your actual swing out on the course. If your ball-striking is inconsistent or your swing path varies from shot to shot, the data from a fitting will be inconclusive. Perhaps worse, you could dial it in one way in the fitting bay, then the very next day your swing behavior will drift to the opposite extreme, so not only do you have consistency problems, your clubs will magnify them. If you can't make the same club hit the same ball in the same direction three times in a row on two different days, then take whatever clubs you have now to the driving range and hit them until you can, before you start talking about custom-fitting a set. 

Specifically to the Olympic Club, the first 6 holes of that course are a bear. Hole 1 is a long par-4 (520 yards; that would normally be par-5 territory except this one's downhill). The fairway moves slightly right, so tour players either have to skim the trees on the right side or hit a slight fade to avoid ending up in the rough on the left side for a long second shot from tall grass (which MANY players ended up doing, and remember that tour players were required to use "conforming" clubs with shallower V-shaped clubface grooves, which makes hitting from the rough harder). The second shot is slightly uphill, which would normally require a long iron to run up onto the green, but the green is protected by bunkers in front so you can't roll up to it; you have to hit a shot that will carry in the air and then stick just before the pin. Many of the tour players rolled off the back of this hole using a fairway wood or hybrid. Hole 2 is straight and shorter, but the approach is uphill, the green is small and depending on where the hole was cut you can't see the pin from the best approach to it (for the final round, it was cut in just such a location, on the other side of a steep bunker from the best approach). There's a roll-up approach for those inclined (again depending on hole placement) but if you overshoot there are two backside bunkers waiting to catch the ball (which, again, happened to many of the tour players). If you undershoot, a steeply-sloped frontside bunker will make the up-and-down a real challenge. Hole 3 is a long par-3 but downhill; you or I would probably use a 3-wood, the tour pros generally hit a hybrid or mid-iron off the tee. The trick is a dead-straight shot and good club selection; otherwise you'll catch one of the 5 (!!!) bunkers surrounding the approach and green. Hole 4 is designed to take your tee shot out of play. It doglegs around a hill to the hole's left, meaning the fairway slopes right. Hit your tee shot low and you'll either catch the trees right in front of you, or it'll roll out into the right-side rough. A slight draw is the best play; it'll curve just a bit left and roll more left (countering the fairway's tendency to roll the ball right). Then, the fairway narrows on the uphill approach shot, with two approach bunkers left and right; this is another one where you may not see the pin on your approach depending on hole placement and your lie. The green slopes severely back to front, so it'll catch a nice straight or slightly-drawn approach shot, but it'll be very easy to overputt or underputt. Hole 5 is almost the mirror image of #4; dolgeg right with fairway sloped to the left. This one plays downhill and so is longer, and the fairway is even narrower. Hit the tee shot long and this hole will punish you by forcing you to hit a 200-yard long iron or lofted wood shot over trees close in to the fairway. Hole 6 is more of the same; long (50 yards longer than the last time it hosted the Open), straighter but still heading left. There's a nice fairway bunker on the left to catch an overdrawn drive, and you need a 300-yard carry distance on your driver to clear it. The green is tiny, is again tightly protected by bunkers, and the longer total yardage will mean players have to hit a longer iron for more rollout. This is an extremely difficult GIR to make.