Another option would be Islabikes, they are a UK company but now have a US operation based in Portland. They are a specialist children's bike manufacturer with an emphasis on low weight and child specific components. 

One last thing to consider is tubeless, you can get a conversion kit that allows you to run the wheel with no tube but with a sealant that plugs holes; this is how I run all of my bikes. It does however bring it's own problems, you can get a cut in the tyre that's too big for the sealant to cope with and access to a compressor is helpful when setting up a tubeless system. 

Think about how heavy you are compared to your bike, so when your braking most of the momentum is you! You have 3 contact points with the bike, the handlebars, the saddle and the pedals and the best one to put the forces generated when braking through is the pedals, if you put all the force through the bars then you'll go over them, if the saddle then your relying on friction between you and it (slippery when wet). If you put the forces through the pedals you get more traction and stop faster as you push the bike into the ground. So in order to do this you need to get out of the saddle and drop your heels, as soon as your heels are below the axle on the pedals your momentum will be driving you down into the bike and then driving the bike into the ground. Moving back slightly can also help, especially if going downhill but it's the heel position that's important. Dropped heels also helps when just riding along, if your off (or on) road heading downhill at any speed and hit an obstacle, if your heels are dropped you'll sink into the bike and the chances are roll over the obstruction. If your heels aren't dropped that same obstacle will send you flying! You pivot up around your ankle and it's 'game over'. 

The threads are completely stuffed. Do not just screw the pedals back in and do not rely on loctite or similar compounds. Pedals falling off is at best inconvenient, at worst can lead to crash and serious injury. Easiest option is to replace the cranks. Its not a big job but parts cost might mean a repair is a better option for you. The bottom bracket will probably be a square taper, so you need a special tool, or the LBS can do it in a few minutes. The only other realistic option is to insert a thread insert (Helicoil) thread repair into the cranks. The left hand crank is a left hand thread. (Park tool have instructions) 

I would look for evidential based information regarding brain stem injuries these helmets could/would have prevented, preferably published in medical journals, that a standard helmet would not. I think you find it fairly thin on the ground. (If anyone has such evidence, I am happy to retract this answer) The reason I say this is if you look at a typical/older style helmet, the rear extends a long way back. To suffer a brain stem injury that these new fandangled shapes would prevent, you would need to a hard hit from a protruding rock (or similar), that wedged under the typical helmet. I cannot easily visualize the mechanics of a bike fall that these helmets would protect you against that a normal helmet does not. A falls that do happen and none of these helmet designs protect against - face plant - need a full face. Stick through the ear - full face again. One I have seen a photo of is a stick through the eyeball - Helmet didn't help.... Give the limited protection either style of helmet offers for side and facial injury, my guess is they a not much more than a marketing gimmick. Would I buy one - yes, if the premium was not high and it fitted me at least as well as another style, but I would not upgrade an otherwise good helmet for one. However, I am also not inclined to bow to peer pressure and buy things because they are cool...... Edit: I might have to retract this answer, after reading this report on a coroners inquest into a cycling death...... 

Creaks are always difficult to track down, where the sound seems to come from is often no guide to the source. What is often the cause is the rear wheel, especially if its qr. Take the wheel out, clean the dropouts and wheel axle, a smear of grease on the dropout and reassemble. 

Your comment suggests that these punctures are caused by something (thorns, nails,...?) piercing the tyre wall so the issue probably isn't with the wheel or the rim. So the question is should you change tyres to something more puncture resistant? In my opinion it's only worth changing tyres if the tyre is obviously worn out or is to light weight/low TPI for the riding you are doing and there are lots of other factors to consider: 

There are two main types of cycle wheel, cup and cone and cartridge bearing. Cup and cone bearings are fairly easy to service yourself with some simple tools, normal and cup and cone spanners and some grease. Cartridge bearing hubs need more specialist tools, presses to install and drifts to knock the old bearings out. You can tell which sort you have by looking at the axle, if it's got a nut and a thin lock nut then it's probably cup and cone, google some pictures to see what they look like. If it is cup and cone then taking it apart (only undo 1 side btw or you'll lose the centre of the axle), cleaning the loose ball bearings you'll find under the cones, then regrease and reassemble may sort the problem; however if its actually as bad as you sugest the ball bearings may need replaced and if the races that the ball bearings sit on are pitted then the wheel may be beyond help. There are lots of videos on the web showing this process. If it's a cartridge bearing hub then your local shop might be the way to go unless you want to invest in some tools. 

Drive: You get a bike rack on the back of a car and hit the road. Train: I'm told you can put a bike on Amtrak for $10. I don't know if they run that way, but there's probably some train, and it's worth checking if they offer something similar. Well, there's always this: 7 days, 17 hours. 

So I broke a spoke a week ago, and when I put a new spoke in you know I trued it. Now, a week later, the bike feels like a kayak, because the back wheel is not very straight. Any idea why this would happen? Some other information: 

As for all this clothes business, I don't get it. I ride in jeans with the one leg rolled up, and that suits me fine. Also, a wrench is good to have if your chain slips and you can't be bothered to force it in like you do. I feel the need to end this by saying "but that's just me." There's tons of people who think riding without a helmet is reckless, and that the only people stupid enough to ride w/o a helmet must have sustained a brain injury while riding without a helmet. (See what I did there?) What I ride bikes for (commutin, gettin places, leavin them) may be different than what you ride bikes for. 

Front light - Law requires it in California, so I'm told. I use a flashlight + duct tape, and though you can probably spend quite a bit on lights, I don't see the difference as long as it has a filament or whatever that emits the [portion of electromagnetic radiation that is visible to the human eye][1] ;) Back light - Self-preservation requires it at night. In many conditions, you can be invisible to cars, so its probably worth the investment. Get a blinky red one. U-Lock combo - If you're gonna leave it outside, pretty essential. It's good to remember, though, that how and where you lock your bike will do more to protect it than an expensive lock. 

Standard V brakes do not work well with STI levers, they don't pull enough cable to allow the V brake to be setup properly; you end up with the pads so close to the rim that they are always rubbing on it or needing to be adjusted and the braking can also be poor. I know of 2 options to get around this, you get a V brake Travel Adjuster or Travel Agent - essentially a pulley that increases the amount of cable that is pulled by the STI shifter or you get some 'Mini V Brakes' as these have a shorter arm and so work with the STI shifters. 

Tracking down issues with brakes can be difficult. If the brakes are spongy feeling initialy and pumping them firms them up then you probably have air in the system. if that's the case then it will be a bad bleed or the seals or possibly the brake hose but working out which is often down to luck. If they just have no power it could be contaminated pads. If it was me then I'd do the following, give the system are realy good clean and finish off with disc brake cleaner if you have some. Next I'd re-bleed the brakes (having first pushed the pistons right back) and then fit new pads. Use the brake somewhere safe and then inspect everything to see if you can spot any leaks at the levers, hoses or calipers, take the pads back out and check for contamination with brake fluid. If you do have a leak then you'll need to replace the seals and/or hoses that have failed - this can be tricky if it the caliper seals that have gone. Getting hold of spares can also be an issue. It may be easier and cheaper in the long run to replace the brakes. Shimano Deore are relatively cheap and very efective. 

They both look pretty standard to me. Normally you remove the lock nut and cones from one side. The bearings should be visible and fall out (careful to catch them all.). The axle should then just push through to the other side. If you can see the bearings (or they fell out), a gentle tap, with a light hammer may be needed (although i cannot imagine why) to dislodge the axle. With the rear wheel, remove the lock ring and cone from the left side (non-drive) and push the axle through (again, watch the bearings). 

Given your low budget, priority for me would be to have the gear needed to get going after a road side problem, followed by maintenance tools so you can do as much work as needed yourself. Then add stuff that makes life easier. Roadside repair kit includes: 

Despite what many think, efficient breathing at anaerobic threshold is not natural for humans, its a learned activity that needs training and practice. (We evolved as hunter gatherers, we were either strolling around well below anaerobic threshold, of chasing prey at maximum effort - anaerobic (or being chased...) Taking as read the bike fit is good and there are no medical issues, its most likely a training issue. It sounds like you know whats ended, but when the going gets tough, you forget about breathing. You get into a mode where you are in oxygen deficit, but other signs of high effort are missing - e.g. the burn from lactic acid, so your not feeling like your over cooking it. Slowing down feels like a cop out... As daft as is might sound, you should to set aside training time to practice breathing technique. Like any technique, it needs time to perfect, and more time before its automatic. Start at low effort and focus solely on breathing. Do this as a part of every training session. To start with, set aside entire training sessions where this is the main focus, then taper the amount down to a few minutes each session - Exactly same as you would do if your pedal stroke was inefficient and needed attention or you were having problems with fast down hill corners. Practice.... You could also consider activities that focus on awareness of breathing such as Yoga.