Frankly, the whole Business Insider article is filled with references and confirmations of the theory, I'm not sure citing more would further improve the asnwer but I would recommend reading the whole article. Reference #3: 

An authoritative source seems to be the following publication by USGS: Platinum-Group Metals—World Supply and Demand By David R. Wilburn and Donald I. Bleiwas ; U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report 2004 

Is that claim true? (I'm content with the first part of the claim, about lack of college education; but would prefer the second one at all, that, education aside, the founders also started in manual labour roles the way Henry Ford did). 

There's a large trail of e-documentation for 'ФГКУ "ВОЙСКОВАЯ ЧАСТЬ 43753"' The profile definitely does NOT match Kaspersky labs... but would match sigint part of FSB. Contract list. 

Summary: The satellites for which there is publically available info** are definitely incapable of resolutions supporting reading written text or even car license plates; nor distinguish facial features. The best ones are supposed to be Keyhole-class KH-7 (2.5") followed by KH-11 (4-6"). 

“The show is always a mess and the artist always comes off badly… [Plus] America has poured billions into places like that. It doesn’t mean a damn thing. After they’ve eaten that meal, then what? It lasts for only a day. After the $200 million is gone, then what? It goes round and round in circles.” - John Lennon (source: The Daily Beast) This seems unlike the image of Lennon I had, the article where it was quoted didn't offer a proper citation; and Googling for the quote didn't seem to produce anything of proofy type. 

This CNN article quotes several researchers though doesn't actually provide much details of studies: $URL$ 

Are the findings in the study accurately reflected in the article? Are the findings in the study corroborated by other studies, or contradicted? Is the study's methodology sound? 

Strategic Forecast (stratfor.com) had a pretty decent analysis that touched on the topic. $URL$ Social Media as a Tool for Protest By Marko Papic and Sean Noonan First, a factoid: 

We don't know the average aid between 1965 and 1970, but as per the first quote, it wasn't significantly larger than earlier, until 1971. Let's say 2x earlier average, $130M/year on the low end. That gives us: 

Back when I was interested in theoretical physics (>15-20 years ago), String theory was the Hot Thing. Imagine my surprise when, in a random browsing, I stumbled upon a science-themed blog "Not Even Wrong" written by Columbia University-associated Math professor Peter Woit where one of the comments by blog's owner stated (emphasis mine): 

So the claim from an unnamed "couple" that you so readily dismissed (the claim being ) is fully factually correct. 

No attribution or cite, just reportedly said. And zero corroborating citations anywhere on Google search except for 2010 quotes page from a blog. 

Again, given that it was 1989, this was fully State approved and like any interface with the foreigners, fully curated by KGB. 

In case quoting from Cato or Mises Institute sounds biased, let's quote that extreme right winger, Bono: 

I think that the article might be available online, though it's a Google Docs URL so I'm unsure of whether it will work permanently. It's worth looking at since it contains (in Table 1) the raw data on which above-quoted conclusion was made. 

An independent confirmation is quoted in a project from UCSB's class "for Prof. Marcuse's lecture course Interdisciplinary Perspectives on the Holocaust; UC Santa Barbara, Fall 2005". The quote is apparently from "Rigg, Mark. Hitler’s Jewish Soldiers, University Press of Kansas, 2002" 

The study quoted is a review, conducted by Drs. Kevan Wylie and Ian Eardley of the Porterback Clinic and Royal Hallamshire Hospital in Sheffield and St. James’ Hospital in Leeds, United Kingdom, respectively, combines results from more than 50 international research projects into penis size and small penis syndrome (SPS) conducted since 1942. 

Now, I'm highly skeptical of this specific piece of advice, having actually tried it (ants swarmed all over both the lemon slices and the places where puddles of lemon juice were). Is there any scientific research that either backs up or refutes this advice? 

This is from a forum post so it could use a bit more of a hard reference, but it contains some useful and verifiable info: 

There were no legit studies of this that that I could find on Google Scholar. The only study I know of was by some parapsychologist who claimed it was because of some psychic connection, so take that for what it's worth. However, there are apparently several documented confirmed examples of that happening - the most famous one was OK->CA move by a family which left the cat (Sugar) in CA and returned back home to OK. Sugar came to OK on her own. Details and the cite are here: $URL$ 

There are claims being made that SSDs (Solid State Drives) are one of (if not THE) best investments one can make as far as PC hardware upgrades. If someone wants a cite, just pick one of 3876 glowing SSD-thumping blog posts by Mr. Atwood on a little-known Coding Horror blog (disclaimer: the number of posts might have been a mite exaggerated). A sample quote: 

This answer is slightly tangential (as it's specific to Texas and not Oklahoma; which the cited research specifically noted as being geologically different). The main conclusion seems similar to @ff542's answer; in that yes there was increased amount of earthquakes but no the increase isn't attributable to fracking (but to fluid disposal in Class II disposal wells). The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) 2017 pre-publication study "ENVIRONMENTAL AND COMMUNITY IMPACTS OF SHALE DEVELOPMENT IN TEXAS" says in chapter on earthquakes: 

One of the earliest scientific mentions I was able to find is "PROFESSOR VON BEHRING'S TREATMENT OF TUBERCULOSIS" published in British medical journal, Volume 2, Page 577 in 1906. 

The origin of the ""be fruitful and multiply" is 100% clear if you think from game theory point of view - in the times before 1000BC, with low population density, low productivity and high mortality, the society which carried the birth control meme was at best easily out-competed by the one that carried "as many children as possible" meme; and at worst simply died out on its own. Please note that this logic is independent of anyone's view on whether Genesis was a literal word of G-d, or divinely inspired work, or a set of codified moral rules, or a work of fiction. 

I left a comment explaining why I'm only addressing claim #1. Mostly because clumping all 4 together is too broad 

The study seems to be based on people who were adopted (which would mean there's a separation between nature and nurture factors). 

For those who don't know the context, a group of Democratic lawmakers in US House of Representatives staged a "sit-in", to protest failure to pass gun control bills as a response to Orlando, FL shooting. The "demanding passage" part of a claim is pretty obvious (if not 100% accurate, the bills weren't even brought to vote because they failed in the Senate), but the assertion that ACLU[1] argued that the proposed bills that failed to pass "would undermine civil liberties" is something unexpected. [1] the "right-wing nightejobs" part of the claim is meant as an irony.. ACLU (American Civil Liberties Union) is generally viewed to be more liberal than conservative and doesn't exactly have a reputation of strong Second Amendment support, compared to many other liberties 

To make the statistics even cleaner, he separated civilian stops between armed and unarmed civilians 

This depends on what you were sick with, and how long the toothbrush was not used since you last had the sickness. 

Note that is is age-limited, and "expect a successful marriage" can be parsed quite liberally (e.g. may exclude people who want to marry but expect an unsuccessful marriage; OR may include people who don't want to marry but think that if they do, it will be successful). There was another survey (or 2) of people at OKCupid and/or match.com, several thousand people sized. Their methodologies looked suspect enough that I didn't bother citing either (for one thing, any respondents to dating online site survey are already self-selected into a giant bias. People who don't want to marry are all on Tinder or whatnot :) 

Recent 538 Gerrymandering podcast made a similar claim (most of the results have little to do with partisan gerrymandering) but I don't think they made any quantitative claims, I need to find the podcast transcript. 

In addition to BobTheAverage's asnwer, the claim has other notable problems (hat/tip to commenters on the question for some of them): 

In addition to PA data in DavePhD's excellent answer, later studies by U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) and National Energy Technology Laboratory confirmed that the the gases in drinking water are NOT from fracking. 

On a less scholarly note, now that the idealistic ... wise people... may be started to realize that the "Arab Spring" just might not necessarily bring to power a wonderful western democracy style groups, but people some of whom gasp were affiliated with Al Qaeda, Facebook's Big Boss Mark Zuckerberg decided to play it humble and down-play the importance of Facebook: 

It is estimated that ~1% of population is asexual (at least in the UK). Source: $URL$ (discussing a study by Anthony Bogaert, a psychologist and human sexuality expert at Brock University in St. Catherines, Ontario) 

In addition, on an individual level, a fairly un-nuanced evolutionary explanation is that an average male had VERY low chance of procreation (most males left no descendants) and therefore if you HAD a chance to score, and didn't use it, your memes and genes that predisposed you to use birth control didn't survive. I don't have a more scholarly cite handy, but from $URL$ quoting : 

Cross-posting from my answer here: while fracking can theoretically cause earthquakes in specific rare scenarios (see the accepted answer); most earthquakes attributed to mining are caused by non-fracking mining activity, specifically, wastewater disposal wells according to a Texas specific study. The Academy of Medicine, Engineering and Science of Texas (TAMEST) 2017 pre-publication study "ENVIRONMENTAL AND COMMUNITY IMPACTS OF SHALE DEVELOPMENT IN TEXAS" says in chapter on earthquakes: 

Interestingly enough a similar story - this time confirmed 100% straight from the scientist's words - is associated with the discovery of the ring shape of benzene molecule. From Wiki: 

I'm still looking for decent primary sources, but this Guardian article contains some fairly revealing tidbits: 

A somewhat later material was "Journal of medical genetics, Volume 8" published by British Medical Association in 1971, referenced mithridatization as a process but I can't get access to full text discussing it. 

Note that there are virtually identical amount of men and women with "normal" IQ (85-120 IQ) - the differences are +/- 2% one way or the other. But on a gifted level (typically considered to be 130-160) there are 15-20% differences at low end. The graph doesn't even show true genius levels (160+) but extrapolating the trend, it's likely that the differences are even higher (I've seen mentions of 1:8 ratios but couldn't find a reliable source on short order). The second one is that on average, male IQ is higher than female. Frankly, I'm somewhat skeptical of this claim myself, but don't have time to dig out studies (as the topic under discussion is imbalance of women in top positions that typically involve 130+ IQ, I see the claim as irrelevant even if true).