The key is copyable, but you still need to know how to penetrate the vault. Consider the design of ancient citadels (pre-gunpowder). The gates lead into a narrow tunnel, beyond which is another gate. The very thick walls are pierced with small holes through which the defenders can fire arrows and thrust spears., and the equally thick ceiling with holes through which the defenders can pour burning oil or acid. You may break down the first gates, but you will never breach the second set. Should enough crazy men try, the tunnel will soon be jammed with corpses. So to this vault. We already have granted, that the walls are magically unbreachable. The key can be copied, but what a copied key grants you is access to what is effectively an airlock. In front of you is another similar door, a large array of small holes, a supply of pegs that clearly fit in the holes, and (maybe) some mummified corpses or skeletons. Do you feel lucky? You may work out that you must enter, close the vault door behind yourself, and then insert the right number of pegs into the right holes. You can then attempt to proceed through the second door. But what other things must be done, to avoid or disarm the trap? In fact, the key that you have a copy of, is actually there in the interests of not slaughtering the merely curious. The real lock is a combination mechanism, on the far side of impenetrable walls, possibly with added lethal traps. A modern man will recognise this as not dissimilar to the PIN he types into his ATM, but built in times when a wannabe thief's life was less highly valued. Security 101: "Something you have, and something you know". You have, but you do not know. An ancient would more immediately recognise the similarity to the entrance to a citadel. As an added twist, maybe there is a large wheel on the outside, which requires very considerable force to turn against a ratchet. You are clearly storing a large amount of energy into a large spring of some sort. The outer door will not unlock unless the mechanism is wound. Sudden release of this energy is clearly how you will die, if you decide to play this lottery. You consider donning some very strong modern armour, but surely a civilisation that could create magically unbreachable walls would have considered the possibility of magically unbreachable armour? You may conclude that the threatened rapid death by sharp steel was not vengeful but a mercy to the merely suicidally impetuous thief. Starvation, or something magically worse, awaits the well-armoured thief. The door through which you enter, will not unlock again until you have proceeded through the inner door, or until you have drawn your last breath. [only the detection of last breath requires magic. A combined citadel entrance, spring-driven man trap and combination lock, is well within the reach of a renaissance engineer and a civilisation with good metalworking skills] 

Google "hypoxic air technology for fire prevention" for a lot of pertinent information. If some oxygen in air at normal pressure is replaced by nitrogen, one effect is that fires become much harder or even impossible. It also reduces the rate at which paper oxidizes. This technology is therefore used in archives of valuable paper documents. Down to 13% oxygen or thereabouts there are no health problems caused in the very short term to healthy people entering the archive to retrieve documents, and desk-working in the archive for hours at a time is also not known to be harmful. You'll breathe faster to compensate but may well not notice. People with severe chronic respiratory diseases are affected adversely, as with flying or altitude. In the longer term ( days to weeks) I would expect that acclimatisation takes place if one works in such an archive, just as it does if you travel to a higher altitude. The body makes more red blood cells, basically because each is carrying less oxygen. This can have adverse health implications, mostly small increases in risks of serious cardiovascular events. One important point. If you are considering a low oxygen planet then that is a planet where intelligent life almost certainly never got past the stone age. This is because natural fires would scarcely exist and making fire by friction would probably be impossible. No fire, no metals. No metals, no higher technology. Probably. 

Yes for sufficiently small values of explosion. It has happened. Nothing like a nuclear bomb, though. Nothing even as big as the Chernobyl accident. Specifically, the former USSR was dumping radioactive waste in a hole in the ground. What they did not realize was that the clay minerals in the ground selectively absorbed Plutonium. It got more and more concentrated until it reached criticality. The chain reaction continued until it had released enough energy to turn a fair bit of groundwater into steam, at which point the dump exploded like an over pressured boiler, scattering radioactive waste to the winds. The first reaction in the West was disbelief, when the story reached us via a defector. Then proof was found in the radioactive bodies of migrating birds. Then panic because the same thing was happening in some of our dumps! Cue frantic digging and safer waste disposal before we had our own even larger mess to deal with. 

It is not so much an unlikely invention as a possibly unlikely social development, but The Industrial Revolution deserves mention. Why did it not take place earlier, in Rome or Bagdhad or China? We don't have access to alternative histories to know whether it was inexplicably delayed here, or whether it was a one in a thousand chance which everywhere else was prevented by conservative attitudes and vested interests. Certainly in the early Islamic world and in China (twice), many of the component pieces were in play, and were then suppressed. 

Additional to the other answers pointing out the huge amount of energy needed to achieve significant time dilation. If the civilisation had achieved really long term stability it could send out self-replicating robot probes. On arrival in nearby solar systems they would construct a high tech infrastructure including interstellar radio transmitters and matter assembly systems. They'd also send out more probes. So the technological infrastructure would expand on a spherical wavefront across the galaxy at a small fraction of the speed of light. A number of millions of years later every solar system in the galaxy would be connected. To travel you would upload your mind and transmit it, along with a body plan. At the other end a body would be built and your mind installed into it. Effectively you would travel at the speed of light plus a constant upload/download time. There would of course be no way to go home. Fermi paradox: where are they? My usual answer to the strong anthropic principle is to dispute the premise. This universe is not perfect for human life. It is better for entities with lifespans millions of times longer than ours, or those that are not programmed to die at all. Perhaps we are an evolutionary stepping stone on the way to a much slower form of advanced life, that we'd not recognise as alive if we saw it?