The main thrust of this argument is to conclude that the other speaker is an anti-semitic white supremacist. Given that being anti-semitic or a white supremacist is typically seen as negative, the main aim is to attach these negative labels to the other speaker and thus discredit their views. In that sense, the main thrust of the argument is ad hominem. It may be that this is an entirely true characterisation of the other speaker, or iit may be a gross exaggeration, but whether true or not, the argument mainly attacks the speaker by labelling them with negative characteristics. The part about omitting initial agression is not ad hominem, and "you spout pro-palestinian rhetoric", again irrespetive of however much truth there is in it, is not ad hominem. 

I've not generalised A to B, I've generalised P from being true in all of A to being true throughout B. Better abstractions In fact, you could say that the rationals are an example of a field, whereas the integers are only an example of a ring - a generalisation of a field. Mathematicians "generalised" (not inductive reasoning) from the number systems, matrices and other examples to make the abstractions of groups, rings and fields. Some theorems about fields can be generalised to rings, which would be an example of inductive reasoning were it not for the fact that mathematicians don't admit inductive reasoning as proof, and proved these generalisations deductively! (Proof by induction is, perhaps confusingly, an example of deductive reasoning, but is often something you do after having used inductive reasoning to conclude that you might want to prove your statement.) A deep understanding of inductive reasoning isn't necessary for good abstractions, but good abstractions result from deep understanding of diverse examples. Summary Abstraction is a form of generalisation, and supersets are a form of generalisation, but inductive reasoning specifically means generalising statements from examples to every example. All inductive reasoning is generalisation, but not all generalisation is inductive reasoning. 

There are four quantifiers in term logic, organized according to two distinctions: particular/universal (some versus all) and affirmative/negative (permitting none and not all). There are 256 combinations of these quantifiers in the form of a syllogism. One is 'AAA', or . Out of these 256, only 24 combinations are valid. Is there an effective strategy to generate these 24 valid forms, possibly from simpler rules relating to the quantifiers? (For instance: ...?) 

I'm now thinking this may be part of some commentary on Bergson's remark that "a philosopher worthy of the name has never said more than a single thing: and even then it is something he has tried to say, rather than actually said". 

Note that there's nothing special about three or four channels -- rather than any other number of channels -- for conveying color data. My suggestion is more along the lines that color is a richer quality than any finite set of input channels could convey. 

We'll go a little further in the reading than we did in the other answer just to underline this point: 

In general I do worry a little about the structure of these sorts of claims. As soon as I'm saying all behavior originates from one single thing, then that one single thing wouldn't seem able to really explain particular behaviors very well anymore. In other words, if every act aims at x, then x becomes so broad as to encompass all action by definition -- we have lost the meaning of x. After all, are mourning or crying motivated by happiness? Pascal's example may seem particularly bizarre in this light when he claims that even suicide is motivated by happiness. That being said, I definitely and wholeheartedly agree with the claim at least in the sense that I do take this to be a strong empirical rule-of-thumb regarding human psychology. It's in this sense that I might suggest we could read Pascal's claim, noting in passing the intended irony when he suggests that even those who hang themselves serve their own happiness. At the very least, then, it doesn't seem to be the same happiness in all cases that is served -- we have to look deeper, at least down to way of the life, to get a sense of what kind of happiness we are dealing with. There are some happinesses only possible on condition of an unhappy life. 

A little example I really like: Let's say you messed up a test in school and now you are going to get a bad mark. There is another test ahead. An apathetic person does not care about the marks at all. Bad, good, it doesn't matter. This person is not going to do anything again. A stoic person would recognize the part they had in the bad mark. Did they not study enough? Did they not understand it? Did they have a bad day? Were they overloaded with other work? And so on. Just as the apathetic person, the stoic person will not care about the bad mark in the previous test. However the stoic person does not care about it because there is nothing they can change about it now - the mark will count. If you were unhappy with the mark in the last test, try to fulfil the things in your control for the next one and you will get a better mark. A stoic could say: "I do not care about the mark I will get in the next test.". A lot of people say this, but for the stoic this also includes "I accept the bad consequences that come from it." Non-stoics do not accept this trade and will be bothered by the mistakes they have made in these trades. Like you: You made a deal to trade the job interview against slow walking. You gladly accepted your end of the bargain but you seem to regret not getting the interview in the long run. You were not ready to accept the deal after all. And now you are unhappy or at least bothered by it. 

What if it actually was out of your control? Let's say you took a train 3 hours early, just to arrive on time. The train breaks down and you are stuck for 4 hours. Being bound to normal societal norms you won't have much of an option as to wait it out. Many people will react with anger and frustration. Understandable, but not for the stoic. What good is screaming, being angry and frustrated? It won't serve you well. It will make you unhappy and that's what stoics wanted to prevent. So accept the situation for what it is: unchangeable, out of your control. You won't arrive on time for you interview, but you did everything that could reasonably be expected from you, so there is no point in being angry at yourself. Stoicism is not about "not caring", it is about accepting the inevitable. 

A comment mentions artists and athletes (people who produce compositions or performances) -- and who since they produce, presumably affirm their nature. And in fact, all labor affirms our nature in the same sense that Marx says labor is humanity's "species being", the means by which humanity discovers-creates its own essence. But creative or athletic labor can certainly be alienated, out of touch with the essence it is creating-uncovering (what Marx calls human nature or the true community of human beings). So the social-collective dimension of alienation has priority here; alienated work, or the alienation of the worker from themselves is also the alienation of human society from its own essence. In societies organized by the market, the characteristic relations between human beings are extraneated, our labor is directed away from the authentic pursuit of the discovery of humanity's essence (true community) and towards some other end. Finally, it should be noted that it certainly does seem like Marx believes that self-directed creative labor may be closer to our species essence (it would be interesting to find a passage talking about this!) So in this way there certainly are degrees of alienation. 

The first sort of thing we know about the teapot is owing to the logical constraint of inaccessibility: we know we can't know it, that any instance of learning associated with it must be causally disconnected from us and anything we can conceivably learn. It's absolutely external to our configuration space; there isn't a straight pathway through the world to such a teapot. But what does this mean? One way to think of this is the problem of entanglement. At some fundamental level, any component of anything that's ever been interconnected "remembers" the other components, can theoretically be affected by its behavior independent of time or distance. So, the kettle can't be entangled with anything that could then be entangled with us. We could propose perhaps that the kettle is in another cosmos; at any rate, somewhere radically inaccessible. But once granting the possibility of gaining knowledge about some theoretical larger metaverse, a "truly" inaccessible teakettle then would have to be not only in an entirely different cosmos than ours, but outside of any cosmos that could be conceivably interconnected with ours at any point. I sense that we may already be straying beyond the bounds of your question, but I would speculatively suggest that the kettle would ultimately have to be considered as a kind of virtual particle. The kettle then would have to be walking a vacuum diagram -- somehow travelling backwards in time to causally found itself -- in order to truly minimize access. Is it possible any longer to evaluate any claim about such a kettle? On my reading, no claim to knowledge can reliably be made -- except for our knowledge that it is outside of our knowledge-context. There amounts to a kind of fundamental paradox in making a claim to such "external context knowledge" as any in-context justification is impossible. The only justifications would also be external, and they in turn could not utilize any in-context justification. Indeed, the only way to justify this knowledge would be to render it in-context -- to directly demonstrate the inaccessible kettle. 

You're correct that moving from the integers to the rationals does not fit, because the generalisation that inductive reasoning refers to is a generalisation of statements (or predicates) not of the objects themselves. For example, you could generalise from the statement "all the even numbers above 3 we ever tried can be written as the sum of two primes" to "all of them can" - and that's an example of inductive reasoning. (There's there's no known deductive proof of this conjecture.) Even numbers can be "generalised" to all numbers, but that's different to inductive reasoning. We don't move by inductive reasoning to "all whole numbers above 3 are the sum of two primes" because we find that 11 doesn't work. Generalising generally vs inductive reasoning "Generalising" the integers to the rationals is a superset relationship, which I can write very simply in maths notation, because it's like The generalisation that inductive reasoning makes is: 

Here's an attempt at a rationalisation of voting for the individual: 1 If you choose not to vote once, you are significantly more likely to choose not to vote again. After all, you're unusual if you're in a western democracy and you are not at all disillusioned with politics and have nothing more enjoyable to do on polling day with your time. Summary: Not voting leads to greater not voting in the future. 2 People tend to rationalise and defend their behaviour, so if you choose to not vote regularly, you are likely over time to come to believe that this is a good decision and become an advocate of not voting. Summary: Habitual non-voting leads to advocating non-voting. 3 People are social creatures and much more heavily influenced by the norms of their peers and neighbours than they like to think. If you don't vote and advocate non-voting you are likely to strongly influence those you interact with, and most strongly affect those who normally share your opinions. Summary: Your non-voting actions and views spread to people, and most strongly to people like you. 4 Politicians publicly advocate policies that are likely to garner large numbers of votes. If a group (eg people under 30 in the UK) vote significantly less often, parties use the money available to favour groups that vote in larger numbers (retired people vote in much greater numbers in the UK). There is thus a genuine but small risk that if your non-voting ideas spread amongst like-minded people, government policies will eventually disfavour people like you. The risk of non-minor future harm can be weighed against present inconvenience of voting. If the like-minded group we're discussing is thoughtful people, that could be quite devastating. Summary: It's not worth risking disenfranchising the people with whom you have the most in common. Overall summary Humans are social and you don't act in isolation - you will influence people like you not to vote, and as a group you will become more disenfranchised. As an individual you can work towards or against group disenfranchisement, but are very unlikely to be neutral. Group disenfranchisement could lead to significant negative consequences for you as an individual. Critique That's not at all watertight, and the effects may be too slow to affect you in your lifetime. This sort of reasoning is much stronger to argue that you should attempt to befriend newspaper editors. Rationality explains very little of human behaviour anyway. (I vote regularly, but not for any of these reasons.) Nevertheless, this was an interesting question and a good challenge. 

We have a chat room, and we could even consider organizing group readings or discussions if that might be interesting to people. As noted in comments we can create rooms for particular themes or problems. Also mods can create "gallery" chats where only certain people can talk -- this might be helpful in terms of facilitating more structured interactions like debates. 

This sounds maybe like it's talking about intellectual honesty and conscience. But in a certain way the context here may actually be about the stratification and power dynamic at the heart of the pedagogical relation -- not just that teaching involves a basic difference between people with and without intellectual authority; but rather that teaching involves a discernment about the nature of the student, their level of maturity and the kind of material they are ready for. "An error in study" is also an error in instruction -- teaching someone "wrongly", before they might be ready for some given material, or for some particularly nuanced aspect of a given problem. In particular, there are several verses that are explicitly indicated as not to be taught unless a student is definitely ready; and even entire books (like the Zohar) that, again according to rabbinical commentary, a student isn't supposed to read until they're fifty years of age at least. All this is perhaps to say: education is never just individual study -- but always caught up in a social process of instruction and correction, of continual revision. Errors in study have ethical and moral import because they may refer to a lack of discrimination of the teacher -- not to have corrected an error in the student before it was too late -- and thus this has an ethical line associated with it: not to teach anyone anything for which they aren't yet ready. In particular this cements an essentially patronizing idea that there are many things "one is not ready" to know. To oppose this, we could affirm a transcendental equality of thinking -- or take as an axiom a kind of universal cognitive aptitude. The latter approach sometimes takes the form of an equality of intelligences as in Ranciere's Ignorant Schoolmaster. The former is at work in Laruelle's notion of a transcendental equality of all thoughts.