I've been thinking about government assistance, and on one hand, I dont want to let people die, but on the other hand, I dont want to let them live by taking advantage of my generosity. For example, if a capable person refuses to work, what would logic in favor of humanitarianism suggest that we do? Let them starve? Feed them anyway? Both choices seem to lead to frowned upon results. If too many people take advantage of a system in which all people will be fed regardless, it seems that the society may weaken or collapse. And then there's a matter of fairness, in regards to the people who work, and have their earnings taxed to feed those who wont work. Is there any philosophy which addresses this problem? I'm looking for a citation of any philosophy on the subject which wouldn't be considered "highly" controversial. I'd narrow my question to a single philosophy, but I haven't heard of one which covers this problem. 

It isn't the individual thief who is considered "evil," but the action of theft. There, then, isn't need for a concept of "collective evil." Evil is a conceptual attribute humans apply to an action or idea. For example, instead of "Evil Mr. A stole from dear Mr. B." you should think of it as "Mr. A manifested evil when he stole from innocent Mr. B." Thus, "It was so evil when the Nepalese Mafia stole from Corporation Corp." would be the way to think of the situation rather than "The Nepalese Mafia is collectively evil for having stole from Corporation Corp." Extended note: Biblically, "sin" means a failing or mistake and "evil" means adversity or hardship. 

If, within the framework of modern society, individuals depend on employment for survival, then how can one survive without breaking either their moral aversion to wage slavery or their moral aversion to moving their financial burdens onto others? Thinkers such as Alan Watts or Terence McKenna have said that by following one's passion, one will find a way to make money. This makes sense to me, but many passions require an initial financial investment, such as attending graduate school. Edit: Let me be clear, I'm looking for an answer for how to morally earn income and also how to move into such a position. I'm not looking for specific personal advice, but something that can be broadly applied to individuals. There are, of course, changes society could implement, such as universal basic income, but I'm seeking answers for the individual. 

Obviously copyright infringement, under every main stream school of thought is wrong. You put work into creating something, such as a video file that is a movie that you spent millions of dollars to produce, and you therefore have, according to every main stream school of thought, the right to sell that video file for a profit. I'm clarifying that I understand this, and that I realize it's common sense, but I have the sneaking suspicion that if I were to question one of the leading proponents of copyright infringement, for example an operator of The Piriate Bay, and member/founder of a pro-copyright-infringement religion, Kopimism, I would receive some form of very thoroughly thought out philosophical reasoning for supporting copyright infringement. Unfortunately, I dont have the privilege of being able to have a discussion with such a person, in order to poke and prod for logical, fundamental reasoning for such support. I'm very curious though, to discover and dissect the arguments behind this school of thought, so I ask: Does anyone know what philosophical arguments / logic copyright infringement supporters, use to defend and promote their position? 

Humans are known for outstanding "pattern recognition." However, other organisms discern patterns we don't (e.g., snakes discern infrared and ground vibration patterns). There are more unobserved data patterns than observed ones. So, is it that observation ability is limited and all patterns are real? Or, does observation of a pattern within an ocean of endless possibilities make it real for us? 

Assuming the person saving the life is equally unfamiliar with both the human and the dog, I would expect them to save the human because of their "gut reaction," not because it is "reasonable to value human life more." I should expect that gut reaction to be the result of our genetic kinship. However, assuming the other human was a stranger and the dog was the saviour's long-time friend, I would expect them to save the dog due to personal familiarity. Personally, I don't consider either to be morally superior. Side note, everyone in this conversation is using the term "intrinsic valuable" incorrectly. Something which is intrinsically valuable has value without regard to any consciousness beings. More likely they mean "instrumental value." 

I'm not enough of a philosopher to properly analyze this particular argument, but I'm curious about it and I'd like to see it dissected and explained. 

When you're raised from childhood to believe in faith, its unlikely that you will grow to think outside of that faith, especially if your religion implements a system of repetition where you verbally confirm that faith daily and weekly. You constantly repeat it, everyone around you confirms it, it makes you feel at peace, makes you feel safe, why would you want to think in any other way? My thought about this is that there's a fundamental problem with this way of thinking. Because it seems as a society, by condoning this kind of thinking, we make our population as a whole highly susceptible to extremist and non-tolerant ideas derived from religion. An example: Islamist Extremism, where women and homosexuals can be put to death for pursuing their personal freedoms, and people believe certain cultures should be attacked, that certain people should be killed. If people were not raised with a religious background, I don't see this issue as being possible. It seems to me that this is proof that religion or "believing without proof or logical reasoning" is problematic, that it damages logical decision making in society. Is this an accurate and logical assessment, or am I looking at this information the wrong way? 

Humans have an amazing capacity for pattern recognition. I don't understand Searle's assertion "it seems to me quite obvious in the example that I do not understand a word of the Chinese stories." Of course, he wouldn't understand after only a few iterations. But, as he continues to transcribe wouldn't he naturally recognize more and more patterns and correlations and, given infinite time, eventually learn Chinese? Is there something that would prevent him from learning it? Is it possible that Searle could learn to understand Chinese, but not the computer? Summary of Searl's Thought Experiment Suppose a computer passes the Turing Test in Chinese. Now, suppose I am alone in a room and perform the same computational tasks as the computer, but manually. After the manual program has run, the person who was having a conversation with the "computer" (me) assumes they were corresponding with a person who speaks Chinese. However, I still don't know Chinese. Therefore the Computer also doesn't know Chinese. Click for full of John Searle's "Minds, Brains, and Programs."