What about age? Muscles tend to become shorter with age, however, maintaining flexibility is quite easy with a little work. Flexibility is much easier to maintain than to acquire. An old person, who has acquired flexibility when he/she was young, will need to spend a lot less time maintaining it, compared to a younger, but inflexible person trying to become flexible. That said, flexibility can be improved in any age, I have seen people in their 30s, 40s, 50s gain much flexibility. So, can I blame factors that are out of my control, for my inability to reach my toes? No. The reason is lack of training. 

It is not possible to change body proportions, so, to reach the toes, someone with longer legs and shorter torso/arms will need to have more flexibility in the hamstrings. It is possible for anyone to reach that level of flexibility. See: 

I am curious what explains the difference between perceived effort and absolute effort for different types of movements. For example pull-ups and burpees always feel hard, while a 1RM snatch sometimes feels just effortless. I know that there are concentric, isometric, eccentric movements. Is there a different neurological mechanism behind these that result in different perception, and if yes, how does that work? Speed might be a factor as well. Are exertion of different muscle fiber types perceived differently? What are the factors which determine the perceived effort of muscle movement, and how do they work? 

Below is a list of popular yoga styles which are probably available where you live. But of course there are a million approaches to yoga these days so it's not possible to list them all. Also it depends very much on the teacher and how much personal assistance you can get. It's always better to go to a small class with a skilled teacher. Iyengar Yoga - Focuses on precise alignment in poses, and uses many 'props', blocks etc. This might fit your goals as well as it is quite safe because of the strong anatomical focus. Ashtanga Yoga - A very dynamic style that gives the quickest results in flexibility and strength. The first posture series of ashtanga yoga has a strong focus on opening up the hips and hamstrings. However, I would not necessarily recommend it to you as it contains a lot of bodyweight strength elements which might conflict with your lifting goals (if you want to get bigger). There's also a higher risk of injuries. Vinyasa Flow Yoga - Usually focuses on mobility, and improving circulation, rather than strictly flexibility. Poses aren't held for long, so it's less boring. Usually it's based on ashtanga so there's a good balance between strength and flexibility. However, there're many teachers and each approach it slightly differently so it's difficult to tell what you'll get. Bikram Yoga - A fixed series done in a hot room. Focuses on flexibility, there isn't really much strength involved at all (at least compared to ashtanga). It probably meets your expectations, but I'd only recommend it if you do not have any cardiovascular problems (the hot is hard on you). Also, it is very much commercialized, the rooms are usually full so you'll probably get very little personal attention. 

How to do the plank correctly Looking from a distance, your upper body can seem to be parallel to the floor, but it is not what really makes the difference. The important thing is to engage the right muscles. Firstly, make sure you are not collapsing in the upper back. Broaden and depress your shoulders, and lift between the shoulder blades. Second, make sure you don't stick your tailbone up. In the plank position slightly tilt the pelvis: move the top of the hips sligthly up, the tailbone down. These will lengthen your spine and activate the right muscles around your shoulders and core. Make sure you can breathe smoothly and effortlessly into your belly. How to make sure you're doing it right The easiest is to have someone correct you, by touching the spots where you have problems, and gently adjusting you so that you get a feel for what the verbal instructions mean. If no-one is available, you can try to get the feeling in the following way: 

No exercise will help you if you sit 8 hours a day, 5 days a week. Think about it. You may go to the gym (or exercise at home) 3 times a week for one hour, this is compared to 40 hours a week of sitting. Recent studies (see eg. this article) suggest that the most effective method is to interrupt sitting often. Standing up from your desk 35 times, spread throughout the day is much more effective at reducing the bad effects than sitting without interruption and then do an exercise program with 35 squats. It seems that the optimal strategy would be to incorporate a lot of non-exercise activities in your day, supplemented with an exercise program, which can be any sport you like and are motivated in. Many people will argue that exercise X is better than exercise Y and they may be right, but the truth is, to change your lifestyle, it is not enough to add a few minutes of training before/after your day. You need to look at the how you do your whole day and optimize that. Stand up from your desk at least once in every 30 minutes, stretch your back, arms, legs, a few jumping jacks, a push-up maybe, anything you are able to do. 

Stretching, mobility and relaxation: work on hip and ankle mobility and flexibility. The mobility of the surrounding joints is very important for healthy knees. Foam rolling the stiffer leg muscles might be useful. 

I would not trust calorie calculators for activities like unicycling at all. First, it depends on how skilled the rider is. The learning curve for the unicycle is quite steep so it takes time to be able to ride it efficiently. Second, how often does the rider mounts/dismounts? The mount is a short explosive movement (basically jumping on it), so, especially when learning a new skill, with lots of falling/mounting, it would require more energy. Third, are jumps, tricks also part of the training? They can be really intense. In contrast, riding the unicycle in a flat, straight line by an experienced rider would be low intensity, similar to jogging/running. The conclusion is, the amount of energy required by unicycling is quite individual and depends on how exactly the person is using it, and I doubt that there is extensive research on this topic. Therefore, I think it is better to approach this question from another point of view. What really matters is motivation and what makes you stick with an activity. Even if we knew how many calories per hour you specifically burn on the unicycle, it makes no sense to compare with something else, without knowing how much time you will actually be motivated to spend on each. Unicycling requires skills, so it really comes down to your personality. Are you that kind of person, who easily gets hooked on something hard, and enjoys learning difficult skills? Or do you just want to lose weight in the most efficient way with the least effort invested? Anecdotally, all unicyclists I know are slim, because they spend too much time on the unicycle and often even forget to eat when they are really hooked on learning a new trick :) 

I am not an expert on running, so it might be that someone more experienced will prove me wrong. But my (hopefully intelligent) guess would be that it is better to "relax". When you're running, the hips and shoulders move and this will activate different parts of the abdominal muscles anyway, without you needing to think about it. Conscious tensioning, in my opinion would not improve performance unless you're an expert on working with the hips and activating/relaxing the different muscles in your abdomen independently. Eg. can you activate rectus abdominis while keeping the sides fully relaxed, can you tension one side while relaxing the other side etc. If you cannot do these then you'll likely keep everything tense which would make breathing more difficult, and push blood away from the abdomen (increased pressure pushes blood away), which is not healthy maintaining for longer periods. This video might explain better what I'm saying. 

I'm not qualified to give a full answer, this originally started out as a comment, but got too long. One thing I would add to HedgeMage's answer is, that risk assessment and fixing possible issues of eg. symmetry and core bracing would be a good idea before starting with a weight program aimed at explosiveness. Do not assume that you are ready for explosive lifts, because you have experience in another sport. Weight training is not inherently more risky than any other sport, but any major change in the way you train assumes risk (that is, you can do everything right and still get hurt). Assessing and managing possible risks is therefore a good idea. For example, issues of symmetry, one side weaker or less flexible, is a risk. Excess mobility is also a risk. Lack of spinal stability is a risk (therefore, working on yoga-style spinal twists might be good or counter productive - it depends). In any case, building up your new weight routine gradually makes sense. You can check out the work of Dan John, he has many good introduction books to strength training for athletes. To quote him: 

This is a common thing, and in most cases, easy to fix. Incline on the treadmill puts more stress on the lower back When walking or running uphill, the load on the muscles change. You are forced to lean forward, your back muscles have to compensate a lot more to keep you erect. The hip flexors also have to work more, because you need to lift your knees higher. The psoas consequently exerts a stronger forward pull on your low back. Your stride also gets shorter and quicker, therefore your muscles get tired more quickly. The result is compression of the lower back, which can result in pain. How to get rid of the pain 

Squat: If you can do a full bodyweight squat pain free, then this is what you should do. Evidence shows that people who squat have stronger knees and have less injuries. If you cannot do a full bodyweight squat, work towards that goal: 

Relax. Sit, lie down, listen to music, talk to friends. If you're outside, enjoy the sun. If you really want to do something related to the training, visualize the exercise you are doing. Where do you get the idea, that you have to fill your time? Actually, if you fill your time between sets with random stuff, you lose mental focus on your training. 

The direction of bending the spine is not the issue itself. With high blood pressure, the following precautions should be followed: 

It does not really matter, as long as you are properly warmed up before stretching. Never stretch a cold muscle! Massage increases blood flow, but you can also warm up your muscles yourself. 

I am not a physiotherapist. I am not qualified to give you an answer, only my narrative, which, however, you might find useful. I have had similar problems (extremely sore neck after sleeping). I found it almost impossible to change the way I sleep, so, yes, sleeping in another posture (on my back) might have helped, but practically I was unable to do it. I have also tried all kinds of pillows, but these methods did not really work - after some improvement, the pain always came back. I have found the anatomical pillow useful, though. Then, I started doing mma wrestling. The training included lots of neck exercises, mostly dynamic ones, some that might even look quite scary. I definitely do not recommend doing these on your own. If you are not prepared, they might make your problems much worse. The reason I think they worked for me is because I already had a established yoga practice, so my body was prepared and I knew what I was doing. I experienced significant improvements after a few weeks, which I attribute to these dynamic neck exercises. Now the pain is fully gone, though I sleep in the same positions as before! Not sure how useful is to you... if pillows, other positions etc. are not working work for you, finding a good physiotherapist and/or yoga teacher might be a good idea. 

Keep on getting stronger and more flexible. But, endurance is also very important for posture, so include more endurance training (minimum 15-20 reps) mainly for the posterior chain. Good posture is not something that can be maintained by conscious effort all the time, your muscles and nervous system must have the endurance to keep it up without much thinking. 

Chin-ups and pull-ups. If you don't have a pull-up bar, buy one, or go outside, parks and playgrounds will often have such facilities. If you don't have a pull-up bar, or while you're waiting until it arrives, you can do isometric bicep exercises, using eg. a table (putting your hands under and pulling it up) or a towel (putting it eg. under your toes and pulling up). If you mean bicep exercises with absolutely no equipment, just your body, then there's not much. You can still do isometric exercises, eg. pulling your legs, or knee to your chest (standing on one leg or lying on the floor) while simultaneously pushing your knees away. Another thing that works the bicep is turning your forearms while keeping the elbows fixed and bent. Note, that the biceps are stabilizers in most exercises where your body is supported on your hands (push-ups, handstands etc.) that is, they don't work much. But none of this compares in intensity to pull-ups (the last couple of exercises I mentioned are mostly used in rehab). 

The best stretches for hip flexors are variations of the standing lunge. The basic version looks like this: 

Most often, it is tightness in the lateral rotators that prevent people from safely getting into the lotus position. So yes, a tight piriformis is likely a culprit. The adductors are usually not the issue for lotus. First of all, if you have acute knee pain, you should not even attempt a lotus, or do any of the preparation exercises. If you are pain free at rest, then you can start working on lotus, but any time you feel the slightest pain or even discomfort in the knees, back off. Never leave your bent knee unsupported in the air, put a block or pillow under your knee/thigh. Double pigeon pose is a great preparation for lotus, it is great for stretching muscles in the buttocks including the lateral rotators. In this video, David Keil, yoga anatomy expert, explains how to approach lotus safely. In addition, using a foam roller might help to massage and stretch the buttocks. As a personal note, I was able to do the lotus a few years back, but stopped practising it. I just find it too risky for my knees. Our western lifestyle (sitting on chairs especially) create a lot of tightness in the hips, and no amount of stretching and exercise can fully compensate for that. Leslie Kaminoff, another yoga anatomy expert, argues that, with lotus, the risk-benefit ratio is way on the side of risk, and I agree with him. You can approach lotus in the safest, most anatomically correct way possible and still risk damage to your knees. 

It is a bit more complicated than that. The main abdominal muscles are the rectus abdominis, external and internal obliques, and the transverse abdominis. The purpose of these muscles is two-fold: on the one hand, they move the spine (bending forward and twisting), on the other hand, they are the muscles used for forced exhalation. 

The best way to get better at acro yoga is to practice more acro yoga. If the classes are designed well, so that you can progress from simpler, accessible variations to the more challenging ones, you will quickly get the necessary flexibility along the way. As a beginner in acro yoga, keep in mind, that it is always best to ease into a new exercise routine, without forcing results too much, giving your body time to adapt. If you'd like to supplement your training with solo practice, it will be more effective, when the exercises are similar to what you will be doing with a partner. Acro yoga training is mostly dynamic (either moving, or stabilizing weight in an unstable position). Take for example the bird, where you have to support and balance your partner's bodyweight on your legs. That is, your hamstrings are loaded in a stretched position. I am not saying, that relaxed static stretching isn't useful for you, it might be, but it is quite different from what you need for acro. A few ideas for exercises which work the hamstrings in a similar way what you need in acro are: one leg bird stretch, lying one leg raises, lying one leg stretch against a band, single leg deadlifts.