I believe we have seen strong evidence that everything changes, especially from a scientific perspective. However, the true answer to whether everything changes or not is an open question. Indeed philosophers have pondered whether we could even become aware of something which is not changing, for the concept of awareness is tricky in that aspect. Many religions, such as the Abrahamic religions treat the presence of God as a constant, but proofs for religious topics are indeed hard to come by. I think the phrasing "Everything changes" has been an effective philosophy because it contains a thinly veiled paradox. Generally speaking, I have found the popular paradoxes in philosophy tend to encourage further thought, especially thought that frees one from the confines of language. If I interpret such a phrase logically, it suggests that is a constant, and thus there is something that is constant, so not everything changes. The phrasing "The only constant is change" is a rewording that strives to escape that paradox, but runs into other linguistic challenges regarding whether "everything" is a "thing" which can be defined in such a way as to be constant or not. Many, such as Alan Watts, argue that once you have identified that which the noun "everything" represents, you find that it is no longer something that can be given a name. (If memory serves, he uses the Hindu term nirguna to capture the idea of something that cannot be given a name) 

A wording change has to be made first: "If A claims that his money bought the item..." is false. His money did not buy the item. At the time of purchase, it was not owned by him. It was owned by the organization. Also, money does not buy things. The organization buys things. Money is used to pay for things. The wording needs to have a past tense, and a rewording: "If A claims that the money he owned in the past was used to pay for the item..." Now we can address the fungible claim. Neither A nor B can make this claim. If one were to follow the serial numbers of the dollars actually used to make the purchase there is a very strong likelihood that the bank actually gave the organization some different physical dollars. Neither A's dollar nor B's physical dollar was actually used in the purchase. This then forces both A and B to admit that the physical dollar is not the thing that matters, it is the essence of the dollar that has the buying power. And, in this case, it is illogical for A or B to make the first claim that their physical dollar had anything to do with the purchase at all! An IOU might have sufficed. The only valid way for A and B to divide credit for the actions of the organization is for the civilization around them to divide it for them. Consider, the reason A and B are making these claims in the purpose is that they wish the purchase to be attributable to them. Attribution is an act by people. If the civilization agrees to attribute the purchase to A or B, they are welcome to do so. Likewise the civilization may choose an arbitrary phrase like "A bought half of the item," even though the item does not divide cleanly in two. This is called divorce. 

Science has its roots in epistemology. It has oft dabbled in ontological truths about the world, but if you look at what it actually does, it is 100% epistemological. Accordingly, so long as god interacts with a world which supports epistemological thinking according to empirical analysis and mathematical models, science has its use. Remember, science, in 99.99999% of what it claims to do, doesn't have to be right. It just has to be right enough to be useful. There are modern day examples where this sort of behavior occurs around a presumed omniopotent deity. Small children often develop the belief that their parents can do anything. Consider a small child is asked to predict the consequences of their actions before they do the action: there is precedent for humans trying to predict the consequences of their actions empirically in the presence of an actually omnipotent deity. "All models are wrong, some are useful." 

He then goes to talk about each of them. This is a fine translation, and captures a great deal of the intent. However, more meaning is found in the original phrasing of the second sentence (I provide a Pinyin pronunciation and gloss here, from (source). The source also has the original words, as written by Sun Tzu. Stack Exchange's text format doesn't allow Chinese characters, so I had to omit them here): 

Right and Wrong are cultural universals. One of the characteristics of a cultural universal is that everybody on the planet agrees that there are concepts of "right" and "wrong," but they disagree on what is right and what is wrong. Accordingly, there is no one answer to your question, other than to point out that your assertions, "The only reason things are considered wrong is because they harm someone or something right? So if an action doesn't harm anyone or anything can it be considered wrong?" are only true within ethical systems where they are true. There are plenty of ethical systems where they are false. Unfortunately, as Jobermark pointed out, this is really the fundamental question behind the entire philosophical discipline known as "ethics." To merely list all of the ethical frameworks would be beyond the scope of an answer such as this, much less providing a critique of each one. My recommendation would be to engage in your own study of ethics, on your own time. My personal approach would be to start from the Wikipedia article on the topic, Ethics, and work from there, but you can use any study method which suits your style. 

The actual reason weather is considered chaotic is that it demonstrates all three of these characteristics. 

In the most technical sense of the phrasings, they are different relationships. Equality and identity are typically not assumed to be the same until one adds an axiom that states that they are. Consider a hypothetical example involving baskets and gold. We each have one basket, and they have an equal amount of gold in them. One could say the baskets are "equal," and in all but the most extreme meanings of that word, we would agree that indeed, both baskets are equal. Now I produce a new bar of gold and announce that I am going to put it in one of the baskets. Do you care if I put it in your basket or my own? If equality and identity are the same concept, then you should not care which basket it goes in, using the logic "because both baskets are equal, they are identical so I should not care where the extra bar of gold goes." Basic intuition screams at you that this is not the case. You do care which basket the gold goes in, because you would like to take more gold home with you. Thus, basic intuition suggests that equality and identity are fundamentally different concepts. This shows up in many places. In programming, two references to objects that are equal to eachother is treated very differently than two references to the same object. Also, intriguingly, in math you do not always have to define an equality function for the system you are working with. Typically you do choose to define one, because they're convenient, but you don't have to. In such case, you might have an identity relationship which does not imply equality (A is not equal to itself!) because you did not define equality in the first place. All of that technicality aside, one does have to consider the colloquial usage of the phrasings. It is generally assumed that, if someone says "2 + 2 is 4," they really meant the same thing as "2 + 2 equals 4." People often choose to lose precision in exchange for making it easier to speak. In everyday life, if someone told me "2 + 2 is 4," that is the assumption I would use. However, if I was deep in a philosophical discussion about mathematics, including the topics of equality and identity, I may not make that assumption. I may instead ask them to clarify whether they intended to use the equality relationship or the identity relationship. One example of where this shows up is predicate logic with the symbol, which is one of the most common symbol used for "implication." In predicate logic, implication is considered a meta-language operator. It is not part of predicate logic, but rather it is the symbol which describes an intuitive concept that suggests one can substitute one predicate for another, according to a set of rules. It is unique because it is the only symbol in predicate logic whose semantics are not described using predicate logic itself. Thus, if I was having a discussion about predicate logic, and somebody used the verb "is" to link two concepts, I may have to ask them to clarify whether they are referring to the equality concept within the predicate logic, or if they are referring to the implication concept outside of predicate logic. If it is the former, it is understood that the validity of their statement can be proven using predicate logic. If it is the latter, then it may be a more nuanced leap that needs more discussion.