In your universe, you could be talking about some device that exploits as-yet-not-known physical law, or even a device that exploits a flaw in the universe's operating system, so to speak. In the first case, it would probably be a matter of time before the operation of the device may inspire a line of research that led to a discovery that explains its operation, though whatever time would be up to you as the author. In the second case, there may not be a reasonable explanation why the device works as it does. In such a case, it may not ever be explained, and researchers could waste a lot of time and resources in futile efforts to understand it. 

All variants of this would require that in essence one gamete fuses with a second type of gamete, which then fuses with a third type - it would be much less practical to require fusion of all three gametes simultaneously. The relative sizes of each gamete could vary considerably, as could the quantity of genetic material in each, possibilities include 1:1:1 (ploidy 3), 2:1:1 (ploidy 4), 2:2:1 (ploidy 5), 3:2:1 or 4:1:1 (ploidy 6), and many others as ploidy (the number of similar copies of the genome the organism possesses) increases. The exact proportion of genetic material provided by each of the three parents would dictate how involved each is likely to be in raising any offspring - if any are involved at all - the more genetic material is contributed, the more involvement is likely. Assessing the likelihood of each of the possible three-gendered reproductive systems, the most likely is probably an external-fertilisation water-based scenario - all genders accumulate in a particular area and release a cloud of single-celled gametes. Since no parental responsibility is required in similar reproductive strategies on earth, there are no mate-selection issues. However, this method of reproduction is typically used by r-strategists rather than K-strategists which means that a great many 'disposable' offspring are created, and parents play little or no role in offspring survival, and hence sentience is probably less likely. A Single-accumulator strategy means that two genders, amale and bmale, must each attract only one mate, and the cmale must attract two. If the cmale contributes the majority of the genetic material, it is likely that this is a viable option for a K-strategist, with few offspring that are cared for to a great degree by one or more parents. This would be more likely to result in a sentient species, as transmission of ideas from parent to child is more likely. Multiple Accumulator Genders requires that the amale mate with a bmale and then a cmale. The cmale would be most responsible for raising any offspring if that was part of the reproductive strategy, and the amale may be more selective than the bmale, and the cmale most selective of all. Again, the proportions of genetic material from each of the three parents would affect the degree of selectivity and involvement in any effort to nurture the offspring. Again, this is more likely to result in a sentient species. A variant of this scenario is a system where the population alternates between a multicellular multiploid organism (having several copies of a set of genetic material) and multicellular organisms having lower ploidy. An amale may asexually produce (at the same time or temporally separated) bmales, cmales and dmales. A bmale, cmale and a dmale may then fuse, or mate in one of the patterns above, resulting in a new amale. This may be an option for either an r- or a K- strategist organism, and could result in one or more of the four different forms being sentient. 

In the Matrix, Morpheus invites Neo to join him to see "just how deep the rabbit hole goes". Unfortunately, the films don't go far enough down the rabbit hole. It makes no sense for the machines to preserve humanity if humanity and the machines are fundamentally opposed. It makes no sense in a science-based world that Neo had a seemingly magical ability to control both the Matrix and extra-Matrix machines, while unplugged from the matrix. My own take is that the rabbit hole goes far deeper than even Morpheus realises, that the Matrix is a simulated reality laid over the simulated reality of 'The Real', which is itself laid over either the true reality or yet another layer of simulation. Since it can be shown that the Matrix is a simulation, and through Neo it can be shown that there are paradigm-breaking abilities that certain individuals can have (if only one) that affect 'the Real', it is not too far a stretch to conclude that 'the Real' is yet another layer of simulation. It always bothered me that there was a physical connection between the Matrix simulation and 'the Real', that injuries suffered in the former would be propagated to the 'real' body, as actual psychosomatic injuries are vanishingly rare. So, we conclude that everything we see in the Matrix movies is simulation, regardless of the fact that the protagonists call some parts of it real. Yet, we have a simulation. Why? For what reason would human consciousnesses be placed into a simulation, unless they were themselves simulations? Assuming that the Matrix/Real simulation is being experienced by humans who are themselves not simulations, there are only a limited number of rational reasons: 

We already have biofeedback devices capable of reading brainwaves in just this manner, however as they currently operate outside a person's skull, they are very crude and require considerable training to use. Taking this technology further, if implanted inside the skull, this technology could provide much finer control over more variables with less training. Ultimately, it can be expected that if taken to its logical extremes, a machine-mind interface would be grown into the recipient's brain and would provide additional abilities that were simply there when they were needed, like having an extra whatever that felt as if it had been part of the recipient's body since birth. The ultimate drawback of this might be the dissonance of having abilities appearing and disappearing as the user interfaces with different technologies. It wouldn't be like (for example) having a new eye suddenly appear, and having its field of view overlaid on the field of view of the existing eyes; instead it would bring with it an entirely new field of view and an entirely new set of muscles for moving and focussing it, that the user would immediately know how to use. When the technology was unplugged, the eye and its field of view would disappear, unlike someone having their Mk1 eye removed from their skull, leaving an empty field of view. Users would remember having senses and limbs which they simply don't have anymore, and cannot relate to their own bodies until the technology is reattached. This alteration of the users' sensory-physical environment may cause mental problems, perhaps in all users, perhaps only in particular, susceptible individuals, or it may not be a problem at all. We won't know until we try it for the first time. 

To defeat small, agile mecha armoured with 40mm repeating cannon, we need what would effectively be a medium tank, not quite a main battle tank. Medium tanks have lighter armour, though the composites used would still be capable of resisting repeated 40mm cannon hits from any aspect. With lighter armour, add a large gas-turbine engine to give the tank a good power to weight ratio and a high speed, capable of outrunning the mecha if not necessarily outjumping them. Ensure that the tracks are well protected by armour skirts. As to armament, mount a heavy, large-calibre gun. The 120mm smoothbore cannon used by US tanks, along with the computer-assisted aiming mechanism means that as long as the target is properly tracked prior to firing and the range is sufficiently low that the target cannot dodge effectively, the shot will not miss. A hit from a 120mm cannon round, loaded with a depleted uranium penetrator or even just a shaped charge explosive will instantly wreck any mecha designed to take on opponents armed with 40mm cannon, probably turning it into a collection of ballistic limbs. As long as the turret traverse and elevation mechanism has some heavy-duty power assistance, it should be able to track any mech at any reasonable range. A lighter, older 105mm or even 88mm cannon should still be able to wreak havoc on such a lightly armoured mecha, and would allow more shots. Given the strength of composite armour, while not capable of withstanding a 120mm cannon shell, it would still be well up to the task of resisting multiple hits from 40mm shells and big sharpened crowbars. Also, given the acceleration and weight of the tank, at close range, the tank could be used as a battering ram, and running over a mecha would probably cause a mission kill, if not a total kill. An alternative weapon system, if the tankers expect to face large numbers of mecha with relatively few tanks, would be the GAU-8 30mm gatling system found in antitank aircraft. This weapon's high rate of fire would be ideal for mowing down massed charges by mecha, and while one hit may not incapacitate a mech, the multiple hits such a system would allow likely would. The weakest point on such a tank would be the tracks and personnel hatches, though it would not be a difficult matter to armour and shape the hatches so that they would present minimal edges to be levered up by the mecha's swords, and could resist 40mm rounds quite well. With low armoured skirts, the tracks could be made to be a small target, and even when immobilised, a tank remains a difficult target to neutralise, unlike a mech. To achieve some degree of stealth, a tank can be relatively easily waterproofed and hidden in any reasonably large body of water, with only a periscope showing above the surface. Given the ground impacts that mecha movement would cause, there would be relatively little need even for a periscope if the tank was equipped with seismographic equipment. Alternatives for stealth would be to cover the tank with the branches of dense shrubs for a forest setting, or hay in a rural setting. 

There is the possibility of Liquid Breathing, however it is unlikely that the liquid would be haemoglobin and still be breathable, as haemoglobin is quite viscous (this is why it is contained within red blood cells). On the other hand, in the unlikely event that a planet was completely covered by an ocean of some largely colourless oxygen saturated liquid such as a flurocarbon at ~37°C, then, yes, humans could in theory breathe this liquid. It is probable that if such a planet existed, it would have been manufactured by some powerful civilisation. However, free-breathing fluorocarbons is exhausting due to the mass of fluid involved and the amount of oxygen that could be saturated in it. Were humans to spend any length of time in such an environment, it is likely that they would need some sort of mechanical breathing assistance to prevent exhaustion. Finally, fluorocarbons are up to twice as dense as water. This means that a human would float on the surface of a fluorocarbon sea to a greater degree than in highly saline water (such as the dead sea). However, with the mechanical assistance required for prolonged breathing and movement, neutral buoyancy could be achieved. Finally, if this world had any significant amount of water, since flurocarbons do not mix to any great extent with water, any of the world's free water that could not dissolve in the fluorocarbon sea would likely form a layer on top of the fluorocarbon layer, over which would be any gaseous atmosphere. The main question in this world would be how the fluorocarbon sea maintained its oxygenation. 

The only way a found black hole might be useful as a weapon is if the space empire in question is capable of generating wormholes that the black hole can pass through. If artificial gravity is not available, by charging the black hole electromagnetism can be used to move it, though given its mass, you'd have more success using that power to move something else. On the other hand, generating a black hole is "simply" a process of compressing matter enough that its radius falls below its Schwartzchild radius. If you can compress matter this much, it doesn't really matter how much you have, you don't even need solar masses of it. As an added bonus, if you make a black hole small enough that it will evaporate quickly enough to serve a military purpose, you in effect have a total mass to energy conversion bomb. Using the calculations on the former Wikipedia page, collapsing 228,000 kg of matter to a black hole would evaporate in 1 second releasing energy equivalent to a 5 teratonne of TNT explosion.