Kant would say yes, hence his categorical imperative. In fact that is how he defines moral values, by checking whether or not they are universally applicable. Similarly, anyone whose ethics are based on religious scripture would also say yes, the goodness or badness of an action is defined by a transcendent deity(ies) independent of time, location or circumstance. These fall under the category of deontological ethics, i.e. ethics were the value is determined rules of conduct. A utilitarian or a pragmatist would say no. More generally, any consequentialist theory of ethics would ultimately measure actions by their outcomes (consequences - hence the name), and - almost by definition - doesn't care about the goodness or badness of any action: The end justifies the means. 

I have read that some branches of Judaism are strictly materialistic with no afterlife at all, and so they have no need for any form of dualism in their beliefs. Buddhism (and presumably other Karmic religions), have the concept of reincarnation independent of an all powerful deity, so presumably some form of dualism is necessary for this to work at all. However I have no idea how they reconcile this with their bundle theory of the self, the doctrine of anatta, and the belief in impermanence. Conversely, there's nothing inherently contradictory about and atheist being a substance dualist, even though most atheists are materialists. 

These are statements that are always true, not because of the rules of logic but because of the laws of science. They are different from statements like "A parent has passed on his genetic material" or "The bachelor doesn't have a wife". What type of statement are 1,2,3? 

The key point for your question is that the distinctions between mind and matter apply to any kind of matter (fermions, bosons, quarks, waves, particles, force vectors,...). So mind substance can't be just another family of matter, it has to be something altogether different. Saul Kripke, David Chalmers, Thomas Nagel are all modern philosophers who argue for this fundamental difference. Frank Jackson was for while did as well, with his famous "Mary the color blind scientist example", but has since changed his mind. There are many philosophers who argue against dualism, again I will state two. They don't argue so much for mind being another type of matter, instead they argue that dualists are wrong about their being fundamental differences between mind and matter in the first place. 

As others pointed out, in its original form, the question dissolves, because since people can't violate the second law of thermodynamics, it doesn't matter that machines can't violate it either. However, there is a way of reformulating your question which makes it more relevant. Although the 2nd law holds for the universe as a whole, (open) systems can decrease their entropy locally and temporarily. Schrödinger, in his book "What is life?", defined life as those systems which are able to spontaneously decrease their own entropy. So your question becomes, in two parts: a) Does added value require a local decrease in entropy? b) Is life necessary for there to be local decreases in entropy? We can safely assume that the answer to a) is yes. There might be some exceptions, but the vast majority of economically useful work requires generating order out of disorder in one way or another, so, yes, creating added or surplus value does require a decrease in entropy. So what your question really boils down to is b) Can there be added value without life? Or, alternatively, can we ever artificially replicate living beings' ability to spontaneously decrease their entropy? (Again, while the overall entropy of the universe remains increasing, per the 2nd law). It is possible that the answer to b) is "Yes, life is necessary". There can't be any spontaneous increase of entropy without life, and therefore there can't be any economic added value without life. But this is a very strong position to take, as it amounts to a sort of vitalism, à la Bergson. You would have to subscribe to a notion of Élan vital as a necessary ingredient for self-organization, hence the inability of ever replicating life's value adding capability with machines. In this sense, the peripheral evidence points in the other direction. Computer scientists have been able to create self organizing systems using various programing approaches. Although difficult with present technology, creating self organizing mechanical systems based on similar algorithms doesn't seem that far fetched at all. Moreover, the boundaries of just how much of the creativity and design side of things can be handled by computers is being pushed constantly. In this same vain, I disagree with your placing Maxwell's demon and Von Neumann machines in the same category. Maxwell's demon is truly impossible in the real world. Von Neumann machines are just very unlikely based on current technology, but are no more improbable than manned trips to Mars or human level intelligent robots. Indeed, computer viruses can self replicate by consuming resources from their surrounding environments, and as such already represent rudimentary Von Neumann machines. Back to your original question: "Does “technological unemployment” violate the second law of thermodynamics?" -- No, because humans can't violate the second law either. But as I demonstrated earlier: Technological unemployment might still be impossible because we are unable to replicate life's ability to spontaneously decrease entropy. However this requires subscribing to a strong metaphysical position that life possesses an Élan vital or dualistic nature that machines will never be able to replicate. 

None of them ever mention Kant. See here, here and here for typical syllabuses. My knowledge of Kant is peripheral, but from the answers I am getting on the philosophy SE to some of my questions, he seems to have made serious contributions to philosophy of mind, at least as important as those of Desacartes. Especially with regards to freewill. mental causation, and to dualism in general. 

In the rest of the chapter he continues developing his 'science is not special and is driven by social and historical factors' viewpoint. At one point he seems almost contradictory, when he describes how Japan went from being a weak nation to being a strong nation by adopting the scientific worldview, but still maintaining that science is special only to scientists, and not to society as a whole. He states 

So the libertarian will argue that the capitalist system is not collectivist insofar as it protects individual ownership and property rights, which are the only rights that really matter. 

In the U.S and most of the West, the cultural left (used loosely to include movements like feminism, secularism, being pro-diversity and pro minority-rights, the LGBTQ movement, being pro-immigration, etc....) and the economic left (socialism, marxism, pro-big government and regulation, etc...) usually go together, although there doesn't seem any a priori reason why that should be the case. In fact, in some cases, it seems contradictory to me, see "Does the idea of a welfare state fundamentally conflict with an open immigration policy?" for example. I found several videos on youtube that put all of the cultural left issues I mentioned under the general heading of "Cultural Marxism" - and they claim that this is part of a more or less deliberate move by Marxist thinkers, who turned to cultural issues after the failure of traditional Marxism as exemplified by the failures of communism in the U.S.S.R and China. By bringing up social issues and challenging traditional values, these thinkers presumably wanted to undermine western society, eventually leading to its breakdown and finally paving the way for the foretold workers revolution. They all single out the Frankfurt School as being the main driver behind all this. These videos, however, from their tone and language, all seem more like right wing conspiracy theories, than like any serious philosophical lectures. Moreover, from what I've read and seen, several members of the Frankfurt school (Adrono, Horkheimer, and later Habermas) actually had something of a socially conservative bent, almost pining for earlier times, when western society had other sources of meaning and values besides capital (For example Adorno and Horkheimer's critique of mass media and its use of sexuality for marketing, and their somewhat elitist views on art). I didn't get the impression that they wanted to "do away with the family" or "drive today's youth towards sexual hedonism" - as many of the above mentioned videos claim. My questions are then: 

Current technology is very far from being able to clone a person or recreating their mind in fashion similar to the ship of Theseus (quantum teleportation and genetic cloning are more hype that near-future possibility). The most likely possibility given the current level of technology is that computer simulation and AI technology are advanced enough that we are able to upload a copy of a person's personality to a computer that is faithful enough to the original that it can be considered a virtual ship of Theseus recreation of that person. Ray Kurzweil is already trying to recreate his dead father from memories, and talks about digital minds in his book "How to Create a Mind". He says that using digital mind creating technology, we will achieve immortality. Derek Parfit gives the philosophical version of the Ship of Theseus paradox applied to the question of the mind in his book "Reasons and Persons", and he calls it the Teleporter Paradox, even if the technology for this is very farfetched.