There are a lot of good answers here but I'll add my own because I was in a very similar situation. My colleagues were all Russian and spoke their language in the office. We were also a very small team. It was brought up that I too should learn Russian, because some members couldn't speak English all that well. It seemed easier to bring the mountain to Mohammed in this case, despite being located in the UK, and English being my second language also. I learned to embrace this. Eventually I started to tune them out and be able to concentrate in what I was doing. When you understand a language, your brain automatically devotes a portion of it to parsing whatever reaches your ears. That said, I learned enough Russian to ask what they're talking about (by the sound of it, a lot less than what you learned in the language of your torment). When a joke was made, it was enough to smile and look at someone expectantly, or even ask shto? If a joke wasn't being made, I didn't care what they were talking about one bit. I had my own stuff to do and they had theirs. You might try to establish some rapport with those members you feel closer, maybe go for a pint after work. Keep the circle small (2-3 people and you) so they'll be forced to speak English. Other than that, you can't really expect them all to change their habit to accommodate you, as you've already learned. 

You should get a lawyer so that you can better interpret your contract in the context of your local laws. This is clearly some serious miscommunication between you and your boss. You should've notified your boss in a timely manner that you can't make it in today in time, due to exhaustion or any other reason Your boss shouldn't have rushed to pressure you, since Things Happen and people sometimes can't make it in time. That's a Douchebag MoveTM in my book but I'm not the one dealing with him, you are. What if you were in an accident and the first thing you saw when you woke up was that not only is half your body in a cast, but you're also effectively fired. You must both get your expectations sorted. This includes perks after pulling off feats like working the entire weekend. 

Chrome and Firefox can take a guess where that open tag should close, but good luck if you ever run it in IE9 or earlier, as some corporations insist on maintaining. Unfortunately, you will fail. The PM has had 5 years to decide if the other guy's way of doing things is OK, and it works for them. It's not gonna change because of your "mild inconvenience". That's my take on your PM and colleague; they seem friends. Good luck 

Then speak to your manager and say you detect racist intent in your customer's sense of humour. Here I assume you've already taken Step 0, ie. Document EverythingTM, so this is where you present the evidence to Mgr, and them them take it from there. 

You could start a blog series doing just that, ie. translating imperative code to functional and vice-versa. There you can demonstrate your knowledge (to the potential employer) by talking about the code, esp. the bits that don't translate, what needs to be done differently etc. The point here is not writing the code per se, but demonstrating you know what you're talking about. 

A man with a watch knows what time it is. A man with two watches is never sure The broken clock doesn't even need to be fixed (it might require a technician, technicians need to be scheduled and paid), but the offset must be taken into account. One way to do this is have a member of HR or your manager with you while you clock in / out in the middle of the day (lunch break maybe?), and write down the time from their own clock as well as your own. Next reporting cycle use that as evidence against the bad clock, and ask the bean-counters to put on their green eyeshades and account for the offset. 

Whether or not the email actually makes them stop is mostly irrelevant because it's a shot across the bow. What you're doing is establishing a grievance on which to base possible further action. May the force be with you. 

I frequently schedule international gaming events with teams from Europe (and, in the past, the Middle East). The only way I found that works is to 

If you don't sign a contract, you don't have a new job. Go to the photoshoot. There are ways to deal with it later if required. 

You don't. What Joe Bloggs makes is no one's business but Joe's, and perhaps the guy who signs his cheques. You're also assuming old Joe makes more than you, which might not be the case. What you should do instead is research the average income for your new role and responsibilities, so say instead: 

Some people have a way of being bossy without realizing it. And some things need to be done, and someone needs to do them. It's not about her going downstairs to drink, it's about the water fountain getting filled, which is for everyone. If she didn't say please you could have replaced the bottle and concluded with You're welcome! to show that some social boilerplate was expected. Not sure how this ties to her having a boyfriend though. I think something is lost in translation between cultural barriers and a bad example. edit: There's also the attitude described by the phrase: Everyone sweeps the floor. This means it doesn't matter how (un)important you are, if you see something that needs fixing, it's your job to fix it. Be it floor sweeping, moving a piece of trash to the bin or, indeed, refilling the water dispenser. This is a good attitude to have regardless of how bossy your colleagues might be. 

Unless they are funding your studies, they can't know if you've passed the exams, which means you have to tell them. That sounds like the ideal time to ask for the raise they promised. You can do this politely by asking them if there's any paperwork you need to supply them with. That will remind them of their promise and give everyone the opportunity to take care of any details. If you want to confirm that the offer still stands before you pass your exam, you can ask your manager exactly that. It's not greedy at all. 

It's not a spelling issue. It's not "ARK GIS" or "ARC GYS". It's a generalization. Does the content still make sense with using ArcGIS? I wouldn't bother changing capitalization, no one really cares. If you still feel strongly about it, you could ask your manager if specifying the exact package, for the sake of accuracy, is worth the effort. I understand ArcMap is included in the ArcGIS suite. The answer is likely to be No since it's already been through proof-reading. 

This is fair criticism you might face for devoting resources to a problem that isn't a problem yet, in which case you might wanna drop steps 3 and 4 from above. Talking to the colleague is of course the best thing to do, my answer provides an alternative to the ideal. 

You have overstepped your bounds. I think you know (deep down) it's not about the three rows of space your backup is taking up. You insisted on keeping the data. Your manager saw that as you going against something he has final say over. An apology would be in order. Addressing your further questions: 

Absolutely. The school received a complaint from one colleague about an other, at minimum they have to investigate. 

A few months ago I was given a pre-interview assignment for a company. The task was simple, read some data from a file and put them in a database. Many areas of the design had a varying degree of complexity: From the simple solution, to my preferred belt-and-suspenders style, to fully-blown over-engineered superstructures, with me going out of my way to use every language feature I know how to. I decided to go for midway between the latter two, to show that I know how to do stuff. Accompanying documentation provided some justification over some decisions, as well as clarifying sections of the code, to save whoever was going to read it some time. At the interview I was questioned about everything in my code, apart from the standard basic round of questions. To clarify, I wasn't asked about design decisions, but rather "I see you used an Abstract class here. What does Abstract mean in [this programming language]?" I didn't get an offer, but I strongly suspect it was due to other factors, because the technical part went pretty well. So, that level of complexity (light over-engineering) got me an interview this time. Is this a viable strategy long-term, or should I go for simpler designs which are potentially easier to read? 

If you got an email reply, you have a domain to look up, from a casual browser visit to a WHOIS lookup. If HR's email was sent from a mail provider like GMail, that's a bit of a red flag indeed. I should also mention looking at their email signature for completeness sake. I would also recommend querying the your locale's business registry office. The UK Government Website has a section on how to do just that, for example. Regardless, this is a very good question to reply back to HR with. 

I had to go through this process very recently - in fact I'm expecting the results this week. Here's what I did: Decide what figure would make you happy Account for personal circumstances and ambition. Figure out what others pay. This is where you decide if the next few months are better spent improving yourself in this job (if needed), or looking for another job. Make it clear you're looking for a raise Last April I received a raise of 4%. The very next day I had a meeting with my manager, where I made it clear that the raise was unsatisfactory, and I asked him what I can do for the company so that the company can offer me a better salary, in the next 6-12 months or so. I got this advice from a question on this site, I'll link it here if I find it. This is a good time to ask about what you can realistically expect (which I didn't do). Know your Worth I wanted to delicately imply that I'm gonna leave if I don't get a satisfactory raise, but without looking unreasonable, or a flight risk. The phrasing I used was very similar to this: 

You don't push someone to leave. You talk to them about their future career at your company, set expectations, hear complaints, and talk about how to better work for them as a manager. If the only way someone is going to be happy is by leaving for where the shiny and sexy tech is being used, that's something you have to intuit out of them, not something you tell them. It sounds like you're already letting the dev practice his skills in new projects, and you've explained the reason why you don't migrate the sensitive system to newer tech. Maybe they didn't get it, maybe you didn't explain it properly. Make sure to stress that it has little to do with actual dev time, and everything to do with external pressure. 

You may be dropped from consideration 'naturally', or be made an offer much lower or higher than B's. Personally, this is the one I'd go with, and I'll explain why. There is no reason to let one company influence the other. This can only work to your detriment, by excluding the possibility of a higher offer from A. I would reply with a variation of the following: 

Would the company be hiring the person or the persona? If you have a website that generates a nice amount of traffic and has some interesting things on it, you should definitely include the link, especially if you coded / designed it yourself. That said I don't think it's a good idea to put the banner in the header, or in any other field of the CV. No one wants to hire John "user16930" Doe, unless he's "the" man for the job (and said job can't be done by anyone else, something quite rare these days). So unless you're Rambo and the job is to infiltrate a Vietnamese compound, I'd say stay away from it. 

Mewing is unquestionably stupid and out of line. There's nothing wrong with the rest of your examples IMHO so I'll focus on that. Unfortunately you need to ruffle some feathers to get this going. You made a mistake by not naming the offending director (who I'll refer to as B) when you first spoke to the other one (henceforth A), and this is something you have to fix now. In all likelihood, A privately knows of B's idiotic behaviour but may not feel compelled to act because it wasn't made known to him by you. 

I'm sure you can come up with a much better worded version, it's the best I can do before caffeine. The key is the second paragraph: 

It's possible some employers are blatant racists and trying any old trick in the book to avoid hiring foreigners. It's also possible you're reading too much into it. I think the latter happens way more often than the former. Good communication skills is almost never about the language, but about your ability to express yourself clearly. There are ways to demonstrate that by maintaining a blog, etc. but that's outside the scope of your question. 

I changed my Facebook name to something humorous/nonsensical. You can still get there by typing facebook.com/my.real.name so I don't know how well that works with searching but I guess it's less obvious. That was before I abandoned it anyway. You should expect potential employers to see all public profiles of yours. These sites often have privacy settings, which you should fiddle with if you'd rather not have them snooping about your private life. Just remember nothing is private unless you explicitly make it so. 

Since a personal issue is affecting your work performance that line has already been crossed. You have two options as far as I can see: 

It seems that this is your answer right here. If the project takes longer than 3 months, you should let them know that you'll be unavailable, so that they can find someone else to take over. If the project takes longer, you should also go over any paperwork you signed in case there's an "overdue" clause, or something to that effect. 

You shouldn't tell them bluntly they've been defaced because It's alarmist and you'll lose face if you're wrong. If you're absolutely certain this merits their attention, you can present the facts as you see them, and let them come to the conclusion they might have had a breach. Even so, you might be accused of being the hacker, or the guy interviewing you might be the one who made the site in the first place, and take it as an affront.