Simply remind them that the service is free to them and is provided by a non-profit organisation that is doing the best it can with the resources it has. I don't think there's any reason to 'snark' about this, and as long as you avoid doing that, there is no way that a reasonable person can object when you politely remind people of this fact. Once this happens, I suggest 'firing the customer' with the minority that continue to complain unreasonably. That will improve your stress levels and presumably free up resources to help the people who do appreciate the services you offer. 

Who owns the former CEO's laptop? If it's a corporate laptop then the documents on it are also the property of the company, assuming your legal team were sober when they wrote/reviewed your acceptable use policy. It might not be pleasant to have to sneak around to do this but it's certainly not a legal issue, and possibly not even an ethical one. 

You're just as entitled to negotiate salary as they are (and to be clear, that's precisely what they're doing right now by undercutting what you asked for). Don't allow them to sidetrack you with talk of bonuses or shares. These are an addition to salary, not an alternative to it. You don't need to worry about justifying your request for more salary with reasons either, in fact I would suggest it's better that you don't. Simply put, your position should be that you are simply worth that $x and that therefore what you're asking for is perfectly reasonable (I'm assuming that industry scales and your career progress back that up of course). The hiring process is a two way process and that includes the interview, contract and salary. You can negotiate anything you want... though of course they can walk away if they don't like what you ask for or how you ask for it. But then so can you if they act like jerks. 

If you said "I have a number in mind but..." to me, I would find it very difficult to take you seriously and I suspect I would not be alone. I would suggest that negotiating in this manner with someone you're already employed by is unlikely to either impress people or get you a good pay rise, as pay rises are seen differently from contract negotiations between the company and a new employee. With most employers and most roles, you need to be able to show that your value to the company is such that a pay-rise is justified and you need to be able to put a monetary value on this (e.g. my work saved this amount of cost, generated that amount of income...), which naturally leads on to discussing salary amounts. At this point it is ok to let them name a figure first if things are going in that direction anyway but it would be very arrogant and disrespectful to sit there and demand that they show you what they think you are worth in the way you talk about. The way to get your manager on board with giving you a raise (keep in mind she may need to go and argue your case with someone above her) is to make it seem like you're both on the same side of the table, not face to face as adversaries. Your approach will have the latter effect, not the former. 

Daily stand ups are often misunderstood. Often they turn into daily reports. Your smaller standup sounds much like a daily report. That's because it's how you were trained. Easy "just follow this script" training is cheap. Real communication requires you engage the audience. That's the com- part of communication. So a great standup is about what others want to hear. They probably don't care that you fixed 5 bugs. They might like to hear "I just changed X, if you discover a problem with it, contact me." Be diplomatic with one-on-one communication in a group setting: one-on-one time is keeping the rest of the group waiting. So while a single person might be interested if you are working on stuff that might impact them, only mention that you need to coordinate in the meeting, and schedule the coordination afterwards. "Hey you're working on DNS, can we meet after the meeting? I think my next task could require some coordination around your work." The bigger meeting is poorly conceived; but, that's not your fault. You can't scale communication up by just putting more people in a room. Odds are it was chatty at first, leading to no forward progress. Then is was probably "repaired" by complaints, leading to the too quiet situation you are now in. If you want these meetings to become relevant, I suggest you have people repeat 2 or 3 of best items targeted for others in the larger meeting, without expanding too much in the group setting even if asked to do so. "Let's follow up on that question after the meeting" generally works. If you want these meetings to stop, I recommend that your small group has periodic (but not daily) presentation meetings, where you prepare for a 15 to 20 minute presentation of recent accomplishments and possible points of coordination. Keep in mind that you are probably not in a position to alter the company's procedures, so I'd recommend attempting to fix the meeting first. Stand ups that are free of usefulness to others lead to people that don't care to be there. Be prepared for odd behavior when attempting to change the standup. Some people will demand you return to a bad standup pattern. Some will get excited and over-share stuff few people can find useful. You must exhibit calm and consistent behavior to change the situation, or the situation will just return to the least-objectionable meeting, which is what you have right now. 

You cannot plan to make someone else do something. Instead look over the employee benefits with a careful eye to see if they already support furthering one's education. Some employers do so only for a degree that specifically can be used by the company. A few don't place a restriction on what you may study. Most require that your company be notified and that they review your request before deciding if they will reimburse expenses. Some employers will place restrictions on the reimbursement, requiring you to pay back the reimbursement if you don't maintain a sufficient amount of time at the company after receiving it. This is a common policy to prevent people from leaving immediately after a company helps them obtain the new degrees. 

You're each responsible for your own actions. But if you are the report author then I'd suggest that you're responsible overall for the correctness of the report (note the lack of blame for any mistakes in that statement). If you were supposed to write an accurate report but didn't then you own the errors that led to that. If someone else is supposed to proof-read reports to catch mistakes then they own the errors in the proof reading process. Both you and the proof reader should spend less time worrying about who gets the blame and more time thinking about how to do your own job better next time. I'm getting the impression that you either work for a company that practices a blame culture, or at least you feel as if you do. In any case, it's more sensible to concentrate on what went wrong and how to fix it than it is to obsess over who, precisely, was at fault. In the meantime, if someone asks you about the error, all you have to do is share with them the draft you presumably have of your original report that doesn't contain the error. 

Why? Why is he still your "best employee"? That possibly speaks volumes for your opinion (justified or not, I don't know) of the rest of the team. 

I think its reasonable to mention in your CV that you're fluent in various languages. For some jobs it might be a large part of what makes you an attractive candidate, in fact. I wouldn't make a thing about the "international schools" in the CV, but I would instead mention that in the covering letter if you feel it adds to your application. Remember that the person is hiring you wants to know how you're going to solve the problem they're hiring someone to help with - if you can't tie something back to that then the space is probably better used for something more relevant. 

Your question assumes that the only thing of value that you can learn from this job is the programming language that is being used there. You also don't say if it's a new language that does not have a lot of adoption anywhere (yet?), an old language that's on its way out, or simply an obscure one. To some degree this doesn't matter. By doing well at this job you would demonstrate to a future employer that you can learn new things. This has value. There may be opportunities to develop project management, people management or technical architect skills from this role. Again, this has value. Don't forget salary. This is compensation for the work you're doing and if the job involves working with a obscure or dead-end language and the pay is higher to compensate for this, then that seems like a reasonable adjustment to me. If you develop skills in an obscure area then this might increase your value to future employees. I'm a network/systems architect rather than a programmer these days and I still get calls from people who wish to offer me daft sums of money to babysit old mainframes. While I don't see my career heading in that direction, it's a nice set of skills to fall back on. Only you can decide if the value of these areas is enough to make up for your worries. If you're worried about losing your edge in more popular technologies in the meantime then you can work on your own projects or contribute to an open source project that uses the appropriate language. 

You are worrying about the future. It all will come down to whether the person judging you determined that you took reasonable steps to secure the laptop. If you have the wrong person, a laptop in a locked trunk, in a safe welded to the car body, will not be sufficient. With the other extreme, a broken window meant you secured the laptop. I would take reasonable steps to secure the laptop if the damage is likely only to be the cost of the hardware. That means "out of sight" in a non-descript bag, preferably in something you can shove under a seat. Either that or something that can be placed under a jacket or other non-valueable item. If you live in a high-crime area, you might improve upon this. If you are aware that the loss of your laptop could have a harmful impact on the core business operations, where such a loss of data could easily exceed the cost of the hardware, I'd take a more careful approach. Locking the laptop in the trunk, coordinating with IT to ensure the hard drive is encrypted, and attempting to use the laptop primarily as a vehicle for accessing sensitive data in virtual machines secured in company server rooms (as opposed to keeping the data on the laptop). There is no correct answer, because one cannot determine how the theft will be handled or judged by the person reviewing it. As long as you take sensible steps that seem measured against the possible value of the loss, you likely will not be seen as negligent. Oh, I just saw the update you had, mentioning you have a truck. Trucks typically have VERY LOUSY security, as far as vehicles go (I owned one, and it was the only vehicle I had that was broken into 3 times). Since you don't have a decent trunk, you might have a lock box. Assuming it is clamped to the vehicle from the inside the lock box, it passes as an "effective trunk". If you don't, the only option you have is to hide it "out of sight". 

High end pay is typically contractor / consultant pay, which rarely all goes to the person being paid. The person matching the consultant to the job gets a cut. The consultant having to pay all of his taxes (regular employees pay about half of what the government collects, the business pays the other half). etc. As a consultant, one typically has to double their hourly salary to get an equivalent "regular" take home pay. Still, you're below the low end pay. The primary ways this is solved generally involve people moving jobs. Sure, you can ask for (an maybe get) a raise, but it is a very rare day that you get a raise that doubles your salary. Typically they'll offer you a small-ish amount (how about $25 / hr) thinking that you'll be happy with the increase. In order to argue equal pay, you typically also have to be equal in other non-task (but related) ways. I've known decent programmers that lack degrees from a University. They mostly get paid less. You can't compare your pay in cities with dramatically different costs of living. etc. You might want to do a bit more research to ensure you really are underpaid, then you might want to have a fallback plan in case things go really wrong in asking for a raise. Then you want to ask for a raise presenting the best reasoning you have. Even then, many just go the easier route, which is to take a job elsewhere, as it is always appropriate to discuss salary in an interview process, and always awkward to discuss it outside of an interview process.