Agreements are worth nothing unless the other government officials and the general population are willing to abide by them. In the case of the Munich agreements most of the British and French population were more or less willing to go along with them. If they hadn't been more or less accepting of them there would have been massive protests against them and their governments would have had to back out of them. Thus the Mad Men anecdote falsely depicts Chamberlain as having far more power to make agreements without considering public opinion than he actually had, so that depriving him of his nicotine fix would be enough to change the course of history. 

The Purple Forbidden City in Hue is an imitation of The Purple Forbidden City in Beijing, since the Vietnamese Empire was an imitation of the Chinese Empire. According to Wikipedia, "purple" is (for some reason) the Chinese name of the North star, believed to be the home of the Celestial Emperor. 

As for how, the short answer is Alfonso the First committed treason successfully, much like the founding Fathers of the USA committed treason successfully and the leaders of the Confederacy committed treason unsuccessfully. 

In 805, the date of alleged Andorran independence, the land around Andorra was ruled by Charlemagne. Titles of European Hereditary rulers gives his title in February 806 as: 

William did not have any claim to the throne, except by conquest after winning. The kings of Denmark and Norway had better claims. King Edward the confessor did not have the right to promise the throne to either Harold or William (except as a cynical political maneuver to keep them from making trouble during his reign). King Edward did not have the right to sincerely promise either of them the throne or anything more than an important place in the regency for his rightful heir, Edgar the Atheling, who in fact was proclaimed king in London after the battle of Hastings. Since Harold Godwinson was not the rightful heir to England, any promise that William forced him to make could not give William any rightful claim to the throne. Harold would have been equally traitorous if he pushed for the throne for himself or for William. As for punishing Harold for breaking his oath to do something unlawful, it would have been far more ethical for William to send hordes of hired assassins after Harold than to punish all 1.7 million English people with William's cruel tyranny. 

There is a strong probability that the stories about his experiments were lies circulated by his enemies. The story about the child experiment has also been told about other historical characters, for example. I suppose that the story tellers considered him to be evil not so much for harming people cruelty but for questioning and experimenting with topics were were part of religion. 

"because it was there". If the Moors were going to invade anyplace under the leadership of their Arab overlords it would have to be either Spain to the north or parts of Africa to the southwest, south, and southeast - and those regions of Africa were bordered by or actually in the bare and barren Sahara desert. Because Spain was wealthier than the Sahara, Spain was invaded first and the Sahara was conquered and/or converted to Islam slowly over centuries by various Muslim groups.s 

The British colony of Newfoundland became a mostly independent dominion in 1907. In 1933, facing crushing dept in the Great Depression, Newfoundland seems to have become mostly a British Colony again while ruled by the Commission. In 1948 the citizens voted in a referendum to become part of Canada instead of continuing under Britain, or regaining independence. Some wanted to join the United States but Britain and Canada kept that off the ballot. $URL$ Persons more expert on Newfoundland history may want to confirm or deny or clarify my impression that an independent Newfoundland agreed in 1933 to become some sort of British possession again. 

The legal and official name of the Merrimack was the Merrimack. That was the only name it was ever legally given. The Confederate sates of American was a criminal organization and never had any legal right to do ANYTHING, which includes naming a ship Virginia. If the Confederacy had won and gained independence and become a legal government, the things it did AFTERWARDS would (mostly) have been legal, but even that would not have made the things the Confederacy did BEFORE gaining independence, such as naming the Merrimack the Virginia, legal. Therefore it is proper to refer to the ship as the Merrimack, not the Virginia. 

In Europe some titles descend by primogeniture, and some titles descend to all agnatic (male line) descendants of the first title holder. And the same goes for hereditary rulers - in some principalities the rule descended to one person by primogeniture, but in other principalities the land divided among the sons of a ruler upon his death, so those principalities became smaller and smaller and more and more numerous over the years. In the Lichtenstein dynasty, for example, the title of prince is shared by all members of the dynasty, but the rule of the principality descends to one person by agnatic primogeniture. So there are many princes of the Lichtenstein dynasty at any time but only one ruling and reigning prince of Lichtenstein at a time. Many titles are granted so a higher title goes by primogeniture and a loer title goes to all agnatic members of the grantee's descendants. So the dynasty might have one duke and several loer ranking princes (or vice versa) or it might have one duke at a time and several counts, and so on in various other combinations. As nearly as I can tell, it is common to describe the heir to the Duchy of X or Principality of Y as the hereditary duke of X or the Hereditary Prince of Y. In the UK it is common for a noble to have a number of different titles. The Duke of A might be in full Duke of A, Marquess of B, Earl of C and D, Viscount of E, and Baron of F, G, H, and I, for example. So it is common to call a Duke's eldest son and heir apparent by the next senior title the Duke has - but that is just a courtesy title. So the Duke of A's heir could be called by the courtesy title of Marquess of B. And I guess the Duke's senior grandson could be called the Earl of C, and his senior great grandson could be called the Viscount of E, and his senior great great grandson could be called the Baron of F. PS missing a letter from my keyboard. 

Tom Au - William of Orange was NOT Dutch on his mother's side. The title of Prince of Orange is only associated with the Netherlands because William and his descendants became the stadtholders and later kings of the Netherlands. The Principality of Orange was in the Kingdom of Burgundy or Arles, in the Holy Roman Empire, in what is now France. So William's Orange ancestors were "Imperialists" in "nationality" and if they had any modern ethnic based nationality it would be French. And the nationality of Dutch did not exist in William's era. In that time the Netherlands was a name for a group of neighboring duchies, margravites, counties, and other fiefdoms which all had the same lord, first Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, etc. etc. etc., and later his son Philip II, King of the Spanish kingdoms, etc., etc. etc. All of the fiefdoms in the Netherlands were part of the Kingdom of Germany, thus making someone born in any of the Netherlands a German by narrower nationality, and the kingdom of Germany was part of the Holy Roman Empire, thus making any person born in the Kingdom of Germany an "Imperialist" by broader nationality. So in William's era Dutch was at most an ethic subdivision, not a full nationality. 

One reason why Hitler did not become an Austrian nationalist was because it was impossible at that time. When Hitler was a child and a young adult deciding his world views, there was no Austrian nation, but an Austrian Empire containing citizens of many nationalities. So Hitler could have become an Austrian Imperialist as he was more or less taught in school to be. But since Hitler had a nationalist personality instead of an imperialistic personality he felt impelled to be nationalistic, and being German speaking German nationalism was a lot more natural and likely for him than Czech nationalism, Hungarian Nationalism, Polish nationalism, Italian nationalism, etc., etc.. 

Despite Lives of the Twelve Caesars there were far more emperors than months to name after them. it is not certain to me that Gaius Julius Caesar and Augustus ordered months named after themselves. It is possible that those honors ere decreed posthumously by the senate (allegedly without being prodded by the heir) - you should look it up. The senate was only likely to name a month after an emperor they liked, usually when posthumously decreeing him a god. If an emperor just arbitrarily named a month after himself without going though the senate the next reign might have that action reversed to gain favor with the senate. A lot of unpopular emperors were posthumously punished with Damnato Memoria when their decrees were nullified and all inscriptions and monuments honoring them were erased and destroyed. If that was done, nothing, especially part of the calendar, would be left named after that emperor. Curiously, the ins and out of imperial politics meant that the list of Emperors decreed to be gods, likely to have months named after them, and the list of emperors punished with Damnato Memoria and having everything named after them renamed, largely overlapped and did include some of the same emperors. And the renaming of months seems more like a custom of the early empire and Commodus was probably the last emperor to rename a month after himself. And after the Emperors became Christians in the 4th century AD they stopped being decreed gods after death and that probably made it very unlikely that months would be renamed after them.