Yes, if there are non-zero fixed costs, and constant marginal cost, then average cost decreases strictly monotonically with quantity, asymptotic to the marginal cost. 

Getting cash out is no different for sharks on Shark Tank than any other investors in private equity: they can make money back from dividends that are yielded by profits; or by selling on the shares to someone else; or by asset-stripping the companies - i.e. selling off their assets, and closing down the trading activities of the company. As with most other equity investors, they own shares in a mix of companies. So to make money overall, they don't need to make money on every single company. They can accept that some will do badly (often losing them their whole investment), and some will do well, but overall, they expect to make a profit on the portfolio. Indeed, in general, for investing in small companies with private equity, the expectation might normally be that most investments will yield the investor a 100% loss, but the few that do make a profit, make such a big profit that the overall bottom line is positive. However, the sharks do have the huge advantage that every one of their companies has received significant free tv advertising, and has had the public endorsement of a supposed "smart" investor, which tilts the odds in their favour. 

In many ways, it's no different to how any other price is set - by supply and demand. The only thing is, that because it's a transaction of money for money, there's some symmetry at play. When you buy USD with BDT, the price you pay for your USD will go up if the general market demand for USD goes up, or if the supply of USD goes down. Similarly, it will go down if USD demand goes down or USD supply goes up. And if the supply of BDT goes up, or the demand for BDT goes down, the price of USD will go up. If the supply of BDT goes down, or the demand for BDT goes up, then the price of USD will go down. Bear in mind that because there is an active international market for these currencies, then the relative values of each reflects a minute-by-minute shifting balance between buyers and sellers of each; and the exchange rates reflect all available information, as well as the market participants' future expectations. 

Singapore has a relatively low personal income tax rate. Somebody who earns $80,000 after deductions only pay 3,350 in taxes, or about 4% effective rate (see 2012-2016 tax table). 80,000 is already well above the gross median income in Singapore, which is 3,770 per month in 2014 (source). Despite, this Singapore is well known for its first-world public services, including public transportation, education, security, public housing and utilities. Personally I've lived there and I enjoyed the level of public services that otherwise can only be observed in countries with much higher taxation than 4% (e.g. United States, Canada or Western European countries) or countries that rely on oil revenues thus eliminating the need for taxation (e.g. Gulf countries). I don't know how to prove this with hard data, but taking a cursory look at International rankings of Singapore can probably convince you that this is the case. How is this possible? Absent 'free revenue' such as oil, isn't high level of taxation necessary to fund such high level of public service? 

In Indonesia, petrol/gasoline price is regulated by the government and historically it is heavily subsidized. I know, economists typically consider fuel subsidy to be a bad policy, for many reasons, including: it appears to disproportionately favor the wealthy who have more cars. However, in Indonesia, fuel price seems to strongly affects other prices in general. I mean, when the government tries to reduce subsidy and increase the price, we will see prices of everyday stuff like food increase significantly. So, some people say increasing fuel price actually affect the poor the worst, because they barely have enough money to buy basic needs. The effect is so bad that such attempts to reduce subsidy are usually met with big protests by the general population. Some source: 

Equities and some other asset classes have gone up in price. However, just because interest rates are very close to zero, does not mean discount rates are very close to zero. Discount rates account not only for the price of money, but also for future uncertainties. The extended period of depressed demand in many nations has added considerably to the uncertainty. Hence, some asset classes have increased in price, but not to extreme values. 

You've identified the first-order effect: the supply of local currency has increased, so its price (and from the perspective of other currencies, that's its exchange rate) decreases. That's assuming that the move wasn't already (fully) priced-in by the market. There are lots of other effects. There will be a change in domestic interest rates. The particular rates affected, depend on which debt has been bought. And there will be knock-on effects in those markets. This may affect inward investment in those markets. QE in itself sends a couple of signals to the market. Firstly, that the Bank sees deflationary pressures a year or two ahead (assuming its mandate is an inflation-rate target); and secondly, that it intends to apply inflationary pressure to deal with it. The market will react to those signals, depending on how far they diverge from what the market had already anticipated. Those reactions might include increased optimism or pessimism about future domestic demand, and / or about the health of domestic industries, and that can have an affect on exchange rates. In short, the central bank is pressing levers that touch on much of the macro-economic picture, so there are lots of second-order effects. The nature and direction of these effects will depend on expectations before and after the announcement, as well as what's actually going on in the economy. 

I cannot comment because of too little reputation. So please note that this response is an extension to the response of Giorgio stating that Marx abstracted labour to a commodity in Das Kapital. With regards to import and export I don't think you have to go as far as talking about slavery. On a more local scale labour is continuously imported and exported. Companies are recruiting on university campuses. The people there come from different locations. Maybe they are from a town in the east of the country and they will go for a job in the west of the country or the other way around. In a way the labour that could have been put to use in the one part was exported or imported, depending of the point of view, to the other part of the country. Now lets try to up the scale. Instead of looking at one country lets look at the world. The following example is not 100% historically correct, but bare with me and try to see the concept without getting stuck on historical details or moral principles. It's about the mechanics of the economics. Decades ago we found coal in Belgium. We needed people to work in the mines. The investors wanted to get the mines up and running. This caused a spike in the demand for young able people whom were not afraid of danger. There weren't enough people, so we recruited a labour force in Spain, Italia, Greece and Turkey. In a manner of speaking you could say that Belgium at that point imported labour. Off course you don't use people as you would other commodities. There are sociological/social consequences to these kinds of actions. Those I won't touch because they are out of scope of this question. With a little imagination you could also see a huge export of labour these days. Refugees are people who want to live. They move, and they need jobs. You don't even need actual refugees. In Europe the united market made it possible for people to work all across Europe. That causes an influx of labour force. Populists very much like to say they 'steal' our jobs. In a way they say that these influxes of labour, or excessive exports if you like, flood our market for labour like china stereotypically floods the market with cheap plastic stuff. To conclude - If you choose to study mechanics of import and export, and you choose to abstract labour to a commodity as proposed in Das Kapital, then you could definitely apply analogous principles to labour with regards to import and export as you would for other commodities. 

I've lived in other countries where fuel price is determined by market and fluctuate freely (like say the US), but I don't see such phenomenon (e.g. grocery prices don't noticeably increase as much when gas price increase). Why? 

Major US stock indices are down ~2% on Jun 29, and it's mostly associated with investor's worries related to the Greece crisis. I understand about possible "chain reaction" and that a lot of companies may be exposed indirectly to Greece debt. But given that, it seems silly that investors think that because of this average US companies lose 2% in values. I mean, Greece is relatively a small country and it doesn't have a very close link to the US economy (unlike, say, Canada). Even if all Greek government and banking bonds evaporate, the impact of all those would still be way less than 2% of an average US company, right? 

A country's public debt is often presented as ratio to GDP. For example, in Wikipedia, List of countries by public debt or National debt of the United States both use ratio or percentages of GDP. Since government borrows the money in term of balancing budget and will have to repay using budget, shouldn't it make more sense to define the ratio against something related to the size of the budget, instead of the size of the whole economy? Someone pointed out to me that when seen this way, the debt ratio sounds more serious. For example, US public debt is ~18 trillion, which is slightly more than the annual GDP (this doesn't sound too bad), but actually roughly 6x government revenue in 2014 (~3 billion according to CIA World Factbook)