[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

Can one trace the classical "Bodhisattva(-ideal)" in the picture? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade.] 

As with animals, human can also be observed of what kind they actually are in cases of being involved on consuming sensuallity and in times the lose sati. Even if normaly human appearance, then, they show their animal nature, not possible to hide. Maybe you know you self of the cases when there is no disguise grasable. Althought it seems to be a nice live, living like a pet next kind and generouse people, there is really not much worthy and special in it, think on the many pets in human or animal body dewlling on Dhamma places and in monasteries. If they are able to observe the Uposatha anyway, good. But in now way one is smart in putting ones best fruits from ones garden as sacrify for them, yet worthy of the needed to maintain live as all beings. If one had the luck to become a pet and then, not seeing the nurishing hand, bites it, shows no gratitude, is even pride to has become a pet under others, for such a being, surely, a talk on Dhamma should be not directed (intended for such a pet), since others might be really hurt, capable to get hurt, if feeding a sick dog with mange. 

Since right view is the foundation, all deeds, actions and undertakings, increasing right view are of use to establish the. Focus on the foundations! It does not make sense to try to gain right Samadhi if the virtue section is not good developed. Practice generosity and service for those worthy. Practice sharing merits... Practice Veneration... If having trouble with performing those meritorious deeds, no way to think that it is possible to gain right concentration. 

On Being a Lay Follower. But what makes it hard to keep precepts? And no need to worry or hope that compromises might come, Buddha Dhamma does not really desire for you, while trades will and seldom, especially when not rejoicing in virtue, one would not fall into their bounds. Your qualities of desires make your destiny. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade.] 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade.] 

That is not right, to give people material things aside of Dhamma, since people would think that good come from others and material. 

If there is still stinginess, not even Jhana can be reached. Once there is no more fault in regard of virtue, no stingyness present, it will work naturally on the given causes. And like always: to develop right view, association with people of right view is most importand. More on entering the stream here. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

It's for the sake of those capable, that questions of animals are answered. It's for the sake that animals might gain faith in so far, as to simple observe the Uposatha and trust that better circumstances will follow possible in another, better birth, having build on the strong conditions, given upanissayapaccayena. In regard of beings, having gained a human existence as far as the gross and merely physical appearance, but having character like an animal, meaning that not having attributes of generosity and no virtue, as to what the Buddha told, it's possible that a merely lost being, nevertheless could gain the path. That is one reason why Dhamma is not only taught to those sick who are capable to get free of disease, but also to those incapable. And for the sake of those able to get the message, it's right and alowable that those not able are taught as well. 

To take refuge into the Three Gems means to seek refuge into the Buddha (Awakening and an Awakened), into his Dhamma (teaching and his advices to arrive there), and into the Sangha (those who followed him and practiced good, to have orientation on side). When one sees the dangers in the world and comes to know someone knowing a way out, that is when one goes for refuge. To take ones own ways of thoughts, ideas as refuge is normal, but as one could figure out, does as good as never leads out. Only by taking refuge in the tripple gems and follow the advices, train one self, one might, by seeing the Dhamma for oneself, make it his own as well. From this point on, the way out has become naturally to that extend, that he is bound to reach the other shore within most seven existences. Even then effort is the cause of reaching further paths and fruit and it goes all against the normal habits (the natural ones). Beings take usually refuge in sign and eye, sound and ear, smell and nose, taste and tongue, touch and body, ideas and intelect. Buy since all of that is not real, not lasting, subject to decay, they are lost in their refuge, grasping after something without heartwood. Once seeing that this phenomenas are not real, one is open to see the unconditioned. So it is said: 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

What to say? If you wish for your long term welfare, don't associated with fools, seek for wise, even to make an earning, fulfill your duties towrad those who deserve it (e.g. your parents, family, teacher, companions, leader, Brahmans and contemplatives), abstain from unskillful deeds (even for fullfilment of duties), nurish and do skillful deeds and harmless undertakings and clean your mind. If you wish to help others, teach them as well in this skills, best after knowing the task your self, in generosity, virtue and contemplation of the Dhamma. In explaining this and encourage to simply this, you do the best for all. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

And what would one have gained in wasting time with meditation if not based on firm right view? All an act of will? Or natural by having given causes? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

Assuming that this retreat might be done already, maybe give also a own answer. Assuming that not, may Lanka do the best to be soon able to go forth. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

Might it help in the desire to get an releasing answer: leading to disenchantment in regard of conditioned things and issues not leading to the unconditioned, by seeing the dangers in this world. Practical, to prevent from such existences, approaching the wise, and ask 

and the notions in levels of having become really non-violent, with the attributs of the Arahat at last: 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

To fill the grap, althought in German, the links lead to english resources. chebulic myrobalan will be traditional pickled in ones Urine, and drunken. Still in use in conservative traditions. As for dung, that is mentioned as emergency medication in cases of snake bits, where it is not necessary to be given it. There is no evidence that (ones own) fecal is used oral, althought my person came across that certain yogies in Tibetan traditiin use both as kind of asubha reflection and eat and drink out of this purpose the left overs... My person would not encourage to use it, if not living very natural and with hardly maniputated food, since one refills one with a lot of chemicals again and again. Medicinal doctors, therefore, becaus there is broadly so much pollution, seldom advocate it. Certain studies (mostly self studies) have been made. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

The "problem" might be that one is to much attached to see cause and effect as a straight linear pattern. Suffering with suffering shows good the fact, that phenomenas are not only caused by past actions, but also how reaction is giving at the present and actually there is the door of release and the chain works here in a more subtly way, in a manifold smaller scale. If taking the raw tool, used to, to investigate, the picture is certainly blurred. That's why refined states of awarness are required, lack of clinging/maintaining (to objects of odentification) is nessesary to do not only see the cause of suffering but also the cessation as it act-ually comes into being. Discernment: Right View, in wings of awakening, might be supportive to clear up doubts. That is way it is good to understand depending origination as depending co-arising and to understand "from this comes that" and/or "with the arising of this, that arises". Or let it be explained with simply words: 

E.g: wrong view, biting around for becoming and for or to gain a pack, a pride. As one might see the animals around, their pain, even if pets, one should not only develope much metta an karuna with them, but also reflext: Why it important to value Conditions?, practicing mudita and sharing ones merits, how ever tiny they are. May the worthy ones and those following gain the first share of this food here, may also their attended be able to still their hunger on it, and may all the rest be able to still the hunger of those not so gifted yet. E.g. the food proper for humans is dedicated for humans, the food contained proper for animals, may be chewed on by the animals to provide them what they prever to eat on. Since it is a matter of upanissayapaccayena of what personality, food, one prefers and not easy that food conductive for right view will be taken, by those having maybe a human body but have already or previous fallen into grace: 

And as quoted by others, ther are outwardly conditions which are conductive to meet such. Just for example, if one learns to recite, including understanding the meaning, once proper attention might be there and one remembers (e.g. hears the voice) than right view can be gained, the path developed and realized. So one does not act wise to seek after meditators but primarily after people having, teaching, training right view. That should ones effort to gain the stream: 

It's not possible to find an evidence where there is no evidence. Althought there is bbroad believe that Path can be gained by (simply) meditation, it's not the case. Why? Because the path has right view as it's base, right view as it's foundation. And as taught: 

It's not good the generalize althought sadly sure 95% of monk make a livelihood from sharing Dhamma or make other services. Look at Sutta Central... even asking directly for exchange is "normal", but people buy Dhamma and you do, or not? Hmm? So why does one crow like to pick out the eye of another. Crow is crow, and usually don't do that. People, monks who are not trading, who really live on alms are very very rare, and be sure, with general being biased, one would not meet them even standig in front. How ever, usually kammaṭṭhāna-monks seldom to never, join such folk fests. If really listening to Dhamma would be expected, they would follow an invitation to a meal which might look similar. May you come out of certain bias and selfdestructing views soon (and yes that's a blessing, sometimes it helps). Better look of what you can give then to demand. Some advices: (Q&A) Details on what may be given as alms (Tips for alms-giving) Don't forget that there are also reasons why monks would turn over the bowl. One might not fear such thinking "I can buy or trade for it and what I desire" Sure... but here "we" (you, they) go... [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade]