You can stop the gif at any time (drag it with your mouse) and all wavefronts will be concentric. You can also see this, when you look at the wave equation. Changes in time equal the velocity times changes in space. If the velocity is constant, a change in time will cause a equal change of wave propagation in any available direction. While often, we work in (x,y,z)-coordinates, here it's easiest to assume that our wave source is at $(0,0,0)$ and if our propagation is equal in all directions, our vector pointing to these points in space is the radius of a perfect sphere. Of course, if we're looking at a half-space like we do in seismics, we have a half-sphere and if we scale back to 2D we have a semi-circle surrounding our source. So if we dig up a huge patch of subsurface and place receivers all around our source, those equally distant from the source should respond at the same time after igniting the source. Ellipsis In Fig. 13 you see the semi-circle. There are several important things to note in this image. The first would be the receiver. The receiver is off-center, but all those receivers in the semi-circle example are too. What makes this different, is that instead of several receivers recording the wave simultaneously, here, it's one singular receiver. Additionally, before our source was nice and centric, now it's off-center. Unfortunately, this is not enough to make sense of Fig. 13. Firstly, for the semi-circle we were looking at direct waves. In Fig. 13 we see reflected waves. Now, they assume constant velocity again, which means there clearly must be a density change to make a reflection happen. This brings us to a simple theoretical question: "I have a measurement with the traveltime $T$. Which locations in the subsurface would have to have a density change to explain my measurement of $T$?" So essentially, you are constructing a plane where the ray path from the source toward the plane, added to the ray path from that incident point on the plane to the receiver is always of the length $T$. Luckily, this is exactly how a half ellipse is formed. You can actually try this with a string. Take a string of the length $T$, fix one end on the source location, one at the receiver location and then put a pen in the sling and trace the outmost location you can reach with the pen in the sling. You have created a surface below your acquisition, which could all have caused a response at your receiver at the time $T$. Fun fact: If you put the source and the receiver back to location $x=0$, your ellipsis becomes a circle again. It's not the semi-circle from before, as before we had a direct wave, now we're looking at a surface of equal reflection traveltime. You can see this in the following figure CC-BY-SA Ag2gaeh: 

Again, that's very hard to answer. Forest destruction is an ongoing process around the world. Forests in the most remote regions are typically the safest, but they will become more vulnerable as surrounding forests are felled, new roads are built, more people move into these remote areas, etc. Another factor to consider is war, or political corruption in general. So many governments have been destabilized (primarily by the U.S.), and so many governments are grappling with economic woes or fears of invasion. Not surprisingly, they're going to emphasize security and survival over the environment. Of course, war itself can take a toll. Consider Vietnam, where the U.S. used Agent Orange indiscriminately. I believe the Soviets similarly wiped out much of Afghanistan's montane forests. 

Once again I don't have a specific answer, but I can offer a good guess: Most of it. After all, native forests will continue to shrink, while tree farms will continue to multiply. Sorry to be so negative. I actually believe there is hope, but things aren't going to change without a massive change agent. 

Are you asking how the land area that is devoted to tree plantations compares to the land area covered with wild forests? Again, I don't know the answer, but please note that there are vast differences between plantations and wild forests. Plantations may be preferable to barren earth, but they don't begin to compare to "natural forests" in terms of biodiversity. Tree farms are to Nature what fast food is to cuisine. I fear for Africa more than South America. The Amazon is obviously a cause for concern, but there is some political stability in South America, and there are environmental activists there. In comparison, Africa appears to be lost. How many acres have been converted to genetically modified food? I've read about thousands of traditional African farmers being replaced by GMO, though there isn't much information on the subject. Libya's destruction by NATO was an enormous blow for Africa (and the world). And for whatever it's worth, I believe Colonel Gaddafi was generally regarded as an environmentalist, at least in comparison to other African leaders. There have long been predictions that the next cold war will be fought between the U.S. and China over Africa's natural resources. In fact, the U.S. has troops stationed in just about every country in Africa, and I just read that China is building a military base there. In summary, forest loss is a huge problem in South America, but there is at least some hope. I predict that it will be a much bigger problem in Africa in the long run. 

SEG-Y files are a general purpose archival format. So they can be "anything". 2D seismic, 3D seismic, raw, processed, unstacked or even derivatives (seismic attributes). How to get information about your data in the SEG-Y file: SEG-Y contain 3 types of headers that describe the data. 

Hyperbola Figure 14 will again take us a step closer to migration. Before, you looked at One source off-center and one receiver off-center. Now we switch gears again. Let's look at the easiest case here, $x=0$. Here the source and the receiver are at the same location, so the travel time $T_0$ to the imaging point I is equal in length before and after reflection from the subsurface point. But from before we know that this place I could be anywhere on a semi-circle in the subsurface (which would be an ellipse, if it wasn't for the fact the $S=R$, as we saw before). So we need something to convince our math, that instead of placing our image point I "anywhere on a semi-circle", we want the exact location. Here, we have several ways to look at it. If the image point $I$ in the subsurface is actually a point, we call it diffractions. The special property of diffractions is, that they will always reflect your wave right back at you (they diffract the wave, so they scatter the wave in all directions, hence, also back at you). So if you place your source and your receiver at location x=1 in this image, we can construct a triangle between the points $I$, $x=0$ and $x=1$. That means our traveltime T_1 can be calculated with good ol' Pythagoras ($a^2 + b^2 = c^2$): $$1^2 + (T_0/2)^2 = (T_1/2)^2,$$ and we can do this for every point so that: $$T_N = 2 * \sqrt(N^2 + T_0^2/4)$$ and then: $$T_N = T_0 * \sqrt((2N/T_0)^2 + 1)$$ This coincidentally describes the eccentricity of a hyperbola. This is one way to go about finding diffraction hyperbolae, there are several others, but I tried to stick with the provided figures. 

I doubt that could be answered with anything better than a rough guesstimate. We would first need to know how much land is OFFICIALLY/LEGALLY protected. Then we would have to subtract acreage to allow for illegal logging or general environmental destruction. There are also areas that aren't legally protected but nevertheless aren't logged simply because they're very remote, the terrain is too rugged, etc. In addition, it's a moving target. Various governments around the world continually modify their environmental management policies and practices. A forest that's protected today might fall prey to a bribe from some giant oil company tomorrow. 

What do you mean by "datasets"? Are you simply asking about the sources of research/information regarding polar ice? I worked on a bowhead whale study in the Arctic Ocean for a couple seasons. One of the guys running the project was a retired U.S. naval officer. I remember him commenting on the research done by Germans - WWII era Germans, to be precise. As near as I can recall, he suggested that the Nazis were responsible for the bulk of the early knowledge. Then again, he may have been referring more to underwater acoustics than to the actual ice conditions. Native peoples have long had extensive knowledge of polar ice conditions, of course. There was a guy who was born in Greenland but educated in Denmark who became one of the most famous explorers. I believe he wrote a book(s) that was considered he Bible of all things Arctic. I think the person I'm thinking of is Knud Rasmussen, though I haven't actually read his book and can't remember the title offhand. But I suspect you could find a lot of general information about polar ice there. EDIT: Sorry, wrong guy (though his works might still be worth examining). I was thinking of Vilhjalmur Stefansson's book "The Friendly Arctic." I believe it was long considered the Bible of everything Arctic.