It might be a facetious answer on the face, but seriously - why are you carrying your bike at all? Do carry a working mini-tube, pump, two tyre levers and whatever you need to get the wheel completely off if its not a QR (ring spanner, perhaps allen key, maybe special tool for IGHs etc) Some people like disposable gloves for the hand protection. Replace the tube, clear the cause, and ride on. Remember to patch the tube at home, or replace it if its dead. If you truely have to walk it is to simply wheel it. Take extra care rolling over kerbs/curbs or any other edges. The sidewalls of your tyre will be okay for a bit as long as you're not riding it. Any road bike under 15 kg with clincher tyres will be okay rolling on the tyre for 5 km. You've done something where it just won't roll. If its the front, haul the front wheel off the ground in a vertical wheelie and roll it on the rear. Hold the handlebars and use the rear brake if you need to. 3b. If its the rear that is wedged (and this is much more likely) then slip right hand fingers through the top of the wheel and carry it just off the ground. Use your left hand for steering or put your left hand on the saddle and push it with "no-hands" steering You're on the bike's left away from the chain. Both wheels are buggered, and it won't roll at all? Cyclocross carry, which is either like this: 

The word is SPRUE and can present as a short rubber "hair" 1-2 milimetres thick, or a long thin straggy line around the tyre, somewhat like a fish fin. If your rim tyre is too narrow for your tyre then its possible for the edge of the rim to wear on the tyre. This could produce threads that really are thread, instead of rubber. I've never seen this on road tyres, but its a rare possibility on oversized MTB tyres on hybrid/cruiser rims. 

The upshot is there is now more trail, so your bike will resist turning more, until it gets to about 25 degrees of steering input and the front wheel will then try and turn sideways hard, because it wants to "fall over" Upshot, you want the trail value to be identical before and after, and ideally the forks no longer than original. 

Absolutely it happens - and its not just night time. The Bastard is a wonderful downhill road where I've done 60 km/h and good cyclists can hit 75-80 km/h. The sheep was in the road, and the rider went around its head-end. Sheep being stupid walked/ran forward straight into the path of the cyclist. So for sheep, go around the back-end. This rule of thumb may not apply to other animals. 

A nicer bike tends to be nicer to ride, or faster, or better climbing. They still wear at about the same rates. So your $550 of repairs would be about the same if your bike originally cost $2k. Another way to think of it is cost per kilometre. Work out how far you have ridden and divide the total costs by the distance for a $/km number. My example 

Approach the obstacle at decent speed and straight on, in a place with runout room on either side and a landing zone beyond. at a distance of 4 seconds from the obstacle, stop pedalling and level the cranks. immediately lower yourself on the bike. Chest and head should be down and backside should be off the seat. about 0.5-1 seconds before the obstacle, push your bike down into the road using even pressure between your arms and legs. Net effect is your body will rise up but with a flattish posture. Your Center of Mass is now taking on a parabolic arc. right at the edge of the obstacle your body should be moving upwards, and your bike is relatively unweighted. Right now you need to lift your toes and rotate your wrists to lift the bike. Your center of mass will continue in its parabolic arc, but your body will fly level for a bit. It should feel like pulling the bike up into your torso. the pothole or obstacle should be passing clean under you right now. Landing time - you can simply ride the bike onto the ground like an aeroplane hitting a runway, or you can reverse the step5 process and lower the bike smoothly, which looks better and is safer. resume pedalling and ride on. 

Instead you hold the chain either side of the joiner, put both thumbs on the side plate, and bend the chain towards you. This angles both pins and allows the clipon plate to clip off. Down side is that you're putting sideways bending forces on links which may be bad for the chain. 

3) Frame bag - These fill in your main triangle and fasten on with Velcro/hook-and-loop. The loops shouldn't damage your carbon because there is no bolt clamping force. Downsides they block your bottle cages, and in side winds they can be sails. 

The top strap should go above your calf muscle, and it should be tight enough to not fall down. Don't depend on stretchy elastic. Do they reach down to your instep or do they sort of float? You might get some benefit by tucking the bottom of the guards into your socks. Another option is tape - $URL$ would do the job. The only knee guards I wear are sports style tube ones, not armour. However I do wear thin gloves all rides, and have worn elbow pads in a MTB race. 

Finally - here's a shot from the front showing the two grub screws used to adjust the seating position of the latch. Too far in and the closed joint has play, too far out and the latch is hard to close fully. 

I guess the ferrule popped out on its own, under braking? Sounds like either the ferrule has deformed to fit through the gap in the brake lever, or the brake lever has deformed to allow the ferrule through. In the interests of stopping when you want to, I'd fit brand new brake cables. If they're tired, consider all-new housings too. Fit the ferrule into the lever first, then thread the wire through to the brake, fasten and adjust tension. Re-tension a couple times in the next week for cable stretch. 

My personal story - I changed from a 120 mm long quill stem to a 40mm long quill stem that is also 40mm higher, and fast downhills got so much more comfortable. However my climbs mean I have to get up on the front of the saddle earlier and stay there for most/all of a steep climb. I suspect 10mm either way is going to be hard to feel a difference. 

Depends what is damaged. Clearly the powerlink needs replacing if it broke or snapped. They tend not to just "come apart" under load but theres a small chance it never closed right. Look at the end links in the chain, that would connect to the power link. If there is excess play in those end pins then it may be time to replace the chain. If the chain is worn and you can feel play in all the links, then just replace it. Chains are consumables. But if the chain seems okay then just replace the powerlink with a new one, and buy a second new spare one for your toolkit. 

Thing is, you say it creaks. Changing the BB might resolve that, or it might not. If the BB spins smoothly, without play or crunch, then its less likely to be the root cause of your creak. 

Addendum - here's another drive system that is technically shaft drive, but the three shafts are all parallel rather than the middle one being rotated. 

I'm from New Zealand, and have been wearing a helmet since 1987. Because of 30+ years, I'm simply unwilling to ride without one. Even a quick test ride up and down the driveway makes me feel unhappy without one. Curiously I get a similar feeling trying to rollerblade without wrist-guards strapped on, but I've never worn a helmet for that. I suspect the follow-on effects of mandated helmet usage are numerous. 

Your body will acclimate to the new condition, given enough time. However hanging around at height for a few months is an expensive waste of a holiday. So you can use Altitude training, either by riding a trainer in a room with oxygen level controls, or sleeping in a mask/tent with an artificially low oxygen level. Here's a tent to sleep in for 2 months before your event/trip. Downside, not cheap! And probably really annoying. 

Given your bike is slightly non-standard, at the end of the day you're going to have to take a guess. If your bike has a see-saw pivot in the suspension, go higher or if its a straight squash then go lighter spring rate. You could also consider the normal load you exert on the saddle when it bottoms out. Then imagine half that weight, and extrapolate from there. 

Your HRM data shows a max of 160 BPM, which is hard work but not near peak for your age. I'm 42 and still below average fitness, and on a hard-yakka climb will sit at 175 BPM spiking to 180 BPM when motivated. Your overall ride data that day looks good - 1.79 W/kg is a solid effort. 

See Klaster_1's comment. You could save a lot of cash by going for a 9 speed cassette with a larger large. Something like a 32 or 34 tooth will be available standard. Your rear deraileruer might be okay, and a new chain might be a good idea if the current one is worn. However you could get away with just the cassette. The other option is to put a triple on the front, but that's a lot more fiddly.