I have been working on a world which has a very limited type of magic. This magic almost necessitates a bird likes creature that I think I might be able to convert into a non-traditional dragon. Currently, it is easy and convenient for the dragon to: 

A few additional ones: Many of these are not as well known so you are free to do things with them. I really like the idea of focusing on Menehune with Altantean elemeents Atlanteans - (or Brasil Islanders which is simular but more Irish) Clurichaun - (would be funny... powerful leprechauns who are always drunk) Menehune - (Hawaiian mythology - dwarfs who lived on those islands who ate fish, rode in canoes, etc) Naiad, Nereid, Neck/Nix, Oceanid, Xana- (types of water nymph/spirits) Selkie - (shapeshifting seal people) Tritons - (largely like mermaids but have been reshown to walk on land (such as in board game Small World)) For others you could want partially humanoid races. I cannot find any good examples, but it seems like a swamp dwelling people would also work well but there are not many. You may also succeed in using pirates, sailors, fishermen, islanders, or river boat dwellering nomads who are other wise normal humans. 

What you are essentially looking for is a system with a higher energy than another relaxed state but metastable. This is common but the magic just makes it easier to do something interesting. A good way to do this would be to transition highly ordered structure to disordered ones. Unlike reality, you don't have to design a safe mechanism to extract the energy so almost anything would work. Examples: Crystals degrading into a tarnished state. A diamond to carbon black would be dramatic (despite being quite low energy). For less destructive situations, the formation opacifying defects and (possibly) oxidation on the surface would suffice. You can imagine her using water or forming crystals in a water bath to recharge it. Simple salt crystals could serve this purpose (and the water solubility could be an interesting tool for the story). Crystals hold alot more physical energy than most realise but the difficultly is in extracting it. Thematically, these are great for earth or water magic (again salt). Sugar crystals wouldn't fit well with earth but hold alot of energy too. Pure metals are kind of like crystals but less conspicous. Braclets, buttons, swords, etc can corrode or homogenize upon activation. This is a showy version of how most batteries work. As the manufacture of this would best be done with electrolysis, this would be great for mechanical or electrical magic. Organic polymers burn good if you get them hot enough. Everything from pockets of lint, bundles of paper, clothings, etc can be made of cellulose which burns well. Wax, hair, surrounding plantlife will work too. For a battery shape, compress the material and use magic to rend it apart and speed up the burning. Of course added sulphur, charcoal, and saltpeter will work amazingly (gunpowder). Obviously my hint here is that these would be useful for fire magic. It would be fine for air magic too if you focus on the oxygen element. Finally, you can discuss the use of alchemy for the really potent masters. Of course Azoth (i don't mean mercury) and Arcanum are the ultimate stores of energy and this idea can easily be romaticized. There was an alchemist who claimed to keep Azoth in his sword hilt. You can pay special attention to the connections between planets and metals or zodiac signs and chemical sythesis techniques. While Azoth can be viewed as medicinal and good for healing magic, a laymen could just used extracted vials of cholophyll or blood (maybe the 4 humours). They don't need to know what they do to know the indicate health and energy. Imagine the sangine vial turn black or the green one brown. Yellow sulphur was also considered a vital element of life by alchemists and (in the right form) has alot of energy too. 

I am assuming that you are looking for a contrived reason that this would work. Scientifically it shouldn't but that is ignored in SciFi enough you don't really need a reason. I also assume that the species is completely alien (not ancestory with humans) yet phycially able to have sex due to convergent evolution or some hand waving. That being said there is one way and it relys heavily on the fact that we are discussing how to write fiction: The mating has nothing to do with reproduction. Sex is not just about reproduction in our society. If that is the case with the aliens too it might be an important element in a story. Say we have enough technology that we are going to nuke the living hell out of the aliens if they kill you. The females are dominant over males in the culture. The Queen decides she doesn't like you and is to have you killed. The princess however wants to **censored** and as a result takes you as her mate. The Queen doesn't kill you at the risk of upsetting her daughter. You live. So do they. Say the species can exchange antibodies through the mating process. They are all dying of some bacteria you brought with you. You find that they can assimilate your resistance to it by intercourse and I don't mean talking. You start making your way througb the females, they work through the males, etc. I probably wouldn't read that book but it serves your purposes. If it needs to be about reproduction: The species has eggs that can germinate using its own genetic material if the male's in incompatable. It is, however, an induced ovulator. For example, male cats have spines which scrap the insides of the queen (in this case the term for an unspayed female cat) to ovulate if she is in heat. If you cannot provide genetic material but some detail of you activities induces ovulation, you can cause the alien to get pregnant with one of her own kind. If you have a few of their females, you can mate with them until a male is born to allow actual sexual (as opposed to asexual) reproduction again. 

FYI: In the show Hunter x Hunter there is a species of ANTagonists whose ruler could eat other species, pick and choose the best bits, and incorporate them into her children. The skill was called Phagogenesis. This combined phago (eating) with genesis (to make/create/give birth). If your species is very simular to this, the term should work well. It may not, however, exactly fit with what you are doing. 

Previous answer aimed for trapped air You want something that contains feldspar and/or quartz to make it light and granite often does but its color varys based on the source. You want it to be rapidly cooled igneous rock. I have a hard time seeing how something high in carbonates could survive in the ocean long term as water would degrade carbonates over time. you could possibly make the same arguement with feldspars but they will hold up better than carbonates. Felsite is high silica igneous rock. igneous rock can have cavities depending on the way it cools (see pummice). It contains large quantities of quartz which is, of course, white. Noe though that rhyolite is often a type of this and the rhyolite I mine is pink. Pumice is, of course, porous and light but not as light as Felsite. Tonalite looks exactly the right appearance but is rare enough I don't think you will find a whole island of it. If you want a volcano on the island, you want a volcanic igneous rock. If you don't want there to have every been volcanic activity, you want a plutonic rock. Sedimentary rocks will be too soft and porous for you. (Pores trap things but can let things slip through expecially gases) Metamorphic rock will prevent trapped gasses. New answer for lighter than air gases While most of the above holds true, it doesn't allow for why trapped gases are there. There are two lighter than air gases: Hydrogen and Helium. Hydrogen does not get trapped as a gas in rock much at all. It is, however, common in chemicals that can be mined. Hydrocarbons are trapped in sedimentary rocks and are made of carbon and hydrogen. While buring these causes the oxygen to react with the hydrogen producing water, reforming these to make double bonds/soot/etc. by heating in a oxygen free environment can cause hydrogen to be released but it is still reactive so... yeah.. do some research. With some oxygen present, this can be done with out input electricity. Hydrogen can be produced easily by passing an electric current through water. This is hydolysis and is the most likely way to make lighter than air gas on an island. As natural gas is often mined from the sedimentary rock at the ocean floor, it doesn't matter what you bedrock is much does it? Choose any very high silica igneous rock to make the island more stable and volcanic or some kind of sandstone or marble and say it happend via an upheval. Helium can actually be mined as a gas but is far more rare than hydrogen. Almost all of the helium on earth was formed by the radioactive decay of uranium. There needs, therefore, to be a deep bedrock of high urnaium granite. The helium diffuses through grain boundaries (i think) in the granites into areas with a higher porosity (often sedimentary rocks). If you want an island (kind of hard as helium would want to get into the water), propose the following. You have a high silica/high uranium baserock that is heated and coming to the surface as magma (but I don't actually want it to become lava). Above this is a metamorphic upheval brought up by the tentonic activity which is marble. This marble is chosen so they can form it as the greeks/romans did. The other white alternative are harder to sculpt. Water leaking beneath the marble at some point caused an area of the lava to cool quickly and form a porous region. This is now largely sealed by the lava flow. Radioactive decay of the uranium forms helium gas which concentrates in the porous region of the rock under the largely non-porous marble.