SRAM mtb 9 speed shifter makes Shimano 10 speed mtb rear derailleurs compatible with 9 speed cassettes. There's no shadow+ for 9 speed, so some people choose this option because of price or weight. Shimano 10 and 11 speed rear mtb derailleurs are compatible. It's possible to modify existing derailleur so it moves less or more. Some people has modified 10 speed Shimano mtb derailleurs to work with otherwise 9 speed Shimano 9 speed drivetrain. Basically, they've routed the cable through hole drilled slightly closer to the cage, which changed lever geometry. I think the same can be done to increase the lever length with some spacers. The shifter indexing cog can be replaced. There are some companies that shift such cogs that transform 10 speed shifter into 11 speed. DIYing cog should be possible too. 

"XOR" stands for nothing, it's a typo in "XCR". Here's a review of this bike where you can read the model clearly on photos and the XCR aggregate page on Suntour's website. 

It might sound weird, but if you're finding trouble adjusting the FD on the lowest gear, try adjusting the high (H) screw. You'd be surprised just how much those two screws affect each individual gear. Unfortunately, these kind of adjustments are ones you really just have to play with until they're just right. As for the initial rubbing, don't be surprised if you can't totally get rid of it. With certain group sets, (particularly Shimano, for some reason), the rubbing is still going to be there no matter how much adjusting you do. You can try to prevent the rubbing by making sure your chain and drive train are kept clean and well lubricated. 

Not going to lie, seeing those pictures brought a tear to my eye. So sad how some people treat their toys, (referring to previous owner). Anyways, this is a pretty simple fix. Easiest way to get the post outta there would be to give the whole area where the post meets the frame a healthy dose of wd40. Let it sit for a few minutes, then re apply. At this point, you should be able to jar it out of its rusted prison. Hit the front and back of your saddle with either hand, as if you were twisting the seat. You might have to hit a little hard, but the rust should give way enough for you to remove the post. If that doesn't work, try recurring treatments of wd40 until it does. Hopefully this helps. Good luck! 

If you want to put 2.2" tires in place of current 2.25" tires, then yes, you can do that. That's less than a 2mm difference, given that tires conform to marketed width at all (which they tend not to). Generally, any smaller tire size (of compatible beat seat diameter) won't cause any issues, unless there's a huge mismatch between rim and tire width (i.e. 40mm internal width rims and 25mm wide tires aren't a good idea, same goes for 10cm fat tires and 18mm rims, but that's not your case). I advise to consult this page on a topic of tires sizing. 

Latest 105 and Tiagra iterations at this moment are 4700 and 5800. Both have same crankset design, so I don't see why left crankarm wouldn't be compatible. I'd figure you would be more concerned about color mismatch. There's also a slight weight difference, but I doubt most riders would notice it. 

The frame seems suspicious: it clearly was TIG-welded, just look at those smooth tube joints and compare to 80s lugged frames, which means the MY should be at least in mid 90s. The Dyna looks very similar, but the the dropouts don't match (holes vs no holes). Newer frames either have seatpost bolt inline with top tube or a modern collar, but the frame in question has the bolt at least a centimeter higher than the top of the top tube. The paint doesn't match the time period either, the most similar paint jobs date to 80s lugged frames, just like the head badge. I think it was repainted with the use of an aftermarket decals set. I'd look for any branding cues in every crook and nanny and ask the previous owner about the model and paint job. 

In the Netherlands something has evolved that is (unofficially) called the "mammafiets" or "mothersbike" main features that make it a useful bike for cycling with children are: 

You could try the Flüela Pass starting in Davos Switserland, going to Nauders / Austria: Or, for more alpine chic: the Albula pass between Davos and Sankt Moritz. 

In all cases the property owner or the local city government is within its rights to just remove your bike if it is deemed to be in the way or a wreck, which is always a risk for a EUR 50,- bike. 

In the Netherlands the accepted age for first bicycle rides is about 9 months. The main point to watch out for is that many bicycle seats are a bit big for children that age so you have to take special care they can't bounce or climb out. Recently bicycle adapters for maxicosi chairs have appeared such as the one below. Thus you can also transport babies on a bicycle: 

This is exactly the case where Wikipedia comes in handy, here are some quotes from the article on 3D printing with metals: 

Remove the wheel. Remove brake pads. Use something with flat non-sharp surface to slightly push both pistons (two white ceramic cylinders behind pads) inside caliper body. I usually use an allen key long arm. Assemble everything back in reverse order and try it out. 

Ultegra switched to 10 speed with 6600 model. Judging by Google, Shimano unveiled the groupset in 2004 and it became available in October 2004. 

Get a new rear wheel or hub that supports 11 speed road cassettes. Get a replacement 11 speed freehub body if there are any (most likely not). Get a Campy freehub body and Campy 11 speed cassette instead of 5800. Get this Token cassette. It's an 11 speed road cassette that fits 10s freehub body. 

Bike stand. If you don't have it, there are various ways to fix bike in place, but I just hung it from shelve using a pair of leather belts. Bench vice. 

ad 1 and 2: I'm not really aware of any completely researched cycling routes from Rome to the South. These guys (in dutch) have almost all guides that I know about. (click "Zuid europa" and then "Italië" to get to their italy selection). The "fietsgidsen" section has some books in dutch and german that are reasonably easy to follow just from the maps without working knowledge of dutch or german. They also carry a very comprehensive selection of maps suitable for cyclists. The European Cyclists Federation also has some nice routes, I don't know how far into the south though. ad 2: The Touring Club Italiano maps are by far the best for cycling in italy. ad 3: The train is by far the best option for alternative transportation. Italy has a pretty extensive train network. Take the time to buy tickets, make sure you tell them you're taking bicycles. Sometimes you'll have to buy a bicycle ticket, sometimes you won't, they are not very expensive. Busses usually don't have the cargo capacity for bicycles, but this may vary by locality. This looks like a good site to get an idea of the italian train system. 

Pursuing this might not be totally impossible, but you should probably have a sit down and really contemplate the effort you will need to put into this. For starters, depending on the age of your child, you're going to need diapers, clothes, food, entertainment, a decent sized trailer, all of your regular touring gear, and extra emergency equipment such as first aid, bike maintenance, and child care. Beyond the massive load you're going to have, you should also consider how your child will react to all that time spent in such a small space. If you need to bring toys/books/electronics with you, that will add to your over all weight, as well as bringing up the fact that if you are bringing electronically devices for them, how will you charge them? A bike battery pack is expensive, as well as adding more weight to your load. Depending on how old the child is, you will quickly find out how many times you are going to have to stop and care for the child. A ride that takes you a few hours by yourself could easily take you all day, or even longer, when your child is with you. Not to mention carrying all of your supplies. Prepare for any kind of weather. Have an emergency plan in case of, (and I hate to bring it up), any accidents on the road, bike malfunction, possible outdoor area hazards, e.t.c. The list goes on and on, but the basic fact is that it will not be nearly as easy as you think it will be. I would suggest taking your child on test rides and see how things go. And, being a toddler, you have to take into account that the longer they are in the trailer, the less they will want to be in it. With all the hassle of your load, the traveling, and a very grumpy toddler, the trip could turn into more than you bargained for in the blink of an eye. 

Grind a bit of headset lower cup so the fork clears. It's aluminium and hanging part that rubs the fork serves no structural purpose, at least that's what I think. Use a shim between lower cup and a bearing. See the CAD drawing for details. I reckon the support of cup from top (45deg surface) and outside (54mm inner diameter) should be enough, after all it's the same mechanism that keeps the bearing in place. But to my surprise, I failed to find such a product! 

Any half-decent fork requires maintenance, the air variety of XCR not being an exception. True, Suntour does not seem to publish XCR-specific docs compared to other higher priced forks like Auron or Axon, but there's a general fork manual available. Some relevant quotes from it: 

Looks like you have a set of Hayes HFX Max G1, you can use these pads. Surprisingly, a lot of other people experience the same issue as you. 

The Rotor product you've linked to is supposed to be used with integrated 24mm cranksets, mostly Shimano Hollowtech ones, so that option won't suit for mentioned cranksets. As far as I know, tourney requires square taper bottom bracket and you already said that Claris needs an Octalink bb. You can use a BB30 to BSA interface adapter like SRAM PressFit 30 to BSA Adaptor Kit. With it in place, it's possible to install any suitable english threaded bottom bracket, be it square taper or Octalink. If you don't have a BB yet, you'll have to get one. 

You could look online (YouTube) and watch a tutorial on how to disassemble the bike. I'm not sure disassembling the ENTIRE bike would be necessary, though. I would try taking off both of the wheels and then leaning all three pieces against a seat, or if you fold a seat down, the seat and the wall of the car. I would try this first. Although still a little cumbersome, it would be the quickest and easiest way. 

I have been considering lowering my handlebars in hopes that it might tweak my position a little and help give me a little extra power on the pedals. I first was going to try moving a spacer or two,(5cm) to see if that might help. Then I considered flipping my stem, but the angle at which my stem sits might be a little to extreme. 

As previously stated, a picture or two would help answer this question accurately. Even without a picture, some information is missing. What kind of cassette is it, and how many front chain rings do you have? Because if you have 3 cogs on the front, (depending how many gears you have on your cassette, for this answer I'll assume you have at least 9), then running any of your large cogs on the rear cassette with your large chainring on the front (cross chaining) puts considerable stress on your drive train and all of its components. Without all of the information, I can only speculate what I believe your problem is. Listed is a picture explaining it. If this is the case, and especially if you ride in this manner often, your rear mech might be permanently damaged. I would recommend taking it to your LBS to see if they can help you out. 

Well, if you switch to 3 in front, and then make it a 52/38/24 set (equal steps) then your theoretical new maximum speed would be: 

Currently I use a touring bike with rear rack and a single panier on my 15km commute. In my panier I carry a full set of clothes including shoes, a small coat and a towel. I want to start using my road bike on my commute because it is a better bike in almost all ways except for the cargo situation. The panier I use is an ortlieb back-roller classic. It is huge, it is completely waterproof, and I fix it to my bike in one quick motion. I'm looking for something that matches or improves on most of those characteristics but fits on a road bike. More specifically, I'd like to find a cargo solution for my road bike that: 

Quality-wise bikes are a lot like chains. The total quality of a bike (where with quality I mean stuff like durability, smoothness, ease of use, ease of maintenance, etc.) is very dependent on the weakest link. An expensive frame with cheap components makes for a worse bike than a mid-range frame with mid-range components. So given the choice I'd go for the (relatively) cheaper frame with the (relatively) more expensive components, all dependend on what I actually wanted to spend on the bike. There are "ride quality" differences between carbon and aluminium and steel. Carbon is usually less stiff, so the ride is a bit more comfortable. Steel has the same properties as carbon and is more durable, aliminium is usually a lot stiffer and hence the ride is harsher. For that reason you get aluminium frames with carbon fork and stays. The main disadvantage of steel is of course weight, but you have to look at this critically. The 0.5-1 kg weight reduction you get by going from a really good and durable steel to a carbon frame disappears in the 15-20 kg of fat you are lugging around anyway, and unless you plan to go ride a lot of serious races you will never notcie the small gain of the lighter frame. Where I'm going with this: In the standard bikes you buy the frame is often of higher quality (and price) compared to the other components. You can get a better bike for less money if you pay attention to this when buying your bike. Spending some time talking this over with you friendly LBS owner will help here. 

Basically I'm just wondering if adjusting my handlebars would help me performance-wise or if it would really just be a waste of time/effort? If it would help, which way should I go about adjusting it? 

I've just spent some time looking online and found quite a few results on Amazon, Ebay, (you could also try wiggle, which is kind of like an online surplus shop.) unfortunately without seeing a picture of exactly what you saw, I can only paint a vague picture of what you're talking about. But any of those websites would be a good starting point. And, just to throw the idea out there, considering the kind of basic function that this thing does, you could also research any DIY projects people have done where they made their own mudguards out of stuff they already had. It might look weird, it if you put your time into it you could make something practical and easy on the eyes.