You've got a space gun. There's no doubt this idea could work, as the article I linked will tell you. So essentially yes, this contraption of yours is entirely possible (as for whether or not you can use a Space Gun to launch a projectile unnoticed into space, well that might be a good idea to ask in another question, since that seems right up this site's alley) 

What I'm thinking for this question is that some kind of filter is put around the sun by aliens that prevents some kinds of solar energy from passing through but allows other types. Like if it stopped visible light but allowed UV. Is there any way that the parts of light plants need for photosynthesis can be separated from visible light, allowing the plants to survive but preventing visible light from passing through? I've tried to do my own research on this, but all I've found is that they require a nonspecific "light", and I'm not sure if this means specifically visible light or all kinds of light, such as UV. For the question, assume that the barrier around the Earth can sort between different types of light, regardless of whether or not this makes any sense. EDIT: Close voters, I understand my question may be slightly difficult to understand due to the nature of what I am asking, however reading the answers below should allow you to see what I am looking for, and show that there are others who understood the question even if you didn't. 

Pitchforks are actually decent as spears, but they can be blocked easier. In middle ages, people also used scythes. They also used sickles, and even put them on poles. More effective than shovels, I think you could use hoes. Clubs were also easy to make and were extensively used by peasants. The weapon effectiveness depends a lot on the terrain and enemy. A pitchfork would work great against a knight, a scythe would seriously injure an unarmored foe. A pole ending with a sickle would be great to pull a knight off his horse. I remember that in Eastern Europe peasants were sometimes drafted to the army, and used farm tools as weapons because that was all they had. They said they dug ditches and sprang to attack cavalry. Apparently they slashed the legs of horses with scythes. I have not found a link for this reference, but there is a question on SE dealing with use of scythes in battle here. 

So when I say everything, I mean everything. Humans, animals, plants, fungi, bacteria, all dead. If the bacteria and other detritovores and decomposers can't decompose anything since they themselves are all dead, what happens to all the carcasses and remains of the life? Do these remains decay through other inorganic means? What do they look like throughout this process? And how long would it take? (For the purposes of this question, let's just say that Viruses and Prions count as "alive", they are "killed" in this scenario as well) 

Life would exist very briefly, before exhausting every resource The recycling of elements is vital to how our ecosystem evolved into existence. Whenever an organism dies, detritovores return the nitrogen in the organism back to the soil. But if this nitrogen simply disappears with every death, it goes nowhere. It doesn't get returned back into the soil, and as a result the autotrophs would die out quickly after using it all up in the first era of the evolution of life. Life would exist, but not long enough for any complex life to evolve. 

A nuclear ramjet could conceivably fulfil all of criteria except for the need to work without an atmosphere. Whilst current technology would be damaging (with the radiation) a theoretical fusion reactor-based design could avoid much of that. $URL$ 

If we take a very simplistic view; fear is another way of saying response to danger. If dangers abound, then a species is unlikely to be able to be successful unless they are very numerous (bacteria have no fear, but multiply freely - indeed insects probably don't either). Assuming that we're talking about a complex predator, then high multiplication probably isn't a practical solution. This leaves one option - the species has no fear because there is no danger. Perhaps it's an apex predator, and there is little natural disaster to be scared of either - so a lack of fear is no great handicap. It would likely need to be by far the strongest predator though - as it stands to reason that juvenile animals would otherwise still be vulnerable to predation, and thus need to have a sense of fear. 

Why go to casinos? You can put all your money into FOREX, fool around with their system for half a day, and become richer than your wildest dream. Or, do online betting. You can pick the most important sports event of the day, predict in when your favorite team will score and win a ton of money. Another way, and much more to my liking, is to go to a chemistry lab, enter the first door on the right and start talking to people who are trying to synthesize the first room temperature superconductor. Play the luck game by telling them what should they mix and in what quantity, and create that magic material. Then write the patent with your new friends and sell it for a few billions. 

How about forgetting architecture and putting your city on a lava dome? You could pick a dome like this one in Andes, and excavate by magic (or just very advanced mining) below it to form your cave. It should hold, because you have hundreds of meters of volcanic rock above your cave. There are huge cave chambers such as Sarawak Chamber which is 600x435 meters. If the cave ceiling is arched, there is a good chance it could be bigger. 

It would appear that it can happen - $URL$ Whether it was ever commonplace or not though I don't know. 

Night vision is primarily handled by rod cells, which have little colour perception - so it seems unlikely that tetrachromacy (which presumably affects cone cells) would improve it at all. In fact, you may find the opposite happens - if it requires an increase in the number of cone cells then it may be at the expense of rod cells; this certainly seems to be the case in nature where animals with better night vision than us (such as cats) have worse colour vision. 

Depends on the criteria you need. I'd quite confidently say that there is no projectile guaranteed to penetrate a space suit to harm the occupant that is also guaranteed not to penetrate the hull of a spacecraft if fired directly at it. However, is the question can you be sure that the round won't go through the person and then penetrate the hull then you are on much safer ground. The use of body armour by criminals/terrorists/etc has led to development of rounds that are designed to penetrate armour but not the body (to limit the risk to hostages, bystanders, etc), such as 5.7mm FN and 4.8mm H&K rounds, which are used in pistols and submachine guns. You could be fairly confident of shooting a person on a spacecraft (whatever they were wearing) and not damaging the hull with either of those. 

I don't get how no one thought of Feynman's lectures. There is 0 chance that someone taking Jackson's book for the first time will ever piece together the Electrodynamics again, not knowing other physics than the one contained in other two seminal books. Feynman's lectures are easier to follow and they have been the inspiration for many fledgling physicists. I would probably vote for writing 3 such books, just as the Bible was written to help preserve the religion over many generations. The books have to contain a thorough discussion of the scientific method, the basics of mechanics, astronomy, relativity, thermodynamics, quantum mechanics, and general relativity, etc. They should also discuss incomplete or not sufficiently verified theories and point to the edge of the current human knowledge. 

I could go on, but I think the technologies needed to make a lasting empire all belong to the category of population discipline. Law and order, plus organization. And lots of pro-empire propaganda built into the educational system. Those could slowly increase your empire, and could even get it to last for a very long time, until population density increases enough, and novel technologies are invented. But, your Roman Empire would probably never extend much beyond the size of the one in history because of the poor transportation and low population density. When those are solved, other empires would have formed and yours would have to fight them to extend. Even with modern day technology we still can't have a single global state. It might be that our civilization will collapse before that ever happens. 

Democracy! Let's be honest here, sure if you take power now your country will prosper under your rule (that is to say if you're as good at ruling as you say you are) but the chances are that after your death any number of incompetent or malicious Heirs or Nobles will take power and throw the nation back into ruins. Replace the idea of nobles and ruling monarchs with a Constitutional Parliamentary System, and you're golden. "But won't this mean that I'll have to give up my power?" you may be asking. Well, not entirely. Let's take a look at Britain for example. By following the same steps as they took to becoming a democracy, you can still have yourself loved by the populace as a figurehead, and also have a bit more say in policy than the average citizen. If you wanted to, you could even run for Prime Minster yourself! The people will love you for volunteering your power to the people, and you might be able to use this to get yourself elected! And let's be honest here, if the mid 20th century in your world is anything like ours then monarchies are dying out, and there are only 3 places it can go from here - Democracy, in which you hand over your power and try to get elected; Fascism, in which you seize power and force your citizens to fight your wars for you; or Communism, in which you and your entire royal family are purged in glorious revolution, Comrade! And out of those three options, I think it's clear where you'd want to be headed. 

Do the muts use ranged weapons (or any high-level tools at all)? Because if not, they're likely to come off very badly in this war. Past that, just use sound military strategy. Use mobility (what sort of mobility options do the humans have?) to concentrate your forces and divide theirs (and by the sound of things a cut-off group will fare badly, as they will become dumb and disorganised). The biggest question is how did they do so well in the first place? Do the muts outnumber the humans by a huge margin? And what do they eat? 

A tranquilliser gun would fulfil all of those requirements, with the notable exception of range. Getting 400m range would become very tricky, for the following reason: 

To be honest, your world sounds a lot like communism. That means that - in theory - as everyone has roughly equal needs then everyone would get what they need, and any surplus would be fairly divided amongst everyone leaving no one rich and no one poor. Human nature being what it is however would almost certainly mean that in practice it works like communism actually did, with people still being rich and poor. There will still be some incentive to have more, and people will likely find ways of doing so (crime and corruption immediately spring to mind). How much that affects things will largely be down to how plentiful the bounty is for everyone (the better provisioned everyone is, the less likely they are to desire more), the presence or indeed concept of luxury goods and how good (or willing) the AI is to enforce equality. 

Your religion should worship an invisible God who sees everything and his prophet is Batman. Every time an official is proven guilty of corruption he is made an example of. Crucifixion, boiling alive, that sort of thing. So, you need to make a proper justice system. You have to have jury duty, judges should be chosen randomly, most trials should be public, etc. Schooling should be both right and obligation. You should have public universities were the elites should study. The others should still have Sunday schools. The greatness of your corruption free system should be drummed into people's mind from birth. No one should be an emperor if they didn't study at Princeton with Aristoteles. Transportation can be improved by building canals. Slaves from the defeated enemies need to dig them. Who doesn't die, becomes a citizen. Taxation should be fair. So, you need your mathematics to develop a little beyond Roman numerals, so that provinces don't get overtaxed, or undertaxed. If they are overtaxed, they would rebel, if they are undertaxed, Rome starves. You need to develop a Roman IRS. Laws regarding food safety should be developed and strictly enforced. Corn, potatoes would be better in terms of yield than wheat. You need to develop banking, safeguard trade, and make high-yield speculations next to impossible. Your rulers need to be aware of the actual limits of their power over neighbors. That has to be in the military manuals, developed by the strategists of the empire. The rulers have to be able to discern if a province needs to be conquered, pacified, or better left alone. 

One idea worth considering is to give the aliens something that they want, in return for helping you out. Your biggest resource is your technology - and the aliens are probably at the perfect technological stage to use it. Find an alien nation with ambitions, and agree to share technology in return for a place to live. 

No. Even if you manage to find two planets that are so perfectly aligned in an orbit that they don't seem to move, the forces between them in a case of a tiny-seeming movement would be enormous. Then there is the amount of material involves - the distance from Earth to Mars is 300,000 times the length of the biggest bridge ever made. It's more than 1,000 times the length of the Equator. The most important consideration though is why. If you wanted to get effectively between two planets, just build a space elevator on both planets. Once you're in space, rocket travel between the two would require much less energy and fuel to travel than it would from the planet's surface. And you'd need a rocket - it's the only sensible way to travel in space (the only other option really is magnetic propulsion on your bridge, but trying to transmit electricity over tens of millions of km won't work very well). You want to keep the vehicle off of the surface to avoid drag... at which point there is no reason to have the surface at all.