Rivers - surrounding areas are fertile marshland. Perfect for any settlement, but probably inhabited by something culturally hobbit-like. Probably the main culture to engage in interaction with the surface through passages carved upriver. Tree root complexes - the underside of an ancient forest. This is where you'd find tree-worshiping subterranean elves carefully cultivating the plant growth. Probably the likeliest home for bioluminescent algae/lichen as well. Elves would be averse to fire (destructive to their habitat) and would prize plant/woodcraft from the sacred roots over metalwork. Sinkhole ranges - "mountainous" regions where the higher slopes could support plant and animal life might be an ideal place for dwarven cultures carving caves into the slopes. Focus on forging and foraging. Barrens and labyrinth - a series of caves and passages connecting different rivers together. A potentially harsh environment that's home to hunters building their camps around oases. Might be an ideal region for archtypical goblins wielding rock based weapons and leather armor (from prey). Would "raid" connected fertile environments. Steam caves - water interacting with geothermal sources, rivers flowing from marshland into deeper areas will lead to these "upside down jungles." You might see various civilizations intruding into these areas, but limited by the availability of usable ground to build on. Detrius falling from the upper layers of the cave to the floor would be moist, fertile soil if anyone were willing to risk collecting it. Magma caves - expect a fairly hot and dry and therefore barren environment, though you could still have aboriginal style nomadic cultures. Oil reservoirs - not really capable of supporting life, but potentially an interesting geologically barren feature - a "liquid desert" quite important to any civilization capable of tapping into this natural resource. Stillwater lakes - Overall cold and resource poor areas for land dwellers, you'd have underwater food webs in a sufficiently large lake that would be exploited/fished by the other cultures for food. 

The Navy is the gung-ho American-style "humans first" military. More heart than brains, more firepower than diplomatic nuance, but guys and gals you'd want to have a beer with. They have varied (sometimes conflicted) feelings about Sentient AI. They aren't luddites (there's a regular AI on board for navigation) but building an AI to have it's own opinions and motivations is a little "creepy" and "dangerous". How could you ever trust it? The Sentient Android is a "Ninotchka" a dry-humor cold war frenemy. She's from a union of star systems governed by AI. Under rigid management, they are approaching post-scarcity but they converted all habitable planets to farm-only clean worlds and moved humans to climate controlled space habitats. From the Navy's POV, she represents an ideology where humans have surrendered to machines in exchange for safety and comfort. These sentient AI are their next-generation. Her abilities are unknown. The Pirate has exposed weaknesses in the local proxy government which is collapsing. In the ensuing power vacuum he has elevated his Robin Hood status to a potential warlord who can fight back against space colonialism. His reputation is rapidly changing from intergalactic criminal to freedom fighter. Navy brass is looking for a surgical solution, not an escalation of conflict. 

I expect the women themselves would just call it a "family", so the nickname would come from others as a way to deride or differentiate from whatever is the norm or average. Nicknames often originate in an insult, but the actual slur would depend on who does the branding. If couples with a male alpha are the norm, the insult might reference the female alpha being a "false" alpha. If female couples who are equal partners are the norm, the insult might reference heterosexual pretensions. "Doll House" says to me that the insult originated in a male-dominated environment, and that a female-only couple is a pretend or immature relationship. It doesn't differentiate between alpha/beta roles, it just references the lack of men. I don't see other women creating this term as little girls usually don't play with only female dolls, on the contrary dolls getting married is very common in our universe (contrary to TV commercials I don't see little girls pretend their Barbie™ is going to the mall with her girlfriends to shop in consumerist paradise, rather role-play mimics domestic relationships, parenthood, dating and marriage), so women might not see dolls as a purely girl-only experience even if men do. (Men of my generation actually collect more dolls, but they call them action figures.) Of course over time the insult/nickname might be taken up by the group itself as language evolves. It's somewhat counter-intuitive to remember that "gay" was an insult meaning frivolous and unserious in a time when people were expected to conform to "serious" adulthood – it makes little sense as an insult in today's society where childhood is extended well into middle age. I don't know how appealing "doll house" would be for the female alpha, but she might use it if it was in the common language. You could even "lampshade" it by having one of the alpha women say she doesn't like the term. Discussing the ulterior meaning of words is a very feminist thing that happens in our universe, so if you are worried about offending people you can have a character say what is wrong with it (it's called "hanging a lampshade on it"). There's not enough info about your Omegaverse for me to say whether your nickname works or not, but hopefully this helps to put perspective on it? 

I don't think you need to wake all your mutineers up for this Think about it - you don't need the ship to go somewhere else. You don't need the people to do anything they weren't already doing. All you're trying to change is the circumstances when you arrive. (Borrowing some aspects from Dan's plan above) So your constraints are: 

A note, though - except for point 1 (edit: and 4), I wouldn't expect any of these transports to be manned. The life-support costs are atrocious, and space travel is notoriously "straight". I would expect unmanned cans that are radio-controlled to get them going, they drift through the stars, and get picked up (and radio-controlled in) at the other side. 

At this point, the only people awake are your people, your casualties are the guards plus any tech who didn't want to go into SA, and so long as the authorities planet-side aren't tipped off, you're good to go. 

I'm sure someone has tried, but they would run into multiple problems in short order. 1) How do you prove he's making them? They're exact duplicates, after all. Even if you trace serial numbers, you'll find that they're in your system as authentic. 2) Where do you serve him? He's not a resident of your country, and if there's a government at the North Pole, they don't have treaties with anyone (and if there's a boss, it's probably the Big Man himself) 3) Better yet, how do you serve him? Not like anyone's gonna catch him during his yearly trip (heaven knows NORAD has been after him for years with no success), and your GPS ain't gonna get you to the Workshop. 4) I suppose you could try him in absentia, but what country wants to admit that a foreign national does millions of home invasions every year and the government is powerless to stop it? 

It reminds me of the old Douglas Adams joke about dolphins. Let's define "intelligence" as an improved mental capacity that has given a species an evolutionary advantage – it must effect the birth / survival rate of the species or it doesn't play a role in their evolution. By that standard some of the things we consider a hallmark of higher intelligence (philosophy, rocket ships) aren't actually contributing to population growth, but medicine and microbiology have lead to child-immunization causing the population to boom and society to diversify. This creates opportunity for genetic evolution in all directions, not just intelligence (consider poor eyesight, deafness, allergies, and other genetic "defects" that are no longer severe handicaps thanks to technology). But the impact of technology is not always straightforward. Genocide and war kill millions but presumably there are winners whose genetics supplant the losers. And counter-intuitively, birth control leads to healthier children who live longer, and stronger cohesive families due to mothers surviving childbirth and helping to raise their own grandchildren. It's not always about quantity. In both these cases it's about the allocation of resources to fewer survivors. We use to believe that intelligence meant the use of tools and advanced engineering, but now we've observed so many animals creating tools and building complex structures it hardly seems special anymore. We are starting to recognize animal intelligence in more subtle ways, like their understanding of physics, language skills, social fairness, and the ability to empathize with what others are experiencing. Any of these might have a daily impact on survival. Some types of intelligence we recognize in the animal kingdom (that aren't top predators) include: 

Well, this is what wolves do. After being loyal to the pack leader, eventually a mature wolf will challenge the aging alpha for top spot. Can be male or female. And since most wolves would have been born into the pack and only the alpha pair breed, the challenger is invariably an offspring. 

Doubling the spin of the earth doesn't alter the total exposure level of the surface, it just changes how frequently the heat is turned on and off: 

Good examples of this strategy (with the resulting outcomes) can be seen in lots of fiction (I'm using movies here simply for broad cultural awareness): 

Almost all of these are things we can ALREADY DO with present technology at a decent cost! The only major concerns are space radiation, machine reliability, and the morals/ethics of seeding a planet this way, I guess. You don't have to worry at all about maintaining a sealed, breathable atmosphere or avoiding high G forces that would kill a multicellular organism. All in all, this would be the simplest, most immediate way (from our end) we could seed a planet outside the solar system with life. 

Since metals are operating in a different system than gems, out makes sense to say they contain different mechanics. When you talked about weaving runes with metal, the first thing that sprung to mind was electrical circuitry. Metal runes are basically inscribed circuits that provide magical integrated hardware! Gold, silver, and platinum are just the best magical semiconductors... Gems are a little trickier. According to your post, they get inscribed but not inlaid. There are many gemstones and crystals that are semiprecious or common that would presumably have no magical properties, like quartz, salt, and amethyst. So it can't be pure crystalline structure. What else? Well, all precious stones form under deep heat and pressure, mostly volcanic conditions. The earth's core is a massive magical source, and the deeper down a gem is formed, the more ambient magic is absorbed into its crystalline structure! Surface formations like salt and geodes would have little inherent magic. Precious veined metals (rather than ores) are too amorphous to retain magic in their lodes, but are still attuned to magic which is how they can be woven into runes. These runes create effects by drawing magic from the ambient surroundings: the more magical the area, the more powerful the spell. Precious gems work in the opposite manner: they are magical super capacitors and generators. Carving a rune into them allows you to control the external flow if magic. The larger the gem and the more flawless the crystalline structure, the more magical capacity the gem has and the more powerful it is. So you have two complementing methods: woven metal runes generate magic from channeling external energies, precious gems from internal energies trapped during crystal formation further down toward the magical core of the planet. Update: With this system, you can have a REALLY crafty crafter who inscribes gems with runes and then weaves metallic runes AROUND them - the gold concentrating the magic of the gem even further! Perhaps by focusing the magical energies into coherence this creates a "magical laser?" Might it cause a feedback loop and result in a huge explosion? There are all sorts of ways to go with this one, though I pity the poor sod who's the first to try it out... They'll probably spend months scraping him off the walls... 

People close enough to positively identify what it is are dead. People in the neighborhood to get a good look are busy trying not to be dead, rather than walking a kilometer into the blast zone - and can be easily sent elsewhere "for their safety". Anyone beyond that only know what you tell them. 

People - colonists, refugees. Yes, you can "manufacture" them on-site, but assuming the travel time is < 20 years (or just for bootstrapping a new colony), you have to get people from there to here. Bootstrapping for a colony - basically, the stuff you need to build the stuff you need. Once a colony is established, this market dries up entirely, but for a colony that can't do X, a machine to let them do X is worth shipping. Unobtainium. Which goes back to the "can't get it here" issue. If some colony finds Dune Spice and it's useful enough, there will be people willing to pay the transport costs to get it. (Credit to R. in the top-post comments). Refugees - by which I mean folks who aren't trying to go somewhere, so much as needing to get away from where they started. In this context (esp. given the money needed to build this sort of thing), you're probably looking at some rich religion/orthodoxy that builds something relatively self-supporting so they can bugger off and find a brave new land (or Xenu or whatevs). It's crazy and most of them probably won't make it, but human history is full of people packing up and hoping for the best. 

The key point is What does everyone actually know? - and then controlling what they learn and how they interpret it. I don't live near Philly, so anything I'm going to hear about this will be via news reports. I'm literally only going to know what the media tells me. Easy-as-pie in this world of gag orders and national security letters. On the other extreme, anyone close enough to get a clear look at it was likely in the blast radius and thus not in a position to talk to anyone. In the middle are folks who would have saw the streaking light coming down. (Think of that meteor that hit Russia a few years back - even the folks who had cameras pointing at it just see a bright something coming down, then big boom). You simply call it whatever you want it to be called - meteor, nuclear attack, whatever your sneaky government masters want to spin it as. (And even from a kilometer away, you're not going to see much detail, particularly at speed) You mention that satellites caught details. While I think you're overestimating what a satellite can capture (relative speed is a bit of a bitch in photographing things in orbit, especially unexpected things), most of your serious cameras are government controlled. The rest are corporate, which brings us back to government nastygrams telling you that you had an unfortunate data outage, and you have NO IMAGES FROM THAT POINT OF TIME. Now, you just have a disaster scene, and it's pretty easy at this point. Lock down the area, close the roads, send in FEMA and the nuclear guys and everything else. Rig some gadgets to make clicky noises and declare an emergency evac. Get everyone out. Meanwhile, a bunch of MIBs in hazmats happily take care of the "suspect material". To sum up: 

In the 2013 film Space Pirate Captain Harlock, the protagonist's ship runs on "dark matter". It is never explained in any technical way since it is supposed to be a spooky alien technology (side effects include bringing people back from the dead). Compare to a Phantom Drive or a portal powered by a graveyard. In astrophysics, dark matter is a placeholder for something we don't understand. Our galaxy (for instance) moves in a way that suggests it weighs more than it should, based on what we can detect. That discrepancy could be solved if there is more there there, hence "dark" or "unknown" matter. In another era it might have been called "X matter". 

30 years is not enough time. Rare minerals and precious metals do not become cheaper through mass-manufacture. No matter when your industrial revolution started, there is very little palladium on the Earth, some investors estimate less than 14 million ounces (very roughly: >400 US tons) has ever been mined. As it's uses become known it rises in value. I have not found an article that revealed how much palladium is required in palladium glass, but I suspect you will either need to compromise on your metal ingredients or find a completely new way of making palladium, like synthesizing it through nuclear fission. 

The sections are connected by cables and winched together. As the diameter gets smaller, the ring should spin faster. 

I need a reality check on a character with synthetic skin. I have some cultural back story to explain it, but I also have several plot points where it comes in handy. Background: Synthetic skin is a nano-virus that is injected into a person's skin with a needle like a tattoo. On planets with harsh environments it is utilitarian, typically used to protect exposed skin from chemical or temperature burns, exposure to cancerogens, repetitive bruising, etc. It has developed cultural significance and is sometimes an artform and a badge of pride, but it is rooted in planet colonization. It also indicates you aren't from one of the ruling planets, so while larger tattoos might lend street credibility it also makes one conspicuously working class. Synth skin replaces the existing skin cells and becomes a part of the skin, sharing nerves, capillaries, etc. My character has a full-body synth skin. All her skin has been replaced, started as a child by her mother who intended to sell her. It is mostly aesthetic (exotic sci-fi painted lady) but I need it to have a few specific handwaveum properties I'd like to get your input about.