I can't speak for this bridge specifically, but here in Ottawa, Canada, we have at least one similar bridge and in our case, the part you're calling a sidewalk is actually a multi-use pathway from what I can understand, and bikes are expected to use that. As such, I would never use the traffic lanes on the bridge I'm referring to. The sidewalk/pathway part is still narrow so you have to slow way down and proceed very carefully when you encounter pedestrians, but it's worth it to avoid the car lanes on that particular bridge. One thing I find helpful is to check out the roadway in question on Google Maps with the bicycle layer turned on. In the case of my bridge, it clearly shows the bike lanes on the side of the bridge as dedicated pathways, which may not be obvious to a newcomer to the bridge: 

I recently replaced the shifter cables on my cyclocross bike (Specialized Tricross). Both cables run exposed (not in cable housing) under the bottom bracket, through a little screwed-on plastic guide that keeps them in place. When I removed the old cables, one of them also included a short, maybe 8-10" piece of what I would call protective plastic sheet that kind of sat within the screwed-on plastic guide, extending for a few inches out either side. It was pretty shredded up and I decided to chuck it. Now that I'm looking at the new cables (approx 200km riding), I'm wondering if I should have looked for a replacement for that protective sheath. Is that protective sheath important and should I have replaced it? If so, what is it called? The image below shows the cables right now, looking straight up at the BB, front of bike towards top of image. I saw this similar question, but it seems like the OP there did not at any point have the protective sheath I originally had on my bike. 

Depending on your actual commute length that may feel negligible or may be a deal breaker. If your commute is much longer than that, you may also be able to rejig other parts of the commute so you take that other bridge without adding the full mile difference. Hopefully some of this helps. 

I bought a brand new bike last May (2015 Brodie Elan) and proceeded to put 11,000km on it by November (cross Canada ride plus some commuting). Around the 11,000km mark I brought it back to the shop and they checked the chain wear, using some sort of spring-loaded Park Tool, which indicated that the chain was totally dead as well as the cassette. I'm not clear if the chain wear gauge directly indicated dead casette, or if it was more "if the chain is this worn the casette is definitely dead too". Either way this did not surprise me as I had been experiencing some gear/ tooth hopping that I could not correct with cable tension adjustments. I asked them to replace both casette and chain. After getting the chain and casette off they found the bottom bracket was also dead. This also was not surprising as I had been experiencing some "gravely" feel while pedalling. So they replaced chain, BB, and casette. However, they said the derailleurs and chainrings still had life in them and did not need replacement. I'm wondering if that makes sense, i.e. would derailleurs and chainrings be expected to long outlast chains and casettes with which they were purchased? Or should I be worried that those could be in a heavily-worn-but-not-quite-dead state that in turn would be wearing out my new chain and casette faster? How would I check? For reference, here is what was originally on the bike when new: 

The Smart Guard is an extra layer of rubber between the road side and tube side of the tire, and depending on tire model it is one of a few non-black colors. I think the Marthon Plus is blue, and they do green on some tires, etc. Inspect your tire carefully in good lighting and see if you can see the colored middle layer anywhere, even a small patch. If so I would chuck the tire since that means you've broken through to the middle layer and the road side of the tire could start delaminating from there. If your tire is bald but you can't see Smart Guard showing through, and you want to keep using it but are getting a lot of flats, check it for small embedded puncturing agents that may be stuck in the tire and puncturing your tubes repeatedly. E.g. on our tour, a couple of the other guys who were also using Marathon Pluses had a run of flats, i.e. one a day for several days. After careful inspection we found a couple of tiny wires, like human hair thickness and 2mm long, embedded in the tire that were almost invisible, but poking through to the inside and putting pinholes in the tubes. We eventually determined they were radial belt wires being picked up from the side of the highway from areas where transport trucks had had blowouts. You can get similar repeated slow punctures from tiny glass slivers. If your tires look like mine (rear very worn and front quite new looking), resist the temptation to swap them between front and rear wheels. A worn tire is a greater candidate for blowouts and other major failures, which in turn are more likely to cause injury when they happen on the front wheel. If you don't want to replace both tires, then chuck the fully worn rear tire, move the partially worn front tire to the rear, and put a nice new tire on the front. More info on this here. 

Per the comments above, the old rotors you wiped down may be contaminating the new pads or vice versa. Your best bet is to replace both, and wipe down all the other relevant parts (e.g. brake caliper housing) with something like rubbing alcohol before trying to put the new pads and rotors on. If you're really set on reusing the existing rotors, I'd recommend take them off and wash with hot slightly soapy water until "squeaky" clean, then rinse thoroughly with very hot water. Allow them to dry, then wipe thoroughly with clean paper towel wetted with rubbing alcohol as a final step. Allow to dry again. Do not directly touch the braking surface again after doing this. I've found rubbing alcohol works well for rotors and the surface of pads because it cuts small amounts of grease nicely (e.g. the tiny bit left over after the above soapy water process), and evaporates very quickly (hence the cold fealing you get when you spill it on your hands), and leaves no residue after evaporating. It's also nice & cheap, and readily available at all pharmacies and most grocery stores. However, it's not magic: the oil contamination in the porous pads probably can't be reliably cleaned out without BBQ'ing them per filimonic's answer above. Addendum: If you're REALLY hell bent on keeping the current rotors and the above process doesn't work, you can investigate the method colloquially known as Disco Inferno in which you cover them in rubbing alcohol or some other flammable item that leaves little residue after burning, and light them on fire, burning off the contaminants. Proceed with caution. 

There's a good thread already on wear of this model of tire here: When does a Marathon Plus tire (not) need replacing?. I'll repeat a shorter version of my answer from there: 

Check with your local bike shops and see if they have loaner saddles. My fave local bike shop has loaners of almost every saddle they carry and a sign out ledger. You can sign out the saddle and leave your credit card info. If it's not returned within a couple weeks, they bill you for the full price. Buy a saddle you're interested in, and carefully wrap a long strip of electrical tape around the saddle rails. The rails are thing enough that the width of the tape can pretty much go around. Then clamp them just firm enough to stay in place, and you'll find that after removing the tape, there are no marks. Voila, you can return it according to the return policy of most shops ("no marks on rails"). If the saddle comes zip-tied into a cardboard backing or box, just buy some dollar store zip ties of the same color to put it back in. I've done this with great success. Just make sure not to lean it against a brick wall or ride in your retro 70s punk studded leather bike shorts. Check your local bike forums/ club scene and see if anyone is willing to loan out a saddle you're interested in for a few days/ weeks (offer them a safety deposit). 

But there are lanes visible on roads on either end of the bridge. So either your municipality has uploaded incorrect data to Google Maps for the bridge, or you're technically supposed to ride in traffic. However, if you feel unsafe, in my opinion for short distances like crossing a bridge, you should use the sidewalk and proceed very carefully around pedestrians. If it's a tight squeeze, get off and walk your bike when you get close to a pedestrian, or stop while they pass. I also find that very car-oriented bridges like that tend not to get much foot traffic so it's usually not too bad riding the sidewalks for the short distance. Per the comment below, checking a route in Google Maps, it may suggest a more bike friendly river crossing if one is available. If it does not, you can also zoom out a little and turn on bike lanes to see what other options are around. In the case of your bridge, zooming out we see: 

The Schwalbe Smart Guard is an extra layer of rubber between the road side and tube side of the tire, and depending on tire model it is one of a few non-black colors. Check if you can see the colored middle layer anywhere, if so , replace the tire since you've broken through to the middle layer and the road side of the tire could start delaminating. If you want to keep using your tire but are getting lots of flats, check for small embedded puncturing agents e.g. small pieces of glass or radial belt wires from transport truck tire blowouts. If the rear is very worn and front looks good, resist the temptation to swap them between front and rear wheels (AKA rotating the tires). A worn tire is a greater candidate for blowouts, which are more likely to cause injury when they happen on the front wheel. If you don't want to replace both tires, then chuck the worn rear tire, move the partially worn front tire to the rear, and put a nice new tire on the front. More info on this from Sheldon Brown here.