Trying to understand Buddhist concepts by analogy is an interesting proposition but one doomed to failure in my experience. On the face of it you might be onto something - is emptiness (sunyata) the same as switching a computer off. A translation of nirvana (a related concept) is 'blowing out' which seems to point at the same thing. However the Dhammapada, a good candidate for the original words of the Buddha, doesn't talk about emptiness at all. One of the analogies the Dhammapada uses for the enlightenment experience uses is 'the deathless' which seems very different to switching something off. Though it is tempting to understand these concepts by really mentally drilling into them, they really are provisional. Traditionally they are seen as fingers pointing at the moon. One shouldn't obesses about the finger at the expense of understanding the moon. We are invited to test these ideas in the crucible of our own experience (e.g. by Buddhist practice) rather than just by reasoning. Hope that helps some. 

By (1), Universe contains all causes, all sources, i.e., there is no cause, no source, indeed, nothing, that stands apart from, independent of, Universe. But the proper conclusion to draw from this is not that Universe came from Nothing but rather that Universe simply is. The premise that Universe must have a "source", indeed that it is even meaningful to speak of the source of all sources, is what must be rejected. That there is something rather than nothing is self-evident, thus Universe exists, Universe is eternal. 

At any moment, you have the freedom, the choice, to think or not. That's your fundamental choice. And, that you have this choice is evident from introspection. While you're reading this, you may choose to think about it or evade the effort, correct? 

So i'm confused (again!). What has common sense to do with logical reasoning? My previous understanding is that logical was an objective discipline. So it seems odd that the subjective and vague 'common sense' is in the logical mix. Certainly with the boolean logic of computer programming that I am more familiar with common sense has no role. Well I think it doesn't but then clearly logic isn't what I thought it was. So what role does common sense play in logic? Does it really have an element of subjectivity? Many thanks for any/all thoughts 

While reading history of philosophy books, Cicero's name often comes up. However I remain unclear of what if any are his original contributions to the philosophy of that period. I know that he was an important transmitter of philosophical though from the Greek to the Roman world and so onto the modern period. However Sextus Empiricus and Diogenes Laertius were also important transmitters of philosophical knowledge but they get much more of a passing reference in the history books. I know that Cicero was an important political figure, an adherent of the skeptic school (to a greater or lesser extent) and I believe that his prose is meant to be magnificent (though I'm no classicist). But what did he add to philosophy itself? Many thanks for your thoughts 

Principle of Excluded Middle: "A proposition p and its negation ~p cannot be false together." Principle of Non-Contradiction: "A proposition p and its negation ~p cannot be true together. Principle of Bi-Valence: "A proposition is either true or false." PEM and PNC forbid a proposition and its negation having the same truth value. PB forbids a proposition being both true and false or neither true nor false. 

This question appears to be somewhat based on the premise that the source of morality is the whim of the majority. But, it is not the case that the source of morality is the whim of the majority. The source of morality is man's nature as a rational being. Thinking is your means of survival. Use it. 

I took a class in Kierkegaard and it was represented that Kierkegaard's use of pseudonyms was highly significant. Either he meant what he said, or he was being ironic, or something else entirely. Is there an academic consensus forming around the meaning behind the pseudonyms, or were the pseudonyms just something people did in those times, and we can take the pseudonymous writings as though they were signed by Kierkegaard himself? 

I get the sense that the later Wittgenstein and the ordinary language philosophers are of this school. They're not designing litmus tests of dreaming (private language), or "proving" that the fact of language means that we cant be dreaming, but to reveal those questions as absurd, and to bring us back to a position where thoughts of skepticism about other minds etc don't arise. The quotes are taken from a pseudonymous work of his, Concluding Unscientific Postscript, extract from Kierkegaard, Søren. The Essential Kierkegaard. Edited by Howard Vincent Hong and Edna Hatlestad Hong. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2000. pp. 221-222 

Your ethics is an inchoate version of Ayn Rand's normative ethics, virtuous egoism. Essentially, the good is that which promotes one's own flourishing, a concept not very different from eudaimonia. In Rand's ethical theory though, accomplishing the good is through the practice of 7 primary virtues. A great introduction can be found here. A scholarly review is here: 

Within Existence where, by Existence, I mean the totality of all that is, was, and will be. ... It is, I'm afraid, easy to ask questions that reveal a misconception of the terms used. One such question is "Where is the Universe?" Why not also ask "When is the Universe?" The point is that notions of "where" and "when" genetically depend on the concept of Universe which refers to all there is. To ask where or when is the Universe is to attempt to relieve those notions of the context on which they crucially depend. But, you can't do that. Those notions don't stand alone without any other context. 

The earliest example that I have heard being advanced is that of Pyrrho the ancient Greek skeptic. He travelled with Alexander the Great and would have had access to Eastern Philosophy though I don't know of any specific evidence linking him with Buddhist though. However his form of noncognitivism skeptism does seem to relate to Buddhist thought on this matter. The Buddha refused to engage with questions such as the eternity of the universe which seems to me to be a similar attitude. The book The Shape of Ancient Thought gives a fuller discussion of this area. I've heard good things about it but I haven't (yet??) read it myself Not strictly related but there is firm evidence of Buddhism in contact with the Greek world in the canonical Buddhist text The Questions of King Milinda - a debate between a Buddhist monk and an Eastern Greek king. To be fair it would be surprising if they didn't come into contact as the Greek empire next door to the India. 

I think Cavell's criticism can be readily applied to this question. How much of philosophy is wisdom, and how much of it is an aversion to ordinary categories - a sense that, like physics, human understanding can and must be broken down to atoms and its boundaries and mechanisms worked out for us not to be made fools - fools to religion, fools to superstition, fools to ignorance? We're driven to dissect, and by dissecting we kill it. Ever noticed how whenever you hear "philosophy of", the meaning of the noun that follows tends to disappear into obscurity? Epistemology is a rumination on knowledge by one struggling to, but never genuinely succeeding in, overcoming a denial of knowledge. The quote is from Stanly Cavell's essay "Must we mean what we say?" 

Different representations of reality are no more or less objective for there are always invariants. In the physical sciences, we see this clearly. For example, in the Special Theory of Relativity, elapsed time and distance are relative to the observer's frame of reference. However, the proper time and proper distance are objective, they are the same for all inertial observers. The fact that the "human perspective" might be a different representation of reality from the representation of some hypothetical other rational being does not make these representations less objective. The goal of philosophy and the philosopher is (should be) to find the invariants of reality. 

I read the following in Anthony Kenny's 'A New History of Philosophy' book. It is a paraphrase from Chrysippus the Stoic philosopher 

I was listening to a political podcast and David Poltz (one of the presenters) said of an argument that he was unconcerned whether the argument was hypocritical. I found that attitude jarring, counter-intuitive but very interesting. The contention is that if the argument is good then it is good independent of the actions of the person proposing it. To take a simplistic example I could argue that it would be better for the environment if no-one had a car and we all used public transport. If it later turns out that I own 4 cars that I happily drive around in them all day long this doesn't invalidate my argument. It still might well be the best thing if no-one drove their own cars even if I am ignoring my own advice. From (my) every day point of view I would say that hypocrisy does affect an argument but obvious this opinion isn't universally held. What about from a more rigorous (philosophical) point of view. Does hypocrisy invalidate an argument? Are there some philosophical traditions that say it would and some that say it wouldn't perhaps. Many Thanks for your thoughts