It looks like the webbing for the sternum strap is similar size to the webbing for the shoulder strap. In this pack you could unthread the left side of the sternum strap buckle (keeping the snap buckle), then thread in webbing that was attached to the broken buckle. This is a quick, easy repair that won't require any extra parts. As a bonus you can use the sternum strap buckle as a quick release for the strap like you see in an old US military ALICE rucksack. It is also very adjustable because you can use the same adjustments that were present for the sternum strap. Alternatively you can remove one of the cam buckles from the sternum strap and use that alone because it appears as if there is enough space to thread the webbing through the loop that attached the broken buckle to the upper shoulder strap. This would be a stronger solution and could even be a permanent fix. Plus you have two cam buckles in the sternum strap so you still have another spare incase your other shoulder strap breaks. 

The above chart is for hot water heater settings and burn/scalding. As you can see from the graph being exposed to 70o C water for about half a second is enough to burn your skin. That isn't a long exposure time. As far as the cold and other factors well that just depends on too many variables. The answer is different if you pour a quart of water down your chest under your base layer or if you stand naked in the wind at night spraying your self with 70o C droplets.... In general I'd advise you to just be careful... 

I've registered some caches in Poland. It strike me that reviewer from GeoCaching was asking how I'm supposed to service caches far from my home location. In the meantime I moved to Germany, which made caches registered near my 'home' location less serviceable than those register 'far from', but near my family location. I'd like to register some caches here in Germany, but I know, that it is quite probable I will change my location in a few years, and probably I will never have permanent 'home' location. What should I do? I would like to register some caches, but I know I could service them no longer that a few years. Am I expected not to registered any caches at all, or I could create mountain caches, which are normally community-services? What proceeding will be accepted by geocaching community? To be clear, I'm not asking for personal advice, but for general guidelines to obey in such cases. 

I'm thinking of buying Garmin Etrex 20 (or 30) for geocaching purposes. I've read reviews in internet, and after that the issues with ergonomics and stability makes me worry, if that device will be good enough for geocaching. I'm geocaching so, that I load caches for large region, but I don't plan exactly which caches will I search. Therefore, it's important for me to be able to relatively quick view the descriptions of the nearby caches. On Android, opening single cache and navigating to spoiler text + short description takes about 15 seconds. How much would it take on Etrex, where no touch screen is available? About a minute or more? Many people in reviews in Amazon site complain about software unstability - the upgrades that breaks more things than repair, or cause the internal memory to be overfilled etc. Is the software for that device stable yet? 

Normally the shorter cross piece would slide up and down the length of the staff to allow you to measure angles. That is going to be too hard to calibrate, unless you know the angles between enough stars to calibrate it yourself. If you can calibrate the cross staff then you can pick the latitude you want, sail to that plane and turn east or west to follow it. If you can't calibrate it you need to sit on your boat at night and adjust (whittle) the length of the shorter cross piece so it lines up with the North star or the Southern Cross and the horizon. Once this is accomplished then you can maintain your current latitude by repeating the sighting and correcting as needed. 

As an aside don't discount the psychological benefits of a warm drink. I almost always bring a small thermos full of hot tea with me while skiing. The tea is always nice, but it is a real lifesaver when you're wet, tired, and feeling miserable. 

The short answer to your question is yes you can get a stove to light and cook your egg on the top of Everest if you really wanted to do it. 

Collect the water and let it stand for a period of time to allow particulates and oils to separate from the water. After skimming the oil from the top transfer the water without the particulates into another vessel. Set up your water vessel and heat source so you can vary the temperature of the water. The goal is to have a system in place so you can hold the water at a relatively constant temperature below boiling for a period of time. One primitive way of doing this would be with a tall tripod over a camp fire. That will allow you to adjust the temperature of the water by adjusting the distance the water vessel is above the flames. After holding the water vessel at a high temperature that is still below boiling for a long period of time you can be relatively certain that the substances that have a boiling point lower than water will have evaporated. Setup your water vapor collection system, and bring the water to a boil. Since we have boiled off most of the things with a lower boiling point all we should be collecting are things at or close to water's boiling point. 

Granted... mountaineering is not really my thing, but I'm still curious: Why would belay devices like the Verso and Reverso useless in this scenario? 

And that's good advice to stay hydrated, but offers little insight into optimizing urination stops. My races so far have taught me quite a bit about how my hydration works. I stress that it's my hydration because I've seen that it works differently for different people, so YMMV. Nonetheless, these are a few tips that may work for you. Many of these tips are often recommended by some professional trainers and long-time athletes: 

I don't usually care too much about making a pee stop if I'm hiking (I just don't mind). In the last couple of years, however, I've taken on running and have since ran a marathon and a handful of half-marathons (and a one-minute pee break is a lot when you're trying to beat your own record). Pro-advice for hydration usually falls under two big categories: 

I started reading Petzl's tech tips for mountaineering. While on the section for Crossing a Bergschrund, specifically in the part for Belaying a leader we have the following warning: 

Years ago, after a storm, I found a dead bird with an id ring on its leg. I wanted to find out where to report it, but before I returned with a camera to take a photo, a neighbor decided to dispose the body. In case I ever find another one, I'd like to know how to find out what I can do. The above incident happened in Mexico, but I'd like to have answers that aren't country specific, if possible. 

Trekking poles are a great helper if you have problems with your knees after a long march. A pain 'in knees' is usually a pain in the muscles around the knees, that are responsible for maintaining equilibrium. Those muscles are not very active if you walk on footpath, but in outdoors they are intensively used. With trekking poles, the equilibrium is maintained by providing additional fulcrum. I can say with my experience, that using trekking poles have enabled me keeping pace with my comrades in mountains, which without poles were very hard for me, and additionally I had problems with knees. But mention also, that using trekking poles will train your arm muscles, but will not train that muscles that are making problems by you. So you can become trekking-pole-dependent. After increasing my stamina with trekking poles, I've started to train walking without them, at begin in plains, than in mountains. Now I use them very seldom. Also from my experience, trekking poles are decreasing fatigue of leg muscles, but increasing the fatigue of arm muscles, and overall you use more energy. I was able to increase distance walking without trekking poles. But if my knees are saying that they are too tired, I switch to trekking poles. 

It depends much more on your individual condition, how your body (mostly feet and knees) react to various kinds of shoes. There is a guy in the series "Dual survival" that claim not to need shoes at all, even in hard terrain. But it's extreme. If we limit the scope to the people not used to walking barefoot, and exclude special activities, such as climbing and glacier trekking, which requires very special shoes, all outdoor shoes would be adequate. 

In all honesty the breakage pro/con isn't a big deal as long as you take care of your gear. The shot weights are pretty hardy and are further protected by the pouches when in use. Another thing that isn't a big deal even though I called it out is precise weight placement. While this is true, in my experience having the right amount of weight is much more important than exact placement of the weight assuming you're generally balanced. Same thing with weights shifting. While I've felt it before while skin diving the only time I think it could be a factor is in heavier surf. Of course heavier surf generally means low visibility so you probably aren't diving in it anyway. The last caveat I have is in regards to coated vs uncoated weights. I don't believe uncoated weights have a significant affect on the environment while diving, but I added it for people who are concerned. Even though the pro/con list looks unbalanced, my general impression is shot weights are more convenient and comfortable so if you're investing in a new system you might as well go that route. This is doubly true since you've had problems with solid weights. On the other hand, if you're looking for something hard wearing, possibly more environmentally friendly, utilitarian, and/or cheap go for the solid lead weights. Personally I have solid lead weights on my dive belt. This is mostly because they were most common when I started diving and I have never felt like I had a reason to switch to shot weights. I do have a belt though with a single pouch for shot weights that I use when snorkeling and spear fishing (free diving). I went that route for the comfort factor, and the ability easily adjust my weight depending on if I'm wearing a wet suit or not. 

The first one is pretty obvious, but the other two deserve a few words. Once the first healing phase is over, what you're trying to accomplish with therapy is to avoid the injury if you happen to have another accident. Strength and flexibility play a huge role in being able to sustain another fall without injuring yourself. And here's the rub: Your ankle may be stronger and more flexible than before you had your accident. You may be less susceptible to injury. I have since had a couple of episodes where the stress to my ankle have been bigger than the time I got sprained. I'm not a therapist, so I can only assume that YMMV. But for me, knowing that my ankles are more resilient than before helped me overcome my fear. 

The one way I know to remove the twists from a climbing rope, requires for the rope not to be hanging nor in use in any way. The procedure is quite simple but may require help from your partner: 

We have a new puppy and can't wait to take him to TGO. Since he's still growing he'll grow out of any harness that fits at the moment. I'm considering tying a harness out of webbing, but all instructions I've found so far require D rings, stitching and cutting. But aside from my current needs I'd really like to know how to tie a makeshift hoist harness for my dog in case I ever need it. How can I tie a one-piece harness out of webbing? Some tidbits: