Since mobility underwater is a major factor, I would be designing weapons towards the aim of hindering or trapping opponents so that the short range stabbing weapons mentioned in other answers can make short work of them. Think of barbed nets, harpoons to impale and tangle, even just wrapping ropes around limbs, etc cetera. Consider weighting them to drag them deeper, or even the opposite, if you could somehow deploy an inflatable bladder that would drag them to the surface. Visibility is also often limited in aquatic environments — create confusion with clouds of ink, like a cephalopod; or shimmering clouds, like a shoal of small fish. Actual cephalopod ink sacs would be a good resource to use for this, or something like mother of pearl or shiny metal pieces for the latter. To prevent an enemy from escaping in dark or murky water, you could even maybe attach noisy objects to them. Lastly, and this is a little more fantastic, if your environment had bioelectric organisms handy, you could maybe try to harness this effect — as long as you could come up with a way of preventing it from hurting you as much as your opponent. Electric Ray on a stick? 

Deliberate reforestation programs, also a hallmark of advanced industrialized governments, also contribute a large amount. In terms of carbon emissions, it’s not clear what the net effect would be. The loss of our delicately-recovering global forests would take away a major carbon sink, while the collapse of energy-intensive human activities would also take away a major carbon source. However, we do know that “civilization” in the western sense is not a prerequisite to massive ecological and climatic damage. Contrary to popular depictions in cartoons, it is believed that the Native Americans were so destructive to the environment, that when Columbian diseases decimated their population, the absence of their emissions and the recovery of their environment plunged the Earth into the Little Ice Age of the 16th century. It’s also important to note that The Environment™ is also much, much more than simple carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere. Things like biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are all critically harmed by human land use. 

Reverting to an agricultural society may very well harm the environment more than it helps. A great deal of our food output today is due to systems and technologies developed during the Green Revolution and and the development of high-yield crops in the 20th century. If we were to revert to pre-20th century agricultural techniques, food production efficiency would likely be less than 38% of what it is today, and assuming you’re not deploying death squads everywhere, or releasing an Armageddon virus to trim the world population down to size, humanity would simply expand the land area it uses for farming. The idea that stages of human development are accompanied by a monotonic trend of deforestation and ecological destruction is a myth, mostly advanced by the neo-environmentalist movement in the 1970s. Between 1900 and 2000, forest cover in the U.S. actually expanded slightly, despite the population growing fivefold. As a general rule, as a society industrializes, the land resources it consumes shrinks, as its population retreats to highly dense cities, and farms becomes more efficient and compact. The surrounding environment slowly but consistently recovers through natural processes like reforestation. Currently, worldwide, forest area increases by about 1.6% a year. This figure is despite large amounts of deforestation currently taking place in developing countries like Brazil. According to a study done in Finland, this is in some part due to increased urbanization and farming efficiency. 

Psychology is both a taxonomy of individual experiences and a system for comparing experiences to a baseline. We observe a set of behaviours which differ from the observed norm, and we infer that these behaviours are brought on by stressful experiences, and so the concept of PTSD is created. But (and keeping in mind the distinction between psychology and neuroscience) we are talking about a discipline which deals in fairly subjective data, and tends to arrive at conclusions which are predicated upon a set of unexamined assumptions received from broader culture. So, in an attempt to work all of that into a "hard science" answer to your question, I agree that evidence shows that to experience terrifying events causes a certain set of observable consequences for those involved. In that sense, you should expect PTSD as we define it to appear in any society which is likely (in the context of their culture/psychology) to have the same basic worldview as ours. However, I see no "hard science" reason why ours is the only possible worldview, so you could maybe tell a psychologically interesting story about the kind of society that does not have a concept of PTSD. 

Side note: is included as a test case to test for bias. A good policy accounts for the fact that the people making the judgments are aware of their limited perspectives. For example, if a vetting panel is proposed as an answer, what happens if it is filled with so-called “old white men” who don’t see the value in bringing ? How might this affect the perception of the project pre-apocalypse? 

Suppose we have an Earthlike planet, with a rocky moon orbiting it. Under what conditions would dark lunar maria form on its surface, and would they always be on the side facing the planet? For Earth’s Moon, it appears that the maria face the Earth due to heat radiating from the molten Earth. How universal is this phenomenon? Does it depend on, for example: 

Aircraft carriers are limited in the same way other ships are. They can only hit stuff close to the coast. Sure, their airplanes have a pretty long reach, but it’s quite difficult for to conduct a detailed military campaign at that distance from the command center. So your nice, rhetorical second-amendment protagonists are also probably going to be hiding out in middle America. This war would basically be a drone war, like Afghanistan. 

Firstly, I agree with the comment/answer regarding a post-scarcity society. In a context where no resources were scarce and all goods were essentially fungible, I could imagine people operating without concepts of value or ownership. If you need something, grab it from the nearest replicator; when you don't need it anymore, throw it in the nearest universal recycler. Likewise, when you need a place to sleep, just find the nearest empty bed/apartment. Another context where I could see this way of thinking maybe proliferating would be in an extremely "primitive" culture, especially a nomadic one as mentioned in another answer. If you're living off the land, and everything you need can be made from things found readily in the environment, with skills possessed by every member of the society, then there may be no need for concepts of value or ownership. Need a spear? Grab a stick and a sharp/abrasive stone to carve a point. Don't need it anymore? Throw it away, it's just a stick. Time to sleep? Build a lean-to or humpy out of whatever is nearby, but don't bother hauling it with you when you leave. I feel I have read accounts that suggest Indigenous Australians lived much like this — they mainly worked with wood and grass. They did however also have art/craft, and so I assume some objects would have had more significance than others (e.g a well made and decorated didgeridoo would likely have been valued and owned, but a piece of bark used as a plate would not be) 

It’s the mid–late 20th century, and NATO and the Soviet bloc wipe each other out in a nuclear war while the southern hemisphere eats its popcorn. Dust fills the atmosphere and nuclear winter sets in; the ecosystem collapses. Which third world countries would be most likely to survive and why? If the answer is “zero”, how could the events of the nuclear war be changed so that at least one would survive? A country is considered to have “survived” if: 

Suppose we have an intelligent alien who has landed on Earth and has somehow found his way into a human high school math class (for the sake of scenic stability, the alien has the ability to cloak itself as a human form). The typical trope is the alien finds the human math elementary, and quietly chuckles to himself about how primitive humans are. Sometimes the alien, when interacting with his human friends, mutters advanced mathematical equations to himself, which goes right over the humans’ heads. In our high school math class, the alien gets called up to the board and sometimes inadvertently fills up the entire blackboard to the shock of the human teacher. For example, in the Animorphs series, there’s a line where Ax (an alien posing as a human teen) says in a train of thought: 

From a certain perspective, a legal system is in itself already an attempt to codify/operationalise morality – it's an attempt to express as explicitly as possible what behaviour is immoral, and to punish/disincentivise immoral behaviour in ways that are themselves moral/ethical. Without a code of laws, "right and wrong" are determined by either an individual in charge, in an autocratic society, or via debate/reasoning amongst some or all members of the community, in a society without a clearly delineated hierarchy. We can't know for sure what motivated the first attempts to operationalise and record a consistent set of rules for living, but one might intuitively presume a few motivating factors: 

I feel there are two key variants of the scenario, one where the state has the power to control the actions of the populace, and another where the state controls their thoughts. Controlling actions In this scenario, imagine that your motor cortex/neurons are overridden, or your limbs instantly paralysed or whatever, at the moment you begin to execute a criminal action. I'd say this type of control would cause considerably more suffering; the frustration from being able to form intentions but never carry through would be torturous. I'm considering both good and bad intentions here — it would be impossible to veer out of your lane to avoid hitting an animal, and also impossible to punch someone you're enraged at. In this scenario, I feel people would come to hate the system, but would obviously be unable to do anything outside of the law to express this. Worst case scenario, it might even be illegal and thus impossible to express these negative feelings. "Best" case scenario is a mind-controlling liberal democracy where people are free to write critically about the system, gather peacefully to protest against it, even vote for it to be moderated or eliminated — but the people would be doing all these things at the absolute mercy of the state. True mind control This scenario is maybe philosophically more interesting, but potentially difficult to write an interesting story about. Let's imagine that instead of intervening to prevent specific criminal actions, the state is able to control people's mental states, impulses and desires. People may not even be aware these thoughts are not their own, and go through their days feeling a warm sense of community spirit, the sheer strength of their belief in their society combining with the total contentment of having everything they could ever desire to make a person who would never even think to break the law. To add some conflict, you could do what some other answers have suggested and make certain people immune — imagine the crushing weight of being the only Bart Simpson in a society that is 99.99% Ned Flanders. 

They assign each city a “revenue” number, possibly scaled according to population, and the size of your economy is the sum of the value of all your cities. This is somewhat realistic because in postindustrial countries (i’m assuming from you saying the game is “sci-fi”), cities are vastly wealthier than rural areas. If you want to make the model slightly more sophisticated, you can multiply the value of your cities by trade between it and the other cities in a country, so a clever player can tank an opponent’s economy by blockading the links between the cities instead of conquering or destroying the cities themselves. However if conquest is something you want to have a lot of in your world, this is probably not the way to go, because physical territory is basically irrelevant here. In the real world, capturing a city is a gruesome and blood-drenched endeavor, and often results in the destruction of much of the prize itself. Scads of resistance movements throughout history have also proven that you don’t need to control cities to maintain a war machine. They tie the economy to the natural resources in the land (food, coal, oil, steel, etc.) and the economy is basically backed by the physical commodities within a country’s territory. This is hugely unrealistic (otherwise Venezuela would be one of the richest countries in the world!) but it has the upside of being simple for players to understand, and can be somewhat accurate if the main focus of your world is warfare, where the basic resources matter much more relative to higher-level goods than they normally would in a civilian economy. 

I'm not good enough at physics to run the numbers on this, but if I were Joe, I'd develop a fighting style that took advantage of the whip-like properties of my limbs. Whipping motions significantly increase velocity at the point of impact, and make for attacks that are difficult to predict, and which can get around an opponents guard. A rigid blunt weapon like a club would essentially gain the benefits of a flexible weapon without the disadvantages (think nunchacku, or a meteor hammer). Flexibility is also a significant part of the physical conditioning component of martial arts training, so Joe would get a freebie there. He'd still have to practise the manoeuvres, but he wouldn't need to expend the time and effort getting into shape. Also, while Aify's answer already addresses the resilience to blunt trauma, Joe would also have a huge edge in grappling, which no-holds-barred hand-to-hand combat tends to devolve into: no fear of limb locks or breaks, plus the ability to literally tie up an opponent with his own arms and legs. He could still be pinned by sheer mass, I suppose, but I wouldn't like their chances, since he'd be able to extend a limb or two and turn the tables from beneath regardless, and again, wouldn't be "tapping out" due to pain/discomfort. Can he still be choked? Since there's a minimum diameter his neck can compress to, I would assume so, but at least he doesn't have to worry about his vertebrae.