The time period of the story would depend on the exact mechanics, but in general you could have the devil be in the details, or rather the meta-data. Basically, even though your immortal changed reality around him, he failed to change something, or some butterfly effect belies his existence. Let me go into a technical example. Say I have a database with a table, and it has records in it numbered 1-100. Looking at the table one day, I notice that there's no record 73. There should be a number 73, but it is missing. I have no way of immediately knowing what record 73 should be, but I know it is missing. This inspires me to dig deeper, add logging to the database so I can figure out what happens in the future, and so on. Sometime in the future I have another missing record, say record 97. Looking at my new logging, I see that none of my processes or jobs deleted that record, which deepens the mystery and so on and so forth. In the real world, perhaps there's some meta-record of the event. In more modern times, perhaps a recording exists of what was said, or an image or video exists of someone talking to a mysterious figure that nobody remembers. Maybe in a more ancient timeframe, it is a painting or a sketch. Maybe some tailor starts making clothing that looks a lot like your immortal's. Maybe men start wearing their beards in his style, or women start putting their hair in her style. There's a lot of little subconscious things that could be triggered, even if all memory gets removed. There's a really cool phenomenon that you might want to play with called Collective False Memory or the Mandela Effect. Basically, a group of people all believe the same, false event to be true (for example the widespread belief that Nelson Mandela died in the 1980s, even though he didn't die until 2013). These collective memories could be the result of your immortal rewriting reality, perhaps some people are sensitive to it, or something else happens that causes them to believe the "real" timeline over the new one. I will say allowing your immortal to actually rewrite reality makes this more complicated. In theory, rewriting reality means the event never really did happen (which would also mean the idea was never given to the individual he talked to). Altering memories is far "easier" to do in a narrative context. 

Check out the purported alien autopsy video filmed in 1947. Hoax or not, this is probably the source for most artistic representations of aliens since that time. $URL$ 

So it appears there is room for some creativity and tool use at the bottom of the mass spectrum, but it looks like language will be the hardest to explain at that level. However we are even beginning to question that based on how it seems birds are able to imitate human vocalizations, and that is based on neuron density. In other words, by packing more neurons into a smaller volume, the ( choose your example ) of bird that imitates human sounds, including words and phrases, is approaching the brain to body mass ratio of primates. They have smaller skull cavities, but they are lighter and they pack more neurons into those spaces, which means their bodies are doing a similar kind of trade off to primates as far as cognition vs physical movement. Our brains consume about 30% of our daily calories and it would seem these birds are nearer to that range than previously thought, but I would caution that much more investigation in this area is necessary for any more definitive results. Physical Traits The smallest known primate is the Madame Berthe's mouse lemur with a body length of 9.2cm (3.6 in) and a mass of 30g. This fits into the size range of a Borrower and is the same class of animal, however these creatures are very different anatomically than humans. The things we are perhaps most interested in are the hands, primarily opposable thumbs, since tool use, tool making and so forth are required for a creature like a Borrower, and perhaps the posture and gait of the animal, since we want them to stand up and walk around like people. Other features like hair, curved nails, etcetera, I think we can assume, are merely cosmetic. Maybe such creatures would opt for hair removal but it would perhaps depend on their history, culture, and knowledge of medicine and disease. For example, only a couple of centuries ago many people shaved their heads and wore wigs to help prevent head lice. One fact about hair is that smaller things, i.e. smaller volume to surface area ratio means higher heat loss. Many smaller animals may need their hair or may have completely different ways to cope with heat loss. The naked mole-rat is a mammal which is effectively cold blooded as it does not regulate its internal temperature and so remains close to ambient temperature. Most commonly, in addition to a thermal coat, such as hair, small creatures must have a higher metabolism, which generates more heat, in order to maintain a relatively constant internal temperature. However, we can assume that Borrowers would wear clothing like us, and would perhaps consequently have/need less hair, like us. As for opposable thumbs, we are the only species that we know of which has this trait. However there are other very dexterous appendages that can accomplish some, but not all of what a hand can do, like tentacles. Interestingly, octopods also are known to use tools. Other posters may respond on the mechanical feasibility of opposable thumbs for a small, Borrower-sized species, but I do not see any physical reason why such a structure is not possible or would not evolve given all of the advantages related to tool making and manipulation that we are aware of in the human species. Upright posture and walking gait is another question. We are familiar with the prairie dog, which stands upright, but does not have a natural upright gait, as do humans, but rather a posture and behavior that seems to be associated with an evolutionary advantage of being able to see farther, to spot predators, while closer to the ground. For smaller species it would seem that undergrowth and low ground cover flora in most environments would negate any such gains and preclude such an advantage. Furthermore, there is the physics involved in a very short standing posture. Consider this from the point of view of trying to balance a broomstick on your hand, verses trying to balance a pencil. The broom stick is longer and requires less attentive movement to adjust and keep it balanced, while the pencil is short, has a lower center of gravity and will naturally topple over much faster than the broomstick. This means that an upright posture for a very short species would require quicker and finer adjustments for the creature to remain upright. However these effects can be offset by the size of the base of the posture, by making the feet larger or foot and toes more spread out. Mice can stand upright and beg for food or sniff the air, but they are forming a tripod structure, with large haunches, a wide stance and they are leaning back against or balancing with their tails. 

The answer depends heavily on how your empire operates on a political level. Are there pieces of the Empire that operate independently, but still contribute to the whole (e.g. various stages of the Holy Roman Empire)? Is it a collection of semi-independent pieces that are under the ultimate authority of a central government (The US, while not technically an empire, falls into this category, as the states have a large amount of rights, but cannot typically fight wars on their own), or some other system? The logical way I'd approach this is to have the Good Guy Empire (GGE) be at war with the Bad Guy Empire (BGE). One of the big battles takes place over Indigania (IG), and many of the escape pods land on the planet, of both sides of the fight. The BGE's people are hostile to the natives, taking the goods that they need, and trying to escape (insert necessary level of evil). The GGE's people treat the natives kindly, and await rescue (insert heartwarming scene of soldier sharing chocolate bar with IG children). GGE rounds up the bad guys, rescues the good guys, and leaves the planet. BGE decides later to annex/conquer/destroy the planet as part of the evil plan of the week. While this operation is underway, the IG signal the GGE with technology left behind in the escape pods. GGE comes flying to the rescue, defeats BGE again. The IG leadership decides that they need protection they cannot provide themselves, and enters into an alliance with GGE, providing raw materials, recruits, basing rights, etc in exchange for defense from BGE. Maybe eventually they will become a real part of the GGE, but for now are a protectorate. 

I was surprised that no one mentioned Catalan Numbers for a possible sequence. I would speculate that the inference of a binary numbering/counting system expressed in a combinatorial sequence suggests an understanding of logic systems and binary computation, but does not assume more advanced knowledge. Though perhaps my view is biased. Admittedly I do not know the history of group theory, though I have seen mention of it briefly when reading about E8 Theory. Edit Useful Interpretations of Catalan Numbers Catalan numbers are presented in OEIS series A000108. The first few numbers in the series are 1, 1, 2, 5, 14, 42, 132, 429, 1430, 4862, 16796, 58786, 208012, 742900, 2674440, 9694845, ... Referring to the number Cn as the nth Catalan number, where { C0, C1, C2, ... } = { 1, 1, 2, ... } here are some interpretations ( quotes are from the wikipedia article ): 

Edit I neglected part of the question which states that the city would be built "from scratch". In that case, implementing a system such as pneumatic tubes would simply increase the overall cost of design, materials, planning and engineering for the layout, but would not dramatically limit what could be done assuming that the expectation is that this option would involve a certain up front investment. Furthermore, California is seriously considering a tube transit system for people, but it could be duel purpose of done cleverly or simply for transporting packages. For example, given a tube car design with separate compartments for people and packages (above and below for example), such a system could conceivably trade packages efficently at stops while people are exiting and boarding the tube car. The California Hyperloop concept is shown above ground, but the principle is the same whether above or below ground. 

I think you need to firmly decide what happens to the present when an event changes Hypertime. There are a few possibilities: 

I have a world where there are two groups of people on an island: The Colonists and the Cave People. In true colonial fashion, the Colonists have frequently fought the Cave People, and there's some disparity in technology. I'm very interested in Cargo Cults and what differentiates a culture's beliefs that something strange and new is a simple expansion on existing technology and that it is magic. The Colonists Technology level is Medieval after the initial introduction of gunpowder. Gunpowder weapons are rare in the Colonial homeland, and few, if any, are present on the island. They have previously had some gunpowder weapons on the island during one of the Cave People uprisings, but it is a rare event. The center of their culture is a religious cult devoted to moon worship. Their clergy are often seen performing various rituals that have no true effect on the world. The Colonists have a moderate belief in this religion, but only the clergy are true devotees to it and believe it all. The Colonists are superstitious, with a variety of good luck charms and ways of warding off "evil." This is more common among their soldiers, who face life and death more regularly than the common people. On the island, the Colonists are largely farmers, with few heavy industries or mining. Most of what they need manufactured is imported from their homeland. They have access to Steel in abundance, and most of their tools and weapons are made of steel where appropriate. They see the Cave People as pagans that need to be converted to the true religion or killed. The Cave People The cave people are a lower technology group. They can forge basic metals, but the effort required is often too much to warrant their use in weapons. Typically metal is used in jewelry or for religious purposes. The common weapons they use are blades made of obsidian (which is plentiful) and armor and shields made of animal hide (the type and thickness of the hide is a symbol of rank). Their religion is shamanistic, and tied heavily to the land. They worship the Sun as the divine spark for their life and believe their spirits ascend to join the sun in the afterlife (to the point that they believe if they go outside during the day their spirit will rush from their body to join the sun). This religion incorporates ancestor worship as well. Their culture is heavily tied into verbal folklore and stories. In order to be considered an adult, a variety of trials must be undertaken, including the perfect recitation of the clan's history. They take pride in their ancestors, and the honorific X son of Y son of Z of Clan W is a common way of greeting a visitor. Their society is broken up into a dozen or so clans, and only in rare occasions do they cooperate (often warring among each other, making things easy for the Colonists to establish their foothold). When they act together, they are a fierce opponent, having nearly removed the Colonist foothold twice in four wars. It usually takes one charismatic individual to unite the clans into one body (there have been four such leaders since the Colonists have come). They are just as intelligent as the Colonists, but less technologically advanced. They have, in the past, used captured weapons against the Colonists (often afterwards they are enshrined as relics of some hero or the other's conquests). They believe in rituals and magic to make their weapons and shields strong, and have oracles who consult the flames for advice and augeries. They see the Colonists as evil worshipers of the vile moon, which is a pale imitation of their holy sun. The Conflict The two sides have been in conflict for eighty years. The Colonists have cornered the Cave People twice, and the Cave People have nearly wiped out the Colonist's presence twice. At the moment they are at a standoff, with each side controlling roughly half of the island (though more and more Colonist farmers are pushing into Cave People territory). There is no formal treaty or diplomatic relationship between them. One of the wars that almost ended in the Cave People's favor was halted by their leader (who was unbeaten in combat) being killed by a bullet wound. What sort of things would the Cave People see as the Colonists performing magic? I've isolated that any gunpowder weapons would likely be seen that way, but I'm stuck at what else they would consider magic and try to counter with their own magic or try to replicate (like a cargo cult).