Coconut opening comes in two parts, neither of which needs a knife. First, the husk. Get a reasonably sturdy pointed stick and put it in the ground, point up, between your feet. Jam the coconut down onto the stick, hitting off centre. This should wedge off bits of husk. Repeat until the husk is all off. A very green coconut is harder to "peel" this way, but without a knife, this is basically the option you have. If getting all the liquid out is important, and you have no bowl or bucket, pause here, find a stick or stone, and poke at the eyes until you break through one or two of them, and drink the liquid through the hole. A hollow piece of grass or reed might make a useful straw. Once you have exposed the inner coconut, find the three "eyes" on it. Hold the coconut so that it vaguely looks like a face - the three circles on a side of it, two above one. Hit it hard with a stick or a rock on the "top of its head" and it should break in half. You can now continue to break it up to separate shell from meat, or you can scrape out juicy meat with your same pointed stick and eat it as you go. 

You might keep spare batteries in a shirt pocket under your coat and swap them back and forth as needed. But in my experience temperatures below zero celsius are not particularly hard on batteries. I take no special precautions in Ontario winter unless it's below -20C. 

I am lucky enough to live within an hour of several cities (or large towns) on Lake Ontario, and near "cottage country" which is full of lakes. I'm considering a learn-to-sail program this summer. A quick search reveals a large array of possibilities, all requiring about an hour's drive each way. Some of the distinguishing features among them are: 

You don't have to go on a solo trip to experience a little solitude. For example, you can go with a group, and when you're planning the trip, plan for a day during which you will go off on a solo hike, while the others stay at camp and fish or read or the like. Or perhaps it's a day where they all go off on a hike and you loiter around the camp alone. This lets you experience being truly alone without being alone in the dark right away. If you enjoy it, you might arrange that on your next trip, you will camp at a different spot, going on ahead when the others stop, and meeting up with them the next morning at some logical place (like a portage, if you're canoeing.) That way you can spend a night alone, in a camp you set up all by yourself, eating the food you prepared all by yourself, and then the next day you are back with the group. Why do it? Well, why not I suppose. And if there is something that scares or spooks you, and you apply reasoning and logic to make it safe, then overcome your fears and do it, you will probably feel stronger for it afterwards. But I feel like a very strong person, and I've never camped alone. (I've camped with my babies which is WAY harder though and with a total of 2, 4 or even more adults always.) I went on a super scary rollercoaster in my 40s, and I have to say I didn't feel stronger afterwards. So don't count on the solo camping too much as a lifechanger. For maximum benefit, prepare. Do everything you can to make yourself safe. You will probably have to sacrifice comfort - a couple can carry more stuff than a single person can. Bring a journal so you can write down some of what you're thinking. Either bring a book or the like to occupy yourself, or deliberately don't so you have to think and meditate a little. Ease into it a little at a time, and if you want to do it, do it. But if you don't, it's not a failure of character. I have plenty of character without having done this. 

Aluminum is not good at compound curves. My Chestnut Prospector has a section that is concave front to back and convex up and down (or the other way around depending on whether you're looking at it from inside or outside the boat.) Aluminum isn't good at that. Wood (well woodstrip, anyway) and fibre are. Aluminum can feel very cold on a cool misty morning, and very hot in the blazing sun. Plastic etc are a little better in that regard, though wood is the most even-temperature. Wooden gunwales can go a long way to helping on that front, which also helps with the noise. I have a fibreglass canoe with aluminum gunwales (it was a wedding gift) so I know another disadvantage of aluminum gunwales: a grey smudginess often rubs off onto you. And then there are dents, scratches, and dullness over time. So if you want a boat with beautiful lines, a beautiful surface, physically comfortable, quiet while you're using it, and will not change appearance, you're going to go with wood or some sort of fibre, depending on how you feel about maintenance, how much money you have, and how important weight is. (Fibre can be heavier or lighter than wood depending on what you have to spend.) You're unlikely to choose aluminum. So people make less of them these days. 

If possible, don't pitch your tent on the sand - get back a bit into some vegetation. Then apply these strategies: 

The way to get started is to swim in areas that are marked as generally safe. These will typically be a sandy beach on the shores of a small lake. Provincial Parks generally have one of these with float lines marking the "safe" areas. As you can see, you're free to swim outside the lines if you want to. 

One option that is super useful when you're travelling in a group is to have different packs for different purposes rather than each person carrying their own stuff. For example we have a "tent pack" and a "kitchen pack". The advantages include: 

It's readily available in Canada and this page lists some brand names around the world for the same active ingredient. 

If you're in a group of 2 or more, consider it. Also, if you don't live together and didn't pack together, the pause before setting off during which you reorganize everything into categories is a fantastic way to check that you've all brought the right stuff. 

I don't take a tarp to protect my tent, I take it to create another dry area outside - typically for cooking and eating. It can also create shade for cooking, eating, and just lounging around. (On a rainy day I'll lounge around in the tent if anywhere, but on a nice day there are lots of options.) Packing a wet tent won't damage it, but if your tent bag is snug you may find it difficult. Storing a wet tent for weeks or more might damage it. Your tent will get wet even if it doesn't rain, because of dew for example. So go ahead and bring a tarp, but not to put over your tent. 

If all you want is to go fast, look for something with ridges or raised runners on the bottom so it will have less snow contact. However you may find it hard to steer - it will pretty much just go straight down the hill unless you lean wildly, which may cause you to fall over. $20 The discs are more controllable (in a wild crazy omg I'm flying down a hill kind of way) and perhaps more fun since what you do affects your ride. Ditto the "crazy carpets". ($5 each) Do try lying face down on your ride of choice (ala skeleton) for both a faster feel and more control. If your mother isn't watching, work on starting out by putting the sled on the ground, stepping back from it a few paces, then running toward it and launching yourself onto it face first to start your run. The big wooden things with the curl at the front (toboggans, though some people use the word for any kind of sled) are best for piling 5 or 6 people onto and then all falling off in a tangled heap when you try to turn a corner of any kind. While this is fun, it's offset by the hassle of dragging such a heavy thing back up the hill. $100 or more The multipart constructions with seats, turnable skis, etc are similarly a pain to carry back up. I haven't tried the foam boards yet, but they look expensive and I'm not sure what the benefit is. My suggestion: go to a Canadian Tire (or your local equivalent) and buy a selection of cheap lightweight plastic things: a disc, a rectangle that looks like two kids could sit in it, a carpet, etc (and if there are several of you then get several styles of rectangle) - spend about $30-$40 per person and then throw all that at a hill and find out what you like. If you're on a public hill, you can always give your "rejected" sleds to random other hill-visitors, who often show up in a group that has more people than sleds. 

An absolutely vital part of my camping equipment is what we call the washing up bowl: a rectangular plastic tub that's smaller than a sink, but larger than your plates and pots. I actually take two or three, stacked inside each other. They serve many purposes at once: 

I can generally avoid sand even on a beach site, and just keep a towel at the border of sand and vegetation, but a forest site can have a lot of "bittiness" - shreds of tree material I guess - that most of this also applies to. 

If you need to ask, the answer is almost certainly never. There are places (Northern Quebec, Labrador, Ontario and Manitoba near Hudson's Bay) where due to polar bear activity you should be accompanied by a guide/guard who will have a serious rifle and dedicate significant time to watching for bears while you do your scientific research or marvel at the scenery. These guides are trained on how to shoot and how to know when to shoot, and their guns are not small. There are also less wild places where your big worry is the two-footed predators. If you think they are enough of a danger to you that you need a gun, they probably have a bigger gun. You're restricted by what you can carry over days or weeks and the bad guys are not. This is not to say that you shouldn't bring a gun with you if you are a hunter, you know how to use it, and you know how to tell you should use it. But if you're someone who lives in the city and worries about wild animals attacking you on the trail, not only are you worrying about the wrong thing (spraining your ankle is far more likely to kill you) you are imagining the wrong solution. 

And you must be wearing a PFD. So, you're in a largish lake, you are wearing your PFD and clinging to your right-side up boat which is so full of water you believe you can't get in it without sinking it, or you believe you're not able to get into it. What should you do? 

I have met a moose on a trail (while carrying a 90 pound pack) and I assure you I did not need any special training or background knowledge to run away. As it turned out the moose also ran away in the other direction. 

For pizza, I do it in a frying pan with cornmeal under it to keep it from sticking. A lid helps a little. For corn bread, I make "corn pone", again in the frying pan. You didn't mention regular bread, but I make English muffins, again the frying pan. These all work spectacularly well - the taste and flavor and just what you want and there's no sense of "if only we could have baked" at all. One of my camping companions loves to make "scrambled brownies" which might work in the cookie category. You make up brownie mix (she uses a just-add-water box) and then cook it in a frying pan stirring a lot as though it was scrambled eggs. I can report the result tastes like brownies and is nice in the middle of a trip when food is getting a bit boring. For pies, you're going to have to actually bake, and while I don't do that, there are plenty of people who do. You can get special lightweight lidded pots, heat reflectors and suchlike. Me, I wait and have pie when I get home. 

You need to distinguish between a backcountry campground - a bunch of sites together - and a backcountry campsite. In Algonquin, while you may only camp on designated sites, you are all alone as though you had chosen a random place. You reserve a particular lake, which could have anywhere from a handful to dozens of sites on it, each night, but you choose your site from those available when you're deciding to stop for the day. An Algonquin site features: 

This summer I went out canoe camping in some light rain that turned into a torrential downpour and wouldn't stop. When it finally did, there was a puddle in the fireplace and we had no dry wood. We had a little paper with us, and we got tinder from the inside of logs, and all those tricks, but nothing worked and we had a small child with us who was getting majorly unhappy. We had already laid birch bark down over the puddle to give us a dry place to work, and we had a fair amount of wood of various sizes, and plenty of dry matches. We also had our stove fuel (Coleman fuel here in Canada.) Just a few teaspoons underneath the dry wood, a match (tossed in from a respectful distance) and that whooomph that anyone will recognize/remember from the time their Dad did the same thing, and we had a roaring fire in no time. I wouldn't do it every time, but every ten years or so it's the right thing to do. 

I buy small bricks of "light" cheese (typically cheddar; we have also tried mozzarella) and keep them sealed as long as possible. (The lower fat cheeses are less likely to sweat beads of oil on a hot day. This isn't about going bad but it doesn't look nice.) After opening a sealed pack I put it in a Ziploc but its days are numbered so I'd rather have a day where everyone has a cheese sandwich and there's cheese on the pizza, then a cheese-free day, than a series of days in which we eat a quarter of a small block of cheese. I keep the cheese in the food pack while we're traveling, but when we get to camp I put the plastic bags in a mesh bag along with a rock, tie a hockey lace (extraordinarily long shoe lace and super useful for camping stuff) to it, throw it as far in the lake (or better, river) as I can and tie the lace to a tree so we don't lose it. This makeshift fridge has kept us happy on the cheese front for trips of up to ten days, and raccoons etc have not found my underwater stash in the night and eaten it.