In the middle of the 100 years' War, France's Bertrand du Guesclin reportedly used "countermarch" tactics successfully against the English. Another example was General National Greene's "March to the Dan" through the Carolinas to Virginia (and ultimately back to Guilford Courthouse) against Cornwallis during the American Revolution, over somewhat larger distances. And the classic example, of course, was the Long March of the Communists in China away from the Nationalists to the northwest of China in the mid-1930s. In each case, a weaker force used the factors of time and distance to turn the tables against a stronger attacker. What caused them to succeed? On the other hand, Vercingetorix apparently failed to use such tactics versus Caesar in Gaul. This is true even though he was covering almost the same general area (and distances) as France's Bertrand du Guesclin (although at a different time period). Could a plausible case have been made that such a strategy might have worked? 

The more I think about it, the more I believe that at least part of it is due to the dual structure of enlisted men and commissioned officers. The first group is enlisted right out of high school; the second group is drawn from college graduates who have successfully completed an officer's candidate school (or ROTC) program. "Enlistees" can rise to sergeant, but never higher (unless they leave the Army, go to college, and re-join the Army). Second lieutenants are paired as "platoon leaders" with career (senior) sergeants. Most second lieutenants are soon promoted to first lieutenant (after two year, rather than three, and at a greater rate than posited in my question. So the first "bottleneck" occurs at the company commander level. Up to that point, there a paucity of (short-term serving) college-educated junior officers, because enlisted men that lack a college degree aren't promoted beyond sergeant. The other factor is that because of U.S. affluence, American officers are sometimes promoted one rank above their responsibility level. If a company is commanded by a Captain in the British army (the "standard"), it might be commanded by a Major in the U.S. army; or a battalion by a Lt. Col. rather than a Major. So the first major "weeding out" occurs at the level of Captain, a second one at Major, and after that it gets "serious." This was the case in the Korean War (Robert Leckie, "The War in Korea"), when the first batch of troops in Korea was a battalion sent to Osan under the command of Lt. Colonel Charles "Brad" Smith. He was 36 years old, and a favorite of General William Dean, having received promotions at a maximum rate until then. But he barely made it to Brigadier General, and losing the battle of Osan may have had something to do with his not rising higher. 

The last columns at the right of each page appear to contain references to amounts of British money in the form of X pounds Y shillings Z pence. On the left are dates, and in the middle, references to the "accounts." There were 12 pence to the shilling, and 20 shillings (240 pence) to the pound. 

The regions' cultures did not begin to unify before the Revolutionary War. They remained very different until the time of the Civil War, which is why the latter took place. What is true is that different regions of the 13 Colonies had common concerns, which united them sufficiently to make common cause against the British. These common concerns included the following: 

Spices were what we would nowadays call mass luxuries. These are luxury goods that the masses can afford in small quantities. They are desired because they are out of the ordinary, and offer a "change of pace." They are expensive on a per-unit basis, but it is the "smallness" of use that makes them affordable. Spices had both these qualities at the time. So the demand from aristocrats was supported by demand from "ordinary" people. Other contemporary items that had similar qualities included chocolate, coffee and sugar. In some cases, where supply conditions were favorable, the "massification" of use created a "backup demand" that helped increase supplies so much that their prices dropped sharply and they were no longer luxuries, but became necessities. This occurred when the products moved from the "exploration" to the "exploitation" stage in global markets, because Europeans gained access to tropical lands where such products could be produced cheaply. 

One reason was a gender imbalance, a lot more male slaves (captured in war), than female slaves.And of course, "breeding" requires both. When slaves were shipped to from Africa to America, there was a reasonable balance of male and female slaves that were bought or captured, and taken across the Atlantic in ships. Very few ancient ships carried large numbers of women.The carvels of the Middle Ages were sufficiently comfortable to accommodate women (some came over on the Mayflower, for instance). 

During the battle of Tours, the invading Muslim leader, Emir Abd al Rahman was killed, which represented a major setback for them. After winning the battle in 732, the Frankish leader Charles Martel followed up his victory by "cleaning out" Muslim enclaves established in southern France, meaning that they had lost the initiative. By about 750, the Ummayad Empire had degenerated into civil war, making it possible for Martel's son and grandson, Charlemagne, to push the invaders out of France entirely, and begin pushing them out of northern Spain. So yes, the battle of Tours represented a bursting of the Ummayad bubble. 

Most of your exhibit is a "cover letter" for the circular. Then there are several pages that list the signatories. The "refuse" list at the end of the document is very short. It does not cover even a single page, and therefore doesn't look like a list. Instead, it consists of half a paragraph with about 15 names. It's not "empty," but it is very nearly so. Apparently the Boston region was very much pro Revolution, with the "refusers" very much the exception, and amounting to a "handful." Which is why the Revolution started there, and not somewhere else. 

In "Mein Kampf," Hitler opined: "If we speak of soil in Europe today, we can primarily have in mind only Russia and her vassal border states." This idea was supported by the Heartland Theory of Britain's HJ Mackinder and Germany's Karl Haushofer. Basically, of Germany got control of at least eastern Europe (Poland, the Baltic states, Belarus, and the Ukraine), she would dominate the "heartland" (central Europe, eastern Europe, Russia) of "world island," the Eurasian landmass. The "heartland" itself was key to dominating world island (although an alliance with Japan wouldn't hurt either), and controlling world island could lead to domination of the world. Hitler wanted to take at least the first step, and possibly all four steps in this sequence. 

There are two types of queens. A Queen Consort is the wife of a King. A Queen Regnant is a ruler in her own right, a "female king" of you will. The husband of a Queen Consort is just the King, per the above. But the husband of a Queen Regnant is a Prince Consort. "Prince" is one level below King, and the Consort's title is held at a level below the Queen's. Queen Elizabeth II is a Queen Regnant, having inherited the title from her father King George VI, and that's why her husband Philip is a Prince Consort. There are instances when the King of country A marries the Queen Regnant of country B. (E.g King Philip of Spain and Queen Mary of England.) Then the husband is generally referred to as "King," because that's what he is in his own country (A). But he's really a "Prince Consort" in country B. There is also something called the Crown Matrimonial, whereby a Queen Regnant will give "equal" (kingly) powers to her husband through her marriage (matrimony). Sweden's Queen Ulrike Eleonora did this in the 18th century. But that's rare, and is a form of de facto "abdication." 

Britain was formally allied with Japan. And a war with Japan could theoretically lead to war with Britain. This could happen, for instance, with regard to U.S interests in Asia, particularly China. The U.S. supported an Open Door Policy in that country, the other two did not. America had gone to war with Britain in 1812, and "come close" several more times in the 19th century. But it was mostly a "wargaming" exercise to test the 5-5-3 ratio naval tonnage ratio for the U.S., U.K., and Japan, and the impact of the U.S.'s 5 versus the other two's 8. 

The Silk Road existed from about 220 BC (the establishment of the Han dynasty) to 1453 AD (the fall of Constantinople), but was active for much shorter periods of time, in two subperiods, under the Tang and Yuan dynasties. The Tang Dynasty (630-760). This is not the whole period of the Tang Dynasty (618-907), but only its zenith. During the zenith, the Tang either subjugated troublesome tribes to the west (e.g. the Turks) or maintained good relations with them (the Tibetans). And the Tang were interested in connecting "east" to "west" China. As a result, trade goods enjoyed relatively safe passage from modern North China, through modern Turkestan and Tibet and north India, all the way to Persia and Arabia. Subsequent to 760, more and more of the "silk road" fell under hostile powers, until by 900, the Tang dynasty controlled very little of it. The Yuan Dynasty (1271-the early 1360s). Kublai Khan finally managed to bring all of China under heel. His grandfather, Ghengis Khan, had already conquered Turkish and Persian, and Ukrainian possessions to the west, extending the silk road all the way to eastern Europe (e.g. the modern Ukraine), which were all ruled by other "family" members. This control lasted until the Ming Revolution of 1368. 

The seeds of the Ottoman Empire's losing control over Egypt were sown during the Crimean War. The Ottomans recalled their army from Egypt to fight in Crimea. Also, Egypt provided a small army for that war, that was demonstrably more modern (for the 19th century) than the Ottoman army. And Egypt's first railroad was completed during the Crimean war. This, together with the war itself, led France to build the Suez Canal finishing in 1869 (Britain "bought in" in 1875). This extended their influence in Egypt, and reduced that of the Ottoman Empire. 

In the spring of 1942, there was the danger, or at least the fear, that Japan would conquer all of New Guinea, the Solomon islands, and ultimately Samoa, thereby cutting off Australia from American supplies and technical assistance from America's west coast to Australia's southeast coast, and thus "isolating" Australia. Was there a viable alternate supply route to Perth, Australia on the southwest coast to keep Australia in the war? (The distance from either Miami or London to Perth through the Cape of Good Hope is over 9,000 miles; from there to Sydney on the southeast coast is another 2,000 miles. From Los Angeles to Sydney would be 7,500 miles, meaning that the "Perth" route would be at least 50% longer.) 

The Thais had a puppet government that followed the will of the Japanese (such as declaring war on the Allies). That made them nominally, at least, an Axis power. Also, Thailand allowed its territory to be used by the Japanese as a springboard for their invasions of Burma (Myanmar) and the East Indies (modern Indonesia). Even so, Thailand contributed few troops or other supplies to Japan during World War II. Thus, their "participation" on the Axis side was treated (and viewed) as "symbolic." The role of "Free" (dissident) Thais in resisting the Japanese somewhat mitigated the stigma that was attached to the official Thai government for its actions during the war. 

"Sweden emerged physically unscathed from World War II." That was the whole point of its neutrality. Other Scandinavian countries suffered more because they were "involved." In Sweden's case, there was no fighting, no occupation, nothing related to war, hence "unscathed." How did Sweden emerge morally unscathed? First, even Germany and Japan were forgiven and rehabilitated after the war. Although Sweden "tilted" toward the Axis, her culpability was far less than the other two. She didn't commit any atrocities (although her iron ore and other exports were used in their commission). Sweden even did a favor or two for the Allies; a Swedish-American spy,Eric Erickson operated from Sweden while spying on the German oil industry. 

There were three main periods in the Ottoman Empire. The first was known for internal, but not external stability; the second was known for both external and internal stability; and the last was known for neither. The Ottoman Empire took its form after the capture of Constantinople in 1453, which it took at its capital. For the next two and a half centuries, it was an aggressive power that waged war on eastern Europe, mostly in the Balkans, advancing as far as Hungary and Rumania, to the southern borders of Poland and Russia. That brought the Ottoman Empire into intermittent conflict with those two countries that ended with an Ottoman victory over (and a peace treaty with) Russia in 1718. The Ottoman Empire also attacked Italy and Austria to the west, losing the battle of Lepanto in 1571, and the battle of Vienna in 1683. During this expansionist era, the country's European borders were unstable, but the Middle Eastern core of the Empire was stable; a large, powerful and mostly successful army minimized crime and civil disorder and kept enemies away from the heartland. The period of greatest peace and prosperity was in the mid-18th century, the half century during and after the so-called Tulip Period of 1718-1730. This was a time when the Empire mostly avoided wars and concentrated on internal economic development, based in part on tulip raising. This was the time when the Empire first opened itself to foreign capital, art, architecture, and ideas that led to a flourishing culture. Although Ottoman power was clearly peaking, this was a time of internal, as well as external stability that kept the peace in the Middle East. After 1768, the Ottoman Empire became the "Sick Man of Europe" because of the rise of Russia (beginning under Catherine the Great), with the Ottoman Empire (along with Poland) its most important victim. The Empire was also wracked with internal strife, including in the Middle East, and spent 150 years "threatening" to fall apart before it actually did so in 1918.