According to William Strauss and Neil Howe in their book "Generations", one reason the scouting movement was so successful was it came at "just the right time," at least for Americans. One demonstration of this fact was that shortly after Robert Baden Powell founded the original movement in Britain in 1908, William Boyce founded an echo movement in the U.S. for boys in 1910, and Juliette Low quickly also did so for girls in 1912. And the popularity of both Boy and Girl Scouts in the United States assured the success of the movement globally. The scouting movement coincided with the childhoods of what later became the World War II generation. At that time, America wasn't thinking of fighting a major war three decades in the future; in 1912, even World War I hadn't begun. What was then on Americans' minds was the recent "closing of the frontier". and the fact that there were no national exploration tasks for the next generation. Instead, "scouting" became a wholesome and less dangerous "urban" substitute for children, replicating some of the outdoorsy "frontier" experiences, without the actual dangers of dealing with wild animals and hostile Native Americans. Indeed, scouting worked well with the growing urbanization of the United States at the time. By the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, the nation had gotten over the civil war, and quasi-military activities, including wearing uniforms, became respectable again, especially in the watered down form provided by scouting. (Similarly, America got over its Vietnam war funk around the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries.) Another attraction of scouting (to adults) was that it kept children off the streets and provided natural outlets into which their natural youthful energies could be channeled. Coming too late to do much for World War I, this "channeling" of youth stood America in good stead during the Depression (e.g., the Civilian Conservation Corps), and of course, World War II itself, before being replaced with different, "Dr. Spock" child rearing methods after the war. The scouting movement also fit in with the "rugged life" and conservation ethos being preached by American leaders of the time, notably Theodore Roosevelt. 

Mirsky was saying that after the defeat by Japan in 1905 (and the resulting uprising), that Russia had to choose between "reform" and "anarchy." Nicholas had blocked, and the nobles had failed to produce, "reform," so the result would be "anarchy." For which jails might be an antidote. 

Until the industrial revolution, China was (mostly) an "advanced" or at least "state of the art" country. That is, until it fell behind the West, starting in the late 18th century. Recently, China has been making great strides in the current information-driven, computer age. This, one might expect from the country that invented the abacus. My feeling is that China fell behind the West because it didn't "get" the internal combustion engine. Is this true? Put another way, did China "sit out" the Industrial Revolution from 1780-1920? To dispute this theory, please provide examples of how Chinese "engines" were comparable in sophistication to similar Western engines between 1780-1920, and then explain why they didn't have the positive impact on Chinese society as their western equivalents. To support this theory, please give concrete evidence of how China lagged behind Western countries in the use of "engines." For instance, until the year 2000, China's consumption of oil (a key fuel for the internal combustion engine), was 1/25th that of the U.S. on a per capita basis, and only a small fraction of America's on an absolute basis, even though China's population was several times larger. 

European-produced gold in the Middle Ages came from central Europe, mainly parts of pre World War I "Austria-Hungary." As pointed out by other posters and commenters, much of this came from Greater Hungary, which also included Romanian and "Yugoslavian" lands later held by "Austria-Hungary." Other Austro-Hungarian sources of gold included the mountains of the modern Czech Republic, and (currently) Polish Silesia, the latter seized from Austria-Hungary by Prussia in the 1740s. That's because these lands had geology and mountains of an optimal height for gold and other metals mining; i.e. there are enough rocks for metals to accumulate and be "trapped," and yet not so high as for them to be frozen in ice. This, of course, does not rule out Europe obtaining gold from other sources, such as Mali in the Middle Ages, or the New World thereafter. 

Monaco was initially an Italian principality. It was founded by Genoa, and later became a colony of Spanish "Aragon," which took over large chunks of Italy. In the 19th century, after the French Revolution, it became a part of Sardinia. It was Monaco's association with "Italy" that tended to keep it out of the hand of France. In fact, most of the original Monaco was sold to France for money by its Prince in 1861, but he kept a small city-sized piece that included the most nationalistic, independence minded "Monacons" who spoke Ligurian, an old Italian dialect. It became the site of a casino, and therefore a playground for the rich, and thereby a (small) "power" in its own right. 

Strangely enough, I believe that it was the ideology of Communism. That is, the various ethnic groups under Tito put aside their differences, because "we are all Communists here." (I have no sources on Yugoslav Communism, and am basing my answer on Chuikov's "the Battle For Stalingrad," in which "Communism" was a unifying force for the defenders. A similar factor was at work in Mao's China.) The Chetniks didn't have any comparable unifying force. About their only ideology was Fascism. And the Fascist ideology of the time seemed to be best expressed as "Mein Land ist besser als dein Land." (My country/nationality/race is better than yours.) 

In 1942, the western Allies were not nearly as concerned about an eventual Soviet victory as they were about an imminent Soviet collapse that would have left North America, South America and the British Isles alone against the Axis. They were too weak help the Soviet Union directly with an attack in western Europe, but what they did do was helpful all the same. North Africa: This secured the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal for the Allies. Coming just before the Soviet counterattack at Stalingrad, it was a major diversion. The Axis lost a quarter million (mostly Italian) men, plus some German armor and half their air transport fleet in North Africa. Had these forces been later sent to Stalingrad instead, the Sixth army might have been maintained and relieved. If the Germans had won at Stalingrad in 1942, Eisenhower's victorious forces might have been sent to Iran, the Caucasus and/or the Volga to help "roll back" the German forces. Italy: The Germans had to send some twenty divisions from the Eastern front to Italy after the battle of Kursk. This happened after they lost the battle, but even if they had won, the diversion of these divisions would have prevented them from "exploiting" their success. So the Anglo-American plans were based on what they could do, not what they feared. 

One possible example was the temporary Peru-Bolivian Confederation of the late 1830s. Peru and Bolivia had been "one territory" during the colonial era, but became separate countries during the wars of independence. After a brief war between the two countries, Peru's General Gamarra and Bolivia's General Santa Cruz agreed that the two countries should be re-united. Peru was the larger (populationwise) and stronger of the two countries, so it was more eager for a union, or at least a Confederation, in the earlier days. Then "Peru" subdivided into North and South Peru, leaving Bolivia the strongest of the three parties, and General Santa Cruz nominally the head of the whole "country". That was not so acceptable to the Peruvians, especially the North Peruvians. These people sided in a new war with neighboring Chile and Argentina against Bolivia and "South" Peru. General Gamarra reunited the two Perus and ousted General Santa Cruz from the newly reunited country with foreign help, so Bolivia went its separate way, and Santa Cruz went into exile 

NO. England was conquered by a "Frenchman," William the Conqueror, not France. Unlike e.g. Christopher Columbus, who colonized the "Indians" and handed over his new colony to Queen Isabella of Spain, William did not conquer England for France. He was a "warlord" who conquered England for himself, and crowned himself king. 

In 1903, the President of the United States was one Theodore "Teddy" Roosevelt, who was arguably the most pro-British President in modern American history. He famously made a remark that America and the British Empire together could "whip" the rest of the world. Had he been President in 1914, he certainly would have brought the U.S. into World War I on the British side. His son, a Brigadier General, fought at Normandy in World War II. In 1905, Roosevelt negotiated the Peace of Portsmouth in the Russo-Japanese war in favor of Britain's ally, Japan. In 1906, Roosevelt secretly supported Britain's ally, France against Germany regarding Morocco, while pretending to be an "honest broker." (But he may have pushed back World War I by a decade.) Basically, it made sense for Britain to cater to Teddy Roosevelt. Whether it would, or should have done so for another President is open to question. 

One important consequence of repeated Spanish bankruptcies was that the modern Netherlands won its war of independence from Spain. It may have (years later), led to the successful secession of Portugal in 1640 as well. In any event, they marked the decline of the Spanish empire, and its eventual withdrawal (in the 19th century) from the affairs of (central) Europe. 

My understanding was that it was a form of "extramarital" romance for knights and nobles in Europe during the Middle Ages. Was it ever an "institution" anywhere, and what (if any) impact did it have on society? 

This is just to add to Pieter's excellent answer. Some executives go through a "shark to dolphin" transition as they rise. Lyndon Johnson more than most. That is, they lose some of their rough edges as they get more and more responsibility and take on larger roles. Instead, they become more "statesmanlike." That is to say that Johnson started out as a "hometown boy" as a local politician from the narrowest of rural backgrounds. Over time, he made a larger rise than most, to the national, and then international, stage. Unlike e.g Robert E. Lee, whose views never rose above the "state" level, Johnson "grew" into each new level, if not when he reached it, then sometime after. His earlier segregationist tendencies reflected his hometown views, and his civil rights tendencies reflected his national views. This transition was best described in the multi volume series, Means of Ascent. 

Adult chimney sweepers in Victorian England, were poor men, who had no other choices. And because the occupation was dirty, they were at the bottom of society. As you wrote, it was a more common occupation for children who smaller and more suited for the job. An adult sweeper would probably have been a small man, who was too small and weak to get other higher-paying "heavy lifting" jobs. 

Unless someone can find a "smoking gun" such as a diary, we'll never know for sure. But the "indications" appear to be no, for several reasons. Marie had a difficult childbirth with her last child. She was the one that said no to further marital relations, which amplified any tendencies that Louis XV might have had toward infidelity. It's unlikely that a queen consort would refuse her husband, then sleep with other men. She was some seven years older than Louis XV, not the kind of woman most men would want for a mistress. She was a "down to earth" woman from a "poor" family (for a noblewoman), not popular among other nobles. She was a good-hearted woman who was basically in love with Louis XV, at least initially (which is on the "rare" side in those days). 

Alcohol consumption increased after 1933 for at least two reasons, as shown in a graph put up by another poster. There was a lot of "pent up demand" on the part of people who wanted to drink during the 1920s but was afraid to, because of the law. Women had "learned" to drink in large numbers during the 1920s. That's because women accompanied men (initially as chaperones, later as customers in their own right) to "speakeasies" that technically were not drinking establishments, because they were unlicensed before Prohibition. This was particularly true for wine, less so for other forms of liquor. 

During the Waterloo campaign, there were TWO Allied armies facing Napoleon, one under England's Wellington, and one under Prussia's Blucher. Napoleon first defeated Blucher at Ligny, then turned on Wellington's then outnumbered army at Waterloo. The latter was a close battle until the badly wounded 72-year-old Blucher arrived with the remnants of his badly defeated army to reinforce Wellington, late in the day. Then the combined forces crushed the French. Could the Allies have avoided the defeat at Ligny, and the near-defeat at Waterloo by combining/uniting their forces earlier? 

As part of its 1957 "Great Leap Forward," program, China's undertook to ship "surplus" food to the Soviet Union in exchange for help in "industrial" development, especially its nuclear program. That's because one of Khruschev's main concerns during his tenure was agricultural reform, which was grounded in his desire to see Soviet citizens, "live better," or at least "eat better." That wasn't a good idea because it turned out that China needed the food itself. That happened because Chinese commune leaders on quotas reported production greater than actually achieved, leading Mao to believe that he had a "surplus" for export. 

The United States wasn't "behind" Europe in flight in 1914, because its aircraft industry followed a different development path. The American preference was for better plane control and distance. In 1903, the Wright brothers flew a plane for a greater distance (260 meters) than a "pioneering" French plane did in 1906 (220 meters). The U.S. later developed superior passenger (consumer) planes, at least until the Concorde. Where the Europeans took the lead was in what we now call fighter planes, then referred to as "scout" or "pursuit" planes. That's because European countries were more likely to go to war. The first military planes were used by the Italians in 1911, and Bulgaria in 1913, not exactly the most highly industrialized countries; just among the most belligerent. It's true that the Americans fell behind the Europeans in fighter planes, if for no other reason that it entered World War I almost three years behind others, and didn't produce good fighter models until 1919, needing to use allied planes as "stopgaps" until then. 

The French sent out more and larger ships than the Anglo Americans. Conditions were much worse with overcrowding, etc. than on smaller ships. The destination for French slaves were Caribbean sugar islands, which were more nearly comparable to similar Spanish colonies, rather than more temperate climates such as Virginia. Because French slaves died off at a much greater rate than those of American destinations in any event, the French "shippers" were less concerned about delivering slaves in "good" condition. From the link: