There's a real world example. In prisons, it was not uncommon for cigarettes to be used as a form of currency. This has faded more recently as prisons have cracked down on smoking like everyone else. Now they apparently use Ramen noodles, which still get consumed. In a real world, you wouldn't have just one denomination. As someone else points out, bullets are like pennies. They are the smallest denomination. You would also have pistol magazines (10?), rifle magazines (30?), and machine gun belts (100? 500? 1000?). Maybe you'd have packs (4 or 5?) to serve as an intermediate size. Or maybe you'd call them halves. I would also add certificates to this. You have a certificate or coupon that is good for X bullets. Most people exchange the certificates rather than the bullets themselves. You keep your bullets. You use certificates to buy reloads. Or other supplies. A problem with this in our world would be that not all bullets are the same size. But perhaps your world is different. Maybe they do have one standard size. You might be able to make this more believable if you switch from bullets to some other form of ammunition, e.g. charges. Then a pistol might shoot two charges at once and an assault rifle might shoot one. A sniper rifle might take three or more. An extra big gun might shoot ten or something (think of an anti-tank gun mounted on a jeep). Charges could also work as gunpowder. So you reuse slugs, etc. but have to actually replace the gunpowder. Works better with more primitive firearms. For example, a flintlock or matchlock would make sense. Don't forget to generate your currency. If you only expend bullets (as in the Walking Dead), you will have deflation. The currency will be worth more and more and you'll have less of it to go around. Currency shouldn't be plentiful, but it shouldn't be rare either. Otherwise people would hoard bullets and trade something else. Gresham's law. Better value stores are kept while inferior ones are traded. So make new bullets or charges or whatever. Bullet manufacturers would be the banks. They would issue the certificates/coupons (paper money) because only they could actually fill them. Perhaps some enterprising person would corner the market on one of the bullet inputs and be able to act as a bank. But in general whomever actually produces the bullets themselves would be the bank. 

Maybe nothing It sounds like votes would be really expensive. Wouldn't the typical rich person be better off buying political power in the normal way? If so, the ability to buy votes won't matter as no one will use it. They'll still purchase advertisements as a more effective form of vote buying. In order for vote buying to matter, it would need to be cheaper than our form of vote buying. Maybe something This would tend to favor certain groups over others. For example, let's consider how the charity reward will shift votes. In order, the following groups give the most to charity as a percentage of income: 

Perhaps some people will vote differently, but many will vote as the employer suggests. And large employers could vote in programs that subsidize themselves. I tend to think that we should shift budgeting power from politicians to individuals. But this doesn't limit responsibly. By allowing individuals not just to spend on approved programs but on whatever they choose, it shifts control of government power from the majority to a minority. My similar suggestion was to allow people to budget the spending of their own taxes. Then someone can't just provide their entire income from the government spending they allocate because they can only allocate that portion of their income that they pay in taxes. Currently ownership and responsibility are separate. If I pay a lot in taxes, it just means that I lose the ability to spend that money. If I specified how the taxes were spent but within the government system, then I still spend the money. But I spend it within the societal options. I earn the money and spend the money. Society provides the options. Like the cake cutting problem this balances two goals: majority rule without disenfranchising the minority. Allowing individuals to do both has the same problem as allowing people to cut their own cake. There's no incentive to limit the size of the piece that you select. Just grab the whole cake. When they run out, you can sell pieces to everyone else. Deals I offer to give you .1% of my budget if you vote for my .5% program. Sure, that's supposed to be private. But what if you let me look over your shoulder as you vote and I let you look over my shoulder as I vote? Hard to prevent. Note that without the .5% programs, that would be useless. There's no incentive to swap voting. It's easier to just vote for my own stuff. But with the .5%, it makes sense to spend a little to get support. Small programs How do I pass a small program? Say I want to spend just $100,000 on something. Do I now have to recruit .5% of the population to make one small expenditure? The .5% requirement is too low to promote responsibility and at the same time too large for some programs. 

The first reason is necessary. If there is little reason for mobility, then they would just build fortifications. You could probably get away with just one of the last two reasons. But both together are stronger. 

But where's the fun in those explanations? God, aliens, and time travel are much more fun. Anyway, the aliens are curious how many people will go with the mundane explanations versus more supernatural explanations. Also fun with answering prayers. Someone's doing a rain dance to bring rain? Make it rain. They try it again but it doesn't work. Make it work just often enough that someone eventually tries stronger prayers, including sacrifices. Rain more often as the sacrifices grow. Definitely answer the first human sacrifice with rain. See how many additional people they sacrifice for more rain, even though it no longer works. Of course, you may not want to be that mean. UFOs Similarly, while most UFO sightings are explained by things like weather balloons and secret military tests, some are unexplained. What if some of those were aliens playing games? Gold Drop a nugget of gold in a stream where people will naturally go. Watch them rush around looking for more. Missing link You have a world with primates. Take some DNA samples and then seed a more advanced version, skipping some intermediate step. See if they figure out what happened. 

If you are in a cold, icy region, an ice axe would make sense as a commonly carried tool. They are primarily used for climbing on icy surfaces. While not really the intended purpose, they can be used as a weapon. All three of the adze, the pick, and the spike at the bottom end of the shaft are sharp and dangerous. An ice axe might make sense for an airborne force if it frequently lands in places where the soldiers have to climb to reach their destination. It is of course up to you whether an ice axe would be an axe for your purposes. Technically speaking, they are generally adzes rather than axes. That may or may not matter for your story. 

Non-profit organizations cannot give candidate campaigns money. They can only fund things like advertising that cannot be coordinated with the candidate campaigns. But of course rich people can do that directly. All the non-profit gives is pooling (more than one person contributing), which you don't have here; and anonymity, which you don't mention as a goal. The easiest way for a rich person to magnify donations is to give to each and every campaign committee in all fifty states plus the national committee. They have much higher donation limits, and there are a lot of them. This works bests for major party candidates though, as the third parties don't necessarily have matching organizations. Another trick is to have a business that gives out discretionary bonuses each year. Let it be known to your employees that you favor Jill Stein. Then increase their discretionary bonuses by the amount of any contributions that they or their spouses make. So long as you don't announce that you are doing this such that people can testify about it, this is difficult to prosecute. But let's ignore the difficulty. Maybe you marry Stein. Then your money is her money via community property. So she can spend it all. Limited effectiveness Hillary Clinton is outspending all the other candidates put together by a lot. It's ridiculous how little money Donald Trump is spending. Yet Trump is not losing by a landslide. In fact, he's winning as many states as Romney even though he's not nearly as competitive in spending. This gives a sort of upper limit to the benefits of spending. Stein also has the problem that her ideology is most attractive to a minority of US voters. Basically left-leaning independents. Unless she would moderate her stances, she would have a great deal of difficulty beating Clinton among center-left voters. Stein also has no state or federal government experience. And no executive experience of any kind. With enough resources, Stein might be able to increase her share of the vote from 3% to, say, 20% or 30%. However, this would almost entirely come from Hillary Clinton's share. The likely result would be better relative results for Trump. If Clinton and Stein each have 30% of the vote, Trump could win with 40%. Another possibility would be an electoral college split. If no candidate gets 270 electoral votes (a majority of 538), the vote goes to the House. Republicans do and almost certainly will have majorities in a majority of the state delegations (the vote for President is state by state with each state getting one vote). Stein has no appeal to Never Trump Republicans, so she has no chance of forming a coalition that will win in the House. Gary Johnson Johnson is a more likely candidate. Johnson is a former two-term governor, so he has actual executive experience in government. If the election goes to the House, Johnson does have appeal to Never Trump Republicans. Also if Democrats are left with a decision between Trump and Johnson, their demonization of Trump would make it difficult for them to vote in a way that resulted in President Trump. This gives Johnson a narrow path to victory. Infrastructure A lot of the problem is less about spending and more about infrastructure. Democrats and Republicans have an infrastructure of volunteers who can help with get-out-the-vote operations. Money is only a partial substitute for this. Democrats and Republicans also have institutional inertia. There are people who've voted for whichever party for fifty years. Even if another candidate better represents their beliefs, they may not notice. 

The only portion of bank security that is dependent on cryptography is online access. If cryptography fell without replacement, then banks would no longer be able to offer online access. This would be true regardless of currency. I.e. even if we switched to commodity money, we still wouldn't be able to do online transfers. Bitcoins are an interesting area in regards to this. As a cryptographic currency, they would be impacted. The immediate result would be that the rest of the Bitcoins would be mined. Instead of a growing money supply, there would be a static amount. This is something that would happen eventually anyway, so not that big a deal. More importantly, all Bitcoin transactions use cryptography to authenticate transactions. They'd have to find another way to do that, since cryptography would no longer be secure. So how would we do things like shop online? We'd have to come up with a process that put those portions that need to be secure offline. For example, perhaps you shop on Amazon.com and get a cart ID. You then call your bank on the telephone (not VOIP) and tell them that you authorize that cart ID. The bank phones Amazon.com with the authorization and other private information (e.g. your address) which then fetches your order based on the cart ID and processes it. Note that under this system, Amazon.com has two networks: a public insecure network and a private disconnected network. Because private information is only available on the private network, this is secure without cryptography. Well--at least as secure as phone ordering ever was. Credit card transactions could no longer be processed online. We'd be back to processing them by phone. Phone processing would not be impacted. Physical transfers of paper money would not be impacted. Presuming we're only talking about public key cryptography, parties that communicate online frequently could still manage. They'd just have to do the initial handshake offline so that they can exchange private keys rather than public keys. This would be suitable for long running connections where the increased cost can be amortized over time. It wouldn't work well for short term or intermittent connections, e.g. online shopping by individuals. 

People would do what they did in high tax countries (>90%). Cheat. Instead of taking a high salary, they would get benefits from their employer. Free housing. Free food. Free clothes. Free travel. Free education benefits are possible but tricky (since you usually get educated before working, not after). Cheating actually helps the situation, because without it, people with high incomes would retire early. Why keep working if you already have more money than you could ever spend? Black market barter of goods and services directly is also possible. This is economically inefficient but not as much so as not getting goods and services at all. This would decrease the velocity of money, causing a drop in the money supply. That would cause deflation. Rather than having inflation, prices would fall as no one has enough (spendable) money to afford many things. 

These seem the most likely results. The poorer people will have to connect to areas where the wealthy have already brought connections. The wealthy will get first call on the lines while those poorer get the gaps that would otherwise be empty. This works because the nature of the internet is to be clumpy. Sometimes there's high traffic and sometimes there is less. The system needs to provide enough bandwidth to support the wealthy's peak needs. Everyone else can make use of the extra bandwidth in the gaps between. Just a note, but in my opinion, you're skipping the hard part. If energy becomes more expensive, I would expect income equality to go down. It's going up now because automation is cheaper than people. Automation runs on energy. If energy is expensive, then automation would become expensive as well. This would favor labor over capital rather than leading to increased income inequality. I stuck to handwaving that part for this answer, but your world needs more thought in how its backstory would work before you fill in details like this. 

Use the fur and hair to hide and accentuate features. So you have a humanoid female with long, sweeping hair. Her face is always a bit fox-shaped but within human norms. To look like a fox, she rearranges her hair to resemble fur and puffs it out in certain places to increase the resemblance to a fox. For example, fox ears might really be just folds of hair. Note that the hair may need to be alive for this to work. Perhaps more cilia than hair. Perhaps there are air pockets under her skin that allow even the facial shape to change. Expand them as humanoid. Contract them for a fox. These could also store fur. Perhaps the skin retracts behind them, leaving the fur on top. Give her extra joints in her limbs but allow her to be able to lock them into place. So she has a joint between wrist and elbow that doesn't bend in humanoid form. But as a fox, it forms the knee of her foreleg. Her upper arm would retract into her body, leaving her humanoid knee as the fox's shoulder. You can't do much with size. Even if she looks like a small human, she will be a very large fox. It's unlikely that she will look quite right in either form. Under careful examination, she won't quite look human or fox. But most don't catch more than a glimpse of her in fox form. And of course as a human, she can wear clothes. So most won't see more than her face and hands. Perhaps she uses her tails to give the impression of hips and breasts. 

If humans can build condominiums, then why would anyone live in houses? Angular Velocity We know only two ways to simulate gravity. One uses the mass of a planet. The other uses spin. It has been speculated that humans might find some aspects of spin-based gravity uncomfortable. For example, certain kinds of motion (nodding or shaking one's head) may cause odd sensations in the inner ear. Natural Geography Some people may simply prefer natural geography to artificial geography. For example, a mountain climber may prefer a planet because the mountains are taller. Or because the mountains are more variable. Or because there's simply a greater variety of mountains on a planet. Size Compared to a planet, space stations are small. If one likes to see new sights, one may well prefer the sheer variety available on a planet. Or perhaps flora is your thing. Or fauna. Maybe you like undersea exploring (how deep are the seas on a space station?). Stubbornness "My parents lived and died on a planet and so will I." Even if energy and raw materials are cheaper on space stations, some people may still prefer planets. Just because. Anti-technology A space station is built with technology and runs on technology. It's hard to envision an Amish lifestyle on a space station.