Divine and charming seem to be "posh" words, used to express meaningless politeness by middle and upper class women; as opposed to cute, they do not seem to be increasingly used by men, except in sarcastic ways (which btw it seems to be the way most women use them). They seem also to express affectation rather than feminility. Men would use other "empty" adjectives rather than those, but the need to express politeness without compromise (ie, to say that something is good without actually recognising any specific good characterists in it) doesn't seem to be exclusively feminine. 

Pure mistakes, such as involuntary elisions, spoonerisms, typos, lexical misuses, etc. Prestige mistakes - using popular constructions in formal contexts that require standard speech, or, conversely, standard constructions in contexts that demand popular speech. Hypercorrections, in which the speaker tries to produce a standard construction, but due to insufficient knowledge of standard grammar, misapplies them. Fads, usually slang terms, that become fashionable for a time, then become dated, rejected by most speakers, and finally go archaic, without ever acquiring standard status. True innovation - neologisms, acronyms, portmanteaus, foreign loans that "catch", popular constructions that constitute the "natural" drift of the language, etc. 

Where I can't know, except contextually, if we are talking about a pretty little school for girls, a pretty school for little girls, or a school for pretty little girls. Wouldn't that make a language less, rather than more, descriptive? 

This seems a general trait of written discourse in the second half of the 20th century; the aggressive tone of 19th century polemics came out of fashion, and was replaced by an increased use of irony dressed in polite forms. Marx called Ure a "dwarf economist"; we wouldn't use such terms, even if we thought they were factually appropriate. But written, or at least published discourse has been a masculine privilege from earlier than that. And if anything, the internet seems to be reverting the trend described above: violent, vicious polemics is back, often even intensified when compared to that of 150 years ago. 

Well, this at least is contextualised as an American middle class thing, which would probably wiser to do for all of those claims; but it seems more prejudiced than "axiomatic". I wonder whether such "lack of sence of humour" just reflects the fact that masculine "humour" is so often misogynistic; I suppose Polish jokes aren't that popular among poles, either. 

I am not sure how those things work in English, but in Portuguese we don't use "conjugar" or "declinar" like that; one does not usually conjugate a verb when using it in a flexed form in normal speech or writing. In this case, we rather use the substantive "concordância" and the related verb "concordar": "o verbo concorda em número e pessoa com o sujeito": "the verb agrees/concords/matches with the subject in number and person*". The whole phenomena are respectively called "concordância verbal" and "concordância nominal". 

Another issue is that while English can be more concise than most other languages, it trades that for ambiguity: 

I have to agree with Anixx; "only" is an adjective in 2., and an adverb in all other sentences. The next question would then be, "but are adverbs actually a part of speech, or do we lump several different parts of speech into the category of 'adverb', making it incongruent?" 

not to mention that Portuguese also allows me a different, context-related affirmative by merely repeating the verb of the question: 

Still others have just one name, that does not inflect by gender. Those have a fixed gender, irrespective of the sex of the animal: 

But then pão is used both as a countable noun (in which it means "loaf of bread" and as a non-countable noun (in which it means "bread", the substance of which loaves of bread are made). Anyway, my feeling is that the use of articles in Portuguese if by far more "syntactical" than "semantic". Some constructions require definite articles, others require indefinite articles, some require no article at all. This is far from consistent, as probably best shown by the usage of country names, where it has absolutely no semantic value: 

In Portuguese there are animals for which there are two different names, one for the male, and one for the female: 

Well, Portuguese has some that, whether "standard" or not, do not match English indexicals. It has three different words for "there", aí, ali and lá, the first of which refers to something close to the second person, and the other two to something removed from both first and second person (lá conotes a longer distance than ali). And, oh, it has a fourth word for "there", acolá, meaning more or less "further there". It has a word for the day before yesterday, anteontem. And a word for the day before that, too: trasanteontem, though this is much less used. It used to have a word for "this year", ogano, but it fell into disuse. But I am not sure that these are "non-standard" indexicals. How do we define the standard ones? (It can't be just "I", I suppose: "you" and some third person pronouns would be necessary, too - but are plurals, gender forms, or exclusivity, "standard"?) 

I think it is important to look at the general tendency in which the language is evolving. If a language is loosing some distinctions, then there will be an important trend of speaking/writing without the distictions that are going archaic. There will be a counter-trend to keep them. And among such counter-trend, we will find hypercorrections, in which people will try to "keep" the distinction in contexts where the standard doesn't have it first place. For instance, in Portuguese there is a general trend to lose verbal person desinences (except the singular first person and the plural third). There is also a tendency to change personal pronouns, especially the second person ones, and, more recently, and still less remarkably, the first person plural. So, in a more concrete example, here is a Standard Portuguese sentence: 

though my very limited knowledge of German - apparently similar to yours - only informed me of ja and jawohl. In my first language, I would say 

in which the dependent innovation (the pronoun change) is made, but not the innovation on which it depends (the verbal ending loss). It is a common construction, but it has no future: the standard form of the language can accept the pronoun change, but not the incongruence between subject and verb; the popular register will avidly accept the pronoun change, but not the "sophisticated" verb flexion. So here is a difference: if the language "evolves", then there are constructions that the standard register, that is most conservative, cannot accept, but become acceptable, or even the norm, in the more innovative registers, popular and colloquial (and will invade the literary register, too, since writers will feel the need to capture the gist of popular or colloquial speech to build their characters). But there are constructions that are misguided attempts to keep the formality of the standard, without really understanding the standard rules. Those can be quite widespread, but they represent neither the present nor the future of the language. In that sence, they are "wrong", not part of the evolution of the language. Speaking of registers, it is necessary to notice that they have different grammatical requirements. What is acceptable in the popular register might be unnaceptable in the standard - but the converse is also true: some standard constructions are unnaceptable in popular register (I like to compare this to dress codes: you don't go to a night party dressed in a bath suit... but then you don't go to the beach in a tuxedo either). When a construction is the standard norm, but becomes unacceptable in the colloquial or popular registers, it tends to go archaic. It will go archaic before it loses its social prestige. When a construction is the popular or colloquial norm, but is unacceptable in standard, its future depends on how much it represents a real trend of the language drift, or, on the contrary, how much it is a mere fad, destined to fade away. In any case, it will take more time to acquire prestige than to become widespread; when it acquires prestige, it will supercede the previous, now archaic, standard construction. So, there are a few different things: