What are the differences? The different ropes basically differ by how they have been treated to handle water: non-dry ropes (although I've never seen that mentioned explicitly) have no special treatment at all, dry ropes have only the sheath, treated with some water-repellant, while dry core ones also have a treatment for the core. In both latter cases, the dry coating does not make the nylon fibres immune to water, it just prevents that they suck up any water immediately. Why does it matter? A rope can soak up a significant amount of water that will make it heavier, worsen handling and will strongly reduce the dynamic strength, i.e. the fall energy it can absorb – the figure of 70% loss in strength is around. Besides that it does also not matter much whether it is soaking wet or just damp, as stated here 

I am thinking about changing the backing on my reel for something thinner and stronger like gel spun line (I'm currently using 20lb Dacron). The goal is to fit enough backing into the reel for Atlantic salmon fishing. The reason is that I bought a new fly line that is both longer and thicker than the previous one, which was a sinking tip one. Now I can't fit the previous 200 yd of backing that I had. I know that the answer is to buy a larger reel, but before that I would like to try some alternatives. I have heard that there is gel spun and that some people use fireline as well, but will these work well? Will the attach well to the reel spool? Won't they damage the fly line where it is attached to them? Will I risk cutting my fingers? 

I would guess it's a carbide lamp as it was in former times used by mining workers and is still used in speleology (caving) sometimes. The basic working principle is a box with carbide and a water reservoir from which water slowly drips onto the carbide. Carbide and water chemically react and form acetylene gas which is guided through a hose to a small nozzle where it is burned. The flame is in front of a metallic mirror to concentrate the light. So why is this (still) used? The advantage of this setup are 

While it surely is possible to pair the watch with several HR monitoring devices, I don't think it's possible to use more than one at the same time. I cannot tell for sure since I don't have an Ambit3 (which uses the Bluetooth Low Energy protocol to connect external sensors, as far as I remember) but only an Ambit2 (which communicates via ANT+) but in the case of my watch it stops searching for a certain type of external sensor as soon as it has detected one it was paired with. Technically, it would surely be possible to use more than one sensor of the same type at a time, however that imposes a lot of extra stuff to handle: The watch needs a logic to handle two data sources of the same type that quite surely will deliver slightly different signals. That means, if you ask it to show "heart rate", what should it display? The signal from source 1 or source 2? The average of both? Should all the measurements that are derived from the heart rate (average heart rate, times in certain zones etc.) also be handled for both sources? Should both of them be recorded in full? All this on a device that has limited battery and storage capacity and computation power. These thoughts make it quite improbable that such a functionality has been (or will be) implemented by Suunto, since its use case is very limited and the possible issues coming with it are rather significant. 

All other answers assume that you want to use spinning reel and lure as your tackle, but it is also possible to catch pike on the fly. It is indeed a lot of fun, as you can check out from this video filmed in Sweden. At around 15 minutes they show how they set the tackle. In answer to your questions, here is how I would go with a fly rod after pike: a) I would use a heavier rod (at least 7 or 8 wt) with appropriate line (at least 7 or 8 wt). Not only to be able to fight the big pike, but also because you can cast bigger flies on windy days with them. b) I would use bigger streamer flies with lots of flash. Anything tied to hooks size 4 to 6/o would be nice. Minnow imitations (common roach/mört is the usual food for pike in most Swedish waters) work well. For those, white streamers with flash to them work nice. Perch imitations also work great, and I think that flies with green, yellow, and red patterns can match those. c) You want to have a line that matches your rod (at least 7 or 8wt), and a floating line or sink tip would do. You will mostly be casting towards banks and the weeds, so a full sinking line will not help you much. As with spinning tackle, you will want to have a wire tippet guard, and you can get leaders with those already tied to (many tackle shops in Sweden sell something like this). You want your leader to have a breaking strength of at least 8 pounds, but it is wise to go higher if you know you will meet bigger fish (depends on where you fish). d) You want a reel that can hold at least 100 yd of 20 pound test backing, and preferably one with a big diameter so that you can reel in more line faster. Pike don't often take off with your line like salmon do, but I'd be rather safe than sorry in case you get that one big pike that does it. e) As That Brian Davies mentioned, you want long hemostats/pliers and gloves to handle the fish. A rubber landing net is also a good thing to use if you plan to release the fish (it is nicer on them than just hauling them into the boat). Since we are on this topic, you should try to keep the fish in the water and wet your hands before handling them if you plan to release them. Don't hold them through the gills upright like you see in some pictures, as that risks rupturing their internal organs and is a recipe for dead fish. Exception made to some trout creeks in northern Sweden where you are demanded to dispose of all pike you catch. There you should dispatch the fish humanely. f) Cast your fly towards the bank/weeds, make an initial strip to straighten your line if you have some slack to it, wait for a while so that it sinks, and then retrieve it with fast short strips like it is a minnow swimming fast. One exception is when it is very cold and during spring when they are tired from mating. Then you should give slower motions to your fly. Otherwise, pike are really aggressive and will attack anything that looks like another fish. I have hooked pikes accidentally while I left my fly in the water and was texting or talking to someone. Good luck fishing, and I hope that you get a fish like this one in this video. Edit: I recently found this link with a lot more information on fly fishing for pike. 

Some hard facts like photos or stamps from the huts where you slept will increase authenticity but are more or less optional. I also would not care too much that they will stalk your tour partners to get information about you. I guess they will ask for the tour books before or at the first planning meetings to see if someone is totally unprepared for the planned expedition. If in doubt, they will ask you and make their own picture of you. A good guide should be able to tell if you are mostly honest about the tours you did or you are just a dazzler. For the case that they were wrong they normally have a clause in their terms and conditions that allows them to exclude you from the the peak ascent and stay in base camp. I guess that is a shame no serious mountaineer wants to go through. 

The other two answers are correct. You can use plain old nylon or fluorocarbon monofilament lines and save cash (with the pitfalls mentioned by the others). Keep in mind, however, that specialised tippet brands sometimes use better materials or do fancy things to their lines like coating them with UV or abrasion resistant materials, so you may want to go for them if you want good quality. It is possible to buy large bulky spools of specialised fly fishing tippet (like Stroft, incidentally one of the best in the market) from some brands, so you still get to save money. 

Every time I use something like a partridge feather for a hackle, I have to remove part of the feather fibres (the fluffy soft part) and that usually goes to waste. I wonder if that can be used for something like dubbing, for example. I know that most materials are not that expensive, but I hate to waste stuff. Are there uses for those soft fibres? In general, what by-products of tying a fly can be reused on other flies? 

So basically everything more than some single rain drops may be too much. But it should also be mentioned that these issues are temporary, so once you have dried the rope it does behave as before. The only exception is the case, where the rope has taken a lead fall while wet, in that case it may have been significantly weakened and it is better to discharge it: 

Basically it boils down to "less weight for the same insulation" in favour of the mummy type for two reasons: In a blanket type bag you have more or less two insulating sheets, one on top and one below your body. For a mummy type maybe a bit more than the area of one of those sheets would be enough to wrap your whole body. This already reduces weight and pack size. Above that, a mummy type bag wraps your body quite closely, therefore leaving only a small air volume that has to be warmed up. The blanket type has way more "dead volume" that you have to heat and keep warm with your body's heat. To get the same insulation, a blanket bag needs more loft material, which makes it heavier and bulkier. Another feature of mummies is a yoke or heat collar and a hood. The yoke closes around your neck and prevents warm air from escaping from the bag and both, the yoke and the hood can be closed by drawstrings, so that everything but the face is snuggly enclosed by the bag. A blanket type bag can in contrary not be closed densely at its open end, which allows the warm air to escape quite easily. All those factors might be not of great importance in warm climates where you don't need high insulation but only something to cover your body at night. As you get to climates where the sleeping bag is necessary to prevent hypothermia, a blanket type bag that provides the insulation needed will soon be way to heavy and bulky. Just as a side note: if you go to very cold climates (winter mountaineering, arctic tours), everything is done to prevent heat loss, therefore some of the bags designed for those climates have only a half length zipper or even no zipper at all to prevent cold bridges. The major drawback of the mummy bag is its tightness. Rather "active" sleepers that move a lot during the night or like to take other sleeping positions than just lying straight (legs spread, fetal curl or similar) might feel a bit less cramped in a blanket type bag. But some manufacturers also have mummy bags that have a more flexible and expansible material in the middle part to allow for leg movement to some extent. TL;DR: Whenever it gets cold enough that insulation is a critical factor, a mummy has less weight and pack size for the same insulation. 

Fish like this have been caught recently (this Autumn) in many freshwater bodies in Sweden (like Dalbergsån) and no one knows what they are supposed to be (as written in this article). Apparently, the fish was caught on worms. 

In addition to the great answer by user737012: How strong should the tippet and leader lines be? Tippet size also affects how natural your fly looks in the water. Bigger tippets are stiffer and make the movement of small flies seem unnatural. On the other hand, it is very hard to cast big flies on thin tippet because a smaller tippet will not be able to turn the fly at the end of the cast. There is a rule of thumb for deciding tippet size that stipulates that tippet size should be close to hook size divided by three. So, if you fish a fly tied on a hook size 12, the most appropriate tippet size would be 4X. Then you can go one size larger (3X) if you expect to fight bigger fish or if the water is turbulent/murky. You can also go one size smaller (5X) if the water is clear and still, or if the fish are wary. Bear in mind that this rule will not work for very big hook sizes (1/0 or above). 

None of the information you give about your planned use case sets any limitation to a standard dynamical sports climbing rope. Also you won't notice small differences in the specs especially as it is your first rope to buy. Those different specs will only make a difference as you bring a rope to its limits. For example with routes where you have huge bolt distances and can expect high fall factors, a lower impact force will be nice, but in a typical sports climbing case this won't matter. So you can just go and get the one that is cheapest or you feel most comfortable with or that has the nicest color or whatever criterion you want to choose. For the dry option: this will only be of relevance if you plan to use the rope for glacier hiking and/or ice climbing where it is more or less sure the the rope will get wet. But in this case you will usually get a rope on its own as normal sports climbing useage would quickly destroy the dry coating. Therefore investing money in a dry coating that you (according to the information you gave) quite surely won't use will only make the salesman happy.