I have had the exact pain experience as you have albeit not with skipping but with running. And through this ordeal, I have discovered a solution to this problem through self analysis and trial-n-error which eventually work. I said 'self' analysis because various consultation to the doctors did not lead me to the right conclusion although their protocol was perfectly correct. Modern medicine tends not to be poor 'wholesome'. Since about 2 years ago, I started having debilitating ankle pain with big swell, redness and pain that is so bad I could not move my feet even while on bed nor stand to go pee. Went to doctors, had my blood checked and found that I have high uric acid which they concluded was causing me to have the gout pain. Put me on medication and the uric acid went down to within the normal range. But I was still having those severe pain. Self analysis - like said, my pain pattern was exactly like yours. Long story short, I realized that the culprit was the 'impact' I experienced when running on hard ground such as tarred roads, terrains etc. The impact hit at my ankles the hardest and not as bad on the knees which did exhibit 'noises' and slight pain after runs. BTW, I also trained with skipping for a while and stopped in no time after first experiencing your type of pain. I believe that the 'springing' action during skipping puts tremendous strain on the lower leg region [knees and below] by which tendons and ligaments get overworked easily. This also has lots to do with how heavy the body is that those lower leg muscles have to 'lift' during the spring action of skipping up. Doctors - they could not figure out why I still had the pain despite the uric acid being normal and could only referred me to more specialists for MRI etc. I did not want to go that route as they can probably only propose physical therapy and perhaps try surgery. What I did / am doing - 1. Continue with the uric meds so that there is no high uric acid to cause future damages to joints and bones [this is just for long term avoidance of possible ramification due to high UA] 2. Stopped my running all together and switched to swimming for cardio ever since. Surprised benefit includes - more intense cardio-vascular workout than running. Swimming restricts the breathing [when under water] and this trains the lungs better than the free flow of air while running. It trains and transforms my upper body which gave me bigger triceps, lads and delts. This is the beautiful part - when I missed running, I could run on the treadmills - the 'floating' belt provides good absorption of the impact - or use the elliptical machine which removes the feet pounding onto surfaces and I never got the pain returned once. So that's my experience on how I resolved this [literally] painful 2 years plus of agony - with non medical intervention. Perhaps you can consider this approach too. 

The short answer is: You don't need to be a full time athlete, and being a web developer won't prevent you from reaching what you want to reach. I (and many of my friends) are software engineers/programmers and we are all in good shape and so you can be. What you need to know: 

I am a programmer too, and since your more into cereal than meat in the morning, what worked for me is one of these two meals: 

When i first started the fat burn/muscle gain routine, i used to think of carbs as the devil and that i should train 4 hours a day. This is all wrong, you need to understand what you are doing cannot be accomplished in 1 week, and that you have to constantly challenge your muscles without overtraining (as mentionned above). Overtraining made me gain fat even with low calories level. So in a summary: 

which means, MRI, a very accurate technique, found that fat loss is overall from the body and not targeted (spots). PERSONAL experience: Beside scientific researches, it is always good to share personal experience about a topic (sometimes it is more efficient than a research). 

I've been training for several years, stopped for a while then started back but kept working out regularly (4-6 days a week) for the past 2 years. I lift heavy weight, do bodyweight training, skip rope, explosive workout (burpees for example) and eat quality food with a controlled diet. However lately i just don't feel any pain, sore muscles, or any kind of challenge while working out. What do you peeps do when you reach this phase, in order to keep improving (shredding more fat, adding more muscles)? I know that adding more weight usually helps and that's what i do , but what could possibly be done other than that?(change of diet, resting for few weeks, new workouts..etc..) 

What probably happened is that during lent, as you stopped eating meat (and maybe other food types), you actually decreased your overall food intake ,which in its majority consisted of meat. So, this means you were eating much less quantities of food , and the stomach is an elastic organ : the more you eat, the more it gets dilated , and vice versa. So your stomach actually shrink during lent. Thus after 40 days of eating less, your stomach got used to small quantities, and that's why now that you are having meat again , ie eating more quantity , your stomach is getting dilated again beyond the limit it reached during lent, and thus you feel the pain. 

I'm 22 years old and had knee surgery almost 7 months ago to fix damaged cartilage (I was a distance runner). The damaged cartilage was right in the weight bearing portion of my knee (medial femoral condyle) such that putting pressure on it while walking hurt. I had the OATs procedure and am almost better now. After taking x-rays, my surgeon said that I am free to run, bike, and workout. He said it would be hard to damage the cartilage plug at this point. I've been workout out for about 5 months, but I've only been doing upper body. I've read that to really get good and build muscle, you really need to do squats and deadlifts, as these are considered the most essential exercises. I'm sure doing these exercises with the bar or even a plate on each side probably wouldn't hurt, but I imagine that I will improve over time, and at some point I'll be wondering if a 300 pound squat is a healthy thing to do. Someone who's had cartilage damage and knee surgery: do you have any experience with this? 

I'm a college runner with a 14 month injury that doesn't look like it's going away anytime soon. So I decided I may as well take up weight-training instead. I absolutely hate lifting weights, but, uh, apparently girls don't find 135 lb runners with a 15:20 5k attractive. Who knew. I want to come up with a weight workout routine, but honestly I have no idea where to begin. My only goal is to get a "normal" or slightly above normal amount of strength as quickly as possible, so I don't look like a stick (my arms are thinner than most girls). I know that for running, twice a day and 100 miles a week gets you good pretty quickly, but I've heard some people say that's its not good to lift weights every day. Is this true? And do I want to do low reps, high weight, or high reps, low weight, or somewhere in between? I don't even know what sorts of things to do. Machines or free weights? How long of a workout -- 30 minutes, an hour and half? Thanks! 

Hyperextension is a frequent cause of bone bruises. These are very long and painful injuries that disrupt the surface of the bone (they're more like many micro-fractures as opposed to a bruise). See $URL$ for some more information on the relationship between bone bruises and hyperextension (it also includes bone bruise causes other than hyperextension). 

Personally, I have no opinion on the subject of whether you should wear cycling-specific shoes or not; however, I will say that you are not going to get less efficient power-transfer from not wearing clipless pedals. It's simple physics. The energy is conserved -- it necessarily HAS to go into turning the crank. A very VERY small amount may turn into heat, but instruments probably don't exist that can measure to that sort of precision. Here is a good article called the "Shoes Ruse" that details why it is perfectly acceptable to wear any shoes that you want when cycling. I'm not sure if I entirely agree with it, but you can read it and make your own decision: $URL$