Unless the boss is asking you status of the project, there is no need to tell him and instead get started on it immediately till the deadline. If the boss did ask you on status, you should absolutely tell the truth and may be also reason for why you could not start on it. Edit: I would like to add a clarification here since my answer seems to indicate I am trying to mislead. This is all assuming that employee has right skills to complete the project and they can still reasonably do it in one week. If there is a reason to raise flags due to any of these issues, a flag should be raised. Otherwise, my only point is instead of thinking and debating about it and wasting more time in email exchanges and possibly create panic, get on with the work. Unless you start the work you will really not know how bad is the situation and what are the possible roadblocks and if you can still finish on time or not. Communicating with your boss after you have attempted something makes lot more sense to me. 

I think you have the answer yourself. Significantly better pay in a secure company, cool and glamorous role, in the area where you want to make a career. Go for the new one. You may miss your team in the old job but that is pretty much part of everyone's career. Even if you stay back, people in your team will move on at some point. Always happens. You will get to meet new people and form new team at new place. Look forward to that! Yes your boss will be disappointed initially but if they really care about you, they will eventually happy with your new career choice. 

While all other answers are suggesting you to leave and that may be the best way out, it does not serve your first priority of keeping the job and being honest about it. I think there are two things you can do. 

I am assuming you are not a psychologist yourself since you mentioned Engineering. Hence, I do not think you should use any psychology or even associate your team members situation to any psychological effect. 

Do nothing and accept their last date. (I actually do not mind 2 weeks break but I am more mad about the attitude!) Demand and fight for the last date only after serving full 1 month. (Do not want to do this because even if I win this fight, it will be very uncomfortable 2 weeks in office.) After I move out completely, send a note to my manager's manager (who is in a different continent altogether and I only met him once for few minutes) and list out all these events in detail. I am just not sure that once I am out, is it worth to fight this battle or not. I am not expecting any financial compensation for this. I just want to tell that they have handled this very unprofessionally. I also know once I send that email full of complaints after I leave, I do not know where it will be forwarded and there is a risk to my own professional reputation. 

Since you clearly mentioned you do not drink, I am sure he did not expect you to start drinking wine just because he gifted you. I think he was more embarrassed by the fact that his gift was returned. 

I am joining a very small company next month and I see from their website all their key employee profiles are on their website with their pictures. Each profile is linked to their respective LinkedIn profiles. I suspect when I join them,they may want my profile and picture on their website as well and they may also want to link that to my linkedin profile. I am just not sure if I want to do that right away for various reasons but at the same time I do not want to send a wrong message to them that I am embarrassed about joining them. I am actually excited about the new role and the team. As I spend more time there, I may actually open up more about my role publicly but not right mow. I just want to know how to handle this situation if and when it comes, i.e. they asking for my profile and other information to be updated on their website. 

I think speak to Alice in person and ask her to clarify what she meant, especially 'taking advantage' part. Tell her that you are worried if there is a safety issue you need to be aware of. If there was none, then you can also hint that it was not right of her to tarnish Clark this way in front of everyone. If she is really hinting a harassment concern, then you need to ask her to raise it immediately to HR/OMBUDS/Manager. Either ways, your next steps would just depend on what Alice has to say. 

I do not think you should be talking about hypothetical negative scenario and your hypothetical reaction to it. Instead you should just express how much you are looking forward to, how much you have worked hard for it and how motivated you will be with this promotion. It would implicitly mean exactly same thing what you are trying to convey that you will be really disappointed. It will just keep the discussion very positive. On a side note, since you mentioned it is a large company, be prepared for everything. Reasons for promoting or not promoting someone are not 100% transparent. Your personal feeling may not be even accounted for in these decisions. 

Other than above 'enunciation' and 'not treating them any different' answers which I completely agree with, only point I can make is be careful how you address them. Calling by first name culture is catching up but still not universally accepted in India. You may want to address her as Ma'am or Ms. LastName to be on safe side or at least check how they want to be addressed. 

While the above answers are largely correct, I think this is way too over-thought and over-discussed. The fact that you would ask someone if they eat something before offering it, is polite enough. You are not and should not be expected to study and understand everyone's culture. When someone travels out of their own home country, it is also important for them to learn and realize the culture of the place they are visiting and not be uptight about their owns. If someone is offended by that question, then they have bigger problems. I am from India and I am a vegetarian. While travelling abroad, if I cannot eat something due to my diet restrictions (culturally or otherwise), I simply refuse politely. (Just like any normal person would do irrespective of culture!) 

This just depends on the company and how valuable you are. My current job actually reduced my notice period and I could not do anything about it but my last job where I stayed for six years asked me to reconsider my move and take back my resignation till my very last day in the company! 

Do not ask so many questions in the email as you have drafted. Just ask them politely for formal offer letter and contract. You could say something like: 

HR usually are not involved a lot in PhD specific roles because they cannot match the need and resume very well because of inherent complexity in both. Your first contact for interview will most likely be from a technical team member or a manager. Contacting HR will not be of any help to you. Developing a professional network with technical people in your field through linkedin or conferences might help. Getting a PhD and pursuing a corporate career is usually not the optimum career path anyway (in most cases but there are always exceptions!). Every PhD in my lab including myself felt at some point or other that they would have climbed corporate ladder faster if they would have not invested those critical 3-5 years in getting a PhD. (Although we almost say this as a joke.) My point is you are doing PhD for your passion for research and not for tailoring yourself to a company at this critical period where you should be focused on your dissertation and publications. 

During your PhD, you should do exactly what your advisor asks you to do and what is good for your thesis/courses etc. It is long and frustrating process (personal experience) but rewarding at the end. Do not worry about doing anything special for industry career. Lot of companies hire PhDs and looking for a job in industry with PhD is no different than looking for a job without a PhD. Although I never used a recruiter and I realize from this forum that it is common thing to do so. In any case, there will be sufficient opportunities through job boards, career fairs and personal network. Few things you can do (which you should anyway do even if you want academic career). 

Just for the sake of experience and gauge yourself and your market value. Have a possible back-up lead if your primary offer does not work out for some reason. (Like the company rescinded the offer or something) 

I quit my job today which I joined 6 months back. I was "highly-recommended" for this job by some senior executives of the company with whom I had worked before. (Same company but several years back and different office in a different country). These executives from main office are not involved in offshore regional office or know the management personally. They just sent their strong recommendation. Because of this recommendation, my interview was short and smooth. I loved the culture and people of previous office and hence I accepted this one. However, I could not survive here for long because the job did not turn out anywhere close to what I was promised during the interview(Pay was good but my role and team were changed significantly). I had several disagreements with the management of this office over last 6 months on my role. Finally I decided to leave. I left in good terms and I made my reasons clear in as professional way I can during exit interview. Now I am not sure how to tell this to the people who recommended me. I feel that I owe them an explanation because they vouched for me. At the same time I cannot explain why I left without ranting or complaining. They have no context on what I was offered, what I was expecting and what happened here. So my question is how do I communicate to the people who recommended me without any indication of blame/complains or any kind of ranting? Should I apologize to them at all? (Although I do not think I did anything wrong and the local management messed up). I just want to maintain relationship with them professionally without whining about events from past.