faster. Actually, the ratio of the two different big rings will give you the same as well. If you keep your 11-36 cassette, the drive train will have a total capacity of teeth, which may be more than what your rear derailleur can take care of. Apart from that it is often easier to maximize downhill speed by optimizing aerodynamics instead of pedaling. 

Warmshowers is certainly not a "social" network in the meaning of socializing only on the internet. But it is an internet-organized network for socializing with other cyclists in the real world. Certainly a good fit to this question's tags and . It's a great opportunity to meet really nice and interesting people - highly recommended! 

per crank revolution. Assume that you can pedal at a cadence of 90 rpm, that will give you a speed of 

Navig^^^^^Stoker cockpit 2nd option Otherwise I almost always ride with a handlebar bag, which has a transparent map sleeve on top. Both options on the same picture: 

Assess the risk for the single parts, and start with the most risky ones: Wheels Pitlock skewers work very well and will outlive a couple of bicycles. In comparison to wheels interesting enough for a bike parts thieve, they are cheap. There are cheaper replacement skewers which are not as safe (basically variations of allen key bolts). Saddle The second most stolen part seems to be saddle and seat post. You can attach the saddle rail(s) to the frame using a piece of an old chain, without a chain lock of course. Nicer looking options include, of course, Pitlock (a seat post clamp bold and a cover for the seat clamping bolt). Alternatively use a separate lock cable through the seat rails. Stem and handlebars Now it gets harder. An ahead stem can be fixed using a Pitlock insert. Still, the stem/handlebars connection is there, too. Maybe the bearing ball option mentioned in another answer is the way to go here, and even for the bolts of the precious shifting and brake levers. Drivetrain This is hard. A lot of simple bolts, and potentially valuable parts. I would instead use cheap derailleurs (with good cables and proper assembly they will work very well). A cheap crank set upgraded with good quality chainrings when the first set is worn out does not look attractive for thieves either. Camouflage The cheapest option, and working very well: Don't let the bike look good. Stickers, tape, dirt, rust, weird colors all have their place. Be creative! In Germany we call it Boruttisieren (translated by Google), after the guy who brought the concept to perfection. Behaviour As long as there is are enough more attractive victims nearby, your bike is pretty safe. Take that into account when leaving the bike somewhere. If it still is attractive to a thieve, it will help if you don't leave your bike in a predictable manner, e.g. not at the same place during work time monday to friday etc. That makes it pointless for the thieve to prepare (e.g. by taking a magnet). 

It's not the temperature changes that cause rust, but humidity, especially in combination with salt. Let the bike dry completely whenever possible. I store my steel bike indoors both at work and at home (in unheated but above zero garages), and try to avoid salted roads (which is not always possible). It easily survives the winter. It also depends on the kind of steel we talk about: Stainless steel parts need quite a lot of salt and water to corrode. Chromed steel parts (often some small parts on the components) rust more easily but a thin layer of grease/wax/oil helps a lot. Steel frames (and any other steel parts) should be protected from the outside (paint plus oil/wax) and the inside (most easily with oil). Also some aluminium alloys corrode quite easily. Protect them with grease/wax/oil. 

To answer your question will most likely also be a matter of personal taste. I am also one of the "not much new of interest in the last decades". The notable exceptions are: 

Two maps possible, in case you want to go different routes 3rd option On trips without handlebar bag, but with low rider panniers, I have used a clear Ortlieb map case strapped on top of one of the low rider panniers. For me it is possible to read the important details on the map even at this distance, at least on smooth roads. 4th option I had some of my most interesting days on the road when I deliberately rode home from almost 1000 km away, through an area where I mostly had not been before, without a map or compass. Only road signs, imagination, common sense and asking people. I should really do that again... 

On a road which allows for such speed you should be able to pedal at a higher cadence if you have good riding technique, i.e. achieve even higher speeds. The maths don't care about brand names, but take a Shimano XT triple with 42-32-24 teeth instead: 

Trail and wheel flop factor are determined by steering angle, fork offset and wheel radius. The chainstay length is irrelevant in this respect, but it does matter for the overall handling of a bicycle. For example it has an influence on how well a mountain bike climbs. For road bikes it has some influence on the weight distribution between both wheels. There are tandems which handle like a good road bike (except for the turning radius). They essentially have "chainstays" that are almost 1.5 m long. 

Try it out! For long distances it helps me personally to remind myself that anybody can cycle 100 km when I only have 100 km or so left. It may hurt, but really, any cyclist could do that. This turns your ride into 240 km, which is only 40 km more than what you seem to be comfortable with. And of course anybody can do 40 km ;-) It all happens in your head, especially when you leave your comfort zone... Planning/scheduling also helps me a lot when covering long distances more-or-less non-stop. Make a conservative schedule, e.g. based on 21 km/h (or whatever is "quite slow" for you) and taking planned longer rests (one or two?) into account. Based on that figure out your scheduled time for each 20 km and write it somewhere accessible while riding. If you planned conservatively, you will be able to stay ahead of your schedule. Then you can stay calm, and just ride with the feeling that you will manage. Use some of the "buffer" for smaller breaks. 

Have a look at Ceeway for what is available (or talk to your framebuilder). For a visually pleasing end result, the frame will need a new paint job after adding brazeons. 

For road bikes of that age, showing just "a fistful of seat post" was considered good frame fit and style. Otherwise the frame was likely too small for the rider. Of course that was before the advent of sloping top tubes. If the bottom bracket is not too high, stand over height of the top tube should be no problem even with such small seat post extension. 

To align the derailleur hanger you don't need any special tools. At least with steel frames, the derailleur hangers can usually be bent without damaging them. Basically you have to do two things: 

Use fenders with good coverage! They will keep most of the dirty spray water off your bike. You'll be surprised how much less oiling your chain needs with proper fenders. Proper fenders means: 

The spare parts aspect for classic bikes is not a real problem if you choose the bike wisely. Most ca. 20...25 years old road bikes will be very serviceable with parts you can easily get. Modern bikes are not always better: Just have a look at "modern" bottom brackets and ask yourself what has a life span of more than five years... 

Because you steer a bicycle with the front wheel (and weight offsets), the steering of a bicycle is almost entirely determined by the geometric parameters of the front wheel and where it is located. The most determining factors are: 

They have a 135mm version as well. That should be meant to replace the (rear) Rohloff hub when converting a Rohloff drive train to fixed gear/single speed, while keeping the brake disk. Some people may want to do that at least temporarily, and Rohloff compatible frames (without chain tensioner) are by design a good base for fixed gear/single speed conversion by justs swapping out the back wheel. I can see the appeal of this for people who like single speed MTBs. Apart from the spare parts advantage you mention I can't really see the point in the similar front wheel hub either (yet the Keirin 110mm one). It probably exists because Phil Wood sometimes lists products which are basically combinations of different options they could make if somebody asked for it. 

Just about everything else you could get as well many decades ago as today, or even better. Some recent technology I would try to avoid includes 

As you have a steel frame, you will get the best result if you have a competent framebuilder add the appropriate brazeons. There are two sorts of brazeons that one could use: 

I think your fender failed because of the stress that you introduced by attaching it without having it properly reshaped. Metal fenders must be mounted stress-free, otherwise they will be prone to fail and crack. This means that before installation the fender has to follow the tire without being supported by the frame and fender struts attachments. Mounting metal fenders properly Start with reshaping the fender so that it follows your tire at a constant distance of 15-20mm. To enlarge the radius, squeeze the fender edges towards each other (as if you would try to make the fender narrower) and it will open up. Work all the way along the fender in order to obtain a constant radius/curvature. With stainless steel fenders this is a bit more difficult than with aluminium ones, but it is possible. If you want to decrease the radius, bend the edges apart instead. When the fender has got a nice shape following the tire with constant distance (about 15-20mm), drill a hole at the brake bridge, so that the lower end of the fender extends some centimeters below the chain stays (this keeps drip water off the chain). Deburr the hole carefully (this is where cracks start!) and attach it at the brake bridge. A leather washer goes between fender and frame, and a large diameter but rather thin stainless washer between fender and bolt head (the washer on your picture is far too little). Measure where the chain stay bridge attachment is, and drill the hole there. When deburring it, you can ovalize it a bit with a file if it is not exactly in the correct position. It is very important that you don't put any stress or strain on the fender when attaching it at the two frame mounting points. Now it is time to attach the fender stay(s) 10-15cm above the back end of the fender. Once again, bend the stays before installing them so that they have the right shape/angles to be mounted stress-free. Well-mounted stainless steel fenders can hold a long time (many 10000 kilometers).