I don't think when anyone uses "pessimism" or "optimism" in these ways that they mean modern philosophers were happy people who always look on the bright side or that postmodern philosophers are glum. Instead, they mean they are optimistic or pessimistic about what many see as the project of philosophy. I think it's fair to say that modernism is, in general, "optimistic," but we need to be careful about how we are defining optimism. By optimism here, I mean that modernism is optimistic that (a) we can have true knowledge of some sort, (b) that we can share a concept of the world and knowledge, and (c) that logic or reason or something like it is universal. Post-Modernism is harder to pin down. The big problem here is that since it's still in progress, it's not entirely clear what the term refers to. Postmodern philosophies are, in general, pessimistic about the possibilities listed above. That is to say they don't think we have a shared universal concept of reason or that we can attain true knowledge or that there is a universal valid form of reasoning that isn't limited. Now, the paragraph about postmodernism above needs to be qualified with a nearly endless string of qualifiers. There may be some post-modern thinkers who think there's something like universal true reason (I can't think of any off the top of my head who traditionally fit the label -- but in part that's how the label gets diced). People who I'd say squarely seem to reject on the surface the modern project: Foucault, Derrida, Lyotard, Rorty. I'm sure there's many more. But even in putting say Derrida's name on the list, that greatly depends on which texts we're talking about and whether his critique of the use of concepts like "justice" is because he believes and hope for a deeper justice or because he believes there's no hope. To give further fuel to the question, is Jean-Luc Marion a post-modern philosopher? Is Emmanuel Levinas? Paul Ricoeur? Merold Westphal? 

I think some people would say science[1] does address the fundamental questions and the other more "spiritual" (here in the Hegelian sense) questions are just noise generated by the way the bio-chemical-physical system that is a human being works. Conversely, others will say science does not have the capacity to address fundamental questions precisely because they are not fundamentally of a nature where you can discover them by making sense of how matter works. I think this type of thinking is at work in your strain of suggestions that science has not succeeded in explaining away free will, etc. To draw both points together, the real question is what are the fundamental questions and in what sense do we hold them if we can name them (the expression here is convoluted because one way that breaks scientism would be if we can ask the question of science on a fundamental level outside of science). I think there are some resources for addressing which approach to fundamental questions is better. For the scientists, a key feature will be increasingly precise physical explanations and the belief that explaining is explaining away. On such a view, our perceptions are seen as the experiences of biochemical brains qua minds, so what we want to do is strip off the illusions experience places us under. Conversely, those who don't think science can address fundamental questions precisely because these questions are not about explaining away or getting to fundamental particles. A principle of parsimony (e.g., Occam's razor) seems key to both sides insofar as no one wants their view to depend just on unnecessary entities. And here it kind of boils down to whether you think one God or an infinite number of universes is a more egregious breach of parsimony. 

because according to Aristotle these are the domains where life is at stake. The text also highlights two major considerations that have been further developed since: 

he shares a deterministic picture of the sensible universe. he shares a belief in the superiority of rationality over the deterministic natural animal he has a problem connecting this account to the physical domain. 

There are things that are good without qualification. There are people who for qualified reasons cannot receive these things as good. We should pursue goods (or perhaps good ends) that will be to our good. 

First, constraint is not always an evolutionary disadvantages. Lemmings do not constrain themselves to the limits of their swimming ability, and many of them die. The same can be said of humans pursuing victory. Some social and natural constrains are actualy helpful. Second, maybe high-functioning sociopathy is an adaptive mechanism. As another answer points out, the best for the overall group is generally cooperaton. A high-functioning sociopath benefits from the trusting nature of society. The best the high-functioning sociopath would get is what he can steal/take from others. Think of it this way if 90% of us were high-functioning sociopaths, then we would never develop technologies like computers and iPads. Thus, a socipath dominant society would probably kill itself out compared to a more cooperative model. So the genes survive best in cooperation. 

Kant did directly address the Golden Rule at least one point in his philosophy. If I remember the gist correctly, he's highly critical for one reason: the golden rule depends largely on how you would feel about what was done to you. For Kant, what's lacking is a truly universal perspective. This is where the categorical imperative differs, it does not matter if I particularly don't matter, it matters whether the rule can be universalized for all rational agents. 

There are lots of critiques of Descartes. The logical positivist one requires us to backport concerns somewhat foreign to Descartes -- specifically the indexical problems of the "I" that they ran into in trying to translate everything in natural language into logic. It's not clear that this critique is right either. Why? Simply put, the introspective datum is that there's a self doing some thinking. There's some complexity here, but we could consider what Descartes offers a type of transcendental argument rather than question-begging. To put it another way, if I read 1.6 x 10 ^ -19 eV and then infer there's an electron, is that question begging? Descartes begins with his datum of introspection -- that there's thinking going on and infers that cetera demonis there must be something that holds those thoughts. A better version of the objection Russell raises would be to argue introspecting at all is question-begging. 

Of course where it gets dicey in real life is in cases where one person may think someone's opinion is axiomatic as it composes the rules of the system and someone else may not think so. The first example that springs to mind is that it is imaginable that someone takes a moral claim's truth to depend on God (voluntarism / divine command theory), so that it is axiomatically wrong because God has said so. 

While the answer depends a bit on context, generally no, you cannot express ∀x(Px ≡ Qx) as simply Px ≡ Qx . The reason has to do with bound and unbound variables. ($URL$ Thus, seeing x without the ∀ means something different than (∀x) precisely because x in the former would represent a specific x whereas in the latter use it does not refer to a specific thing but rather is a variable standing over a range . 

I don't know why you've titled the difference as being about "mysticism". To put it simply, Marx is not a very good interpreter of Hegel (for the take of another Hegel scholar see Dudley Knowles, Routledge Guide to Hegel and the Philosophy of Right , p. 20). So Marx critiques what turns out to be a fundamental feature of Hegel's philosophy which demonstrates how badly he's misunderstood the dialectic. For Hegel, there are three different approaches to truth: art, religion, and philosophy. Skipping over quite a bit of the Phenomenology and moving towards the ending, what turns out to be the case is that each of these three can give access to that which is in and of itself (i.e. Truth) and the means through which truth is accessible is either through imagery (art), through faith (religion), or through knowledge (philosophy). In other words, ideal art is right about what it represents, ideal religion is right about what it believes, and ideal philosophy is right about what it comprehends.This sort of triadic structure is common in Hegel's philosophy and is called dialectic. There's actually multiple forms in the text itself (but we needn't understand that to understand this point). The think that engages in all of this is for Hegel Geist -- rendered in English classically as "Spirit" and more recently as "Mind". Thus for Hegel, religion and thinking of God is not wrong but is second to philosophy. What causes Marx to disagree with this account? Marx wants to keep a dialectic but does not understand humans as thinkers. Instead, he views the dynamic in terms of capital and how it causes relationships. Thus, his view is called dialectical materialism -- whereas Hegel is dialectical but not a materialist. Where this matters for the case of slavery is in Hegel's classic Master-Slave dialectic (probably better rendered as "lordship and bondage"). It's a commonly referenced but misunderstood passage and subject to multiple interpretations. On the simplest level, Hegel is making the following points: (1) the master does control the slave physically (2) but "master" and "slave" are social identities (3) the "slave" is made a slave by the master's consciousness and subjugation of the person socially. (4) thus, the master ultimately depends on the slave for recognition as a master as well. Hegel's point is that while the master controls the slave "master" and "slave" are identities that are mutually dependent on recognition. (Hegel will later draw this into society by pointing out that the identities of selves depend on each other and society). Thus, for Hegel, the slave can be freer than the master in terms of Spirit because the slave's thoughts are free whereas the master's body is free. Marx's dialectic does not engage in terms of "Spirit" (i.e. consciousness), so he just sees that the master is getting more use out of the slave than vice-versa on a material level. 

"Dictatorship" is bad. (or if you prefer, if something is a "dictatorship," it is bad). Rule by the proletariat is a "dictatorship." Therefore, rule by the proletariat is bad. 

A plastic plant and a living plant differ in two significant regards. First, if I snap a branch off the plastic plant, it forever remains damaged in that way. Conversely, if I snap a branch off a living plant, then the plant will either suffer a catastrophic death and stop being a plant (i.e. die) or it will adapt and recover around that and continue its life. In other words, the plant-like artifact just takes damage, but there's no life to take away from it. Second, the real plant is growing and to keeping being a plant needs soil, light, and air. A taxidermed wolf vs. a dog. We have the same image of damage vs. injury. In addition, the real living animal moves around under its own utility whereas the taxidermed one can't do that. Even if we stick something in it and let it be remote-controlled, then that's not really the taxidermed thing moving around on its own. 

This argument appears to be a variation on one raised by Descartes in the Meditations. His argument is (proceeding from memory) as follows: 

Recognition is reflected recognition -- meaning the master achieves his master status by being a master to the slave and getting responded to in this way. Conversely, the slave is slave insofar as he experiences himself as debased by the master. This is not the end of Hegel's political philosophy. To read Hegel as suggesting we're are in a master-slave struggle is to completely misread the point of the passage for him. Instead, in a certain way, both master and slave are misrecognizing themselves. Moreover, their struggle is also a mistake insofar as each category is incomplete. It's dubious to believe Hegel sees this as happening in a moment in history (if we understand by "moment in history" something like July 2nd, 538 BCE). Instead, it's an element in the story of Spirit as it moves towards self-recognition (where self here is an extended social self rather than sort of recognition that happens in mutual recognition). 

The wikipedia definition you quote strikes me as being not particularly helpful for grasping the distinction (though not particularly wrong). A better way to put it is that formal fallacies means fallacious inferences in formal logic. Here, we'd put things like affirming the consequent: 

be a moral realist (or meta-realist). have a moral epistemology where the goodness or badness of claims can be evaluated as true or false. 

But that doesn't mean everything that involves premise 1 and conclusion 2 is going to be something we all agree is fallacious. For instance, 

In this case, it's wise to pick assumptions that make your argument harder in which case you can add: 

I'm going to suggest three things that might be contributing to the problem you're identifying. First due to the long course of history, the meaning of arete (translated as "virtue") in Aristotle is often lost in the English term virtue. The term arete refers to excellence. Second, eudaimonia as you note is not always best rendered by the English word "happiness." (Still, some translators, like Terence Irwin, do translate it as "Happiness" and provide a lengthy explanation of how that's not ideal.). I'm not sure "objective state of fulfillment of purpose" is the best definition for it either (whether we're talking Book I or Book X or the Nicomachean Ethics), but I'd say it's better on a first reading than "happiness" by itself. Instead, I'd suggest seeing eudaimonia as both flourishing in accordance with one's kind and the happiness that results from that fulfilment of the capacities of one's kind. With these two things in hand, it's helpful to realize that arete is excellence in a particular area of human excellence. So for instance, courage is excellence in managing feelings of fear and knowledge of danger. And this requires knowing both what one can and cannot do and understanding one's feelings. Thus, courage is worth having both because it's ideal as a course of action and because having it contributes to the overall eudaimonia of the self. These two items might not get to the heart of your question, which my apologies I had a little difficult parsing at 6:50 am local time. It sounds like the core of your question hinges on denying something Aristotle accepts (but that if memory serves the Stoics deny with respect to virtues), namely that something can be both for itself and for a further end. There's several different things tangled up here. First, I'm going to suggest it's quite plausible to do an action for multiple reasons, but it's quite hard to parse out how much each reason contributes it. So for instance, I might help my brother's business out both because he pays me and because he's my brother and because I get a sense of fulfilment from helping him. If you don't think so (the principle -- not the example), then clearly no account of how one can pursue human arete for itself and for eudaimonia is going to work. If you can accept at least that one can do an action both for itself and for something else, then the trick for any virtue is that I can want that virtue and want eudaimonia as a result of that virtue. For instance, I run pretty regularly both because I enjoy running and because I want to be in shape and because I see exercising as an achievement. "Wanting to be in shape" also contains a kind of compound purpose since it relates both to the way that being in shape contributes to my general health and to my happiness and to my future health. Aristotle's claim is that the virtues are just the sort of excellences that mirror and implement well-functioning of the human kind, and that well-functioning of the human kind is eudaimonia (excepting BK X). Thus, for instance, it's not impossible for me to want friends and to want to be happy by having friends. But to do so not in way where friends become pure utility or pleasure-sources for me (the argument of Nicomachean Ethics BK VIII). For the Aristotle stuff, some really good resources on this point: J.L. Ackrill, Terence Irwin, and Martha Nussbaum. There's also a volume edited by Amelie Rorty that's very helpful on the question you're asking. I don't think this account will work as well for the Stoics, but I do less work near the Stoics. If memory serves, their account of how virtues work is such that virtues are not pursued simultaneously with happiness. A key distinction in contemporary philosophy that might help is that they distinguish "right" and "good" and make ethics about the "right" whereas for Aristotle, the "good" has priority over the "right". 

There's more than one theory that goes by the name divine command theory. I haven't seen the distinction drawn quite this way in the literature but there's an ontological divine command theory (hereafter DCT) that we can associate with the medieval idea of voluntarism (e.g., Ockham and following) and there's an epistemological DCT that has been offered recently by Robert Merrihew Adams and C. Stephen Evans. It might be best to think of these things as kind of a sequence. On ontological DCT, something is right or wrong because and only because God has declared it so. Most readers take this position to be absurd or at least somewhat troubling, because it leads to or at least seems to lead to worlds where God says killing people is not only not wrong but is mandatory. Thus, to know morality is to know what God is saying which is arbitrary and do what he says. Epistemological DCT shifts the purpose of divine commands relative to human subjects. For epistemological versions of DCT, what happens is that we know right and wrong through God's commands. In other words, if God command something we know it is right; if God commands against it, we know it is wrong. But what we don't know directly from that is why God commands this or better-worded what about the content might make it so that God commands it and thereby makes it moral or immoral for us. It turns out most versions of DCT on offer in the philosophical literature are closer in character to the latter than to the former. For these, it could be that God has reasoned that something is immoral on any of a number of bases (Kantian, utilitarian) or that God designed the order of the world to be rational in such a way that some things fit or don't fit. To wit, when speaking of DCT, we need to be careful to think about whether we are describing a theory wherein our moral knowledge hinges on God's commands or moral reality hinges on God's commands. The latter faces a much larger set of objections than the former. Moreover, both theories could be partial explanations of morality. e.g., the former can include God's commands as a source of moral knowledge rather than the source. Or the metaphysical version can say some rules are arbitrary without declaring all rules arbitrary. Why all of this legwork? Partially, because the full metaphysical variant has several severe issues (such as murder world above), but the picture in which at least some of morality derives from divine commands seems to be endemic to monotheistic religions.