It has a very, very low chance. However, if the asteroid is larger as some centimeters, it will irrecoverable destruct the satellite. Typically, mm sized space trash can damage a satellite already, although the tipical impact velocities are in the order of some $\frac{km}{s}$. As a comparision, cannon balls are flying typically with lesser speed as $1 \frac{km}{s} {}^*$. A collision with an asteroid on a solar orbit would have the impact speed in the order of some tens of $\frac{km}{s}^{**}$. A direct collision with an asteroid larger as the satellite itself would have enough energy to vaporize the satellite. We, from the Earth, would see a space explosion. *: Orbital velocity on low earth orbit is $7.8 \frac{km}{s}$, but most satellites are flying prograde with a not very high inclination. Thus, the we can estimate their "typical" relative collision velocity in the order of some $\frac{km}{s}$. **: The configuration is similar in heliocentris orbits, but the velocities are higher with an order. 

Brown dwarves don't have fusion in their core, thus they don't have their own light. They may have a little heat production from other processes (for example, contraction, or radioactive decay in their core). These aren't enough strong to heat even the dwarf significantly. Many brown dwarve were found orbiting a star closely, they may have surface temperature even in the order of some thousands K. But they get their temperature from their stars. For example, the Jupiter's temperature is only 40K more warm as it would be reasoned by the Sun. In the case of red dwarves, the situation is better. The distance depends on the star. You can very easily calculate it: check its absolute luminosity, so you can see its total power output, compared to the Sun. The radiation what a planet receives (per surface area) depends quadratically from its distance. 

This is a fairly loaded question in that it depends heavily on what a "hot Jupiter" actually is defined to be. What is "hot"? What is a "Jupiter"? In reality, there's a continuum of planetary masses and distances from their parent star, and in the literature you'll commonly see references to "hot Neptunes", "hot Saturns," etc. The predominant theory as to how giant planets form is that they first coalesce from rock and ice beyond the ice line, the distance from the parent star at which water becomes solid. This distance is approximately where Mars lies today in our solar system. What's surprising about "hot gas planets" is that they are found within this ice line, significantly within. This implies that after they formed their cores, they migrated closer to their host stars via some currently undetermined process (for which there are several good candidates, but for now let's assume that the existence of hot planets shows that at least one of these processes operates quite regularly). And what about the word "hot"? Well, for the planets that are closest to their parent stars, there is known to be a radius anomaly: The radii of these planets are significantly larger than models of giant planet structure irradiated by their host stars would predict. So I would define "hot" planets as gas giants whose radii are larger than what would be predicted by the standard models. Now that we got some of the definitions out of the way, there's the question of survival. When giant planets are close to their parent stars, they become tidally locked. As a consequence, there is very little energy tidally dissipated on the surface of the giant planet, the shape of the planet is fixed and there are little internal motions. However, the giant planet also raises a tide on its host star as well, and because it takes a lot of angular momentum to change the spin of an object with 1,000 times more mass, the host stars are almost never going to be tidally locked to their closest planet. The rate at which energy is dissipated within the star is highly uncertain, and this uncertainty is typically swept into a fudge parameter "Q," the quality factor, with lower quality factors reflecting more dissipation. "Q" is measured for certain bodies in our own solar system (i.e. Earth and Jupiter) and in some stellar binaries, but is highly variable from body to body, ranging from about 10 for the Earth to 10^8 for some stars. Whether a planet survives to be observed today depends on how long the orbital decay time, which is determined by Q, compares to the age of the system. For some systems, such as WASP-12b and WASP-19b, which feature highly inflated hot Jupiters, Q is estimated to be small enough to cause them to fall into their host stars in a surprisingly short time (< 10^7 years). One other possibility is that the gas surrounding the rock/ice core is blasted away by the tremendous amount of heat deposited into the planet. This leaves you with a relatively low-density planet that's somewhat devoid of iron, as the cores of giant planets form further from their host stars than the rocky planets. There are a few candidate close-in, Neptune-mass objects that may have been produced as a result of them losing the bulk of their atmospheres in this way (Example: GJ3470b). As for our own solar system, the formation of a hot Jupiter would have likely destroyed the inner solar system as it migrated close to the Sun, owing to the fact that it would violently perturb the inner planets' orbits. Additionally, the Sun would likely be enhanced in metals owing to the accretion of metal-rich material from this giant planet. While it's potentially possible that there was a hot Jupiter in our solar system before the other planets formed, it currently seems unlikely. 

With the axis of rotation of the earth matching the axis of rotation of the stars, and the equator of the earth matching the equator of the stars, any place along the equator would match what you have described. However due to closeness to the horizon, the polar-most stars wouldn't be visible. If you were able to get a hundred metres or so above the ground, with nothing in the surrounding landscape, you could see all of the stars in the sky over a year's time. 

They are most likely dense clumps of dust absorbing whatever wavelength of light this image was captured in. It's hard to say just how big they are as I can't find any scale for this image, but generally nebulae are lightyears massive, with the Crab Nebula according to wiki being 11 light years. So whatever they are, they're still pretty big. Edit: Just look at the horizontal band of darker lumps, you can tell that they are between us and the brighter region. The band would be of the same material as the bright green cloud, just less energised as it is further away from the star. 

All telescope mounts are calibrated with several known target objects, but to initially line up with said objects it is possible to use eyeballing and then moving the radio-telescope around until reaching a peak value from instruments, which would indicate you are pointing directly at the object. I'm not sure how the professional observatories manage it, but it would be a similar process. 

The most-widely accepted hypothesis at the moment is that Mercury was struck by a large impactor that removed a significant fraction of its mantle (I believe this theory was originally proposed by Cameron & Benz in 1987, and the qualitative theory hasn't changed very much). For planets that are close to their parent stars (such as Mercury), the collision with the secondary body likely occurs at high velocity due to the rapid orbit speeds there (> 40 km/s). As this is much larger than a typical rocky planet's escape velocity (~10 km/s), material is lost from the planet in these collisions. This collision is also more likely to be "grazing," as "direct hits" are rare, and thus the outer parts of the planet are preferentially removed. Because the mantles of rocky planets are primarily composed of silicates, which have a lower density than iron that resides in their cores, the collision results in a surviving planet with a higher average density. 

Stellar clusters around supermassive black holes are systems in which relativity likely plays a role. Currently, only bright stars can be seen in our own galactic center because there is a ton of neutral gas between us and the galactic center that obscures it. As a result, we only have a few "test particles" out of the many stars that actually orbit the black hole at close distances. Nevertheless, measuring relativistic precession may be possible for a star with one of the closest-known pericenter distances to Sagittarius A* (the central black hole in our galaxy), S2, potentially within the next few years once enough data has been collected. As to how relativistic effects can affect dynamics of the cluster, the precession induced by general relativity can suppress resonant interactions, including three-body resonances such as the Kozai. Depending on if these sorts of resonances are important compared to other relaxation processes, the relaxation time can increase significantly, resulting in the cluster evolving more-slowly over time. This can affect things such as the rate of mass segregation, tidal disruptions, and production of hypervelocity stars/S-stars. 

the Newtonian gravity is a very good and very simple approximation. In it, gravity is always attracting and so is it. 

"Dark" doesn't mean "black" here, it means here "invisible". There are many calculations and theories, the most popular one says it may be from LSPs (least supersymmetric particles). 

But the problem is a hypothetical one, as no alternate Universe were found until now. We can play with different Universes in some theoretical constructions. For example, the spacetime of a rotating black hole looks like as if it would be some gateway to somewhere, out of our Minkowski-Universe (or to a different point of our current one). Google for Penrose-diagrams and for the topological extensions of the General Relativity, if you would like to play with it more. 

There are relatively big varieties, but most of them is between 10 and 70 km/s. If a comet is a periodic comet, that means it needs to have an elliptic orbit around the Sun. That gives an upper limit to its speed of the escape speed from the solar system on the orbit of the Earth. That is around 40 km/s. But this 40 km/s is in the reference frame of the Sun. The Earth is moving in this reference frame with around 30 km/s, on a nearly circular orbit. Between the escape speed and the mean speed of a circular orbit there is always a $\sqrt{2}$ relation. It is a physical law. Theoretically it were possible to find extrasolar comets (if the speed of it were bigger as around 70 km/s, it were a clear signature of its remote origin), but they aren't coming. 

As there is no air in space for sound to travel through, you can't hear anything outside of the small bubble you're in, e.g. space suit, space ship. There is however 'noise' in the electromagnetic spectrum which can be picked up by electronic equipment, with this being an example $URL$ 

Gravity would warp your entire body, or at least tug on it, because bodies that aren't bound together by gravity largely resist it's deformation, at least that's the major point I'm working on here. That being said, it should pull on some structure in your ear, be it the bones or the tiny Philae (I believe that's the right word, edit if not), either way it results in a deviation from their original position. Depending on proximity you might also be able to feel it, in likeness to standing in front of a large speaker. However the ears would be far more sensitive. I hope I've answered your question :) 

That scale up the top is measured in milli-Gal which is thousandths of a cm/s^2. For scale gravity is ~9.81m/s^2 which equals ~981000mGal. The difference between gravity at sea level and the top of mount everest is 2Gal, or 2000mGal, which is 0.2% of average gravity. On the moon, the variation seems to be about 1000mGal, with the average being 162000mGal, which is about 0.6% of average gravity. In conclusion, on the surface, there is no noticeable difference. Not to a human anyway. 

This picture show the Earth-Sun Lagrange-points, but the Sun-Venusian Lagrange points are very similar The Sun-Venus L1 is around 2million km away from the Venus, and it is unstable for point-like mass points. However, in the case of a not point-like body (a planetary-sized foil isn't point-like), or by manipulating the radiation pressure of the Sun, could be made statically stable, or could be stabilized dynamically. 

This "laser star" is a hypotethical object in an Asimov short story, which has a special star-like object with very uncommon properties. But this is entirely Asimov's invention. In the reality, no such thing was found until now. Not even any similar. 

The result is that the Moon has a nearly perfect circular orbit around the Sun, the effect of the Earth is only a perturbation in it: 

There is no such limit, at least not a meaningful one. If the gravity would be more strong, smaller hydrogene clouds could evolve to stars, even Jupiter or Earth sized, or much smaller. As you increase the strength of the gravity, the required mass for star formation decreases, but stars will still exist. 

There is another major problems. The largest is that the Venus practically doesn't rotate (more exactly, its rotation period is around a half year), thus an Earth-like mean temperature would mean a very hot sun-side and a very cold dark one. However, its tight athmosphere works as a strong heat balancer - on the current Venus, practically there is no difference between the day and night sides. Although a 90 atm CO2 + 4 atm N2 athmosphere isn't very humanfriendly, we would probably need to compansate it with spacesuits filled with 94 atm He + 0.2 atm O2. The solar soil could be best positioned on the L1 Lagrange-point between the Venus and the Sun: