I'm guessing those colorized islands probably come from statistical analysis of a very large number of meteorites, but I don't know that for sure. Are these color islands generally accepted and their shapes published independently somewhere? Is there a plot where I can see all of the points that were used to identify these clustering? How exactly were these contours drawn? Finally, is there a statistical analysis using these error bars and contours that express the probability that the extinct meteorite specimen described in the paper is part of the distribution or not? Of course a number by itself is weak because of the softness of the assumptions, but is there one and if so how was it calculated? 

Question: Roughly what are the pressure and temperature thought to be at this depth in Jupiter? Is this regime at all accessible experimentally on Earth to confirm that these two fluids are immiscible, or is this behavior purely theoretical? 

I would like to know more about how the image was processed. What does it look like before the uniform disk is subtracted - is the radio emission from the region around the planet actually as strong as the planet disk itself, as this image suggests? If there is a reference for this image I'd also like to read it! In the mean time, it really is beautiful! The image is sometimes paired with the following image, taken here from Science News. 

Here is a quick supplemental answer. From the Neptune-Pluto Resonance subsection of the Wikipedia article Stability of the Solar System: 

above: Omega Centari Star Cluster, 500 millisecond exposure. Tweeted by Alex Partker. The goal is actually to look for shadows cast by even smaller debris, orbiting around the rock in the Kuiper belt. This is for New Horizons mission planning. 

@PM2Ring's comment mentions the story Transit of Earth written by the famous British science fiction writer, science writer and futurist,3 inventor, undersea explorer, television series host, Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society and Commander of the Order of the British Empire and celebrated polymath Arthur C. Clarke in which the character's task is to record a transit of the Earth across the Sun's disk as seen from Mars. According to the story, this happens on May 11, 1984. The story also mentions that the previous occurrence would have been in 1905, and the following one would be 100 years following this one, presumably in 2084. 

First of all it has to be stated that it is difficult to have a scientific discussion about multiple universes. The problem with multiple universes is that it can be logically deducted from assumptions and hypotheses, but not tested nor empirically verified. This makes discussions around this topic, like string theory, highly "religious". There are different multiverse theories coming from cosmology, physics and philosophy. One of the theories comes from the cosmological theory of cosmic inflation. Cosmic inflation states that there are always fluctuations on the microscopic level and this results in energy waves that can form into matter and anti-matter pairs. The cosmic inflation now states that at the beginning of our universe there was a cosmological constant or a big vacuum that is by nature unstable and caused the microscopic fluctuations to happen on a cosmic size and thus resulted in a rapid expansion of the early universe. This cosmic inflation is a variation of the (hot) big bang theory, that explains a number of observations in the universe that are not explained by the (hot) big bang theory. What it doesn't explain is that if I have an energy fluctuation at microscopic level, it can happen that this energy wave splits into two matter pairs or an anti-matter/matter pair. Later these pairs annihilate each other and what has happened at microscopic level evens out on macroscopic level. However, when particles appear at microscopic level, what needs to happen to let these particles exist for a longer time to have stars evolve from this matter. Now back to the multiple universes. The going theory now is that if such a thing can happen to our universe, such a thing can happen in the endless vastness that contains our universe and multiple universes can start and exists next to each other. These multiple universes might also explain that when I have a cosmic fluctuation, I have two universes that come into existence. One with the matter and one with the nati-matter. Bear in mind!!!! These are all philosophical hypotheses and none of it can be verified, falsified or empirically tested. If I now have made it logically possible to have multiple universes coming from different cosmic fluctuations, I can now have different universes. For instance, I can have for each matter universe a corresponding anti-matter universe to get the energy balance evened out. Now if I have several universes with each different compositions, I can also have universes where, at least, the laws of nature apply differently. In a universe without dark matter, laws of physics apply differently. Whether the "laws of nature" are totally different in other universes, is difficult to scientifically proof. Especially with theories that are build on our laws of nature. When you think we're already on thin ice here, philosophers can make it even more unreal. If I have cosmic fluctuations that can happen under different circumstances, which result in universes with different compositions that then have a different application of the laws of nature, I can equally well argue that there will be universes where certain laws of nature don't exists, while there are some particles that don't exist in that universe. So, to answer your question briefly, there are theories that say there are other universes that have different laws of nature. However, multiverse theories are highly speculative and are difficult to proof. So, whether these theories are right, we'll probably will never know. 

I found the image below in Space.com's article This 3D Color Map of 1.7 Billion Stars in the Milky Way Is the Best Ever Made, although it is not the map mentioned in the title. The caption for this image reads: 

A really cool GIF can be seen in the Space.com article Observatory Spots Elon Musk's Tesla Roadster Zooming Through Space (Video). It is over 7 MB so I can't add it here. However, here are ten frames from somewhere in the middle. Still, you should go see the whole thing. 

Sure you can! Galactic coordinates have the same origin as other J2000.0 systems; the solar system barycenter (center of mass). This is very close to the Sun, usually but not always inside the Sun, because the larger planets, especially Jupiter, pull it around a little bit. You can read a little more here for example, and also read @zephyr's excellent answer. At first you might ask why the origin of the galactic coordinates isn't the center of the galaxy. I'm pretty sure that the answer is that we don't know where that is! We'd have to know the masses and locations of everything, and of course since most of the galaxy's mass is dark matter we're not going to know where the center of mass is any time soon. However, the XY plane of the galactic coordinates has been chosen for now, based on an estimate of the Galaxy's apparent equator. Since it's a different plane than our solar system's plane, otherwise known as the ecliptic, the coordinates will be different even though the origin is the same. 

A short video titled "Why Tess is recording the "sounds of stars" at the bottom of the page of the BBC News article Planet-hunter launches from Florida gives a short description of Asteroseismology by Astronomer Bill Chaplin of the University of Birmingham. Presumably the sounds played here are some kind of photometric measurements of stars that have been played back a few orders of magnitude faster to make them audible. I'd like to listen to more of them, or even download a .wav or similar file and have a look at the spectrum just for fun. I managed to find this University of Birmingham website through searching, and it plays sound clips from four different stars when the cursor is hovered over each one (it takes a while to become responsive I assume due to downloading). $URL$ 

The short answer: Atmospheric gases never left Earth, they're in it! The long answer to this question isn't just about the planets' current states, but rather the processes that led them there. Let's start at the very beginning (a very good place to start). The very early years When our solar system began forming 4.6 billion years ago, most of the mass from the collapsed portion of a molecular cloud (see Nebular hypothesis) collected in the center to form the Sun. The mass that didn't collapse into the Sun left a protoplanetary disk—a cloud of dust and gas—surrounding the new star. Gradually, dust particles began to come together through accretion, attracting more and more particles into fledgling planets. Close to the Sun, where Venus and Earth both reside, it was too hot for many particles to condense, so the planets in this region formed with metals and silicates, which have high melting points. This is why the four planets in the inner Solar System are called the "rocky" or "terrestrial" planets. The earliest atmospheres on these planets began forming with the gradual collection of gases from the solar nebula, mostly hydrogen. Goldilocks and the two planets At this point in the evolution of the two planets, they looked pretty similar, but there is one major difference: the distance to the Sun. Earth, it seems, got lucky to be in the "Goldilocks zone", where the temperature is just right to support life. Being in this zone has two major implications: liquid water and, as a consequence, active plate tectonics. (See this article for an in-depth view into why the two are related.) Carbon sinks On Earth, there is considerable water contained in liquid oceans. On Venus, this is not the case. It is simply too hot that close to the Sun, so all the water evaporated into the atmosphere. (Venus likely contained liquid water in its early stages, but it all evaporated after a billion years or so.) It is also likely that the young Earth once had a dense, punishing atmosphere like Venus's today. However, surface oceans and plate tectonics both provided ample pathways for gases to be absorbed into the surface of the Earth. Oceans and plate tectonics offer huge amounts of carbonate storage, allowing the transfer and balance of carbon compounds to and from the atmosphere. So now we have two things reinforcing the differences between Earth's and Venus's atmospheres: 

I don't think the title of your question and your question are really in sync here and I'm not sure I will correctly answer your question. However, I will give it a try. To give you a hint of the conclusion. My answer would be, "NO". There are several clues / reasons why I come to this answer. 

So, to get back to your second part of the question, "massless gravity", this is not a viable alternative. Gravity exists either by massive objects exchanging gravitons and therefore exercizing gravity upon each other, or a massive object "denting" the fabric of space / time and therefore creating a gravity field. In either case gravity cannot be seen as a farce that exists without the existence of mass. Secondly, to the first part of your question. Whether we can observe objects directly or indirectly, this doesn't make it more or less realistic. Dark matter is generally accepted to be there. We just haven't found a way to measure it. We can only see that the visible matter in the universe can't explain the gravitational pull on the visible matter and therefore we assume there is some other matter out there we haven't been able to "see". Hence, dark matter. However, dark matter does interact through gravity and our current successes in measuring gravitational waves might also result in a better understanding of gravity and how to measure the effect of dark matter on the gravitational pull in the universe. So, to answer your question: "No, we call dark matter because we can only observe it through its influence on other matter due to gravity. There is no such thing as gravity without mass." 

Gravity is not necessarily a real thing. When you read the literature concerning general relativity about gravity you will learn that acceleration can be experienced as gravity and in the fabric of space/time gravity is "merely" a curvature in this fabric that. This means that gravity is highly debatable as something that could be seen as an independent force / object in the universe. When gravity exists as a force, whether it is an exchange of gravitons between two objects with a mass, or whether it is a curvature in space / time due to the mass of an object, the phenomenon "gravity" is always related to the mass of an object and doesn't stand on its own as an independent force of nature. Dark matter is not a "mysterious" thing that passes through itself. Dark matter is just the container concept of matter out there that doesn't interact a lot with other matter, but just leaves its marks in the universe by showing a gravitational force as interaction with other matter. Since we have only little understanding of gravity and we still have difficulty measuring gravity as a force in the universe, we have difficulty understanding and measuring dark matter directly. This doesn't mean it is not out there.