Under the Reconstruction Acts each rebelling state had to draft a new state constitution under the watchful eye of a Federal general, and that constitution would have to be approved by Congress. This, plus a host of other qualifications, would allow that state to once again have its own government and representation in the Federal govt. 

...and then nobody ever broke encryption again! Except they did. All the time. So let's deal with that. When an algorithm is declared "mathematically impossible to break" that really means it would take an infeasible amount of time using YOUR SIDE'S current understanding of computing hardware and techniques to brute force all possibilities. This is like declaring your armor "impenetrable" because none of YOUR SIDE'S guns will go through it in YOUR SIDE'S testing. The enemy might have other ideas. For example, cryptographers are currently having to deal with the sudden rise of cheap parallel computing in the form of GPUs (ie. graphics cards). For $10,000 you too can have a supercomputer dedicated to cracking encryption. And what was good enough last year might not be good enough next year. Or five years. Or twenty. Organizations are often very slow to upgrade their security, especially when it "works" where "works" means they haven't had a major break in. That they know about (or more importantly, that their users know about). Yet. As an example, Jon Callas, PGP's CTO said this... 

It was truly an international effort. @tj1000 already pointed out the problem with blaming Obama. This was a NATO operation and authorized by a UN Security Council Resolution calling for a No-Fly Zone. The Libyan Civil War had already been going on for a month when NATO intervened. The UN No-Fly Zone was called for by the Libyan National Transition Council, France, Canada, UK, US, Lebanon, the Arab League, and Libyan Protesters to avert a humanitarian crisis by Gadaffi's air force. UN Security Council Resolution 1970 condemned the use of force by Gadaffi on protesters and referred the matter to the International Criminal Court. If there was any single figure who was pushing for air strikes it was then French President Nicolas Sarkozy. He was the first to ask the EU for sanctions. France recognized the Libyan NTC. He pressed the G8 and the US to intervene. French aircraft were the first to begin bombing on March 19th, quickly followed by coalition forces. French aircraft flew 35% of the sorties (though not necessarily of strike sorties), the highest percentage. NATO took over within days. 

According to Lt. Cmdr. Sarah Self-Kyler, the Enterprise's public affairs officer, it would have cost too much. 

Looking at this historically, the major difference between "annexing" and "colonizing" is how the dominating power views the locals. For annexation, they'd offer them the rights and respect as their own population. For colonization, they consider them sub-human to be moved around and wiped out as they please. This view of the locals isn't by accident, it's a result of economic pressures to justify exploiting the region by othering the locals. If they're not human, then they must not have any rights. Of course, respect can also come from the barrel of a gun, and sometimes natives won that respect by fighting. Let's look at a few examples to illustrate, and I'm going to have to paint with a very broad brush. Let's start with the European invasion of the Americas. This was a colonization effort driven by economics: the New World was views as a land to be stripped of resources to supply the European powers. Europeans settled there to gain economic opportunity and new freedoms. The natives were just in the way. Accordingly, they were thought of as sub-human, almost animals, treated as slaves, their land stolen, and pushed off into whatever land the Europeans didn't want (until they did). The native Americans had just undergone an apocalypse, new European diseases had wiped out most of their population. This, combined with not being as advanced in warfare, meant they could be easily subjugated. Fast forward 400 years to the German invasion of the Soviet Union in WWII. Though it's often referred to as annexation, this was a very deliberate colonization effort. The intent was to gain land and resources for the German people to expand into, with one teensy problem: very well armed people were already living there. Even if Germany defeated them on the battlefield, they'd still be there. So they had to be wiped out. To that end, the Slavs were declared sub-human and the German state sent on a war not just of conquest, but of extermination. This failed because the Slavs resisted, they hadn't been crippled by plagues, and fought back. In contrast is the German annexation of Austria, and Czechoslovakia. These were mostly peaceful affairs, and the population was treated well... uhh, for a German occupied country. Somewhere in between is the European invasion of New Zealand. This is late in the colonial era, early 19th century. Slavery is being called into question. European culture was becoming enlightened to the idea that maybe all people are created equal and we can't just take people's stuff because they look different. The Maori, the New Zealand natives, had many advantages other native populations did not have that allowed them to win the respect of the Europeans. They had decades of mostly peaceful contact with Europeans, time to learn their languages, and most importantly, trade for tools and weapons. They were also a very war-like people, ready for a fight, and the Europeans knew it. On the European side, New Zealand is literally the middle of nowhere. Reaching it, even in the 19th century, was difficult. There wouldn't be the endless crush of European people and supplies, nor the insatiable lust for raw materials. They couldn't simply bulldoze the Maori, though they'd try. They'd have to bargain with them as equals. Military power can lead to social respect. As a result, while the Maori were eventually overwhelmed, they were not shattered like the Native Americans and the Australian Aborigines. They retained some power, and today make up 15% of the population of New Zealand. The answer to "why didn't Europe colonize China?" is similar. The Chinese natives were simply too many and too strong. India as well, though it's considered a colony, was more of an annexation and creation of a puppet state. Though in both cases the native populations were second-class citizens, so the distinction between "colony" and "annexation" blurs, no major effort was made to wipe them out and replace them with Europeans. The American annexation of Texas was part annexation, part colonization. Texas, at the time, was part of Mexico and numerous native tribes also claimed the land. A mix of Spanish and native people were there, as well as an increasing number of white settlers. One of the major reasons for its annexation was to provide more land and resources for American settlers. Once annexed, it was colonized, but the natives were not pushed out and today the population remains a mix of white, native, and Spanish people. This is one lens to look at colonization vs annexation with: power imbalance and how the locals are viewed. There are others. 

Without Midway, the US fleet would not have known where the Japanese carriers would be. The Japanese wanted to lure the US carrier fleet, the US Navy's only major offensive capability, into a decisive battle. Midway was chosen as being far enough away from Pearl Harbor to be outside of land-based air attack, but close enough to be a potential threat to Pearl Harbor. The US would have to respond to the invasion and the Japanese would be waiting. The elaborate Japanese plan of feints and ruses was eavesdropped on by US code breakers who realized Midway was the target. This allowed Midway to be heavily reinforced and the US fleet to be waiting. 

According to "Iron And Steel In 19th Century America: An Economic Inquiry" by Peter Temin, in 1867 a pamphlet claimed... 

Mr. Madison then asserts that because a citizen foremost owes their allegiance to their society, in this case the state of South Carolina, their citizenship transferred when South Carolina transferred its allegiance from Britain to the US. William Smith was indirectly a subject of the King through his citizenship of South Carolina. 

While the US Constitution makes mention of "a Citizen of the United States", it does not define what that means. For example, in Article II, Section 1 it outlines the requirements for President including... 

No, the height was chosen by how big they could make the base and how much material they could afford. If you want to build a pyramid to a certain height you need to know the slope and base. By the time of Giza they had settled on a safe slope of roughly 51-53°, so only the base size could vary. The higher the pyramid, the bigger the base, the more material you needed at a frightening rate. At a 52° slope adding 20% more height would double your material. 

Basically a fancy typewriter, it did all its encryption with gears and wires. If you wanted to send a message your radio operator had to check your code book for the daily key. Then come up with a key prefix. Then you either wrote down the message or dictated it to them. They typed it in and wrote down the result one letter at a time. Then they got out their radio and sent it via Morse code, probably the fastest part of the whole procedure. Though flawed, it was pretty good cryptography for the time and took an enormous effort to crack. This is all fine if you're a division commander safely behind the lines in your command vehicle, but if you're a platoon leader on the front lines getting shot at, lugging around an oversized typewriter is a bit slow and cumbersome. Not to mention a radio operator and precious code books that you don't want falling into the hands of the enemy. Even having a radio was a luxury in WWII. If you were in the US army, and you were really lucky, you might get one of these... 

The long running battle of States Rights and the idea of Nullification could be seen as this. At its head is the argument over Compact Theory, which has been rejected multiple times by the Supreme Court before and after the Civil War. At the heart of the Nullification and Secession legal argument is Compact Theory, the idea that the US Federal Constitution is a compact between the states and any state can withdraw at any time. The foundations of the argument in favor are the Tenth Amendment which states that 

I can't say why they waited until 1944 to establish a base, but the Japanese were still a threat to the Canal right up to the end. Though I'm not sure how aware the US was, Yamamoto proposed in January 1942 building specially designed long-range submarine aircraft carriers to attack the US West Coast and Panama Canal. They actually did this resulting in three I-400 class submarine carrying three attack aircraft each. But by the time they were ready in 1945 the attack was infeasible. Less ambitiously, the Japanese were fond of using small atolls to resupply submarines and seaplanes. For a relatively small cost, the US could deny the Japanese the only anchorage for 1000 km around. 

With that in mind, here are the 20th century empires. The Soviet Empire The Soviet Empire rose out of the ashes of the Russian Empire (which still exists) gobbling up the Baltic States, most of Eastern Europe in WWII, and edging into Mongolia in the 60s. Some of which was directly incorporated as republics, some left as semi-independent puppet states of the Warsaw Pact. While it's expansion was effectively halted in the 60s, it was still playing world power in Afghanistan right up to when it fell apart. In 1989 border controls between the East and West rapidly fell apart and the flood gates were opened. Just two years later would see the Warsaw Pact end and the Soviet Union dissolve into independent countries, and shrunken, but still powerful, Russian Empire. Yes, a 20 year old in 1944 could be alive to see the empire fall 50 years later in 1992. The French Colonial Empire Like many European empires, their expansion period basically ended after WWI in 1919. It collapsed quickly, starting about 1940 with its defeat in WWII, and ending in 1962 with the independence of Algeria, and it was in a lot of trouble before 1962. So I'd say it qualifies as a quick fall. 1919 to 1962 qualifies. The British Empire (does not qualify) Similar to the French, they reached their peak after WWI in 1919 at 4.7 million km2 and immediately began to fall apart. First the Irish Free State and Egypt in 192 and Iraq in 1932. 1931 saw the Statute of Westminster which made certain Dominions (Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Irish Free State, New Foundland, and South Africa) independent nations within a Commonwealth. Despite the British sovereign being in technical control, it's arguable whether they still count as imperial subjects. They could pass their own laws and nullify British ones. Immediately post WWII saw the independence of India, Palestine, and Pakistan. Malaysia in 1957. And most of Africa by 1968 with Zimbabwe lasting until in 1980. The 1980s saw Canada, New Zealand, and Australia sever their constitutional links to Britain. The last hurrah for the British Empire would be the Falkland War of 1982. While it ended in British victory, it was costly and illustrated the folly of trying to maintain an empire in the modern world. 1919 to 1982 is a bit of a stretch. And the way it sort of dribbled along for 60 years... I don't think the British Empire qualifies. Nazi Empire Inheriting the ashes of the German Empire after WWI it quite obviously qualifies. Beginning in 1938 with the annexation of Austria, explosively expanding and reaching its height in 1942, and collapsing down to nothing in 1945. Japanese Empire Japan's modern expansion began with the annexation of Korea in 1910 and continued in China and the South Pacific until finally stopped about 1942. By 1945 she was completely stripped of her empire and occupied by a foreign army. No, it doesn't matter if you still call yourself "Emperor". An emperor with no empire, no "aggregate of nations or people" to rule over, is just a king. American Empire (does not qualify) While it can be argued that The American Empire starts as soon as colonial settlers arrive and start annexing native lands, it wasn't really as an aggregate of nations. The US didn't rule over an aggregate of nations, they annexed their lands, wiped out their people, and replaced them with their own. The American Empire begins at the end of the Spanish-American war in 1898. The US gained Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Phillipines, Guam, and a smattering of Caribbean and Pacific islands. It has no intention of turning these into states. The US suddenly and awkwardly finds itself in control of an overseas empire. The US would continue to intervene in Caribbean, Central and South American, and Pacific nations through WWI and the 1930s with some excuse or another. If you elected a government the US didn't like, the US might invade. If you threatened US business interest, the US might invade. For example, Haiti was occupied from 1914 to 1934. Most of the US' colonies and protectorates would be made independent post WWII with the exception of Puerto Rico and some small islands. Like the British, the American Empire would undergo a morphing from direct rule to a sort of quasi-Empire of mutual interest. Sometimes bullying, sometimes protecting. One can argue it still has not fallen, nor stopped expanding, nor was ever an empire. So I don't count the American Empire.