*The definition of a species is pretty arbitrary. Just go with anything that most people would agree are the same animal. **this is why you can't use humans. You will also go to waiting mode (as you're a human) and no commands will ever come 

There's nothing good on TV so you've decided to take over the world. The good news: you can have complete telepathic control over a whole species* of animals! That should be useful. Here's what you can do: when you start using the power all the animals of the species go to "waiting for commands" mode*. Doing what you say is on them, so you can give them any task *that they can comprehend**. (I.e. you can't tell a fly to solve a puzzle, you'd have to tell it where to turn each time. You could tell a bee to make honey) this includes "act normal". When you provide instructions, selecting who this applies to is on you. So you can say "every third male animal which is in Africa or over a source of water do X) As long as you know what you want. What you want: world domination!. It doesn't have to be formal, as in being the supreme president (?) and have boring government meetings. The key word here is power. You should be able to do whatever you want and have people obey you. don't assume this will be easy. People may fight back if they see fit. It's not necessarily about making the strongest army and finding animals capable of destroying the world, because a) you don't want to destroy the world and b) that might piss people off, and if they kill you, well, that's not good. People won't necessarily know what you can do (you can tell them) but keep in mind that you want power, and for that people need to treat you a certain way (or do they?) What's the best plan you can find? 

In game theory there is a branch called cooperative game theory This is applicable when you want to describe the amount of power a party (in your case a political entity) has with respect to the others. The idea is that except the raw power* of the party, a second criterion should be considered and this is the cooperation possibilities of this party. For example, a party that has 49% of the raw power but all the other parties are it's enemies, it might actually be pretty weak. The assumption in this theory is that a coalition will be formed. I'm assuming that since you're trying to measure the power of the entities, there's some kind of competition going on, and if so this is a likely assumption. In this case, you can calculate the strength of each entity using it's Shepley value which is calculated using the number of coalitions the party can form, and it's relative importance in them (i.e. how easily could they have been formed without them) Note that since what you're talking about is more than political power, you should factor that in by giving each entity a weight that also represents it's raw power. For example if you decide a coalition must have a strong army, then all the army-less entities should have a much lower value, such that a coalition can't be formed without a strongly armed entity, and the Shepley value would reflect that. 

This world has an ecological problem. Since 'creatures' doesn't include (I assume) plants, and probably not even vegetarian animals, they will undoubtedly disrupt the food chain, perhaps disastrously. For every wolf, for example, we lose a bunch of animals it eats and gain, what, a piece of meat and a pelt? I imagine this will cause a great famine in the world, for both people and animals, and this could create a cascading affect that affects the entire ecosystem. on the plus side, the more people die of this disaster, the last creatures appear. So perhaps the world will not be ruined but it will have to remain marginally uninhabitable to be sustainable. 

Why is that important? because this makes the information (for the sake of discussion a photon is a bit of information) very reliable. If the information you have is slightly less reliable (e.g. photons go in a curvy fashion) this dramatically hinders your ability to sense things that are far away or sense close things with a high resolution. If the information is reliable but not abundant, I guess you could get by if you have the time to collect enough information to make any decision. Replacements? As far as I'm aware, there's nothing else that has these qualities except radiation. Sound doesn't go in a straight line and therefor it's very hard to locate it. All forms of echolocation rely on waves in the air (or whatever intermediate material) and are therefor inaccurate. You may say that dark matter is a viable solution, but since it goes through everything it provides no information at all. Consider the way we use light: our eyes have millions of sensors (rods and cones) that operate side by side. This only makes sense because each sensor receives slightly different input, because of the location of it in the eye and the focus of the retina. This enables us to do extraordinary parallel computing of the data, something that we don't come close to doing in any other sense. Possible solutions If the species doesn't rely on any kind of radiation for information, perhaps a solution would be to invent a new type of atmosphere and a type of material that can go through it in a straight line. In our universe, unfortunately, I don't know of any other solution. Edit: It was pointed out to me that I didn't actually answer the question :) Technological solution Could technology help the species succeed without eyes? Yes. This lab and others work on a "sensory substitution device" (SSD) that converts light to sound and help blind people see. The theory behind it is that the brain is plastic. The brain areas that are meant to handle vision can learn to handle sound as if it was vision. Now, a blind species wouldn't have these areas, but imagine you connect this kind of device to every child for millennia - eventually something will happen. Is it feasible? absolutely not. Not only would creating any kind of device would be virtually impossible for a blind species, not to mention the amount of global cooperation that's put in place for any kind of manufacturing, also the theory, the knowledge that there's such a thing as radiation and that they could work hard for millennia and unleash it's power is utterly unattainable. The only real solution is a different species that gives them the technology to translate radiation into something they can understand, perhaps even to brain stimulation. 

My research is too important to chance skewed results. I want statistical accuracy. For that I need a real random sample of the human population. That is, if I need people for the study, each person in the country should have a chance of being in the study. This should include everyone (as much as possible). Luckily, it's a rather simple study to perform. I just need a few second with each participant. They don't even have to know they're in the study. What's to best way to approximate a random sample of the population? This is a sociological study, so if your solution introduces intervening variables they have to be something very objective. What I've considered: 

The Bitcoin model A single person can't overthrow society, simply because if and when they become a large enough threat, especially in a totalitarian society, they will be eliminated. However, one can plant the seeds of a decentralized organization, recruiting agents that recruit other agents, that all work together, eventually gathering enough power to accomplish their goal. (see Clandestine cell system) Thus, like the creator of Bitcoin created a new and hugely valuable global currency, which is an impossibility for any traditional bank or organization, your protagonist could create a powerful resistance that will eventually replace the government. This, of course also relies on people being disillusioned by society and motivated to change it, unlike in Brave New World 

It's too hard to find parking Time travel requires you to specify a time and a location. As you would guess, specifying an exact location is quite important. If you appear 100 meters in the air, you die. If you appear 2 meters underground, you die. if you appear on a wall, you die. Would you risk it? A time machine can't be expected to know what it means to land "in someone's back yard", it needs exact coordinates, with the axis starting from, i don't know, probably the center of the universe or something. As soon as we start recording exact coordinates of safe landing spaces on earth, people from the future will appear. 

Edit: The question isn't which species is able to make the most damage. I was looking for something a little more elaborate. You want to have control and to have people do what you say. If you try to ruin the world people would try to stop you, if they know it's you, or just ignore you if the don't. 

According to the AI effect, no. I assume the question is based on some idea that what differentiates human's thinking and machine's is determinism. This is one of many "excuses" why people say machines will never "be like us" / think / have consciousness. The AI effect is the name given to the tendency to define consciousness as whatever it is that humans can do and machines can't, and I don't think randomness will be the thing that breaks it. by the way It's true today that many machines work in a way that's not practically determinable, for example machines that work with a neural network model. 

It's modern times. A geeky university dropout makes some website (later mobile app, later device) that provides some features for everyone for free. The website is immensely popular and becomes a persisting global phenomena. This guy is made 'man of the year', he gives talks everywhere, publishes essays, and becomes extremely wealthy and known in every household. Everyone appears to want to know what he thinks about everything. Another thing his website does, as a kind of known secret, is collect information. ALL the information. About everyone and everything. The geeky guy is not only treated as a god, he has the knowledge to support this idea. Is he, in fact, god? He's not sure. But it does seem like he can do what he wants. He buys out competitors, he hires lobbyists to make sure governments are on his best side, and uses his access to his gigantic user base as a marketing platform for his interests. The public is mostly unconcerned with this. They think, "what's the worst that could happen?" So the question is, What is the worst that could happen? I'm looking for something plausible, that doesn't include the guy becoming crazy or evil or anything like that, just a little narcissistic maybe. 

Use the power of Fake news The hindsight works best the sooner you are to the event, right? So as a criminal, if the crime is detected on time, and if they know where it happened, and if they could physically find you and if they managed to persecute you soon enough and all the other ifs, you might still be able to walk if you only stall them for long enough for the evidence about you to weaken. How do you do that? 

Edit: I rewrote this due to the comments Let's say that at the beginning we are at an equilibrium state in which the couples are perfectly symmetrical, and there are no different behaviors that can be regarded as gender roles. Now, outside forces on the couples could push them toward a gender specialization such that one partner is like you said the breadwinner and the other the homemaker. One major such force could be society. If it's the norm to have gender roles, it's highly likely that even small kids would adopt a gender identity or at least consider what they prefer and have it influence their process of finding a mate and their behavior in their relationships. But something has to be the first trigger. Option 1. Biological constraints (i.e. pregnancy) In the limit case in which bearing a child is extremely easy and takes only few days, it makes little difference which of the couple will bear the children, obviously the couple could alternate who bears the children and no difference in behavior is to be expected. This isn't the case, since pregnancy is 9 months long and taking care of small children is also a handful, so this is definitely a force that would push the couples to specialize, one in childcare (and from that to homemaking) and one in their career. Option 2: Economical constraints What if in this society one paycheck is more then enough, and people don't see a need to earn as much as possible? (This can be due e.g. to strong social networks, religion or lack of ways to spend a lot of money) What if at the same time a very well-maintained house was considered a big virtue? This could easily lead to a joint decision to split the work. This can be combined with the first option to make it more difficult for someone to have a child (thus be out of the work force for a while) and then resume their career. Option 3: Personal preference Let's not forget that even in same-sex couples there may sometimes be something similar to gender roles, and in heterosexual couples the roles my switch. So a personal preference or natural talents could also play a role. Summary Since the existence or lack thereof of gender roles is something that perpetuates itself, I think it's a matter of equilibrium. A trend in either way will amplify and become the norm, until a trend in the opposite direction changes things. The fact that genders in your society are not based in biological differences makes change all the more easy and therefor plausible.