Not all women at BP were operating the bombes of course, but the above may be suggestive of the types of tasks for which some, perhaps many, women were employed at BP. 

The story naming Zouheir originated in an article in the WSJ that did not mention his religion and did not say that he was directly involved in an interaction with a suicide bomber. According to The Independent and Liberation a WSJ journalist later tweeted 

I couldn't find any research to support the notion that cats benefit from watching TV. I couldn't find any to contradict it either. 

Conclusion This suggests that the reporter who wrote the Autonews article, or their editor, made a mistake and wrote "tailpipe emissions" instead of "tailpipe emissions of diesel particulates under heavily loaded conditions". This kind of sloppy and innumerate journalism isn't exactly rare. 

The "third eye" is a somewhat mystical name given to the pineal gland by somewhat mystical people. It's activity is affected by light levels which are sensed via photoreceptors in your eyes (the real ones). It doesn't provide any sensory capability itself (in the normally accepted meaning of "sense"). I could equally assert that humans have a second nose if I chose that as an alternative name for the appendix. Calling something an eye doesn't make it in any way like the two eyes in the front of your head. So yes humans have a "third eye" if you accept that name. 

In 2005 the Joint Science Academies, a group of 11 national scientific societies, including the US National Academy of Sciences, stated that: 

Whilst the Soviet government was able to use coercive pressure on scientists within the Soviet Union, Lysenkoism never caught on outside the reach of the Soviet bloc, and eventually collapsed even within it. 

So there is a speed improvement to the Dvorak keyboard over the QWERTY keyboard. It's just not a very big one. 

(not a comprehensive list, that was just from a couple tables that were convenient to skim) Getting accurate numbers on this question is necessarily difficult - someone's exposure to secondhand smoke over a lifetime is a lot more variable than active smoking, even moreso when we're talking about low-level exposures rather than, say, someone married to a smoker. And low exposures are always going to be more difficult to separate from the controls - that's the nature of a dose-response curve. However, it certainly seems that low exposures to secondhand smoke have been shown to have adverse impacts. 

Now, they suggest that the reason is that dark cars have a less contrast against the road, meaning that other drivers don't see them well. So that increase in accident cause wouldn't necessarily translate into more tickets, whether because of increased visibility to police, poor driving, or risk taking. A study published in the British Medical Journal found that brown cars were most likely to be involved in an accident, followed by black and green. Silver, brown and red were the least likely. They also consider the lack of contrast to be the reason. 

Other Bridges There are reports of small suspension bridges collapsing partly due to resonance effects Broughton Suspension Bridge Angers Bridge Catastrophe 

According to the paper cited, "High-power ELF radiation generated by modulated HF heating of the ionosphere can cause Earthquakes, Cyclones and localized heating", HAARP's power is 3.6 x 10^9 W According to HAARP the actual power is 1000 times smaller than this - 3.6 x 10^6 W. The Sun radiates 174 x 10^15 W onto the planet. Of this 35 x 10^15 W is absorbed by the atmosphere. Ref So the Sun's radiation absorbed in the atmosphere is 10^9 times larger than HAARP, of course it is also over a much larger volume, so this needs to be taken into account ... According to HAARP 

the pyramids were built to create "wireless electricity" Excavations have shown that the Egyptian pyramids were built to house the tomb of the Pharaohs and their families. The British Museum says 

Obviously this is a greatly enlarged portion of a video recorded from a few blocks away. It is far too small for there to be any resolution of the details of the aircraft. A credible alternative explanation might be that this is the result of the nose of the aircraft striking the glazed exterior of the building, perhaps the outburst of shattered glass fragments catches the sunlight. But basically the youtube video is an over-enlarged small area of the original video frames. From that distance there isn't enough video resolution to provide compelling evidence of an airliner firing a missile. 

McKitrick here simply confuses correlation with causation: he immediately leaps to a conclusion that being associated with the WWF causes IPCC authorships, completely ignoring the possibility that, for example, being a top expert in the field would increase your chances of being an attractive recruit to both the IPCC and WWF. 

The CDC provides data files containing cancer statistics for the US that you can break down a number of ways. I downloaded the 1999-2007 file, took the BYAGE.txt file within it, replaced the tildes with zeroes (which is what they represent), and imported it into Excel (note, if you import into Excel 2003 or lower, you will hit the limit for maximum number of rows, so you'll need to remove some of the rows which are irrelevant for our purposes here). Putting it into a data table, I applied the following filters: 

And sorted by rate. You can download my spreadsheet. Having done so, I find that "Melanomas of the Skin" is well down the list. It varies year-by-year, but 9th is most common and the highest it gets it 7th in 2005 and 2007. 

It can be plausibly argued that the president of the USA viewed his shaking hands with the then ruler of Libya as helping to encourage or reward a process of nuclear disarmament and a cessation of sponsorship of terrorism. Alliances If we look for an alliance using the dictionary meaning of "a formal agreement or treaty between two or more nations to cooperate for specific purposes." One list of arms-control related agreements and treaties at $URL$ includes 

The US in 2013 don't think Iran yet has this capability It is very unlikely that, ten years ago, Iran already had a viable nuclear weapon and was able to carry out full-scale test explosions without other countries being able to positively confirm it. 

From Korea Institute for National Unification's White Paper on Human Rights in North Korea 2012 It is possible that a reporter has accidentally transformed "can't retune" to "can't turn off". This might not apply to whatever report included the photo of a wall-mounted "radio" that lacks any obvious off-switch. 

The last of these is an AK47 clone. There are reports of the Seals having purchased Chinese made AK47 clones (but not the Kalashnikov manufactured units). AK47World 

McKitrick's report is plagued with factual errors, misunderstandings of the IPCC process, and misunderstandings of the data. Of course, that certainly doesn't mean that the IPCC process as it stands is perfect - for example, the InterAcademy Council review highlighted a number of issues with the IPCC process. I have generally not considered here the points on which McKitrick merely echoed the IAC's review. 

The final claim in the question was the claim that aggressive controls are not economically justified, for which they cite research by economist William Nordhaus. However, when journalist Andy Revkin actually contacted Nordhaus to see what he thought of the conclusions being attributed him, here's what Nordhaus had to say: 

The next issue McKitrick has is with the number of authors who were also associated with the World Wildlife Fund's "Climate Witness campaign". 

Rather, between the first draft and final draft, they updated the graph from using the Briffa 1999 reconstruction to using the Briffa's 2000 reconstruction, which superseded his 1999 reconstruction. Briffa's 2000 reconstruction used the more relevant measurement of ring density rather than width (ring widths are more affected by precipitation as well than density is). The more accurate data in Briffa's 2000 reconstruction brings it more in line with the other reconstructions, which resolved the issues being discussed in the emails. However - and here's the catch - Briffa's 2000 reconstruction only ran from 1402-1960. You can get the data here, it's the fourth column. The IPCC report used all of the data in Briffa's 2000 reconstruction, contrary to McKitrick's claim. 

It is clear that in the twenty first century, people, especially intoxicated people, occasionally urinate in inappropriate places. There's no reason to believe that people were any different a few hundred years ago. However, several centuries ago it was not normal to urinate on curtains 

Usage There are many uses of conveyor belts, the one relevant to this question is probably the types of long conveyor using in mining, rather than conveyors used for less abrasive loads such as manufactured goods. Belt Durability According to Bridgestone 

In some versions of this story and in some unrelated reports, Ismail Kahram is described as a professor at Tehran Azad University. Wikipedia isn't a great source but claims of Rattus Norvegicus (brown rat) 

Control as in "Command and Control" Obviously, police radios are used to control police officers in the sense of communicating with them to direct them to incidents. Subdue as in "incapacitate" The UK Police use Tetra radios. It appears some police officers are or were concerned about the health of these systems but not that they are used for covert mind control. To be of much use, I assume any form of covert mind control would ideally need to act within minutes, rather than the weeks, months or years that these alleged health effects take to become manifest. Earpieces At least some of the earpieces don't transmit radio waves, they are typically accoustic Normally wired earpieces would obvious operate at audio frequencies (20-20000 Hz) rather than at ELF or Microwave frequencies. Normally these would not transmit radio waves either. Studies of ELF/Microwave/Radio effects on the mind I have not found any studies that show that radio waves can be used to control the mind. There are one or two low-quality studies in alternative journals that suggest that some brainwaves (e.g. the alpha rhythm) can be synchronised to en external source of magnetic waves - but these studies concluded that they had no effect on people's moods or thoughts. Reference 

The surgeon-general is talking about which dose-effect curve that second-hand smoke follows. For example: 

Studies that have ever been published or scrutinised outside razor companies seem to be rather difficult to come by. The best I could find was Measurement of beard hair removal efficacy using image analysis, a study conducted by researchers at Gillette (kudos to Solveig_A on Reddit for fetching the full-text for me). Now, a warning: this study's primary focus was not actually about comparing two razors, but on techniques for finding statistically significant results even for marginal effects were to conduct such a study. That can make reading it a bit obtuse (I shall not get into why they might be motivated to conduct such a study...). The first two experiments compare different types of shaving foam using a twin blade and a single-blade razor, respectively. They do not include results in such a way as to make direct comparison possible. However, the third experiment compared a single-blade and a twin-blade razor (Gillette's Trac I and Trac II razors, respectively) with the same type of shaving foam. According to their data, the twin-bladed razor was 1.6% more effective than the single-bladed razor, but that they could not reject the null hypothesis (that they were equally effective) at the α=0.05 significance level. In short, this does not represent compelling evidence that a razor with two blades is more effective than a razor with one blade, which does not bode well for the claim that five blades are more effective than three. Cecil Adams, writing for The Straight Dope, cites studies by Consumers' Research magazine which consistently failed to find a benefit for twin blades, whilst noting that the single-bladed razors tended to last for more shaves than twin-bladed razors. 

Toilets on two levels over the river Skell at Fountains Abbey, a Cistercian monastery founded in 1132. 

If you read the full text, there was clearly an exchange of views on a large number of regional issues but no mention (that I can see) of any new strong alliance between the USA and Iraq. Conclusion (re image 1) This faked photograph does not represent the forging of a strong alliance between Rumsfeld and Hussein or between the USA and Iraq. In 1983 there was a slight thawing in diplomatic relations due to shared national interests in opposing Syrian and Israeli invasion of Lebanon, Iranian expansion etc. 

First Image: Rumsfeld and Hussein Donald Rumsfeld's visit to Baghdad in 1983 is described in Wikipedia. 

Neither of the above examples look like pop rocks (follow links to see photos). Conclusion Almost entirely false. The claim is grossly exaggerated, alarmist and does not cite supporting evidence or refer to verifiable reports from any official healthcare, law enforcement or other bodies. 

So, to speculate a little: the pictured N korean home "radio" is probably also not a radio receiver but a loudspeaker for a communal system for relaying announcements. To be of value in emergencies, such loudspeaker units would probably not be equipped with an off-switch.