.. it is not really very good as I remember. I think the guy simply draws a line in the ground, to do the "fractions" demo, you know? (ie, they just erase more and more of the line). It doesn't need to be more complicated than that. It's worth noting that the Drake equation simply points out: (i) if you multiply those three or four fractions together, you get the number of civilizations in the galaxy. Which is self-evident. but, the whole point is (ii) we have utterly no clue - not even vaguely - what most of the fractions are, You could say it's a written formula, which, helps clarify our thinking on, something we are utterly clueless about. So rather than just vaguely saying "we're utterly clueless," we can speak more clearly about the nature of our cluelessness! although interestingly, (iii) very admirably, the issue of "How many stars have planets?" ... one could say that issue has been somewhat settled these very years, as we speak - that's great. 

It's simply that we are moving fast. It's that simple. The Earth is moving VERY fast around the sun, so it is not "dragged in". If for some bizarre reason the Earth slowed down ... it would move in closer to the Sun. If it stopped moving - it would fall directly in to the sun. It's that simple. Note that this is exactly how satellites work. (I mean the satellites we launch to use for TV communications and the like.) If they need the satellite to move down closer, they simply slow it down a bit. To go up higher, you just speed it up a bit. So it's that simple. "I think there must be a repulsive force." There's no repulsive force ... we are quite simply moving very fast! Note that, quite simply, say you want a rocket to "get away from" the gravitational power of the Earth ... what do you do? Simply make it go very fast! It's that simple. 

It doesn't orbit us - it orbits the Sun, just like we do. However: bizarrely and amazingly, it "stays with us" ... it keeps position outside us - it takes JWT 365 days to go around, just as it takes us 365 days to go around. 

Regarding molecular clouds / absorption nebulae / Bok globules / obscuring clouds, (I'm not sure if there's one generic term encompassing all those and any similar obscuring clouds - I just used "cloud" in the question title), is Barnard 68 the only one so close to us that there are no stars between us and it? If not, what is the list of such? (Are we observationally confident about this, at this stage?) 

very heavy objects cause time dilation a galaxy is just totally badass heavy you naturally assumed then that galaxies cause time dilation Very surprisingly, this is simply not correct. 

Bonus factoid - you might be wondering why the effort to put it in this particular place. This was explained very nicely by @A.Leistra in a comment. Have a careful look at the diagram and put yourself in the place of the yellow JWT... Try it at different points around the diagram. Now - from any where on the circle, look towards the Earth and the Sun. Notice that ......... they are in the same place from your point of view. The Sun & Earth are total troublemakers to space telescopes. Because they are always in exactly the same direction, the JWT can keep its back to them at all times, always. The JWT has one big shield, which will always shield both the Sun & Earth. How clever are the French? 

It's well-explained on NASA'a web site ... $URL$ About 380 kg of rocks and soil were brought back. Note that ... 

The pedagogical answer is this. You're confusing the width of something, with it's parallax! Here's the fixed background 

Wikipedia explanation of galactic coordinates ... galactic coordinates of longitude zero, latitude 90° (up overhead) and -90° (down through your feet). 

How is this achieved? We have an incredibly long piece of string attached to it. We (the Earth) spin around just like on a playground ride. We hold on to the string, and the JWT goes around "outside" us, and stays in place. Nah, no string but bizarrely gravity works exactly, precisely, like a string would - if you are at exactly the right distance. Various interesting spacecraft hang out at this "L2" region. I have included an accurate drawing of our astounding GAIA spacecraft in the diagram. The JWT is kind of the "strongman" of our space telescopes. The Tom Brady -quarterback type in high school. You know ... tallest, strongest, goes on to marry Giselle, etc. GAIA is kind of the "class smartass and superbrain" type. (Beyond all belief, GAIA is ... mapping the milky way. No, really.) All of this was invented by the French (this guy called Lagrange - the "L" in "L2"), so today naturally the French just assume that JWT, etc, are all, basically, French things - after all, they thought of it, someone else just did some welding. The actual "detailed" manner in which GAIA for example flies is a Lissajous orbit. (Yup - another French guy!) Coincidentally Lissajous sounds a bit like "lasso", and on nice diagrams such as here you can see it looks like a lasso. Giddyup, space telescopes! NASA, err, France's blokes who worked this out: 

VSOP87 (and the subsequent VSOP2000 and VSOP2013) provide reasonably accurate planetary positions while still maintaining a small file size compared to the Chebyshev polynomial files. VSOP includes our moon, but has anyone created something similar for other planets' moons (such as Jupiter's Io, Saturn's Titan, and Uranus' Ariel)? I'm thinking about trying to create something like this and wanted to check that it hadn't already been done. 

Yes, you could definitely see Jupiter as a round object if it's angular diameter was 369 arcseconds. The limit for seeing something as round appears to be a diameter of around 1 arcminute. Notes: 

(this is actually looking from the north pole "down" to the Earth's center, so we would expect a negative z value). The interesting part of the results: 

I believe this is a misinterpretation of this tweet: $URL$ If you look at the reply chain, it starts with $URL$ where Alex Parker states "Also, last night while we were packing up I took a very quick image of the Carina Nebula with one of our #MU69occ cameras." The tweet in question states "This is what Omega Centauri looks like after just 500 milliseconds of exposure with one of the #MU69occ cameras." In other words, Alex Parker was taking images of various clusters with the camera he plans to use for the MU69occ event. The image targets have nothing to do with the occultation itself. I also went to $URL$ and took a geocentric view of "2014MU69" for the month of June and it confirms this object is nowhere near Centaurus. EDIT: I emailed Amanda M. Zangari (azangari@boulder.swri.edu) and her response was: 

The canonical reference for all astronomical calculations is the CSPICE library: $URL$ and some of the more important files they use are the ephemeris files: $URL$ is one example, but you can poke around for others. I helped figure out the format (though it's actually fairly well documented) for Brandon's skyfield project (it's better than pyephem): $URL$ even though I'm not a huge fan of Python myself. I also created Perl and Mathematica programs to read/interpret the ephemeris files: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ (these are all fairly ugly, so poke around a bit). So, while I don't think there IS a MATLAB equivalent at the moment, it wouldn't be difficult to create one. Of course, using the well-tested CSPICE libraries is a better option unless you happen to loathe C 

$URL$ gives G*m for the Sun as . $URL$ gives G as If these numbers were exact (they're not), the sun's mass (after converting m^3 to km^3 above) would be: 165890550052424250000000000000000000/83423 kg or about 1988546924138717739712069812881.3396785059276218789 kg or 1.9885469241387177397120698128813396785059276218789*10^30 kg Of course, that level of precision is ridiculously unwarranted, but I would argue that's the most precise value you can get, if you accept NASA's definitions of the sun's Gm and the universe's G. 

where the light blue circle is the Earth, the small blue dot is the geocenter, the black dot in the blue circle is the center of the ellipse, the black ellipse is the orbit of the satellite, and the two black dots on the ellipse are the perigee and final positions of the satellite respectively. Even allowing for the Earth's rotation in the 90 minute timefram, I'm not sure anyone on Earth could see the satellite both at perigee and at its final location. I'm working on a more complete answer at $URL$ 

@rob-jeffries and @hde-226868 have both given excellent answers: after remembering that I was the OP, I upvoted both and approved one.This answer is mostly my attempt at redemption: 

OLD ANSWER FOR REFERENCE (note that Sirius does not have known exoplanets, so the Sirius solution I propose below wouldn't work): As others have noted, since Sirius is 25 times more luminous than our Sun (though still not luminous as Canopus or Rigel), so it would be the brightest star for most nearby star systems, and all the exoplanets we've found are fairly closeby. The only possible exception would be an exoplanet orbiting Sirius itself, since Sirius would be considered their sun, and not a star in the night sky. Unfortunately, Sirius' smaller companion, Sirius B, would be much brighter than our Sun there. I'm also pretty sure Sirius B would be in the night sky (not just in the daytime sky), so it would count. I'd like to poke around a bit more before declaring this answer complete. I think I can show that any point where the Sun is brighter than Sirius must be less than 4.3 light years (and probably much less) away from our solar system, so, unless we discover an star system MUCH closer than Proxima Centauri, there are no exoplanets where our Sun is the brightest star. 

See also $URL$ NOTE: if you're going to do extensive calculations, you'll probably want to download the C SPICE library and kernels: $URL$ EDIT: I emailed Jon D. Giorgini (jdg@tycho.jpl.nasa.gov) re the open-sourceness of HORIZONS, and got this answer (which I'm not sure is helpful, but...): 

Meeus' work (second link) mentions the 13425 CE event in "Table 1. Simultaneous and near-simultaneous transits of Mercury and Venus, years 1 to 300,000" Within the limits of DE431 (7 May 13201 BCE to 7 May 17091 CE), there is no time at which both Mercury and Venus transit the Sun. The closest we get to this: