Nothing. The coordinate speed of light is zero at that location, which means that by our clocks, it takes forever to see anything. So the falling observer hasn't seen anything yet, and he never ever will. IMHO it's worth reading the mathspages Formation and Growth of Black Holes and paying attention to the frozen star interpretation: "Incidentally, we should perhaps qualify our dismissal of the 'frozen star' interpretation, because it does (arguably) give a servicable account of phenomena outside the event horizon, at least for an eternal static configuration. Historically the two most common conceptual models for general relativity have been the "geometric interpretation" (as originally conceived by Einstein) and the "field interpretation" (patterned after the quantum field theories of the other fundamental interactions). These two views are operationally equivalent outside event horizons, but they tend to lead to different conceptions of the limit of gravitational collapse. According to the field interpretation, a clock runs increasingly slowly as it approaches the event horizon (due to the strength of the field), and the natural "limit" of this process is that the clock asymptotically approaches "full stop" (i.e., running at a rate of zero). It continues to exist for the rest of time, but it's "frozen" due to the strength of the gravitational field. Within this conceptual framework there's nothing more to be said about the clock's existence..." The author doesn't favour it, but it squares with what Einstein said about the speed of light varying with gravitational potential. The other interpretation doesn't. And note that Einstein didn't refer to the "coordinate" speed of light. He simply referred to the speed of light. So we can reasonably say that at the event horizon, the speed of light is zero, and that this is why a vertical light beam can't get out. The distant observer sees the infalling observer freeze at the event horizon. But the infalling observer doesn't see himself as frozen, because the speed of light at that location is zero. He sees nothing. NB: SR time dilation is symmetrical, but GR time dilation isn't. If you and I passed each other in gravity-free space at some relativistic speed, we would each claim that the other's clock was slower. But when we're at different elevations, we both agree that the lower clock is going slower. 

Yes, like pela said, before 1998 people thought the expanding universe was slowing down. There are other changes too. Some people used to say the universe was once the size of a grapefruit. Now since WMAP some people say the observable universe was once the size of a grapefruit, and the universe is infinite. For myself I cannot see how that fits with big bang cosmology, which I think is largely correct. 

This diagram was created with gnuplot., Public Domain, Link So it looks to me that in some time, when its wavelength falls at around 12cm), some of its energy should be transferred to water molecules the way it is in a microwave oven. 

What you are asking is about the existence of binary star. There are many binary stars in the universe. They are in fact more common than single stars. Here are interesting explanations for the latest. 

From what I can understand, Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation (CMBR) is microwave now, but was initially visible light emitted long time ago. 

Distances between planets and stars do not expand as long as they are bound together by gravity sufficiently. This is true even at the scale of an entire Galaxy. 

There is however an exception I've been thinking of. Since glass has an amorphous structure, it can also be regarded as a liquid... And if some advanced form of life or intelligence managed to send some into the interstellar medium, then yes there is. It's also possible that some stellar explosion send away magma of some form with an amorphous structure similar to that of glass (e.g. obsidian) 

It's not easy to understand, because there is no clear analogy of how stars form at our level on earth. Interstellar gas clouds eventually collapse to form stars are very large, very massive, very cold, and very tenuous. The star is at the beginning a little portion of the cloud that is more dense than the rest - it results of local and large scale instabilities (some call it an element of chaos). Little by little, the density at the center of the cloud increase - at the same time, it has to overcome opposite forces arising from more probable friction. If the gas is cool enough compared to the density, at some point you start having more and more matter, which results in more and more gravitational attraction for surrounding gas. 

Thermonuclear event again: fission From Space.com, they say Kilonova energy could be explained by rapid atomic decay of heavy elements 

This is ruled out because that's not what we see when we look back in the past. If this was the case at the beginning, we would see these huge stars, with probably different characteristics from the ones formed only recently. But we don't see anything like that. From what we see when we look very far away - that's few hundreds of millions of years after the beginning - we see signatures of first generation stars forming, very big stars indeed, but nothing close to what you're talking about. 

I'm wondering which telescope I should buy, by the way, I'm new to astronomy and if you know any others that are under $100, It'd be appreciated. You don't need to take the price difference into consideration when replying, thank you! 1 : $URL$ Features: Maximum magnification: 675x Large aperture offers clearly illuminated views Stable construction provides solid support and control Metal tripod with slow motion control rod Strong performance in both high and low magnification Easy sky focusing with finderscope Specifications: Aperture: 60mm (2.36inch) Focal Length: 900mm.f/15 Finderscope: 5x24 Diagonal Prisms: 90degree Slow Motion Control Rod For Easy Vertial Micro Adjustment Height: 128cm Eyepiece: SR4mm H12.5mm H20mm 3X Barlow Lens, 1.5X Erector Telescopic Aluminum Tripod 2 : $URL$ Specifications: 70mm Achromatic Refractor 400mm Focal Length, f/5.7 Focal Ratio Anti-Reflection Fully Coated Optics 1.25" Rack-and-Pinion Focuser Manual Alt-Azimuth Mount with Lock 10mm and 20mm Eyepieces, Erecting Prism 5x24 Finderscope Aluminum Photo-Style Tripod Backpack Holds OTA, Tripod, Accessories 

I'm very new to astronomy and wondering what I can see with these specs, I honestly have no clue what a lot of these specs mean, and need help thanks. Features: Maximum magnification: 675x Large aperture offers clearly illuminated views Stable construction provides solid support and control Metal tripod with slow motion control rod Strong performance in both high and low magnification Easy sky focusing with finderscope Specification: Aperture: 60mm (2.36inch) Focal Length: 900mm.f/15 Finderscope: 5x24 Diagonal Prisms: 90degree Slow Motion Control Rod For Easy Vertial Micro Adjustment Height: 128cm Standar: 0.965” Acceddoness Include Eyepiece: SR4mm H12.5mm H20mm 3X Barlow Lens, 1.5X Erector Telescopic Aluminum Tripod it also cost $99, and also wondering if it's worth for the price here's a link to the site $URL$ 

The telescope I'm using is a National Geographic 76 Diameter, 700 focal length, Equatorial Mount. It's hard to use the equatorial mount, as this is my first telescope it's hard to use. Everything I see is upside down. I don't know how to polar align my telescope. I don't know how to make move the telescope around properly because of this EQ mount. Any help would be really appreciated I watched videos of people aligning their finderscope but i don't even know how to move mine let alone align it. 

So I live in a suburb in Victoria, Australia. Less than an hour away from the city and I guess there is a bit of light pollution because from my backyard I can probably only see about 15 - 20 stars (probably less), I'm wondering what these stars are, and what I'll see when I get this telescope: $URL$ This is going to sound stupid but how do I know when there are planets in the sky that I can see? I don't think I've ever actually seen a planet other than the moon. Thank you.