Basically, I looked for the cultural things and the interactions between various people and groups, while I didn't pay attention to the science of the world. The progression of the story was more important to me than the justification for things working the way they did. 

Okay, I'll get to the relevant part. You don't mind a timeline-esque approach to this, do you? I'll go with this format for now. Let's set a date for the gills of about 600,000 years ago. 600,000 years ago Homo heidelbergensis is the species that first gets gills.$^1$ At this point, homo heidelbergensis lives in Africa, although it's about to venture outwards into the world. It soon does, and reaches southern Europe and western Asia with ease. In this world, though, it may be easier to cross bodies of water. With gills, homo heidelbergensis maybe able to go to many places before homo sapiens or homo neanderthalensis. It may be possible for them to quickly cross the Red Sea at a narrow point, thereby making the Arab world open. The Persian Gulf is also a little less scary, although I think that both bodies would only be crossable at narrow points, likely close to their origins. 300,000 years ago Homo heidelbergensis has now ventured throughout eastern and central Europe. Crossing the Dardanelles or the Bosphorus was a lot less challenging, so more people can come through Turkey and into Europe. Around this point, homo neanderthalensis may be evolving from homo heidelbergensis. However, the latter could have pushed beyond the places that homo neanderthalensis may have gone in our world. 150,000 years ago Homo neanderthalensis is in its prime. All of Europe may be open to it, including the British Isles (forget the Channel Tunnel!). Scandinavia is easy to get to, and islands near the Baltic Sea require no skill whatsoever. I won't go so far as to say that Iceland is a possibility (it isn't), but it's much easier to get through the northern parts of Scandinavia and Russia. At around this point, the North Pole crossing becomes an interesting idea. Neanderthals would have had to get lucky to get across the North Pole, but they may have had some help. The Earth has entered the Wolstonian Stage, a glacial period stretching from about 350,000 years ago to 130,000 years ago.$^2$ This means that an intrepid group might have been able to make it up north. Any water along the way - which there probably would be - would be a trivial obstacle for the gilled explorers to reach. 100,000 years ago Homo sapiens begins to arise back in Africa. The Red Sea crossing idea now holds for these people, and they will likely undergo that journey. They're starting a journey into Asia, which homo erectus has likely left (metaphorically, that is - they've died out). Homo floresiensis arises. This peculiar species - believed by some to be a sub-group of homo sapiens - stands three and a half feet tall, and has a small brain size. There's a large debate going on as to whether or not these people were homo sapiens with a growth disorder or a unique species. Either way, we know that roughly 100,000 years ago, there are people - of one sort or another - in Indonesia. The cool thing about Indonesia is that it's made up of many, many islands. I'd welcome the input of any and all Indonesians on this part, but - and this may be a justified theory - homo floresiensis may have been able to cross many years earlier. Well, the ancestors of homo floresiensis, at least. Gills permit swimming for extended periods; the extent of the periods depends on other characteristics of the creature. Still, it is fair to say that there may very well have been people on Indonesia before 100,000 years ago. It is thought that homo floresiensis may have reached Indonesia by boats. Gills mean that boats are unnecessary in some parts. Therefore, an earlier crossing is possible. It may be a stretch, but I think it is certainly possible that these "hobbits" may now make their way into Australia. The outback is still as much a desert as ever, but Australia is by no means a wasteland. Homo floresiensis has quite a head start over everyone else. For the next few sections, see this important graphic: 

Option 1: Continuous spectrum Your first choice would be to recreate the black body spectrum of the star. For a black body at a temperature $T$, the intensity $J(\nu)$ is $$J(\nu)=\frac{2h\nu^3}{c^2}\frac{1}{e^{h\nu/kT}-1}$$ where $h$, $c$ and $k$ are constants. For low-energy photons, $J(\nu)\approx\frac{2kT}{c^2}\nu^2$. For high-energy photons, $J(\nu)\approx\nu^3e^{-h\nu/kT}$. In all regimes, if you want to have a certain intensity at a certain frequency, you need a specific temperature. There's no way around it. This means that if you want to duplicate a black body spectrum, you need to recreate the object's temperature. To mimic the Sun's spectrum, you object would have to have a surface temperature of about 5800 K. You've already stated, though, that you can't have that. Therefore, this option is off the table. Option 2: Discrete spectrum with line broadening Your second choice - the one you proposed - would be to take a bunch of atoms in different excited states and produce emission lines. Now, thanks to miscellaneous interactions and collisions, normally a spectrum becomes essentially continuous. The result is a spectrum that appears continuous. Another way that a discrete spectrum can become more continuous is through line broadening. This can happen through a number of mechanisms. 

There is - believe it or not - a loophole that could show give solid evidence that Ragnarok happened. It involves a black hole (or a very massive body). One of the coolest effects of general relativity is that mass and energy can bend light. It's known as gravitational lensing, and it often is shown as this: 

However, all of these require a limited skillset. Sure, you need to have maturity, a good temperament, commitment to the job, and a fairly strong conscience, but I don't need to know the ins and outs of economics or how troop movements work. I click on boxes and the computer does the rest. Boom. That's moderation. I write a couple paragraphs in a meta post. Boom. That's leading. It's easier to lead on the Internet than in real life, and it's easier to keep law and order on the Internet than in real life. There are firm systems you have to stay within purely from the perspective of the UI; they're there to keep folks in line. After an apocalypse, it's a lot harder. There are no restrictions, no system to give us the tools to lead and follow those who can lead better (not that with them we'd be any more successful). And, frankly, most of us don't have the skill set to keep a society together. We have disparate skills - especially here on Worldbuilding - but we don't have enough, and we don't have the expertise to put them into practice.