On a similar note, is the author a professional historian? Look for the author's bio. Are they a professional historian in the sense that they work at a school or institution where their main job puts them in the field of historical research or education? I've known plenty of crackpot academics, but, again, it's a fairly good indicator. I have read very compelling historical works by non-academics, but they tend to have pretty clear flaws that would rule them out as being convincing arguments. Is the evidence clearly presented? Since history (as has been noted above) is the business of using evidence to make an argument, how clearly is the evidence displayed? Are there footnotes or endnotes? Is there a bibliography or works cited? Take an important detail or assumption that they make: is there a source that you can look up to verify it? Not all claims are sourced by an author, but good history tends to source most of them. When in Doubt Historians never promise any grand theory. They have boring titles to their work! 

This is a really good question, although it may end up being a bit broad. What do you mean by "witch hunting years"? While one may be able to deduce consistent trends across witch hunts, one can't be specific, as you could argue that the reasons behind different periods and places that saw an uptick in witch trials had different reasons. Some historians argue that it is general pyschological misogyny based on a mistrust of women, some that it is the patriarchal power structure keeping women from getting out of line, and there are plenty of other explanations out there. A good overview of how historians have seen it can be seen in this article. This paper brings in a more class-based dimension to the argument. Both have lots of references and citations for other sources. If you have access to academic databases, here's a scholarly article. Here's a lighter list-style article from Huffington Post. 

The people living along the northern coastline of Australia, in the Kimberley, Arnhem Land, Gulf of Carpentaria and Cape York had encounters with various visitors for many thousands of years. People and traded goods moved freely between Australia and New Guinea. Indonesian "Bajau" fishermen from the Spice Islands (e.g. Banda) have fished off the coast of Australia for hundreds of years. Macassan traders from Sulawesi regularly visited the coast of northern Australia to fish for trepang, an edible sea cucumber to trade with the Chinese since at least the early 18th century. Tamil sea-farers also had knowledge of Australia and Polynesia before European contact. There was a high degree of cultural exchange, evidenced in Aboriginal rock and bark paintings, the introduction of technologies such as dug-out canoes and items such as tobacco and tobacco pipes, Macassan words in Aboriginal languages (e.g. Balanda for white person), and descendants of Malay people in Australian Aboriginal communities and vice versa, as a result of intermarriage and migration. The myths of the people of Arnhem Land have preserved accounts of the trepang-catching, rice-growing Baijini people, who, according to the myths, were in Australia in the earliest times, before the Macassans. The Baijini have been variously interpreted by modern researchers as a different group of presumably South East Asian people, such as Bajau visitors to Australia who may have visited Arnhem Land before the Macassans, as a mythological reflection of the experiences of some Yolŋu people who have travelled to Sulawesi with the Macassans and came back, or, in more fringe views, even as visitors from China. In 1944, a small number of copper coins with Arabic inscriptions were discovered on a beach in Jensen Bay on Marchinbar Island, part of the Wessel Islands of the Northern Territory. These coins were later identified as from the Kilwa Sultanate of east Africa. So it is not true that Europeans were the first to discover Australia. 

The OED also has it being squarely a 20th century term, arising in the early century and not being seen much after the 1960s. I grew up in the South in the 1980s and never heard it, although I did hear other derogatory language. It was definitely not any less derogatory than other racist terms. 

In a more technical approach, here are a few things that are helpful to me are to look for. As a general disclaimer, I do not know of any foolproof method, so these are more things to look for or consider than any absolute test. Who published the book? Is it from an academic press? Most of the time (but not always) if the publisher includes BLANK University Press, that means the book has been reviewed and approved by other historians, typically in the field. So that tells you that there is at least some consensus within the field that the book is worthy of consideration. Two caveats: 

I don't know if you have a specific period in mind, but the military desegregated earlier than most of the rest of the country. When Truman signed Executive Order 9981 (1948), it allowed for desegregated units. Before then, units were divided by race. 

Peer review has its issues, but it is by an large a good indicator that the book has been thoroughly considered. There are presses that do not have University Press in the title but are still good, so this is by no means a universal test. 

Building off of Denis's answer, there was a lot of imagery of detached phalloi (plural for phallus, or penis) in ancient Greece. Here is a vase image of a woman watering a phallus garden. Some processions (like the Pompe before the Festival of Dionysus) even included pushing carts with giant penises on them that people would decorate with flowers. As noted above, the culture was very fine with images of male nudity, so this wasn't particularly unusual. Also, I don't know the date of that monument, but in classical Athens, women weren't out in public much. 

To prevent torpedoes from becoming a navigational hazard in the event of a miss the 1907 Hague Convention VIII had a section on mines. Once a torpedo was out of fuel it was buoyant. Therefore any torpedo that missed its mark (which was a lot!) would become a random and deadly hazard to navigation. The easiest solution to this was to detonate the torps at the end of run when the fuel ran out. In later models, they were built to automatically explode when the fuel was exhausted. US submarine commanders speak of hearing 'end-or-run' explosions which told them their torpedo had missed. This may be designed as safety system, causing the torpedo to self-detonate after a certain radius. 

Like the modern Chinese, most Native Americans did not grow much facial hair to begin with. What sparse facial hair did grow was typically plucked out as soon as it appeared, according to accounts written by whites who lived with or near them. They didn't shave. Modern Native Americans often have a bit of admixture with Europeans or their descendants and so are able to grow a bit more facial hair, or at least don't mind letting it grow. So you may see them with mustaches and beards. In China, too, you can sometimes see men with relatively sparse beards and mustaches. But the really big and bushy beards and mustaches are sprouted by men from the Near East, Europe, or Africa. Or else the men from these areas really do shave, mostly with metal blades -- something Native Americans didn't have before Columbus, as they used stone and bone as their primary resources for cutting tools. In South America the men used the sharp teeth of a small rodent to cut their head air in a sort of bob, according to anthropologist Napoleon Chagnon. But even there, Chagnon says they plucked beard hairs as these came in. As a woman past the age of menopause who occasionally grows a beard-like hair, I can attest to the fact that one can simply grasp it with the fingernails and pluck it out, as long as one doesn't mind the teensy-weensy pain that causes. If one is going to talk about tweezers, one is going to allow the Native Americans to develop metallurgy, which opens a whole can of worms. Some of those around Central America had a little bit, but most didn't, you see. So what was everybody else doing? I tell you, just as Daniel Boone and all those other occasional captives tell us, they were just plucking them out as they came in. It's really not that big a deal when there aren't that many of them. Besides, after you've done it the first time, the skin toughens up and it's not that hard after that. 

From my knowledge as a theatre historian and speech coach, I would say, it is probably a combination of: 

The thing that we often miss about Greek mythology today is that it never was a stable body of stories. While Judaeo-Christian religions have singular sources of authority (the word of God), the Greeks had a multiplicity of authorities. There were several different types of myth and LOTS of local variations. So, for example, a story about Theseus might be completely different in Athens than in Thebes. In fact, the word "myth" comes from "muthos," which just means "story." The stories we have today are highly selective versions of these compiled from sources across hundreds of years (i.e. A lot of the myths we commonly reference, come from Ovid, who was a Roman). In one sense, Zeus was just "sky," but in another he could also be an oracle and a figure with a biography, and those were not mutually exclusive. To get a good sense of the variations of standard myths and mythic figures, with an eye to sources, I recommend theio.com and, if you want to get deeper into it, Early Greek Myth (2 vols.) by Timothy Gantz is excellent and accessible. 

For comparison, Broadway shows were almost completely unmixed until the 1980s, and actors had to speak to an audience of hundreds or thousands without amplification. 

As the first comment mentions, there are MANY ways to approach history. You may not notice it if you are not in a college history department, but history has many branches (and sub branches, and sub sub branches, etc.). For example, some historians would identify themselves as 

In "old comedy," aka 5th century Aristophanic comedy, there are a lot of visual gags that fit your description. Much of the Greek comic male costume often included prosthetics that gave the actor a large belly, big butt, and (often) outsized phallus. See here and here for examples from vase painting. So, when, for example, Dionysus is spanked in Frogs, the audience is seeing his (probably) bare, big butt get hit over and over while he pees himself. There's also a lot of fart jokes that would probably be accentuated by the actor showing off their large posterior, and so forth...