After a certain scale you just can't do that any more, so you need to increase the strength of the material used to make bones - which would have other evolutionary costs and is still limited - or fundamentally change the design of the creature. For example multiple legs on a long and thin body would support the weight, but raises the question of what the long and thin body is for. Is there any evolutionary advantage to dragging and supporting all that extra body around? Unless such an advantage was found then the creatures would never grow longer than they need to. Blood Pressure As animals grow larger it becomes harder and harder to pump blood around and get it where it needs to be. The heart has to grow larger and work harder or you would need to have and synchronize multiple hearts. Giraffes for example both have twice our blood pressure and have special muscles in their necks to keep blood flowing to the brain. This allows them to stay conscious even when they put their head to the ground to drink then raise it into a tree to feed. Reflexes It takes time for signals to travel along nerves, the very fastest send signals at 250mph but most are much slower. If an animal grows too large there will be a substantial time lag between stimulus and response. Either that or you need localized decision centers and at that point you need to start deciding whether you still have one creature with multiple brains and hearts or a colony of separate but inter-dependent creatures. Heat Another consequence of the Squre-Cubed Law is heating. The largest mammals have large ears and need to rest or get into water often to avoid overheating, while the smallest mammals have to almost constantly eat and move to keep their body temperature from dropping too low. This is because the surface area of the body which loses heat is increasing based on the square of the size, while the volume of the body which is generating heat is increasing based on the cube of the size. 

The point of the rotation is to emulate earth level gravity, so you should not expect to see any large scale changes. Where you would see changes though is in balance and rotational expectations. As you already mentioned the thrown coin would fly "wrong". You would also see this when running, turning corners, standing, etc though. Depending on the size of the torus these effects may be smaller or larger though, for example the wikipedia article on this sort of space station says that: 

In this case the plate at the end and shape of the spindle stop it from spinning around or moving sideways. The same could be achieved with a chain though. 

So in other words the average temperature would drop by 13 degrees, slowly returning to a drop of 6 degrees over a year and then finally returning to normal a few years after that. This is enough to turn temperate conditions decidedly unpleasant but not enough to freeze entire continents. So long as people could keep the power on and gas flowing to homes then people would survive, at first. This does give you the first reason not to hole up in caves though, moving south for warmth! The problem comes when gas supplies fail, and when food starts running low, and when you realize that no new crops will be growing this year. When people start getting cold and tired and hungry. That's when the real trouble comes and how the authorities and survivors handle that is what makes the difference in how many people last and how long they last for. 

Science fiction bio-spaceships are always either cybernetic (using technology for propulsion) or have some sort of drive that is currently unknown to us. In fact bio-spaceships are often given to super-powerful aliens to show just how much more advanced they are than humans. For example the Vorlons in Babylon 5 had living spaceships as just one more way to signal how much ahead of everyone else they are. The theoretical advantage for living spaceships is in crew, repair and maintenance. They can heal themselves, refuel by scooping up organic matter and processing it, they can produce new versions of themselves without needing massive amounts of infrastructure to support manufacturing. At the same time though they can be mass produced if needed. The weakness though comes from the fact that organics tend to be more vulnerable, weaker, etc than metal. In particular the high temperatures and pressures of conventional engines would be hard to deal with. In fact with currently foreseeable technology you would most likely be able to get the same cargo space for a much lighter frame using traditional technology. To get back to the question though, in the situations you describe then most likely they would just use compressed gas jets to manoeuvre. They go into the ring around the planet and consume some ice asteroids. They take minerals and water from the asteroid to use, and then split some of the water using electrolysis into hydrogen and oxygen. That gas is then stored pressurized in bladders all around the hull of the ship. Jets of gas or even water are released from the bladders to accelerate. Possibly burning the hydrogen and oxygen to add energy to the release. This would not allow large amounts of acceleration but it would allow low energy manoeuvring with high precision and consuming some large ice asteroids would allow sustained thrust over time, which is plenty for moving around in space. 

In terms of detecting and responding to magnetic fields then yes, there are animals that we know for a fact can sense magnetic fields (homing pigeons for example). There are also a number of (mostly underwater) species that sense or even generate electric fields. There have been experiments done to see if humans can do the same, but when I last read up on it the results had been inconclusive. If we do have the ability then it's weak or only present in some people. However it would be entirely possible for humans to evolve the ability to do so. Even more likely would be them engineering themselves so that they can. Advanced genetic engineering could easily give us the ability to sense magnetic and electrical fields. Generating them would be considerably harder but also possible although keep in mind that both would be very short range. For longer range telepathy you would need to switch to the EM spectrum and have people sending and receiving radio waves. That is much harder though, virtually impossible to evolve. Maybe possible to engineer. 

Defense. The city's position makes it very hard to attack. In a hostile area this defense may be more important than accessibility. Resources. There are rare and extremely valuable resources here, for example gold or diamond mines. 

This question is edging into being rather broad but I think in this case it is just about specific enough. The simplest answer is just that each floor has a different security requirement, for example a different business may own each floor - or just different levels of it. For example I contract at a bank where the 2nd and 3rd floor are trade floors, you need different access level to go into that than into the floor I work on. Normally this is implemented using turnstyles on each floor rather than locking down the lifts themselves (since you need the turnstyles anyway to prevent tailgating) but an especially paranoid company could well have the lifts locked down. You would need to swipe your card (normally, rather than a passcode) to even select that floor. I doubt every single floor would have a different code, instead they would be divided up based on purpose and you'd need a code for the zone that floor is in. 

Paint it black. More specifically: Space is Big. Really big. No, bigger than that. Really really really big. If your ship isn't actively thrusting or doing anything to draw attention then the chance of it being seen is tiny, just set out on a conventional route with a nice big ship. At a suitable point well away from detection systems and anything that might be monitoring local traffic in an inhabited system detach a smaller ship from the larger one and send that one to your planet for colonization. You might want to make a gravitational slingshot or two to change your route without having to do any noisy (and potentially visible) acceleration. Pick an uninhabited star and swing around that to get a mostly-thrust-free change of direction away from the route the decoy ship is taking for only a small initial shift yourself. You've seen how hard it is for rescuers to find a small boat at night on our oceans, imagine the oceans are a hundred times bigger and instead of a boat they are looking for a rubber duck. The difference is still bigger than that but you are starting to get the idea. 

$URL$ These vents support ecosystem with bacteria at the start of the food chain, and then a procession of larger creatures all feeding off the bacteria and each other. In theory the same process could be supported underground, either in flooded caves (with non-aquatic animals then feeding off the creatures in the caves) or possibly even in dry caves. The main hazards though would be the level of volcanic activity required to form the vents which would make caves unstable and prone to collapse. Additionally you would need some form of erosion either by lava, by water, or by some other as yet unknown action to form a cave network. 

No. It's not possible. The forces involved in the movement of continental plates are absolutely immense. even if you could work out a way to apply that amount of force the strength of the material would not support it. Push on one part of the continent and you would create a localized mountain range "upstream" and a valley "downstream" but the rest would just keep flowing on around you. You would need to somehow apply the incredibly enormous amount of force you require spread out over the whole body of the continental plate down to the depth of miles. There is no technology we currently know of or could conceive of that would allow us to do this. 

My suggestion is to create a small black hole (small enough that it will dissipate given time). Drop it through the earth at the precise angle required to take out the three data centers on it's route through. 

The main issue is going to be the increasing complexity. As patches and repairs get layered over each other, as buildings get moved, gradually it becomes harder and harder to understand the full system. Once something has been patched and remade over the course of thousands and thousands of years you start getting things creep in that are not part of the original design but which are passed on down to the next generation. Things that might not be needed, or might actually make the system work less well. These problems can be fixed by ripping out the system and rebuilding it from scratch, but if no-one really understands it or if it is tightly intertwined with thousands of other systems then that becomes harder and harder to do. 

You've fallen into a naming trap here. There is The Mississippi River Delta and the Mississippi Delta. They are different things. The Mississippi Delta is actually an Aluvial Plain not a delta at all. The Mississippi River Delta is a conventional delta and is found at the sea by New Orleans. You can get a River Delta inland, although at the sea is the most common location. As Wikipedia says: 

For temperature and suchlike requirements you just need to orbit at roughly the same distance from the star. The tricky thing here is the gravity, to have 10 times the radius then you either need to make the planet from something much much less dense than earth (which is improbable) or you need to spin the planet really fast. If you spin the planet then it will flatten out into more of a disk shape but the equator could be ten times the radius of earth's and you could still get earth-level gravitational forces everywhere on the planet. The planet would be the same "height" (pole to pole) as earth but much wider. You'd get some very strong weather and Coriolis effects but the apparent gravity would be just fine. 

So storms would not form as often and would be weaker. When they do form they may be visually impressive or very large but the reduced atmospheric pressure will vastly reduce how much damage they can do. 

The simple answer is yes it's possible, if they have a suitably developed physiology. Vampire bats, leeches, mosquitoes and more are proof of that. There are complications that make it less practical than you might want though. Lets start from a Vampire Bat (as a mammal it seems a good starting point for comparison). From wikipedia: 

You are transferring entropy from one system to another. The universe where they "die" gains entropy as it loses the person who has died. The "afterlife" universe loses the same amount of entropy. It is unlikely the process is 100% efficient so there would also be some waste as extra energy is generated in the process. Essentially your afterlife is working like a supernatural refrigerator, heating the afterlife by creating more souls in it and cooling the outside world by sucking the heat out and into itself. In doing so inefficiencies mean that the total entropy in the whole system is likely to increase though. In other words the pre-death world will cool down more than the post-death one heats up. In effect the afterlife is "feeding" on everywhere that the people are coming from, which may even explain how this came about. Dying within the same world and then resurrecting is actually harder to explain, but essentially it means you need to sacrifice entropy somewhere else to pay for the resurrection. Note though that from a purely physics point of view a person with a knife through their heart has no more or less entropy than that same person just before the dagger plunged home.