I may reiterate some previous answers, but i'm also going to distinguish the reproducability of the technology. Firearms Provided they are well-maintained, any firearm can be kept in working order for many hundreds (or thousands) of years. This is theoretically also true, provided they are stored in an air- and dust-sealed manner. However, finer mechanics and technology will degrade faster, and will be harder to reporoduce. The more reliable and simple the parts are, the simpler they will be to exchange. In a post-spocalyptic world, you wouldn't go for the first, best, strongest laser rifle out there, but rather rely on a relatively simple AK-47. There are much simpler weapons than this, like cannons used before the 1800s. They are basically just shaped cans of metal with a hole for the projectile to come out of, and a hole for the fuse. Even though such a cannon is not well maintained, it would still work for at least 500-1000 years. Most aspects of, say, a modern assault rifle could still be reproduced (by reverse engineering) provided the finder(s) have the right eqipment for it, even in quite a degraded state. Ammunition Self-contained bullets and grenades (any type of modern ammo with included propellant) is unlikely to survive in working order for more than 100 years, as AndreiROM has mentioned. The various chemicals used in gunpowder and more advanced alternatives break down over time, and may react in an undesired way, making the propellant not work, or very unstable. Aditionally, modern ammunition is produced with precision in mind, you can't put just any ammo out there in a 9 mm gun without risking damage to the firearm (or the user). On the other hand, an old Civil War era front loading musket with included ammo (lead or steel balls) can be perfectly stored away (again, in a sealed manner) and be usable hundreds or thousands of years later (provided the user knows how to make gunpowder) Engines You can have something like a combustion engine work for hundreds of years, but again, simpler things last longer. A relatively simple engine from a moped or small motorcycle can survive for hundreds of years of storage (and even somewhat averagely-maintained use), another good example is an engine from a car like a Citroen 2CV, which were built to be easily repairable and basically unkillable... On the other hand, a modern car engine (with arrays of sensors and other electronics) will not likely remain in proper calibration for long (maybe 5-10 years) and will likely fail completely shortly after that. modern-ish Engines are relatively easy to reproduce, provided your people know how to make electricity (namely spark plugs) Electrical utilities and tools This again depends on the reliability of the parts used in the appliance. Any mechanical part will most likely degrade over time (unless protected against corrosion) and might need a bit of re-oiling. Simple electronics (especially resistive electronics, like toasters or boiler elements) can last for many hundreds of years, even in somewhat bad storage conditions. The survivability of the different electrical components vary wildly, however, and the most susceptible parts are parts that rely on chemistry (batteries, electrolytic capacitors) and mechanics (servos and motors). the reproducibility will vary based on the device. Most motors work on basic magnetics, while it'll be hard to reverse-engineer an SMD resistor. Computers, smartphones etc. Most modern (post-2005) computers could potentially work in a few hundred years (acceptable storage conditions provided), apart from mostly mechanical parts (fans, and HDDs usually get "sticky heads" after 5-10 years of storage). However, any solid-state component (basically everything on a modern PC component) will probably last indefinitely. The reason why I mention PCs post-2005, is that the stable of using solid-state capacitors on compnents started around this time on enthusiast hardware. Smartphones are basically ONLY solid-state components, so there's nothing preventing you from having someone find a smartphone in 400 years, rigging up a makeshift battery or 5v power supply and being able to use it. 

I think it is fair to assume that the more time there is before a random event, the more likely it is the random event will turn out differently. Why? Because the world is governed by Quantum Mechanics; and we supposedly have proof (with various New Scientist articles as my source) that quantum events cannot be deterministic, and that quantum events can indeed have macroscopic effect (In the Schrodinger's Cat paradox, the setup is not in dispute: We can arrange for a cat to be killed (or a bomb to explode) if an atom emits an alpha particle; which is a random quantum event that triggers a macroscopic effect). The Quantum events in question are a function of time, so the longer the time, the more of them occur, and the more likely it is that a chaotic system (which by definition is dependent on immeasurably tiny variations in starting conditions) will be skewed to provide a different outcome. I would say that at the point you arrive in the past, a reset occurs: That includes re-rolling the dice on every quantum event starting at that point, which means even without any butterfly effect, the air currents blowing the lottery balls around might be slightly different and produce completely different numbers. Say some atoms decayed this time around that did not decay before, emitting energy that warmed some air molecules (or parts of the lottery machine), and vice versa; and those minute variations in heat get multiplied enough over the two days to change the outcome; one ball is deflected just a hair of a degree so its trajectory bounces off the edge of the winning ball chute; so another ball make it in there instead. If you want to win the lottery, appear in the past about 2 minutes before the cutoff for buying a ticket; just enough time to purchase it. That makes the state of the lottery machine as close as you can get to where it was to select those particular winning numbers. 

This all together could work to maintain it, with a slow source feeding water into it to battle evaporation. 

In the universe there are several worlds where energy harvesting is feasible without pesky wild life habitat preservers standing on your patch'o land bare breasted. So earth has set out to harvest energy from other worlds to keep earth green and blue and open for free range nature lovers. Through a lucky invention we found out a way to very quickly(near light speed, 0.99c) transport material and people through the universe, we just haven't knacked a way to get off a planet in an energy efficient way yet so we still use these days rockets to get off this rock) In a reasonable timespan Earth has set up some bases on several worlds to gather energy. Thermal energy from volcanic active worlds(like io), tidal energy from oceanic worlds(europa), wind energy from planets with an active atmosphere(venus). We also have some nuclear reactors buried in the moon, just to have something close, but keeping it supplied with water and fuel and crew not dead has been a hassle so on other worlds has been chosen for reneables. Scout missions are under way or building already on remote worlds in different solar systems, but sadly we haven't heard back yet. The world will be roughly the same as ours, except maybe a hundred years in the future or a bit more, but not much has changed in energy needs except that fossil fuels are out and all is electrical. The energy need that existed in fossil fuels is now replaced by the equivalent in electrical. How do they get the energy off the planets on the way to earth in a way that the energy price on earth would not differ from what it is today, and the energy need stays roughly the same(see the led light suprise, leds are brighter, more energy efficient, so naturally we use more because it costs the same). Some options I thought of: Huge lasers through space reflected by satellites to a specific point on space to boil lots o water for steam power and water desalinization and salt production. Cons, might be hard to keep the beam focused over large distances. Energy pods: Concentrated energy in batteries. Might be to costly to launch those in space, cons: heavy, weighs a lot, how do we get it on earth without it burning up or poisoning the lands on a faillure. Fusion produced helium3: There are reactors powered by the planets that produce helium3 thats shot to earth where it's used in reactors to generate energy. cons: You need launch and gather mechanisms, costs a lot for possibly little gain. Which would be most economical, or is there a better way to keep earth green and cat videos on the internet? 

Presuming the worm-holes or "warp space" are obstacle free and danger does not increase with speed, then I think there is no reason whatsoever to travel at less than the maximum sustainable non-damaging speed available. Your premise says that is not the maximum speed, so whatever percent of maximum does not create any special heat-related maintenance is the only sensible speed to travel. I am also assuming collisions with other ships cannot occur in the wormholes or warp space; if collisions CAN occur, you need traffic laws to avoid them, which may include speed limits geared to the range of sensors within the wormholes or warp space; and that range may vary (just like on our roads or air lanes IRL). Also caveats for any scientific missions studying wormholes or warp space from the inside, of course. 

Slavery of women, sexual and otherwise. The premise that powerful men could slaughter all the males in another culture and capture all the females is entirely feasible; although the only reference to that I know of is a story of Moses going to war in the Old Testament, which may be legend, or a fictional exaggeration of an actual conquest. In that story, Moses kills all males (including infants and children) and all non-virginal females, and then gives away the remaining virginal females to his conquering soldiers as slaves (for sex or labor by the rules of the OT) as the spoils of war. In general, the original social structure, and likely religion and culture, would collapse. To the women, the invaders would be men that just brutally murdered their sons, husbands, brothers and fathers and lovers, all the males they loved in any way. Probably their armies, political and religious leaders and police force, since in most cultures these fields are led primarily by males. (Also, historically, utter defeat of a people often causes their religion to decline and be abandoned. Not always, but with all males dead I would presume so.) The new social structure would likely be males-in-charge and women as second class citizens, breed stock for the males. After all, that is how it began, and chances are high the women are coerced into sex and pregnancy just because they are the conquered victims, and as humans we can expect them to be unwilling participants after invaders have murdered every male they love. The invaders would be regarded as brutal monsters; and their crimes (from the women's POV) would never be forgiven; I doubt many could move emotionally from the hatred and grief they feel to fondness for the men that caused that. Perhaps those too young to understand what happened; e.g. age five or less, could be raised without the hatred and grief, but they won't be able to have children for nine or ten years. In the meantime, I presume any women past puberty would be raped, effectively sex slaves (and labor slaves) for the conquering males. As far as linguistic changes, conquerors tend to force their language on the conquered. For example I believe (without research) that the primary language of American Indians is now English, and I have read that most of their children are no longer fluent in their native language, and some don't know any of it. The same is true of African slaves born into American's Slave South. Although it doesn't apply in this conquered scenario, even when voluntary migrants join a new culture, their descendants (children, grandchildren, etc) lose more of the native language every generation. (And as you can see even in modern America, many citizens here advocate for forcing migrants to become reasonably fluent in English.) But that is as far as I think we can plausibly extend the analysis, the other questions have no answers. As far as how these conquering males share the females, that will be quirks of their own culture and/or religion. They may be egalitarian and share them equally. They might assign women to men by lot. It may be meritorious. The conquerors may have some hierarchical order, by age or 'royalty' or scars in battle, so they make their selections in some hierarchical order among themselves. e.g. their King gets first pick. They could also be either polygamous or monogamous. If there are many women conquered, polygamy would seem required to impregnate them all, if that is indeed what the men want to do (it might not be, the conquerers may not be in a big hurry to create many infant mouths to feed and protect). Although I am not aware of a historical precedent for conquerors, we could even posit the fictional conquering men are not that possessive of women and do not closely track paternity. There is historical precedent in the 'hippie' and 'flower children' culture of the 1960's and 1970's, in which many young women were casually promiscuous and had enough sexual partners that paternity, when pregnancy resulted, was uncertain. To an extent this remains true today and many young men may be fathers without knowing it. The father of my sister's first child, which she bore at 15, never did know he fathered a child. So the fictional conquerors' society may be such that paternity is not important to them, and exclusivity or a permanent partner for sex is not considered desirable. For an example (intended only as an illustration and without any endorsement by me), consider a brothel: Women are on display and men choose amongst them, pay for their services, have sex, and depart. If such women become pregnant, paternity is uncertain; many such women have intercourse multiple times a day and the father of a child could be one of dozens. Such a coerced brothel model may be the cultural norm for the conquerors; so neither polygamous or monogamous. The children, after nursing to the age of two or so, could be separated into males and females, and the males then raised by men to be warriors (Spartan style), and the women raised to be either domestic labor or brothel residents. All of which is offered to say this question is too broad in many respects. The conqueror's culture and social structure will generally prevail, including the fact that they go forth as an all male group and conquer! And kill all males when they do. Given that dynamic, the subjugation of women into coerced sex and labor seems inevitable to me, but a writer would be free to invent many alternative realities within that circle. 

To help against gravity there's also a source of static electricty, pulling the water "up" against ceiling. 

A windmill may not produce enough "power" to work a pump depending on location, how much wind is blocked or scattered by building, and it might get scavenged for its materials by raiders so wind may not be the most reliable way to get stuff working(depending on the setting) I'm assuming the survivors will need to wander off into farming as well to be able to eat, and as humans are lazy, they will use mules/horses/cows to till the soil(even if the soil is inside a building with a glass roof or mirrors set up) Now if you'd occasionally hook those cows and mules up to a water pump the settlers built out of wood or metal if they have proper metal working tools available for the water crisis sets in. $URL$ and have those pumps pump the water up to a big water tank, which is relatively easy to build out of wood, you only need your work animals to work once in every x days until the water runs out. That way you can get the animals out of harms way and "hide" the pump for marouders. You could even dig it in the ground and then cover it up. These animals could also be used to automate washing for the people living there $URL$ and of course power grinding stone for grinding grains and other materials. They can also used to power machinery with leather belts. $URL$ or generate electricity with it. Small amounts, but perhaps enough to help with building up an electrical grid up with windmills/watermills etc... Basically, by first utilizing animals, they could short circuit the industrial revolution within a few years if they manage their resources correctly and focus on getting power from windmills/water mills as soon as possible on large scale. When there's power, water, electric light, they can grow crops galore, which they can trade with other settlements and get an economy back up and running. They can smelt metals with electricity and get iron working back up and running. 

I don't think it will, the brain maturation you are talking about is a biological phenomenon, not a training or learning phenomenon. Specifically, it is (at least one component of it is) coating the nerves in the brain with myelin, a physical process that improves accuracy of transmission and doubles the speed. This begins in puberty but does not proceed "brain wide" all at once; instead it seems to proceed in the order of evolutionary development. Since our large (comparatively to other animals) frontal cortex, responsible for planning and judgment and foresight, appeared late in human evolution, it is the last to be "optimized" in this way; and other structures related to emotion and sexual urges are the first. This is likely to be responsible for some of our teenage rebellious phase, driven by emotion and the desire to mate, taking lethal risks to do so (because earlier parts of the brain are working faster than our frontal cortex by a factor of two). It isn't "hormones", as popularly described, it is just a competition within the brain in which rationality, caution, and foresight are at a severe disadvantage and losing out to physical attraction, impulsiveness, and other strengthened emotions (love, hate, jealousy, greed). The brain just is not returned to balance until all parts are returned to equal footing, in the mid-20's, with some other physical developments as well. This is not a muscle; training will not hurry the growth of myelin, although severe punishments for "bad behavior" can still reduce the incidence of it; given enough fear of consequences, even adolescents will fall into line. But that is not "maturity", it is a simulation of it. The emotional life is still raging and keenly felt, even if the actions are not taken. 

Is a present, once opened, still a present? Logically, Santa would be unable to give your kid that brand-new 3DS he wished for, as he re-uses gifts. Then you come with this: 

YES WE DO... forwards or backwards, in order to cover up his thievery, he has to be in the same place twice (or hire his brother, Jeff). Also this presents either a paradox of changed history OR item duplication. Lastly, Santa WOULD need to go to the same house at least twice (forwards and backwards) Actually, if you count in different traditions across the world, Christmas is comparatively like a busy work day for Santa 

How does that explain how I got my Gameboy Color when it was just released? (it came out late november 1998) 

First point: Christmas is not celebrated in all places (only about half to three quarters the world's population actually celebrate it) second point: Christmas is not celebrated at the same time all over... The first point is easy, Santa will only have to deliver gifts to half the children in the world. The second point hinges on differing traditions; yes, if all the world woke up to gifts on the 25th of December, he'd have a hard time... However, where I come from (Denmark), the gifts are traditinally given on the evening of the 24th. Some eastern countries wait until January 6th At least this gives Santa a bit more time to distrbute his gifts 

A combination of surface tension and static electricity might do the trick. Imagine a ceiling made out of a mesh of thin hair like rods with the same refractive index as water. These rods are close enough so the water bonds between it due to surface tension and doesn't fall down. Same like brushes can hold liquids and it doens't fall down(below a certain volume of course) 

There are several alternative food sources, that could allow for rebuild afterwards. Mushrooms and fungi can serve as a nutrition source, and hell is there a lot of dead plant matter for them to feed on after the plantopalypse. Back in the days of yore there were huge fungi on the earth, I imagine the same will happen again with the rich nutrition soil available to them. Then there are insects. Gods are there insects. Not the nice pollinators, they'll die. Goodbye bees, goodbye butterflies. But the mulch eaters, roaches, woodlice, etc... Fancy a nice roach burger? Also, just as the virus has adapted, some plant life will also adapt. It's very very hard to get 100% eradication or success. Hence Monsanto, Bayer and the other poison manufacturers have to keep improving their poisons. There will be a few hardy plants that'll survive because they're different, get a defense for the virus, that could lead to a rebound in a few hundred/thousand years. Also, assuming this is seen worldwide as a "Real ****ing problem" that will push aside all differences, and causes worldwide collaboration on fixing the issue. They identified that it's a virus so they still have viral labs, they'll set quickly on establishing labs finding its weaknesses/attachment proteins and modifying plants that don't have those with worldwide cooperation. I will assume billions of moneys will be spent on making this happen "F.A.S.T."(Find Alternative to Starvation Threat). Because everyone is sick and tired of Roasted mushroom with a woodlice sauce on a bed of cockroaches after a few years. How would these plant labs operate? They completely isolate seed vaults with very very strict sanitizing procedures to enter or leave. All material will be blasted with gamma rays to kill any traces of the virus, the material will only be released when the grass placed with the material in quarantine survives for a week after good air circulation and exposure to the material. Then they set up their virus manipulation labs near there to modify the precious seeds to survive the virus by eliminating attachment points where the virus can attach. They'll release these plants in the wild, so they can evolve further in nature to became hardier against the virus. All iterations get tested in the wild and what sticks is allowed to spread further and further, making sure as much of the world gets their "patch of green" to allow it to spread and germinate and adapt as quickly as possible. So by using mushrooms as alternative food sources, a select few animals can be preserved that can digest them. Small animals will be bred to be able to eat and digest them, a lot of animals will automatically run to the bountiful mushrooms to start eating them instead of plants. Those that survive will be the basis for the new natural order. Nature will find animals to fill the abandoned spots in the life cycle. There will be mass extinction of many species, but a lot of herbivores in moderate climates will survive, especially if human aid is provided by teaching the animals to eat mushrooms. So with good coordination, and a few smart minds, there is a possibility to survive. Maybe the cows can survive off mushrooms too, with some insects for protein, then we can still have steak! 

A very intriguing thought experiment. Star and points for that. JDLugosz has already made some fine points about this, his main pont the world is a simulation makes a very good premise. Physics and events would match up to a (bad) computer game. In fact games use a LOT of these shortcuts: 

In this case, any animal outside the time bubble will stand (nearly) still... Intelligent or not, the given animal will be none the wiser, as it will experience the altered timeframe as you all would experience time right now. The point is, that time is relative... Time also slows down for a pilot of a near-lightspeed space ship, but he still experiences that timeframe as being unaltered. As for the humans: THEY WILL (nearly) ALL DIE! Why? Because the low-to-none amount of light (depending on time dilation factor) will make humanity unable to grow crops. Of course, you could plant a field of wheat and walk away, but depending on the time dilation factor, it may take hundreds or thousands of years in relation to the farmer to grow the crops. You can also go kill an animal (easy, you just extend your time field around their heart... imagine your heart beating a million beats per minute), but the animals also take hundreds or thousands of years to grow and reproduce compared to the human timeframe. Any animal that comes into contact with or cross a time field like this, is very probably going to die immediately and painfully... The remaining humans will not be able to eat meat (apart from very rare occasions), and they will only be limited to crops that can grow under low-light conditions (good example being mushrooms, which thrive in darkenss). New jobs would include literally watching plants grow and paint dry, to make sure it happens this century... Where you have to be careful, and where many go wrong, is that time outside cannot stand perfectly still! Space and time are two very intermingled forces, and one cannot exist without the other. This rule applies in reality, but not for a simulation (as things are dynamically loaded and unloaded as needed) Essentially: Time needs space so that something can happen. (without time at all, there cannot be a "big bang" or a growing universe) on the other hand.. Space needs time to grow and change. (without space, how would you move about or do something?) 

Natural Vaccination. Read about how Cowpox was used to vaccinate against Smallpox, this is our IRL first instance of vaccination against a disease. 

Ironically enough, high performance computing (HPC). Mechanical computers would be millions of times slower than electronic ones, and HPC is the field of trying to get the most out of ANY kind of computer, from the 20 cent processors to the \$5000 processors. It is finding the algorithms and code organization to use the hardware at its peak efficiency to get the most work done per second. Other fields would be the death of Compilers; nobody would write anything except in the assembly language of the computer, because that is one way to get the most out of it. Mid level languages like C or Fortran typically run at around 10% of peak; the same computation written in assembler (with some knowledge of how the computer processes instructions) can achieve 75%, and with tuning, sometimes 95% of theoretical peak. High level languages (Javascript, python, Swift, C++, C#) and object oriented languages would simply not exist, they often achieve less than 1% of peak. The whole field of Compiler theory and optimization would likely not exist. Likewise for AI, we would have few if any games (or only simplistic games like Pong). No cell phones. Communications would still exist, but Internet entertainment would not. Realistic physics simulations for fluid flow, weather, etc would probably not exist or would be quite simplistic (and therefore of very rough precision). I am talking about literally a million times slower, perhaps more, with the very best possible mechanical computers. They would not be for the public; they would be now what they were for in the 1950's and 1960's, big business accounting and record keeping, glorified calculators for solving physics and math problems.