Yes totally possible. Like 100%. For instance alligators and crocodiles are both wayyy bigger than dogs and breathe our atmosphere and are fine. Besides more oxygen isn't really a requirement for reptiles since they do have lungs and everything its much more a requirement for insects arachnids excetra who have to rely on diffusion through spiricals. The main limiting factors for reptiles is heat since they can't control it themselves. Alternativly if you do have additional oxygen your humans would have just evolved to be more resistant to oxygen poisoning or have a very blueberry heavy diet. Its worth noting that humans can live in partial pressures of oxygen half that at sea-level I imagine that it probably has a similar tolerance the other way too. 

Probably not that much, to begin with there's the fact that most designers worth their salt would include fail-safes for something like this such as parachutes along the length of the elevator. furthermore you have the issue that the most commonly suggested material for space elevators, carbon nano-tubes would burn up fairly well in the atmosphere and is also quite un-dense meaning it has a low terminal velocity. Earth itself is definitely fine since it weighs so much compared to any proposed space elevator design. it might be a somewhat different story for the stuff on it worst case scenario you have a few dozen Chelyabinsk style events and debris lands in the desert a bunch. on a slight tangent for space elevator type stuff i'd quite advise isaac arthur's upward bound series on youtube. 

No. a "kills all the plants" virus would not necessarily kill all humans just 99.999% of us a group with forewarning and/or sufficient resources and dedication (probably either of the superpowers mentioned) could allow a small group of humans to survive until the virus wipes itself out through over-activity if thoose humans really know what they are doing then they could survive this long and then unfuck the planet, at least enough for humanity to live on. what will this group eat? well there are a few sources: 

to clarify these people will not be healthy, they will not be happy, they will most likely be under military rule with little freedom and they might be a tiny bit imbred but they will be alive. but the aim is that at some point conditions will improve and their descendants will carry on the human race. the biggest problem for such a group would not infact be the the lack of food (that's immensely hard to deal with but not impossible) but the release of almost all of the 4*10^12 tonnes of carbon in the earths biosphere over the next ten or so years. Comparing that to human CO2 emissions and you're looking at well over three hundred consecutive "2015's" worth of human CO2 emissions being dumped on the planet, this has serious potential of causing a green house effect. there is however a simple solution to this! since you're no longer earth's ecology you can just enter all of earth's nuclear missile silos and detonate the warheads creating a nuclear winter to "cancel out" the green house effects. this is just a short term solution though you'll either need plants to start growing again or some other way of getting rid of those green house gases (I recommend self replicating robots). fallout from the bombs would likely not be a problem after a hundred years or so. Futhermore any remaining life would likely evolve increased radiation resistance humans would avoid the radiation simply by planting their bombs in the right places, by filtering air and water and by minimising exposure to the 'outside world'. global dimming would be a problem for any remaining plants however it will be minimised by the lack of competition, and abundance of CO2. there is a good chance that at least one plant survived and will then spread once more other the earth. if not theres always the Svalbard seed vault. a lot of what i've described requires an industrialised society which obviously would be gone by this point however its possible that with sufficient preparation the necessary technologies could be salvaged and its likely that if the lives of all N hundred people left are dependant on their running they will continue to run. this of course requires a competent government however but in general governments can, in times of crisis, be relied upon to get all their stuff in one sock install somekind of military junta and do what needs to be done. the number of people that could survive is really dependant on how long the virus takes to kill everything and how willing the government in question is to devote valuble manpower into this project. best case scenario the virus takes decades to come to full fruition, all the governments work together, new tech is developed and perhaps a small fraction of the population is saved. worst case scenario its one crazy general who saves a hundred people for a decade or two before everything stops working and mankind dies off for good. if i had to guess? i'd say ten-thousand people could be saved if done right. 

Lack of automation: if you can get a machine to do it you probably won't use slaves, since machines are often cheaper & better (Espacily in the long run) this may also take the form of a volatile economy in which the upfront cost of automating a process is not worth the risk of that process no longer being needed. Lack of morality: this might be high and mighty of me but slavery is not a system that should be used, like ever. Any civilization that practice's it is missing the ability to see someone as human. Common examples are the triangular slave trade and Nazi prison camps. Low education threshold for work: in general slavery works better for 'uneducated' labour as its easier to make someone work when you can clearly see a measure of it 100 acres of land ploughed vs 100 programming done(?). Non-chatel slavery systems: slavery doesn't have to mean whips, chains and farm hands for instance The Ottoman empires jannisaries were a form of slave and broader definitions of slavery can exist under different conditions.