"So, when I host a party at my place, it becomes obligatory of me to host them with alcohol and non-vegetarian food (bought from a restaurant). " I don't see how it is obligatory. You could serve delicious vegetarian food and non-alcoholic drinks. If you take your Buddhist precepts you are not supposed break them yourself or encourage others to break them. I think your instincts on this are correct. Would it be so boring? Have you spoken to your friends about this? Why not raise the subject and see what they say? 

A few other selections from the Pāḷi texts, since they seem to be what people respond to (I'm not bothering to offer my own translations this evening, these are by Thanissaro and can be taken with a pinch of salt). From the Rhinoceros Horn Sutta: 

Since the main "effect" of karma is precisely rebirth, then this is a very important question to decide. Nāgārjuna answers it by saying that: 

As I understand the Buddhist approach to ethics we are all responsible for our own actions, and the Buddha defined significant actions as "intention" (AN 6.63 cetanāhaṃ bhikkhave kammaṃ vadāmi). It is the impact of our intention that is under our influence (control would be too strong a word). How well we understand something like the food chain will be dependent on how much effort we put in. Clearly meat always comes from dead animals. More subtly we know that animals are often mistreated in the production of food. So free range eggs most likely involve less cruelty than battery eggs. Diary products always involve killing off most of the male calves very early, and rennet for cheese often comes from the stomachs of those same calves. A little research can reveal much about such things. But ignorance is also a karmically significant intention, especially if it is based on laziness or deliberate shying away from the truth. Intending to remain ignorant so as to continue to enjoy a sensory pleasure is an unskilful action. On the whole we have little influence beyond our own actions. We may have some influence on our intimates, but even that is limited. The point of application of Buddhist ethics is our own mind. We certainly have little influence over billionaires. But then the theory of karma supposedly takes care of this. We take care of our karma and karma takes care of the problem of the actions of others. Everyone gets the fate they have worked towards. The multi-life perspective allows for localised unfairness to persist because the afterlife sorts out the discrepancy between action and reward/punishment. Of course these ideas of morality were conceived in an environment with very short food chains - most people probably knew the source of their food. The rich directly exploited their serfs for wealth, but this was pretty much out in the open. And of course bhikkhus (literally "beggars") made a decision to accept whatever food they were given, excepting only when they knew that an animal had been killed specifically for the. So the bhikkhu purposefully distances themselves from knowledge of the food chain and accepts whatever comes. The morality of this seems moot from a modern point of view. Accepting alms from someone who is am arms dealer for example, would seem to be unethical. I'm not sure it's true that the Buddha did not criticise war. He did tend to stay out of politics. But for example in the opening pages of the Mahānibbāna Sutta he subtlety dissuades Ajātasattu from attacking the Vajjis. And keep in mind that the tradition says that Ajātasattu had already tried to assassinate the Buddha. in any case the Buddhist texts are unequivocal in denouncing violence. And war is only violence on a larger scale. 

If having further an detail question or seeking for an intensive discussion to work thinks good out, one might feel always given to do so here (careholders here don't like such to happen here, sometimes but not always). Always happy, since people at large often give statistics more value then discerning observations, inwardly and outwardly, this topic here "Lessons from Sardinia: respect towards elders leads to a significantly longer life", in a usuall opposing proper discerment enviroment, might give some source of thoughts in regard of "one gets what one gives" and why "conservative" (good tradition preserving) societies are more garants for harmonious and long live while usually pseudo liberalism, postmodern and commonist tendencies are merely the enviroments of short live and joyless vegetating. 

Sadhu for feeling responsible and go after thoughts of right shame! There was once an answer on "mindful walking" and my person shared a little of practice in this regard here, but not remember where. Once driving the bigges car in town, the thought after insects smashed on the window accures: "why not driving more slow" later "why why driving at all and not just care about the near", later "why driving at all?" later "why wearing shoes?" and since wakling toward a battle line for peace, thinking "it's not proper if wishing to encourage to peace to harm others and to wear "weapons and protections"" my person did not even took any ride since probably eight years (just saw it must be 10 already) and people asking why not are asways wondering if telling them that my person in this way is much faster than any aeroplane ever could be. People, just having some merits in reach or access to take are not capable to calculate and the bet, aside of all the merits, is always up: no one can be faster then my person, in using vehicles, if starting at the same point, with the same conditions and counting possible debts at the destination for right calculation afterwards. Walk! (Note heavy lyrics and not for those already on the way) And train yourself in being mindful and in letting go of greedy hypocritical ideas, step by step. Tires are often to patch, after many thousand kilometers just step by step, there was just one accident, and this was in the near dark having fever over 40º for more then 3 weeks in remote forest area. "Devas" found my person and took care that it healed. There is nothing more of benefit then modesty and freedom of remorse and while the Bodhisattvas rushing accross you may find lot of reason for compassion for thse killing each other again and again for their "compassioned" attachements and greed. One is sure not only to be health at mind but also have bodily good health, not to speak of easy gaining insight and what ever powers one might be after if doing it mindful and with the right direction objected. Be faster and smarter and let others win outwardly for as far they can see... Ohh... btw, one my person wrote some words for those up to lighten themselves and do good: Who is the winner in the traffic of life? 

My take on these kinds of lists in Mahāyāna sūtras, especially late ones like the Avatamsaka, is that they are literary devices. The Avatamsaka is a particularly literary text. It's mainly a work of imagination, a kind of elaborate, surrealist Buddhist novel. The link appears to be to a summary rather than a translation. There's a ( illegal) copy of Leary's translation from the Chinese online here. (Chapter 27, page 811-862). A quick skim suggests that it may not give you the kind of information you are interested in. 

The book seems to be in print still and is moderately priced. One little note however is that the Sanskrit contains a mistake. I discovered this in 2012 and finally published my explanation of the mistake and suggested correction earlier this year. It's quite minor, but important in how the text is interpreted. 

Although most elements of the mantra are untranslatable the section "mama āyuḥ-puṇya-jñāna-puṣṭiṃ kuru" is a Sanskrit sentence reading "Give me long-life, merit, knowledge and propersity". (BTW The Vulcan salute "life long and prosper might be "āyuḥ puṣṭiṃ bhavatu") One chants this mantra and hopes that White Tārā will bestow these qualities on one. The word "mama" can be substituted with the name of someone else we want to have these blessings. So we can see that a concern with longevity is actually quite pervasive in Buddhism. 

Of the three, only 1. and 3. are currently in use, but 2. was very prominent in North India for many centuries. Each theory introduces a number of ad hoc alterations to the received tradition - indicating that they could not see how karma and rebirth worked as things stood. Unfortunately none of the new formulas really solved the problem (nor did any of the less influential attempts not mentioned here). In several articles on my blog I show that the logic of these solutions to the problem, though in some cases admirable and elegant, actually fail to explain how karma and rebirth work. See especially The Logic of Karma. This leaves us in the present with no workable theory of karma and rebirth. And this is before we invoke science! Secondly, this led to another big argument, the one over the interim realm (antarābhava). The doctrine of momentariness requires that the stream of cittas be unbroken. For this purpose they had to invent a kind of "neutral gear" called the bhavaṅgacitta which is what the mind is doing when it is not doing anything. It primarily provides continuity when our mind is inactive - such as when we sleep or in the nirodhasamāpatti "attainment of cessation". In this case there can be no gap between death and rebirth or the stream of cittas would be broken. On the other hand, for other Buddhists the idea of an instantaneous transition did not make sense. Some pointed out that a cart carrying rice from one village to another took an appreciable time to get there. How could a citta fly from one person to another in no time? So they had to invent the interim realm, the antarābhava or bardo in Tibetan, to accommodate this. At most, only one of these views can be correct. There can either be an interim or not. This dispute is never resolved in Buddhism so that today the official position of the Theravāda school is that there can be no interim realm, and Tibetan schools make the bardo between death and rebirth a particular feature of their teaching. Ironically many modern Theravādins (such as Bhikkhu Sujato) find the interim realm plausible, even though it destroys the stream of cittas that underlies their view of karma and rebirth. I have been writing essays on this subject for some years now including critiques of the traditionalist views of some prominent Buddhists. Some of my work has also been published in academic journals. A complete list can be found under the heading Afterlife. In addition I was interviewed by Ted Meissner of The Secular Buddhist on the subject of karma and rebirth: Doug Smith of the Secular Buddhist Association has also critiqued the Traditionalist view of rebirth: $URL$ Someone put together this discussion between me and David Chapman on Twitter on storify. 

At least, to some aspects of your qiestion and if willing to be or become a good friend for all others, you may consider marks of good people also here: 

Ordinary equanimity is based on gross ignorance/moha. The two illustrations here might also provide for an understanding: Ignoring the truth & Bhaṅgañāņa and bhayañāņa. Some "provoking" questions for an understanding in this regard may be also found here: Freed of Fivefold Fear. Typical outwardly indicators for people dwelling in household-equanimity is total lack in basics like gratitude, goodness, generosity and virtue. Once such states a reached, people are merely hopless lost which is one reason the Buddha often nearly "fighted" against teachers leading in such directions while other teachings, even if not much of benefit have been merely tolerated as current wishes for certain destinies of others. The immense danger of giving rise to firm household-equanimity is also the reason why in Bodhisatta-vehicles the teaching of emptiness of immature people is a grave fault and breach of the root vows, knowing that they are walking on a tiny edge and althought propably even understood as encouragement to act wrong. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, given for release, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade.] 

While Sujatha, and others, even if worse, could trace practice and good ways within her sociaty and being reminded, it's probably total impossible for a modern, western person, having grown up in a communist, socialisitic, postmodern society to ever get a needed enviroment given that they seek for advices in even more "brotherly" Kolkhoz (resource another), under other slaves with no liberality or usuals to walk after liberation. So if really wishing to get it understood and become capable to adopt and practice good conduct, like always, starts with association with wise and avoiding the fools like poision, or to best train to possible gain existence in a area where basic right view is still something practiced amoung many, become blessed. For even, as my person heard, recommended and as good estimated branches of monks even wish their lay people not to use proper addressing - "don't do so, we are all equal here in search" - and prefer that what they are used to, by birth, not having chanced, the lighter bearable "homie-hood" to ensure their gain, growth and existence. Let my person share a simile for encouragement to put all effort into seek for real refuge, inwardly and outwardly and to learn to become a devotional person not to Mara, not to Death, as usual in the world, amoung "friends", in a dusty on-house-holding (e.g. senses) life: 

Of course this rejection of the supernatural, and nibbāna in particular, has wide ranging doctrinal consequences. Secular Buddhists de-emphasise traditional Buddhist theories of the world which seem to revolve around supernatural concepts such as karma, rebirth, saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, and focus on the experience of maintaining ethical and meditation practices. 

Many scholars consider the Śūraṅgama Sūtra to have been composed, or compiled from other sources, in China. That the Chinese did this kind of thing is quite common. The well known Heart Sutra is another prominent example. There is no Sanskrit "original". And on the whole the themes do not appeal to Westerners. So the text is unlikely to appeal to a Western Audience. Vast differences in English translations are common because of the range of ability of translators and the very great difficulties of rendering ancient Chinese into English. The apocalyptic themes of the text are exaggerated versions of such predictions which occur throughout Buddhist literature. Like many millennial predictions of disaster they simply have not come true. The end of the world simply fails to happen, no matter who is predicting it, and there is always someone predicting it. While the Śūraṅgama itself may be fading out as because it is irrelevant to modern Buddhist practice, there is resurgent interest in other Buddhist texts. Witness the massive project funded by the Numata Foundation to translation the entire Chinese tripiṭaka. Also the there is huge interest in doing comparative work on the Pāli Nikāyas and Chinese Āgamas. At the grass roots level Buddhism continues to be moderately popular in the West, but is being revived in China as restrictions on religious observance are relaxed. 

Once, again, right view is adopted by faith, certain vision or even clear seen and gained, generosity, after virtue and gratitude proper and right placed is no more a matter at all. At this point, not out of reason, one is incapable to do grave, even deliberated misconduct and behave improper. May it be for release and ease, who ever might be capable to take, make use and understand. And be carefull, it's not free and not without strings and one might be already hardly caught, with no chance to fall back any more! 

B. Tjoa, here in SEAsia the usual used word of attachment is the same as for being in debt. Something "normal" but good if seen, of which is not so normal any more. It's good to try to help, it's paise-worthy to feel not only obligated, and it's also a sign of integrity to be willing to pay back and be not in debt. Thoughts, doing and effort, even physical, by speech and body, doing what ever possible, all of that is skillful. It's how ever not in ones sphere in how far another might receive gifts, receive repayments. Sometime one can do what ever he/she might be able, but another is either incapable or unwilling to take. That's then the point where one needs to let go, or better do not hold on that strong. Beings are owner of their kamma (deeds), so there is no way to what others anything to do and any gain is a result of previous or present deeds at least. So at a point it's good to not only switch to mudita (having joy with what good another has done) but also metta (release with a wish of goodwill). It's not wrong to forward goodness to others and also a way to solve ones obligation and to stay open in all directions with ones generosity and open hands in regard of needs and wishes of others. Only one who has reveived goodness, has become aware of what sacrify means and that they are done by others, is not only capable to develope goodness him/her self but also to become a grateful person. At least, don't forget, real teacher and people of goodness do not take any rewards but let you only one way open to "pay" off your debts, and this is by becoming a great person by your self, infect others in same way and make not only yourself but also others part of another economy, that of giving and letting go, leading to heaven and beyound. Mudita For having gotten a good "The Lessons of Gratitude" Blessed if not and not becoming a (self-called) modern or western Buddhist who actually use Dhamma only to deny their duties and waste their past merits, incapable of goodnesz, gratitute, generosity and becoming people a integrity, striving after wrong or pseudo liberalism and dwell in hypocracy. Something one should always be careful not to fall into since there is less liberating in becoming a careless consumer of past done merits. Rejoice with your good qualities and that of others and try to stay as often by wishes to repeat good mind states, for that is the case of gaining right release by right concentration caused by right lack of remorse, fundemental debtlessness. 

In Pāḷi texts, the right shoulder is not specified. The standard description of a monk meeting the Buddha says 

It would undoubtedly result in loss of all of these. Particularly in the case of adopting the rites and rituals of a theistic religion. I'm trying to think of an example where this actually happened, but cannot. Nor can I find any examples on the internet. Lots of converts to Buddhism, very few high profile converts from Buddhism. We might take the example of the conversion of the British academic Paul Williams from Tibetan Buddhism (back) to Catholicism. Williams is the notable author of a standard text on Mahāyāna Buddhism, which is now in a second edition and still used in many universities around the world. He had practised Buddhism in the Tibetan Gelug tradition. This caused quite a stir when it happened, fanned by his writing a book and at least one article about the reasons for his conversion. Of course it did not affect his standing in academia which is based on his published works on Buddhism. Buddhist responses mostly seemed to be couched in polite terms, but to be quite dismissive of William's understanding of Buddhism. One comment which stood out from NewBuddhist.com was 

However, some scholars, for example Sean Butler, in his essay Idealism in Yogācāra Buddhism *, remain unconvinced by Lusthaus's argument. Butler cites Vasubandhu's Trimsika for example (and here he cite's Lusthaus's own translations): 

We have no idea what the Buddha experienced - we know nothing at all about the Buddha as a person (not even his name). But the traditional stories about someone called "Buddha" certainly portray him as having such experiences. In this Buddhists myths and legends are much like any religious literature. If we take the Buddhists texts literally, then there is no reason not to also take religious texts like the Christian Bible literally also. Though the two are mutually exclusive on many matters. Humans beings evolved to attribute agency to unexplained events, in fact most mammals and birds do this to some extent. And to attribute human qualities to such agents. This is why gods have human motivations. We also have a tolerance for minimally counter-intuitive concepts like invisible agents. Certain events like out-of-body experiences act to convince us of the required ontological dualism, so that belief in a disembodied mind is possible. Without a careful analysis such things seem plausible to most people. But with careful analysis invisible agents vanish (as it were). See also Why Are Karma and Rebirth (Still) Plausible (for Many People)? Part I and Part II which summarise ideas from Justin L Barrett's book on the psychology of belief and relate them to Buddhist beliefs. Early Buddhists adopted supernatural beings from local animistic cults (rukkhadevatā, yakkha, nāga, kinnnara etc) as well as gods from Brahmanism (Brahmā, Indra aka Sakka, and Agni; and more generally the devas and asuras). They also adapted some other beliefs from Brahmanism, often in the form of some kind of parody, such as hungry ghosts (preta - literally "the departed"), the spirits of the recently dead, to which Brahmins made food offerings to sustain them on their journey to Brahman. The idea of Hell probably came from Zoroastrianism. There do not seem to be any characteristically "Buddhist" supernatural agents, except for the Buddha himself who is apparently able to see back in time, travel to heavenly worlds, see the spirits of the departed, fly through the air, and read minds. Such skills as we rarely see these days. Unfortunately for Buddhism, the laws of physics now completely preclude life after death. See my essay There is No Life After Death, Sorry. Unfortunately there is just no way to accommodate invisible agents that can interact with matter and remain undetectable by scientific instruments. Either something interacts with matter in a way that makes a difference on the human scale, and we can see how this happens because it happens on a human scale, in which case we ought to be able to incorporate it into theories of matter; or no such interactions take place, and we must seek other explanations for the things we believe to be supernatural agents. 

Of course very useful and in same value Utopia: Opening the Door to the Dhamma: Respect in Buddhist Thought & Practice The orderline duties » sila » generosity ... from the gross to the fine, can btw. be also traced likewise, as tried to point out at the beginning, in the Mangala Sutta and at each level of fullfilment or able to renounce certain relation and it's benefits, debts are growing void and giving is step by step growing to real generosity and compassion. Once a state around the stanca 6. and 7 is reached, no more falling back will accur for one. Anumodana! [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

No one fails in recognize someone with even slight doubts "but" and "if's" in this regard as fools and one does always good to avoid them like fire and poision. 

Only a person seeking for ways to do good will find possibilities, only of what is nurished an improved will grow and increase and as the Buddha often told, it's seldom to have goid possibilities, so one should be quick in actions of good deeds and like Nissaya search after them, for such is the cause to Upanissaya and to come near the path of the Noble Ones, step by step. One is not wise if just waiting of what old merits and possibilities come along and eat them just away. Yet of course one can also not makes one good deeds undone and not to ripe, so their is no fault in receiving good and clean gifts of others on the way. Steady, in ways of giving and receiving, increase the qualities of "food" up to heavenly and food for beyound of all burdens of exchange. Then, when the tanks is really empty, that is where the Buddha told householders, having done the highest duties, one may seek seclusion and use the release for working on fruits beyound obligation. For a person of integrity possibilities of fulfilling as well as chances to give at fist place are a source of joy, having conviction or even know the results of a joyful and open handed mind all time prepared to give and let go. Such a person never lacks on anything needed and conductive. Give it a try to be shameless in regard of doing skillful all the time, by thought, speech and deeds, where ever be. Devotion toward the proper is not a burden but right means to release. Anumodana! [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.]