Welcome to the Bay Area! First, you should become a member of Bike East Bay - they provide advocacy as well as produce bike trail maps for the east bay. Being a member gets you a discount at most east bay bike stores. Second, the gravel trails around here are all fairly gentle in terms of terrain except for some steep hills. You could do them all with a hybrid if you're fit enough. So my advice would be to just find some trails - either along the coastline where it's flat - or in the hills where you get the view -- and just do it. The best way to learn is to just ride! If things get sketchy just take it slow. There are group rides scheduled through Bike East Bay, REI, and other organizations. Check through them or places like Meetup. PS: You can find some very difficult, double black diamond trails for mountain biking in the east bay but you'd really have to go out of your way to look for them. Marked trails on the bike trail maps (and on google maps) are all beginner level. 

I understand this to mean that any condition a-d is sufficient to allow exactly two (motorized) bicycles side by side, with the caveat that you aren't ever allowed to hinder the rest of the traffic. ASVZ Rennvelo (cycling club of large Swiss university) has the following in their introduction document for people interested in joining one of their riding groups: 

I was wondering whether 20" wheels can get away with smaller rotors than 28" wheels, and if there is a correlation, if it is linear. If it was linear, then 140mm discs on a 20" wheel would be equivalent to 200mm discs on a 28" wheel (and it would be unnecessary to mount anything bigger for pretty much any application). At a given forward speed, the circular speed of the rotor scales up linearly with decreasing wheel size, which on smaller wheels should help with the cooling and should provide higher friction power and thus higher braking power. But I can't find any source confirming this, so I'm asking here. 

Your braking technique is probably bad with respect to overheating. Continuing to ride could help, but only if you do periodic breaking, i.e. you don't break at all until you reach max safe speed, then you brake hard to slow maybe by 10km/h, repeat. How much speed to lose depends on slope (how fast you gain speed again) and load (how much energy is dumped into your brakes to slow the same amount). If you brake more in one go, then your brakes have more time to cool in between but your average speed is also slower. In the absolute worst case (heavily overloaded/bad brakes/too steep) you stop almost all the way and your max safe speed is also pretty low. Make sure the periods of braking are much shorter than the periods of free-rolling. If your rim brakes become too hot you risk melting the tube (or otherwise damaging the rim, but I suspect first to go would be the tube) and at least disc brakes also just stop braking at all once they are properly overheated (I can tell you from experience, this is no fun). If the above technique doesn't suffice, then it's too steep and/or there is too much load on your bike for this gradient and you must periodically stop and let the brakes cool or just walk your bike down the hill. 

On my Saturday's ascent race I was riding 181bpm HRAVG and saved some power for the last km where my HR peaked at 190 (which is my highest ever recorded HR at my 37 years or age). I felt rather normal at the top, no fatigue or extreme oxygen deficiency. Just normal very deep breathing with high frequency for about 20 seconds and I was fine. the way I usually breathe on the doing it 100% races. This is the data from my Garmin of this ascent race. 

$URL$ for uploading data $URL$ for better section analysis $URL$ for great pre-ride routing capabilities 

Anyway. As I've heard some of the others were riding well below 170 bpm HRAVG but had much better time than me. I suppose this is due to larger heart volume, larger lungs therefore much better oxygen efficiency. Since my heart rate increases quite rapidly I suspect my heart volume is rather small(ish) so it has to speed up faster to deliver the needed O2. I wonder how can I improve my performance? What kind of training will lower my heart rate while keeping the same performance level. I suppose lowering my HR by 10 bpms would give me enough room to improve my performance by more than 10%. 

Sounds like the handlebar stem is loose. This is an extremely dangerous situation and you should go immediately (pushing your bike or taking it in a car, but not riding it) to your local bike shop to have it looked at. The fix is easy and should take less than 5 minutes (and only a few dollars/euro if they charge you at all), but again it is critical that you get this repaired. 

if you can: carry it with you. When I was riding my brompton to school, I'd just fold it and take it into buildings and classrooms with me. There were some building guards that didn't like bicycles, so a small fabric bag/cover was used to disguise it. The brompton is unique in being small enough to tuck in just about anywhere, even under a conference table. Since it was by my knees, I didn't bother locking it up. I have a Dahon at my parents' house which is bigger, heavier, and not easily carry-able. I locked that bike up at bike racks with a solid lock. It's hard because many folding bikes lack good places to lock because they aren't double diamond design. 

I don't know about your area, but here around it's quite common to see bikes locked up with some carrier bags attached (not locked) to them. I wouldn't ever do this because my bags are high-quality bags (water-proof, durable, etc.) which are expensive even without content. But this leads me to the following idea: Get a cheap looking bag for your bike, handlebar, saddle, rack, whereever. Then discretely lock that bag shut and to your bike. 

Switzerland: Cycling on pedestrian facilities is forbidden unless there is a sign allowing it. There are lots of people who ignore this (both people who are uncomfortable in traffic, and people who are optimizing time at all costs, like couriers). In general this seems to be tolerated by the police, although they can make an example of anyone if they want to. 

This will always require some DIY, though. For example you could get a small cloth handlebar bag (worn+slightly dirty). Make two button holes (i.e. with the same technique, not for real buttons :) ) in the bag next to the handlebar and use a cable like this to tie it through the button holes to the handlebar with both loop ends hidden in the bag. Now you can lock something to the loop ends of the cable, for example a small lockable pouch made from strong tarpaulin (maybe reinforced by a layer of wire mesh on the outside). But from the outside it looks like any old cloth bag with at most something like a water stained map and a dented apple inside. :) Other idea: Mud stained non-translucent drinking bottle. Just leave it in the bottle-holder with your stuff inside. 

I thought this was a simple question but apparently there is some confusion - and it's good to have a basic question to refer people to. How many "links" are in these short bits of chain: Image A (the original image for this question): 

I believe that we've for the most part made the transition to metric on contemporary bicycles -- at least for the tools we use to repair them, am I right? For example, while many screw threads are still imperial (or whitworth or some bizarre French/Italian/British concoction), the actual fastener heads or shanks are metric. For example, pedals are 9/16" x 20 tpi but we've standardized on 15 mm for the pedal wrench (or a metric allen). Solid axles might be 9mm x 26 tpi but again we've standardize on 15mm for the nut. Are there any parts of non-BSO bikes coming off the line where we might still expect to still need a non-metric tool to take a component off of? 

Cheap pedals are genuinely horrible. They just have a sleeve bearing, bushing, or single set of ball bearings. Tolerances are atrocious because they were made by drunken lemurs, who also lubed them using the grease that was at the bottom of the bilge pump of the last freighter into their god forsaken port. Mid-grade pedals use a one or two sets of sealed cartridge ball bearings. These are cheap and easy to place. They might use a light grease and are low in unloaded friction, so this accounts for the spinniness of mid-grade pedals. You can't really maintain or adjust them. High-grade Cartridge bearings are good for unloaded friction but are limited under load. They also can't be adjusted, maintained, or re-greased. Higher end pedals use a combination of adjustable cup-and-cone, needle (roller) bearings, and/or sometimes multiple/heavier duty cartridge bearings. Cup-and-cones are adjustable and maintainable, and avoiding cartridge bearings saves weight because you don't need the bearing retainer -- also cup-and-cones can feel heavier than cartridges when unloaded but lighten under pressure. Needle-bearings can support MUCH more weight than ball-bearings. Grease intended for heavier duty seems thicker under low-load but lightens up when loaded. Finally, because higher-end pedals are lighter, they have less inertia when spinning by hand and so will stop spinning sooner just for that fact alone. In summary, high-end gear might not spin as much unloaded, but they can be lighter, stronger, more adjustable, maintainable, and smoother under load. Note: Some of these properties are mutually incompatible. tl;dr: You can't tell anything by freespinning a pedal by hand except for the crappiest of pedals. For almost all bicyclists, just get a mid-range pedal. You don't put enough power/weight through the pedals or go long enough distances to make a difference. For pros, you are pumping so many hundreds of watts through the pedal over longer distances, so you want a pedal that can take that power and transmit it properly. Also note that older midgrade pedals in the era before cheap cartridge bearings often used cup and cone bearings. These can often be tuned up quite nicely. 

The relevant law text in Switzerland is on admin.ch (quoting German version, the French an Italian versions are also available at that link and just as legally binding. I'm not translating it, but very roughly summing it up below): 

So they are interpreting it in a careful way: You should not ride side by side (to switch to the back of the riding formation) if there is any (motorized) traffic overtaking you. Probably there is some other law somewhere defining what exactly is meant by hindering traffic, but I couldn't find it on the spot. Basically I think this boils down to: Only do it on official cycling roads (marked by brown/red signs, no or little motor traffic) and in large groups. That large group should have someone more experienced who can tell when it's okay and when not. 

Go to your dealer. Ask them to verify it's aligned properly and works in general. Test whether it still skips. If yes, demonstrate it in front of the dealer. Insist you need a replacement. 

I have an Alfine 11 (so very similar) and I had the hub replaced 2 times on warranty because of this skipping problem. The third one is fine so far (~15000km on it). So based on my experience: Have it replaced a second time. It also does skip when misaligned as mentioned in the other answer and yes it's tricky to get right and tends to misalign over time. Also it can freeze in the winter (still works, but need to change gears by hand on the lever on the hub) and this could also cause skipping because it would stick between gears. But your bike dealer should be able to fix/diagnose this within seconds. So my suggestion: 

Are you sure you didn't overtighten the pinheads? They caution you against using any sort of tool to gain leverage. They should only be as tight as quick releases. 

Are you sure you have a drum brake? A "drum brake" is external to the rear hub and would normally be actuated by a hand-lever (rather than pedaling backwards). Drum brakes (hand actuated types) themselves don't need grease. If there's contaminants on the drum or shoe, you should just get some "drum brake cleaner" from your auto supply shop. However, more than likely the 'noise' you're experience may be from the wear indicator on your drum brake, indicating you need a new brake shoe. Given that you don't know the manufacturer of your brake, this replacement may be hard to obtain but a new drum brake itself is cheap. 

Another option if you have the space is: have you considered getting a tandem or sociable? I ride a tandem recumbent tadpole trike as well as sociable quad at my local adaptive cycling center. Lots of fun for both riders, who can be of differing abilities and neither needs the ability to balance. Finally, as I said, my adaptive cycling center places a tremendous amount of emphasis on the control and autonomy of the disabled cyclist. We actively reject the notion that getting passively pushed around in a wheelchair-rickshaw is cycling. If you google image "adaptive cycling tandem" you can get some other ideas. 

(in short: best solution is in the first bullet point) There are quite a lot of possibilities, as reflected by the myriad of different answers. Here is an attempt at summing them up together with my experiences with them (where available). The problem appears when there is cold wind blowing on the scrotum+perineum and when they are wet and cooled by evaporation. If you are a women who wants to warm your corresponding area: I don't think this answer is actually too gender-specific if you mentally replace any references to male body parts. Should probably work for you too. Just dressing other parts of the body warmer doesn't help. I tested this a couple of times and it really seems to be true. And it makes sense: heating the testicles (and torso in general) is a priority for the body, if that stops working then you have much bigger problems because you definitely have hypothermia. So the solutions need to be about keeping the wind away from this specific area and keeping it dry. The obvious luxury solution is the answer by Criggie: Get a fairing. This keeps the wind away and if it's good the rain too (also: speeeeeeed :). Other solutions work like an additional layer of clothing: Inner layers: 

I was looking into Rotor Q Ring system that supposedly increases power by 4% which is rather significant especially when climbing. It should shave off quite some time off your resulting time due to this info. But I can't seem to find any detailed research done by comparing classic round cranks against Rotor's Q Rings. Anybody knows where to look? 

I can see that nobody has yet mentioned $URL$ which I use for route creation before I head out on an unknown territory. Slowdown uphill calculation based on steepness The best thing about it is that you can set few parameters (defaults are quite fine for advanced recreation) and it calculates timing based on these parameters which turn out to be quite good. You can then upload it to your GPS unit (ie. GARMIN EDGE 500) and use it as your virtual partner. You can also set track points, so your unit can tell you when and where to turn (you can do that easily on a map because you see roads). I'm using GARMIN EDGE 500 which doesn't have maps so these turns on unknown roads are great. I can focus more on my ride than finding my way on unknown village roads. The only downside to it is that it doesn't calculate descends. It uses your flat speed for that, because descends are tricky. So you gain a bit over your virtual partner on descends. But if nothing else that's a nice confidence booster for you. So I use: 

This doesn't answer your question, but your problem before the question. If your brake body is moving about, the problem isn't the existence of the shim (which is used by all brakes when they upsize) but either: 

Not always. Frame numbers are generally required to be stamped on every frame. They are usually 6-10 digits long. However, a very small minority of bikes (notably Bromptoms) also have a barcoded serial number that is affixed on a sticker. In this photo you can see both the serial number (15033303xx) and the frame number (49374x). The serial number embeds a date code, so you can tell it was assembled in March, 2015. This helps the manufacturer track defects in assembly as well as sales data for warranty verification. When you register your Brompton, you supply both. 

You mentioned that it's your rear wheel and that you tow a heavy load. Rear wheels in these setups get a lot of lateral (sideways) loading from the trailer. This can put stress on the bead that it's not designed for. A higher pressure would help stop the tire from rolling side to side -- but you've said you're already on the high end of its pressure range. Maybe look for a tire that is known to have stiff or reinforced sidewalls. I'm going to call herniated sidewalls: a "criggie" from now on.