Drop in the numbers.. g = 1.898 × 10^27 * 6.67408 × 10^-11 * 13 / (1.1 * 69,911,000)^2 g = 278.4 m/s^2 That's 10 times higher than the sun. So, let's say you had the average mass of a typical American - about 80kg - giving you an applied gravitational force (F=m*a) of 22,240 newtons. And this is where the problem is. That's beyond the crushing force of bone. By comparison, it takes about 7,560 newtons to completely fracture a femur. Bone has an incredible strength to weight ratio, so if you swapped bone for something like steel, it'd be crushed by the far higher mass that it's now got to support. What about carbon nanotubes? Carbon nanotubes are about as good as it gets when it comes to the strength to weight ratio, but they achieve that by being hollow. That, in turn, makes them very weak to compression. All in all, complex life - even non-water-based forms - would likely be crushed by the gravity, or at the very least, completely unable to move in any useful way. KO: Metallic and carbon-nanotube based 'mechanical' life. 

So, if you really mean all of it, gold would become as worthless as dirt is. Most gold nowadays is used in manufacturing (particularly electronics) and jewellery rather than as reserves thus its impact on the world economy would be fairly limited. The main place it would have an impact is if a major economy had a recession - during recessions and uncertainty, many traders move to gold as a safe haven. It's more likely though that some other commodity - something like oil - would become more commonly used as a safe haven instead. Electronics as a counter-case On the note about electronics, something very interesting happens. Computer chips would likely be entirely made from gold, or at the very least, all the traces would be plated in gold as they are on a typical satellite chip or in a quantum computer: 

Artifical photosynthesis has been making a lot of progress lately. Similar to your concept of a layer of skin which converts chemical energy to electricity, a possible better approach (depending, of course, on the lighting conditions of the host planet) would be to instead use a photosynthetic layer. That would make the cyborg very literally green as well as semi-transparent too. It has the bonus of running completely silent as well as requiring no daily dose of chemicals, aside from those found in your typical life-supporting atmosphere. It's also worth mentioning that the most efficient kind of photosynthetic layer would appear deep black as it's absorbing all of the light that lands on it. The structure of such a layer would likely be nanograss - a nanotechnology technique which helps maximise the available surface area, boosting the amount of sunlight it can capture. One of my personal favourite real-world concept designs featuring this kind of layer is the Nokia Morph - a concept phone which explores the ways in which nanotechnologies might be beneficial in the future. How much power could it generate? At the equator, the average sunlight received by the top of Earth's atmosphere is about 1.3kW/m^2, according to NASA. On average, it's 340W/m^2. About 48% reaches the surface, giving us an average of about 163W per square meter, accounting for clouds etc. Meanwhile, the average human male's body surface area is about 1.9 square meters - most of this is shaded, but that wouldn't necessarily be the case for a well designed cyborg which doesn't have any need for clothing. Humans also consume about 97W of power, on average. Keep in mind that a large portion of this is used for heating and digestion too, which the cyborg has little need for. So, assuming our cyborg has a male build, is in Earth-like conditions and has human-like power requirements, as well as a nanograss power generation surface, it could easily have 4 square meters of power generating capacity; in the absolute best case scenario with 100% efficient panels, that means the best it can generate is 4 * 163 = 652W, which is well above the 97W it needs, giving a possibly large enough margin for efficiency losses due to shade and non-ideal solar conversion efficiency. 

Next, it sounds like your datacenter isn't big enough to have either of these, but let's consider them anyway. Diesel generator fire Many datacenters also have diesel generators as a backup. A somewhat famous example was during hurricane Sandy in NYC when the guys at Squarespace manually hauled diesel up 18 flights of stairs to keep the servers online. This could be used as a nice source of something classically explosive nearby. Cooling system failure A major source of cost and complexity in an average datacenter is the cooling system - large pipes filled with warm water. So, if one of the pipes became clogged in some way and the datacenter builder didn't bother with all the normal safety measures (such as an expansion tank) then the heat would build in the system potentially taking it to breaking point. Water explosions are wonderfully powerful, but there's no fireball of course - so it depends on the kind of effect you're after! Fire sprinklers Rather ironically, a fire sprinkler can cause a fire when electronics are involved. Let's say the perpetrator triggers the fire alarm which in turn rains down water on the rack. That generates sparks, which in turn starts an electrical fire. The fire then proceeds to explode one or all of the batteries using the setup above. In this scenario, for some physical accuracy, the top server would spark but would be too wet to ignite any dust. One of the lower servers would receive enough of the water (but not too much to drench it) to be the actual ignition source. The bonus of using a sprinkler is it would be a lot easier to pull off remotely; it wouldn't involve breaking basically every safety measure a CPU has. It's also rather subtle - a novice probably wouldn't bother checking the ceiling when positioning their servers. Or.. Hit backspace: 

Alrightey so we know how much gas the system can hold. Next up, let's look at the properties of that gas. Methane and hydrogen in those sewers would spread out fairly evenly countrywide - this is just the natural diffusion process that gas does - except for the occasional 'hotspot' where the methane hasn't had the chance to diffuse much yet (Like that time you had a bit too much of the Chilli sauce). Modern sewers - which are far smaller capacity wise - generally remain well below the flammable mixture threshold anyway. Add a lot more capacity and you have something that just won't ignite, except for, potentially, in those hotspots. So, lets say the flamethrower was in the perfect position at the perfect time - the middle of a busy city on Taco Tuesday. Well, to get an explosion, you need the right mixture and it must be capable of building a pressure wave. After all, that's what an explosion is. In order to build a pressure wave, it has to be contained. The igniting expanding gas would simply spread down the pipes - giving you nothing more than a bit of an underwhelming 'whoosh' for a hundred meters or so down the pipe. No street bursting ball of fire unfortunately! Side note: Explosives like C4 are 'high speed' because they ignite faster than the speed of sound, essentially making them get contained by the surrounding air to build an unusually large pressure wave. Hydrogen and methane aren't high speed explosives, which is why they whoosh in air when C4 does not. Could it be made possible? This seems like an interesting addition - so let's see what we can do! 

The great thing about typical batteries is they are rather good at exploding. A novice datacenter admin might try to mimic Google using cheap batteries with imperfections - making their setup rather vulnerable to a major problem. Remote triggering a battery failure It would have to be poorly designed but let's try it anyway! So, the first thing that would be needed is the safety vents on the batteries would have to get blocked up. Maybe they could be blocked up by dust - after all, dust is a common problem in servers anyway. The above image is even pretty dusty. You'll next need to build up some heat around that battery - this part could kind of be performed remotely. Assuming they used a Google-style design and the battery is in the rack, then we could maybe pull it off by making the CPU get way too hot. Disable the fans and overclock it, then make the server run something seriously intensive. If possible, disable the CPU's thermal safety measures (this is hard, but it's likely that it's optional anyway; dust ignites rather easily). Do this to all the racks to make the heat really climb for the one at the top of the cabinet. If you're lucky, dust around one of the CPU's would catch fire; a short amount of time later, that fire engulfs the battery. Rather usefully, this scenario doesn't necessarily require any physical access too as it can be explained with a series of novice mistakes. Summary A stack of poorly designed, very dusty Google replicas with a cheap built in battery. Maybe even place the battery right next to the CPU to give it the best chance it can get! 

Unfortunately, you'd get nothing! Your sewage pipes have an enormous amount of capacity. Let's do a quick bit of maths to find out what that capacity is: 

There's a few major issues which I highly doubt can be reasonably overcome: The surface temperature The coolest brown dwarfs appear to have a minimum temperature of around 500k, or 226 celcius - well above the boiling point of water. That immediately means life as we recognise it would not be able to form; simply boiling something is an easy way to sterilize it. This acts as a limit for Earth life because cells use water as the carrier for a cocktail of proteins moving back and forth through the cell walls. Boil that water, destroy the cell. There have been suggestions that it might be possible for non-water based life to form in the Universe, so this point in itself might not be a limiting factor for life in general. KO: Water based life. Radiation The intense magnetic field generated by such enormous bodies causes dangerous particles to get 'stuck' in it. This would make it extremely unlikely for the life to form on some other planet and arrive e.g. by comet, as the comet passing through this intense radiation belt would be sterilized; similarly the radiation levels on the surface are dangerously high too. In short, radiation destroys large molecules, such as proteins. KO: Protein based life. Large molecules like polymers (plastics). The strength of gravity Your average brown dwarf is not much bigger than Jupiter, but is much denser so its gravitational strength is considerably higher. To give it the best chance, let's do a quick bit of maths to figure out the acceleration due to gravity on the bottom end of the brown dwarf scale: