My office, also in Belgium, also large and corporate, has a similar policy. The advantage for the company is liquidity and cash flow - they put that burden back on the employee and it must somehow justify those disadvantages that you listed. The difference in my case is that my company has two things in place that make it better for the employee, which you could suggest to your company: 1) They offer a company credit card (American Express) at no charge to the employee, with a high credit limit. The credit card still links back to my current account each month, but at least it buys some time for waiting for the reimbursement from the company. And then I never have to use my personal credit card for business purposes, which means I don't get stuck when I reach the low credit limits that are normal here. 2) The risk of lost receipts is decreased because there is a form you can fill out attesting to the loss of a receipt, which is then signed by your manager. The company tracks these, and I'm sure if you were losing receipts all the time, they would come talk to you...but at least you still get paid back. Also, they don't require a receipt for amounts less than 20 eur. 

If you do believe that people are interested in these events, perhaps telling everyone verbally at a meeting and asking for people to commit to coming at that moment is the wrong medium for your message. People might be intimidated by the herd mentality, so that even if they are interested in an event, they are unlikely to stick their neck out and say so. They might want to check their calendars to see if they are free. They might want to check with their friends to see if they are going. No one wants to be the only one to sign up... My suggestion would be that you could mention the topics at the meeting, but then summarize them in an email, and have people sign up with you by replying to that email. This would help let them plan their schedules a bit, and make it less of a social burden to sign up on the spot. You could also add a bit of enticement / pressure to it by saying "only 3 spots left!" 

How to say. You didn't say what agency you interviewed with. I expect it would be fewer than 10 in most situations. 

Depends how big the agency is. Could be few to a lot. If it is a larger agency you might find yourself in meetings deciding how things should be done or part of committees from several individuals that want to provide input and wish lists of features for the project you are working on. 

In a government job, most likely not. The agency has a staffing budget, and they cannot usually go over that budget without robbing from another agency. For example, yesterday was the 15th of April. The Tax Commission I work for received over 150,000 returns yesterday that need to process...and I am here writing this response from home. It will take us about 8 weeks to process those tax returns and no one is working overtime. It could take 6 months and we don't care. We get paid the same either way. And to some degree, there is some incentive to drag it out. If it takes too long to process, my boss can say hey, we need a larger budget. And then he could advocate that he needs a raise because he is now managing a larger department with more resources. If I was in the private sector and this much business suddenly came in the door, I would probably be working 15 hours a day to get the orders filled to generate revenue for the company. In many ways, government is run completely opposite of the private sector. 

I doubt the person or persons interviewing you would even know what that means. Depends if the position you interviewed for is a position that was just created, or if they are filling an existing position. I would still argue that those facilitating the interview was given the task by someone to find the best candidate possible. ...not really knowing anything about software development. 

I have the same issue in my job, and I shifted my thinking so that rather than pushing back on everything I ask myself the following questions: 1. Is it something that is quick for me to do, but hard for the other person to do? I think in your case, this is a big "YES". It can win a lot of appreciation from the other person. You might also find yourself in a position where you have something that you need to do, which someone else can do much more easily - in a "do unto others as you would have them do unto you" frame of mind, prioritize helping in these situations. 2. Will it take more time to fight it than to do it? Sometimes just doing it is easier than the back and forth of saying no. 3. What will the long-term effect be of agreeing to do this work? On the one hand. saying yes once can lead to the expectation that you will always say yes, and can lead to a slippery slope down to more work that doesn't match your job duties. On the other hand, you can gain appreciation and respect from the other departments as a helpful team player. 4. To what extent does it affect my ability to do my job (the one in the job description) Would my manager want me to spend my time on this? Your manager is likely the one who wrote your job description. If your marketing tasks fall behind because of spending time on the other departments' needs, will s/he be ok with it? You can also use your manager as a gatekeeper for this type of request 

This varies from agency to agency. My job gives me access to the building from 6am - 6pm Monday - Friday. The state that i work in does not allow state employees to work more than 10 hours a day. So I can work 4 10's if I want. Basically I have to get my 40 hours in between 6 am and 6 pm and between Monday and Friday. Most people I work with choose to work 7am - 3:30pm, including me. But I could go in at 6am if I wanted, or in as late as 9:30am... Any suggestions on what I should do? Obviously you were at the top of the list or they wouldn't have offered you the job. Sometimes government jobs don't attract the best talent as private sector positions are usually higher paying. But as I mentioned before, it is stable work and usually have awesome benefits. Guess it depends on your personality and what you want. But fresh out of school, I can't see where you could go wrong. Government jobs can be good resume builders. Also something to remember is the fact that your degree is basically a sideshow to your job. For example, where I work for the tax commission, a new programmer coming in and working for the agency would likely spend the next 4 months or so learning about tax law and tax rules. We use that as a basis for writing our rules to check for fraudulent returns, etc. So your employer is expecting that you will have a steep learning curve about the public service the agency provides before you can even begin writing a software application around those services.