In the game between Albania and Switzerland in 2011, X. Shaqiri scored the opening goal. I'm not sure if it counts though, as he's born in Kosovo, but he is ethnically speaking a "Kosovo-Albanian" (not sure if it's called that in English, sorry). In the end, Switzerland won with two goals to one. Interestingly, almost all players on the pitch were born in Kosovo or Albania, so it was basically a derby! 

First of all, I should mention that snowboarding isn't my strongest dicipline. Instead, I'm a skier - and sometimes even a telemark skier - but the general idea is the same. To begin with, going fast shouldn't be a goal per se. Rather, your goal should be to go fast AND in control. The only way to do this, and the only way to feel comfortable doing it, is to learn the basics by heart. Before you'll be able to progress, those basics must be in your bones, in your spine, and in every other part of your body - not only in your head. To make a personal example, I was always the most cowardly of all the children in ski- /snowboard school. However, as everyone else was going straight down, head first - I was plowing my way down the mountain in a very slow pace. As everyone grew older, most youngsters still struggled with the technique, but those of us who had gone about it slow in the past were now the ones to race down the mountain in style - despite only skiing one week every year! What I'm trying to say is, that in order to "break the mental barrier of going fast", your instinct (which you cannot easily control) must trust your ability to stay in control while going fast. Thus, don't rush it - even though it's frustrating trying to learn, especially when older and not learning as fast as a child anymore. Take snowboard lessons a couple of days, it's amazing what that does for your development! As for the other 50 weeks of the year, it is hard to substitute snow and board for anything likeworthy, but your skateboard idea isn't at all stupid. However, to make it more "snowboardlike", I would strongly recommend a longboard instead of a skateboard. Longboarding has a lot more in common with both snowboarding and surfing than skateboarding does. Ride carefully and good luck! 

EDIT: I think @Ben is right. Suárez is trying to slide on his knees and failing. Momentum keeps his upper body moving forward even when his lower body has ground to a halt. His mouth is probably open because he's yelling (happily). 

In which countries did broadcasting rights for the World Cup sell for the most? If possible, let's include all media (TV, streaming internet, radio) and all languages (so in the U.S. this would include Univision buying the Spanish-language rights). The thing that got me started thinking about this was the question of whether the rights are highly valuable in the U.S. Specifically, I was thinking: 

On Nov. 4, 2017 Iowa ran a trick play in their upset of Ohio State in which their long snapper hiked the ball to the punter before running down the field and catching a pass. The long snapper was effectively the center on the play. Why was he allowed to catch the ball? 

I sometimes hear about NFL GMs being "cap experts" rather than player-evaluators. And I just saw this headline: "John Idzik joining Jags as consultant". The article goes on to say, "Idzik, who was fired by the Jets in late December, will not have a role in player evaluation but will work with the team's salary-cap department, the source said" (emphasis mine). Sure the salary cap rules aren't simple, but how do they justify an entire department? 

As with all statistics, the answer to that question will vary depending on who's counting. As far as I know, there are no "official guidelines" for football statistics, but I assume most statisticians do count assists from cornerkicks. Anything else would surprise me, but I can't really back it up with any real evidence... 

Unfortunately, I've played too little tennis to give you an expert answer, but I'll give it a go anyway. The two main differences that I can think of are these: (1) The distance to the ball In squash, you generally want to stand closer to the ball when hitting it, to give maximum strength to your swing. In tennis, you need to be able to spin/curl the ball as well, which means that you'll have to stand a little bit further away from the ball. (2) The height of the ball when hitting it. Obviously, this is quite closely related to the first point, but it's still worth pointing out as it's a common error made by beginners. In tennis, you want to hit the ball when it's higher up, in order to be able to play the ball harder. In squash, the problem of getting the ball to dive after passing the net is non-existent, whereas the player can focus more on pure power in the swing. Basically, what you want to do in squash is to hit the ball close to your feet, with your entire upper body above the ball. This will allow you to use your entire body in the swing, making it more powerful than a swing with merely your arms. It's hard to explain, but try it out on the court and it should make sense :) 

What's the relationship between the Kentucky Derby and the Royal Ascot horse races? The Dubai World Cup? Although some horses do, over the course of their careers, compete in all three, it seems rare compared to competing for the US triple crown. Is one event higher priority (perhaps more prestigious) for owners than the other two? Does one breed a different type of horse for the Derby than the Ascot (say, due to different surfaces)? 

In American football you have to have at least 7 players on the line of scrimmage. You can have more, but some of your players are then "covered" by others and are no longer eligible. What's the point of this rule? What if you allowed the offense to put a few people on the line of scrimmage as they liked? Or, if it's necessary to have five offensive linemen on the line of scrimmage for some reason, why force two receivers to be on the line as well? 

There have been several papers published on this topic, which don't always agree. Check out Ten Do It Better, Do They? which concludes that "that the impact of a red card depends on the minute of the expulsion and does not have an impact at all if given at the end of the first half or later" though red cards do increase the number of goals scored. Estimating the Effect of the Red Card in Soccer says, 

To answer your question, we must first recognize that a game is 90 minutes long; not more, not less. Some people might think that a game is 90 minutes + overtime, but that's not true. A game is 90 minutes long, and the added time is there to compensate for time lost. On TV, the clock is often running, but the ref's clock is paused when time's wasted. That being said, the referee is supposed to end the game as soon as the 90 minutes are up, regardless of where the ball is at that given moment. The only exeption is when there's a penalty, which must be allowed to be played. However, referees often allow the game to go on if there's an obvious chance of a goal, or a dangerous free kick situation, et cetera. They are not supposed to do it like that, but they often do to avoid unnecessary involvement and conflicts. They are supposed to end the game as soon as the 90 minutes are up, but since they are the onces deciding how much time to add on, they can be a little bit flexible. 

This means that the two teams face eachother twice; once at home, and once away. There are several reasons use this format, among them the fact that it's more fair and that it's economically beneficial. 2. The away goal rule Even though it didn't come into play in this particular example, the "away goal rule" is still very important, especially when considering the term "aggregate score". The aggregate score is the "total score" over the two games - and also the main way of determining the winner of the two-legged tie. In this case, the aggregate score was 5-5, as both teams had won with 3-2 at their respective home stadium. When the aggregate score is a tie, one team can still be declared the winner - due to the away goal rule. Let us say that the 2nd game (in Sevilla) had ended 2-1 (instead of 3-2). The aggregate score would then have been 4-4, but Sevilla would have been declared the winner. This is because Sevilla scored 2 goals away, while Fenerbahce only scored one. Thus, the only way a game in the Champions League can go to extra time and penalties, is if both legs end the same way - as the game between Sevilla and Fenerbahce did. For further reading, take a look at the Champions League regulations, and in particular articles 7-8. 

Down to Ten: Estimating the Effect of a Red Card in Soccer finds an effect even for cards in the second half. Being down to nine men is much rarer and probably has not been studied carefully, for lack of data if nothing else. You also ask, "Are there ever any scenarios when playing down a man can actually improve a team's odds of winning?" I don't know of any evidence of this, but "Ten Do It Better" does note that "an old football myth suggests that...an expulsion might also be beneficial since it increases the team spirit as well as the efforts of the affected team." 

It was once not unheard for pitchers to pitch both games of a doubleheader, even to throw back-to-back complete games: 

So what's different? Do we just know better these days? Or was pitching not as hard on the pitcher's arm long ago? 

I had always assumed this was because pitchers in the old days didn't throw all the fancy pitches they do today. But the New York Times indicates otherwise: 

Why would the Patriots split Gronkowski, arguably the Patriots' biggest receiving threat and a guy who's comfortable in the middle of the field out wide, where Richard Sherman is at his best? 

There is no universal answer to that question, as it differs between contest/teams. In cup games, especially in international ones, the award is often handed out by sponsors of the tournament/cup. This was also the case when the MVP of the entire World Cup was to be chosen. This was done by the German sporting brand Adidas, who's one of the main sponsors of the WC. [Trivia: there were some speculations in media as to whether or not Leo Messi was awarded MVP simply because he has a sponsorship deal with Adidas already, but this has not been verified]. In leauge games, the sponsors, (local) media or fans of the home team is usually deciding who's to be awarded the man of the match. The award can simply be honor and gratitude, but it can also be monetary or constituted by some sort of perk. For example, a couple of years ago, the man of the match in home games for the Swedish team Elfsborg was given the keys to a Porsche painted in the Elfsborg colors. The player was then allowed to drive the car until the next home game, when a new man of the match was decided. This is a typical example of a PR-trick as well as a carrot for the players, which can typically be combined with the award. 

However, one might wonder if this was really the decision process followed by the officiating crew at the time. ALSO: see this PFT Commenter humor piece suggesting Peyton Manning should have been suspended for excessive celebration after play stopped for several minutes to celebrate Manning breaking Brett Favre's record for career touchdown passes. 

Soccer (or "football", if you prefer) generally does not get a large television audience in the United States. However, the World Cup may be an exception (it certainly is among the people I talk to). Plus, the U.S.'s has a large population and, more importantly, the world's highest GDP. Presumably the value of advertisements is roughly proportional to the population, holding other factors constant. Lastly, with the Cup being in Brazil this year the games are on at a reasonable time for most Americans. 

Based on this year's schedule it seems that an NFL team's bye can come anywhere from the 4th week of the season to the 12th. Is there either conventional wisdom or statistical study of which weeks are most advantageous? I would think that a week 4 bye would be a bad deal: few players are going to be so banged up at that point that the week of makes a big different for them. 

A "friendly" (or exhibition game) is basically the term for all games that are not competitive fixtures. Friendlies are most common in pre-season, as sort of a training to find "the form" and raise the tempo. Also, they're often used by coaches to experiment with tactics and try out new players. In some leagues, where there's a mid-season break, friendlies are used by most teams to get in shape for the second half of the season. They may also be played at the end of the season, if a team has a couple of weeks off before a tournament or such. International friendlies are also played. For national teams, these are perhaps even more important than for the clubs, as they don't play the same number of matches together over the course of a season. 

What's important isn't the format per se; it could pretty much be formatted anyway you see fit (that is, with regards to design and user-friendliness). The way I see it, you can do it anyway you want - just as long as it's clear which team was the home team in each game. You probably already know this, but for a reader who's new to football; the two-legged tie is often determined on the number of away goals, when each team has won one game each and the goal difference is the same. This makes it very important that it is clear which team was the home (and away-) team in each game. Apart from that, you should simply find a good looking way of presenting the scores :)