So to restate, you want to move everything from the DX to the single-speed's frame? Depends primarily on the head tube length and diameter. You want disk/disc brake, which means the front fork will require caliper/calliper mounts. If the existing SS frame has mounts already then the existing fork could be okay. Otherwise you're up for moving the front fork over from the DX. If its the wrong diameter, the new fork won't fit in. If its the wrong taper, it won't fit in. If its the wrong length, it won't secure. So you may stay with the existing rim brakes, rim and wheel. Swapping the transmission over requires the rear dropouts to be the same or very close to the same width. Otherwise the geared wheel will not seat properly and can move under load. Your front cranks may be okay to swap for the double or triple chainring, but it depends on the bottom bracket connection being the same. To be honest, this sounds like a frankenbike which will use up a lot of time and may be unpleasent to ride. 

Another technique to revise is how to fit your tubes/tyres. A mistake in fitting can contribute to later punctures, so never use screwdrivers as levers only plastic tools if you need one at all. You should also practice putting the tyre's logo at the valve stem. This way when you find the puncture in the tube you can lay it out on the tyre, and identify a 50mm area of the tyre to inspect closely. Makes finding the cause a lot easier. Punctures are a part of riding sadly, so don't be put off by the odd flat. 

Your question can't be answered as written. The rim diameter (20") is not directly correlated with the tyre width. Since your frame can fit a 2.35" wide tyre, there's a very good chance a 2.4" tyre will fit. However it is an increase of 2.1% so if you're running close now you may be out of luck. The only time the rim dictates tyre width is the inner width of the valley of the rim. 

Strip off everything that is not metal (tyre/tube/rim tape) Poke at the big rust spots, look for rust under the chrome. You need to expose the rust to treat it Sand off any large lumps of rust with sandpaper (this is tedious) Treat the whole wheel surface with a rust resolver like "Rustbuster" which is an acid. Use gloves and eye protection - this stuff dissolves skin nicely. Allow it to dry/cure overnight Next day, sand any lumps of black rust ready for painting Immediately prime the whole wheel, spraypaint works well. Then immediately wipe the primer off the chromed parts because it won't stick there anyway. You can try applying a spray chrome paint last. Avoid the brake track, it won't last there. 

That way you can unhook the bungee for strapping over a large thing but its still tense enough to hold itself down when empty. 

For your purposes, you're interested in the front not the back end. So you want to keep the angle between your saddle and each axle the same. That will preserve the bike's handing as much as possible. However, increasing the height will make fast stops hairier simply because you're taller. My impression is tall bikes are for show, not practical daily usage and certainly not for racing around fast. 

Alternatives - some cyclists are able to trackstand at the lights. Personally I've never managed this for longer than a few seconds. Another technique is to not ride up and stop at the top, but to drift slowly up to the line and delay the point where you have to completely stop. This can be aggravating to other riders though. Also you may be able to grab hold of traffic light poles or other road furniture as a way of staying upright. Don't hold onto vehicles though, they move off, and it may annoy the hamster. 

Your photo looks like barcons or bar-end shifters with cyclocross interrupter brake levers. Another option might be mounting regular old brifters on the up-curved part of the bullhorn, so the brake lever points down and backward. You'll probably want the brifters where the brake cable can exit "downwards" not backwards. Also gear cables - brifters may send the gear cables horizontally toward the bike's midline, or maybe back along the handlebar - this needs checking. Finally - if you're spending large on this project, how about some electronic+wireless brifters? This chap has plain dropbar brake levers with downtube shifters, but you can imagine brifers instead. 

3) If changing a fork, you should aim to have the same effective length when riding. If your fork ends up longer, its able to exert exponentially more force on your head tube. Also, a longer fork will raise the front of the bike effectively slackening the head tube angle and giving you more trail. The rake angle of the new fork may also add or reduce trail. Either way, yes changing fork is likely to change handling. 

Good question - I've wondered the same. I looked at the Specialized SWAT toolbox for inspiration, but it only fit certain models of frame. $URL$ 

The best fix is new rim tape, which is not expensive, and the newer sorts don't stretch much around the valve hole. You might still need a new tube. 

Alternative suggestion - don't take a pack. They make your back hot and sweaty and raise your center of mass. Instead I carry two water bottles, so 1.5 L of liquid, enough for ~3 hours of normal weather. My toolbag and one tube is velcro strapped to the frame along with the frame pump. I wear a generic road top with three pockets in the lower back. Second spare tube, first aid box, thermal blanket, and food goes in there, along with a tiny rainjacket and tube scarf. I wear thin but full gloves and my training music player sits inside the left glove. My phone and a USB battery is in a top tube bag attached to the stem, and my gopro is on the front of the stem for powering by the battery. That said I don't carry a spare tyre or normal shoes. I do try to lighten my pockets.... I only carry one front door key not the whole lot, etc. Answer: consider distributing your load onto the bike frame, not the rider. 

Why am I doing this with a bike that isn't valuable or even nice? In the late 1980s I rode a green version of this bike to high school. Stupidly I threw the bike out when aged mid 20s, thinking "I have a car, why do I need a bike?" (yes, really) and I utterly regret this decision now. This blue Arena was in my neighbour's shed and he gave me a bunch of bikes, so I kept it. When the donor bike came up, I knew it was time to progress this restoration. 

Yes - replace it as soon as convenient. You might go another year or two with it in that state, but its a couple of dollars for a straddle cable. Check the front one too, and consider replacing both cables. While you're at it, give all the brake cables an eyeball, and if you find any damage then replace them all. A pair of inners costs under $20. They're brakes - they have to work when you need them. 

But google's map/routing engine doesn't use it, instead its just an average speed of the average cyclist over all roads. I can generally travel a route in half to 2/3 of the predicted time. 

Whatever you do, don't be a prick. Noone likes a cyclist who reinforces the bad stereotypes. Do Share The Road Even though you're in the right, there's no need to be offensive. Personally I find bells lazy, most cyclists have a good loud voice and a "Hi there, just gonna pass on your left" is far nicer than "ringring" Absolutely never try to scare someone with speed or proximity. Think how bad you'd look if it went wrong and you couldn't stop or swerve in time. You would be at fault even though they were in the wrong. Conversation and lecturing has no effect, and is more likely to make people defensive and negative toward you and all cyclists. A rhetorical question like "Where's your bike?" is about as much as you could say safely, and even that much might get you into a physical altercation. My solution is to anticipate the up-coming blockage, look behind over the shoulder at driver of oncoming traffic, speed up and take the road lane. Give the obstruction a wide berth. Making eye contact with the following driver helps them anticipate your action. The driver can see exactly what you can see and won't get mad because you telegraphed the intent by looking. Of course this assumes you can ride fast enough to "merge" with the traffic for a moment. 

Its never that simple though. There will likely be differences between the overall quality of the bike, motor, and batteries. The BMS may vary. Even the underlying bike quality will vary somehow. Ebikes are still bikes and have bike componentry. The more expensive bike should have better levels of componentry and will likely weigh less. The final point is your comfort vs your commitment. If you find one or the other more comfortable then that should be high on the list of priorities. An uncomfortable bike doesn't get used as much. 

Price. A combo undercoat/primer, a top coat, and a lacquer/transparent would be the norm. In the 80s, a nice bike might have had 10 very thin spray coats with multiple clear coats on top, most of which were over the decals/transfers. This represents a lot more work, time, and materials. In addition, the older bikes would have been steel, whereas the newer bikes are possibly aluminium now which doesn't hold paint as well, due to microscopic differences in how the paint keys into the surface. 

Another thought - if your derailerureur spring is a bit tired or if the mechanism is full of pog and dirt, then changing to a smaller-toothed gear is slower on single wire gears. That is, changing up on the rear or down on the front. The fix here is to clean your dirty mech and lube all the pivots on the parallelogram, and consider replacing the gear wire if its rusting. In short - practice ! The other answers and comments are spot on. I've recently bought a tandem with drop bars and downtube shifters, and while I really miss my brifters, that's impossibly expensive due to hydraulic brakes. So I've been through all of this in the last couple of months too. 

Do you have a smartphone? Look for the Strava app which uses $URL$ as a backend to record all your rides. The number of digits thing becomes irrelevant, and logs which bike did the distance. You don't need to enter into the competitive side of strava. You can simply make all your rides private by default, and default to viewing your own times instead of the fastest. 

Of course your trike can go backwards. However the pawls in the freehub will engage and the wheel will drive your pedals backwards. So you can't pedal it backwards... they're just using their feet to allow the cranks to rotate backward. The trike stays mostly upright because its three wheels - this would be near impossible to pull off on a bicycle. Also they're using weight transference to unload a wheel, and being on a cold shadowed and icy corner helps to lose traction.