Now I feel lazy to meditate because less thoughts no breath to observe. once I observe the body ,it isn't disappears .experience the vibration of mind and feel there is a connection between brain and mind through blood. 

If see the citta during meditation how it links to depend origin?is seeing the citta cause liberation as sotapanna? 

During meditation lost the sound awareness raped by a cover and only cittarupa come and stopped no doer and knower operate for a short time. Is it a jhana?Experience this 3 to 4 times.before that experience the citta as poping out of thoughts and discreet isolated spaces inbetween them . Brilliant light appears while experience the citta and another knowing came as if there is no thoughts wisdom will arise.is it the pure citta have experience 

This is Lucid Dreaming and (AFAIK) it isn't typical practice in most schools of Buddhism, nor should it be used as a gauge for how your meditation practice is going. With that said, there are some connections. 

As time went on, Buddhism changed. It changed to accommodate political/social realities, it changed in responses to things learned, it changed in response to local cultures. Buddhism consists of the teachings; those teachings are embodied in a culture. This can be hard to disentangle because often people take on a culture when taking on Buddhism. Thus you see Westerners saying "Namaste" or hanging Japanese calligraphy, as if that were somehow Buddhist. It's very easy to see how foot washing could have arisen either as a sign of veneration (for older monks and their attainment) or an attempt to undermine the ego. In many cultures, feet are seen as a degrading thing. For instance, pointing one's foot towards another person, propping them up on a table, or even taking off one's shoe to hit another are seen as insults. So to touch another's feet or to bathe them is to lower one's self. This in turn either attacks the ego or acknowledges the person's higher status (and hence shows respect). The long and short of it is this; ignore the packaging that Buddhism comes in. There is nothing Buddhist about temples, gongs, zafus, robes, Pali, etc... This is all packaging. Look inside the packaging to find Buddhism -- the teachings themselves. 

This time when the controller of the breath disappears thoughts too disappear cittarupa stop by presenting a line across and the top of it there is a picture of a person. After a minute breath appeared. And there was no observer too at that time. What is the meaning of the cittarupa which appeared and what is the stage? 

When experience a cittarupa understand arise if no thoughts come regarding them self will disappears. What is that experience? 

Experience the vibration of the mind and it is being reduced during meditation. What is it indicates?And dissolution of defilments(klesha)occurs. 

During meditation consciousness of ear nose eye tongue body sensation have disappeared. No sensations for a while and start emerge of thoughts. When see the thoughts clearly there are spaces between them. Suddenly came up a light. Then breath appeared. What is the experience? Is it stream winning?Is the vinnanaya have experience? 

I have. The hypnagogic/hypnaponic state is known for the interesting and even intense phenomena that can arise. Here's my most vivid experience: 

Enter a lucid dream for fun. Will "yourself" out of your body. Focus all your might on moving your big toe to snap out of this state. 

There are enough schools/interpretations of both that any answer would have to be highly qualified. Furthermore, there's a crossover that confuses things further. For instance, Zen is widely seen as a mixture of Buddhism and Taoism, so you may find great similarities between that branch of Buddhism and Taoism. An overview is that Buddhism seeks to transcend suffering while Taoism seeks unity with nature. However, consider this... 

That's the answer to whether this is misconduct or not. Although some interpret this injunctions legalistically/moralistically, I think that misses the point. In fact, I think this site has the right idea. It states the abstention is from SENSUAL misconduct, including overindulgence in (say) chocolate. 

During meditation if no doer and knower operate citta come for knowing. Means thoughts coming with spaces without external object. Is this what do you call citta? Is thoughts are due to citta operate without self ?when loba dvesa moha cease citta subjects to cease. Is it like that? 

When meditation experience mind without body loss sensation about the environment where I am and feel like mind is in the sky by hearing voice of birds.is it a jhana? 

On personal practice now no likes or dislike on thoughts no thinking too. what is the stage of mindfulness? 

Did meditation; when concentration on the breath at the tip of the nose suddenly controller has disappeared and cittarupa came without control.Is it a stage that knower and doer disappeared?after the experience feel like no self at that time. 

For any event Y, X caused Y if removing X removes Y. Note that Y can have many causes! For instance, some of the causes of the child's suffering include... 

Get people to abandon materialism. For many, this is the same as asking them to abandon science. Explain rebirth in a materialistic framework. If consciousness is a property of structure, rather than organism then a rebirth mechanism exists by simply having the same structure arise in the future. Karmic imprints could be explained by neuro-plasticity (which is said to be affected by meditation). Still, they may ask what happens if this structure is replicated now (and why wouldn't it be, given how much life we have?). 

My advice is to use your life to practice dharma; after all, dharma can be practiced in any circumstances and its fruits are available now. The challenges you face become fuel for practice. Your actions become the expression of practice. Life's annoyances and pains (such as dealing with others) are a chance to explore self and attachment. Your interactions are a chance to practice path elements such as mindfulness and especially right speech and compassion. One need not be a monk to practice and benefit from Dharma. Further, wanting to be a monk can be an attachment and thus a source of dukkha. Now, in addition to the usual challenges of the lay life, there's also the dukkha that comes from one more case of wanting things to be other than they are (e.g.: wanting to be a monk). Dukkha doesn't change because the cause is "spiritual". Also, monks have their own challenges. Not all monks are spiritual or care about the Dharma. Often, monks at the monastery are there for ulterior motives, and hence have no interest in dharma. Further, being a monk, it's all too easy to hide behind the orange robes and begging bowl; is one really practicing then? Sure one is isolated, but what challenges is one facing? Challenges are the fuel for practice. Just because you are not a monk doesn't mean you're living a worldly life. What makes your life worldly is how you live in the world. There are many worldly monks and many spiritual laypeople. Those who practice Dharma for a better rebirth as a monk (or anything else) are not fully practicing dharma because implicit in the practice is their clinging to monk-hood (or anything else) and a holding back, a belief that they really cannot reap the full fruits now. Such practice strikes me as half-hearted. Practice should be done with the intent of liberation in the circumstances one is in. If one practices whole-heartedly and the rebirth doctrine is true, one enjoys a better life now and a better rebirth will occur. If the rebirth doctrine is false, one still enjoys a better life now.