If a rune's power is not infinite, the process of drawing power through the rune could erase it from the material when it 'expires'. Not only is a rune inscribed on something like a sword going to be hard to conceal, but if you want to be able to reapply the rune you can't bury it in the middle of the material. Alternatively, or in addition, since the rune is essentially acting as the spellcaster, the effect will emanate from the rune itself. Hiding a small magical protection rune on the rear of a shield won't do much good, it needs to be large and inscribed on the enemy-facing surface to be effective. For the same reason, a tiny rune on the pommel of a sword won't give the blade the desired effect; it needs to run the length of the blade itself. This could also mean that an object with multiple effects might have superposed runes, since they all need to occupy the same space to be effective. Anyone with a basic understanding of the rune symbolism can figure out a simple one-rune device and employ a counter (provided they have enough time), but figuring out the individual components of a multiple-rune symbol could be more difficult. And if you see a guy coming at you, carrying a sword that looks like a mass of entangled lines, it's probably time to start running. 

Here's your problem: Whether or not it's possible to design armor that can resist bullets but not melee weapons or archaic ranged weapons, bullets that mimic the impact properties of bolts, arrows or darts already exist. For example, saboted darts that can be fired out of standard firearms have been around since the 1960s: 

I like the idea of a contagion, but in a spacefaring society quarantine is not difficult. The 'infection' needs to be able to overcome disease quarantine measures, present a credible threat two hundred years later, and give species with completely different biology a reason to reject survivors. I can immediately think of two solutions, both variations on the same theme. Malevolent AI An intelligent AI, or group of them, decides for whatever reason that it's going to exterminate humanity. AI are smart, adaptable, and single-minded, leaping from network to network and killing as they go. Other civilizations take advantage of the situation by allying with the AI over the remaining humans. The survivors are the only people remote enough to stay beyond the AI's reach, and stay disconnected. Any contact with leftover human technology would spell certain death. Singularity Humanity changes into a new form- maybe it's a hive mind, maybe it's merging with AI, maybe just old-fashioned cyborgs. Whatever the root cause, this new force is determined to assimilate the rest of humanity by force. Other races, not wanting to get on the bad side of the 'legitimate' human government, refuse to take in refugees and leave the survivors to fend for themselves. The survivors go into hiding. I'm sure you can come up with a variation on this theme that will work for your story. By having something 'usurp' baseline humanity and become recognized as the new 'legitimate' government, you have your threat, a reason why other species wouldn't take refugees, and a justification for the threat persisting, all in one. 

Petrified wood may fit these requirements: While it is, compositionally, just rock, the way in which it is formed makes it very different from quarried stone. Petrified wood is formed from wood that dies in certain environments with mineral-rich water and is rapidly covered by soil or ash. The minerals inhibit decomposition, and gradually deposit within the tissue of the wood. Over time, as the original wood decomposes, it is replaced with mineral deposits that assume the same shape and structure of the wood. The end result is rock, but rock that is structurally identical to the wood. In the real world, petrified wood is often found in volcanic ash and other niche environments, and takes decades to centuries to form naturally. However, about ten years ago a team of scientists demonstrated a technique whereby wood was artificially petrified in a matter of days. In a sci-fi context, you can take this basic idea and alter it slightly: Your people build structures out of plant matter, using genetically engineered fast-growing strains and artificial growth techniques to speed up the process, and mold the plants into the structure they need. Once the correct shape is set, they use an artificial petrification solution (perhaps a spray or water additive) to arrest growth and start the petrification process. Once the wood is fully petrified, you have a stone structure in the carefully-grown organic shape of the original wood. 

This could have a massive impact on history For the sake of this answer I'm assuming the weapons in question are equivalent to 15th-century arquebuses. Rifled firearms were not suited to battlefield use until well into the 19th century, as they required hammering a lead ball down through the rifling, both time-consuming and especially difficult to do if the bore was fouled from previous firing. But even a 15th-century smoothbore would have a considerable impact on military and social progression. Military Effects By the Thirty Years War, use of armor had largely dropped out of fashion for most combatants. While a set of plate could stop an arquebus ball at long range, such a set was extremely expensive to make, and still had to contend with contusions and broken bones from the impact. In 11th century Europe, plate didn't exist yet. The heaviest armor most combatants had access to was conventional mail, which provides little protection against firearms. These firearms are going to dominate the battlefield. They have the psychological impact of the early handgonnes, but actual effectiveness to boot, and beat bows and crossbows for armor-piercing ability. The inaccuracy of smoothbore firearms, as well, is often dramatically overstated- Renaissance arquebuses were capable of hits on point targets at 200m and massed formations farther still, but were virtually always deployed at shorter range to maximize effectiveness. This means that melee weapons are not going away. As in the Thirty Years War, the short effective range of 'shot' necessitates the use of 'pike' (or other melee-armed combatants) for mutual support and protection. The exact proportion of the two will depend on their comparable effectiveness; but as a general rule a 1:2 ratio of pike:shot would be reasonable. These are not untrained militia being handed guns, given an afternoon of instruction, and sent off to fight. With early Renaissance firearms, when matchlocks were the most common ignition type and paper cartridges had yet to be developed, operating an arquebus meant handling a lit match simultaneously with measures of powder, while standing in close formation with one's comrades. This requires training, discipline, and most importantly practice in formation. While it is less of an investment than the lifetime of practice needed to wield a longbow, it is more than what was provided to the peasant levies common in the Middle Ages. Social Effects The nature of these wonder-weapons is going to dramatically change how medieval societies approach war. With heavy cavalry no longer dominating warfare, the traditional military role of knights is usurped by infantry hundreds of years earlier than in the real world. However, as mentioned these infantry are not simply peasant levies, either. They are specialists, trained in the operation of a specific weapons system. They are professional soldiers, but not nobility. In the real world, these weapons, and the soldiers who wielded them, developed at a time when Europe could not yet afford standing armies but could afford bands of mercenaries for temporary conflict. In the 11th century, even kings will struggle to pay for professional soldiers to fight on their behalf. Given the very small size of medieval armies to begin with, it is unlikely that any such band will number more than a thousand strong. Those bands of mercenaries will enjoy the social status of the Swiss mercenaries of the Renaissance, being regarded as masters of the battlefield, but few nations will be able to afford them. For most, armies raised from peasants and trained as combatants on an ad-hoc basis will have to suffice, while remaining hugely expensive. Without the economic advances of the pike and shot era, true mass mobilization is still beyond reach. There are two ways this can go, socially, and I'm not convinced as to which is more likely. One is that the expense and societal burden of producing effective troops exacerbates the inequality in the feudal system, further concentrating force in the hands of the lords. The other is that the common availability of effective weapons, even in unskilled hands, may enable populist uprisings, which only started to occur on a national level from the 1400s on, to occur earlier. I'd say you have the freedom to explore either option, or use both in different contexts. Castles As one further note, stone fortifications were pivotal in military strategy of the medieval era. Most battles involved either attacking or defending some sort of fortification, rather than meeting on open ground. While the question does not specifically concern artillery, the early development of technologies needed to produce arquebuses would also enable effective artillery pieces. While defensive structures were not rendered obsolete by artillery (although their design changed considerably- see the Vauban forts of the late 1600s), they did become less effective as a means of concentrating defensive force. Earlier access to artillery may lead to more social change through military conquest. Had, for example, the English won at Orléans in 1429, the political landscape of Europe could be drastically different today. 

Give them a limited role in your society that reinforces their negative status. In the Middle Ages, antisemitism was widespread, and many nations had laws forbidding Jews from participating in many industries. Jews were forced into trades which reinforced their negative perception among the public, such as banking. At the same time, they were frequently forced to live in overcrowded, poorly-maintained areas of cities (ghettos). With little legitimate work available to the residents, these often became hotbeds of criminal activity. In many countries, this combination of factors led to an artificially-induced downward spiral towards poverty, which only further cemented a negative image of Jews in urban culture. Even without a higher authority dictating that Jews be oppressed, it was the common view of the citizenry that they were a separate class of people. It would take hundreds of years to change this perception. You may not be able to build that kind of negative reputation in the limited time you have available, but with carefully-crafted legislation you can both claim to be acting progressively (by giving this hated group a role in your society) while simultaneously shaping their future towards a disadvantaged, exploited position. Once your citizenry comes to see the hated ethnic group as dirty (because they are forced to live in unmaintained neighborhoods), lazy (because you prevent them from working), and greedy (because you force them to struggle for every cent)- that social perception will long outlast your regime. They won't be given citizenship, because the majority of the population will believe they don't deserve it and can't be trusted with it. 

This firearm, like the others in its family, uses a unique piston-driven cartridge. If you look in the cutaway cartridges, you will see this piston behind the bullet. When propelled by the gunpowder charge at the rear, the piston rams the bullet forward, propelling it down the barrel. When it reaches the end of its stroke, the piston seals on the front of the cartridge, preventing any noise or gases from escaping. The only noise in the action comes from the internal striker system, and the mechanical friction between the bullet and barrel. As long as the bullet is subsonic (and in this design, it is) there will be no sonic boom as it passes. While there might be some noise from the striker, at most it is a 'click' rather than the loud bark of even a suppressed and subsonic conventional round. Use an electronic primer to eliminate the noise from the striker mechanism, and integrate suppressor baffles into the barrel to eliminate any noise produced as the bullet scrapes by, and there you have it- a completely silent firearm. 

To add on to AlexP's excellent answer, there is some historical precedence for pike-and-shot formations using crossbows to provide the shot: The Swiss. While Swiss in the early Renaissance are known primarily for their pikemen, Swiss pike formations in the 15th century were regularly supported by crossbowmen. During the Italian Wars, at least ten percent of Swiss infantry formations were composed of crossbowmen (source). These were deployed in skirmish lines outside the pike formation, providing harassing fire while being able to retreat behind the pikemen if needed. This is not unlike the tercio, which used shot-armed wings to provide supporting fire to the main body of pikemen. The tercio, like other early pike-and-shot formations, was not inherently reliant on the use of firearms to be effective. It was the combination of large numbers, strong discipline, and tactical independence that made them effective. Tercios were large formations able to move at surprising speed, and employ both pike and shot optimally in reaction to enemy movement. While crossbows may not be as effective as arquebuses, and thus a crossbow-armed tercio will likely have more pike and less shot, the basic concept of the tercio still holds valid. The issue with the alternate-history scenario, as AlexP noted, is that standing armies of well-trained and well-disciplined troops (as opposed to ad hoc levies, or smaller bands of mercenaries) only came to be economically practical at the same time that firearms began to displace crossbows. 

When smokeless powder was adopted in 1884, it was quickly found that it had two to three times the energy density of conventional black powder, and if loaded to black powder specifications would cause immediate destruction of both the weapon and often the shooter. The solution here is the same as it was in 1884: Use less propellant, and moderate its release of energy. This makes it less like an antimatter bomb as other answers claim, and more like a fission fragment rocket, a current proposal for harnessing relativistic particles as a propellant. The difference between a useful propellant and a bomb is, primarily, the rate at which energy is released. If you can produce relativistic particles at a controlled rate, you may have a useful propellant. So if we scale back the emitted energy to not be wildly beyond what conventional chemical propellants provide, what's this propellant good for? Well, the faster a gas can expand, the higher the maximum velocity of any projectile propelled by it. So there is a niche application for this technology there: High-velocity weapons systems Conventional firearms currently struggle to reach 2km/s as a direct consequence of limits on the rate of gas expansion. One workaround currently used for scientific research is the light-gas gun, but this has never been practical for military use due to the need for an external supply of the light gas in question. Railguns and coilguns have been an attempt to get around this problem entirely, but have obstacles of their own. Electrical energy storage density comes nowhere close to that of chemical propellants, which makes them implicitly bulky and complex. With high-energy-density, high-expansion-velocity propellant, you can get railgun-like performance from a long-barreled variant of a more conventionally-propelled firearm. Colonists on another planet may find this useful either for long-ranged artillery, or surface-to-space gunnery. There's also another, more mundane application thanks to the compactness of this substance as a propellant. Compact, caseless ammo With your propellant now so incredibly compact, one of the biggest hurdles in caseless ammunition is solved. Rather than enclosing the bullet in a brick of propellant, a microscopically tiny amount of propellant can be affixed to the rear of each bullet. There are associated technical hurdles to overcome (the heat dissipation afforded by casings, and the process involved in clearing an unfired round being the primary two), but if this can be made viable then ammunition becomes lighter, easier to transport, easier to carry, and allows for magazines of significantly greater capacity. 

Now, according to this article, a 500 grain (unit of mass) arrow traveling at 220 feet per second is suitable for hunting, and the author states is both heavier and slower than most conventional broadhead arrows. If the objective is for armor to resist light, fast projectiles but not heavy, slow ones, this is probably your perfect weapon. The 10gr dart pictured above is not equivalent. But let's consider shotguns. A typical shotgun load is 1-1/8oz of buckshot (492 grains) or a 1oz slug (438 grains). So, a typical shotgun load already delivers the same mass as the entire arrow being recommended above, it just has a suboptimal projectile type. The flechette design is not optimal here, since it has very low mass, but a pointed 1oz slug would give weight and cross-sectional area comparable to a broadhead arrow. The main difference would be that instead of a measly 220fps, it flies at around 1800fps. If the armor has properties such that a heavy, pointed, slow-moving projectile can penetrate it, an equally heavy, equally pointed, much faster moving projectile is going to absolutely ruin your day. And this is something that can be fired out of any off-the-shelf smoothbore shotgun with no redesign needed. If you want to get more specialized and purpose-built, let me introduce you to the APS Underwater Rifle: 

This is, for all intents and purposes, a 20th-century dart thrower. As far as ballistics are concerned, it doesn't matter whether a projectile is being propelled by a human-powered system or by chemical means. We typically use blunt, lightweight, very fast projectiles in firearms because those are ballistically superior for our common purposes, not because firearms cannot effectively propel pointed, heavy, less-fast ones. If there exists a human-powered system that can pierce a given piece of armor, it's guaranteed that you can design a chemical-powered system that can do the same more effectively and from longer range. If a spear will work, so will a speargun- so who's going to carry a spear?