The difficulty here seems to be that in order to do probability, you need to know what space you're sampling from, and by construction, Sleeping Beauty requires you to pay attention to that space. There are two "intuitive" spaces, and if you mix both, you end up confused. Niel de Beaudrap has already said as much, but given the amount of confusion expressed over this "problem", I'd like to try being more explicit: What "really" happens is this: 

People tend to value what is scarce. (Whole books have been written on this.) A nearly-extinct animal is as scarce as you can get without being nonexistent: not only are there extremely few, but there is little hope of getting it back once it's lost. This is especially important if the animal is particularly cute or impressive (tigers, spotted owls, etc.). Many people and much of popular culture lauds the protection of the weak and helpless. Although this does not appear to be as well-studied of a phenomenon, it seems to me to be fairly widespread. 

If it were true that there were too much knowledge to keep up, one would expect that consensus would be replaced by lots of accidentally replicated work as people could no longer keep track of what was already done that was relevant. Fortunately, this wouldn't undermine the overall project, as one could then check for consensus. In fact, it seems more likely that the opposite is happening: we are too good at checking (and trusting) previous results and not doing enough work to validate previous results. Rather than link to the typical depressing articles about this phenomenon, I'll just note that there is at least a hint of an effort to go the other way by explicitly replicating some of the most important results in at least a couple of areas. 

Infinite regress is best avoided by understanding of the pattern and generalizing. Otherwise, as finite beings with brains of finite capacity, we eventually get lost in the mechanics of recursing. 

Quite so--in fact, for geography, we could drop the whole London and Paris thing, and indeed--we would either be not in England or not in France at any given time. So what went wrong? The problem is the description 

Your reasoning is assuming that neurons firing have something to do with perception. Dualists reject this, and put forth philsophical zombie arguments as demonstrations that there could, in principle anyway, be a distinction between neuronal firing and conscious perception. (It is an argument from incredulity at its heart, but absent a proof of identity of neuronal firing and conscious perception, it does at least raise the possibility in a way that is not absolutely refutable.) That said, as we find out more and more about the relationship between neural activity and consciousness, philosophical zombies (thus far) look more and more like Descartes' demon--a possibility, in some sense, but not really worthy of serious consideration given how various mental disorders can have direct, specific, and bizarre impacts on consciousness. Oliver Sacks and V.S. Ramachandran have written particularly accessible books detailing some of these conditions. So, although there could be a demon generating various entirely virtual sense experiences for us (if we don't worry too much about what we mean by "real" and "virtual"), and there could be a philosophical zombie (if we don't worry too much about how you know whether a zombie does or does not experience something), the evidence isn't consistent with these being likely possibilities. Thus, there are either no demons or possible-zombies, or they are doing an astoundingly good job. 

(b) happens often enough. "I prefer Gore to Bush. But, I just heard Nader talk, and now I prefer Nader to Gore." If you have 51% support for Gore, 49% support for Bush, and 0% support for Nader, but some Gore supporters decide they like Nader even more than Gore, the numbers will go to e.g. 48%, 49%, 3%, and Bush will win the election, even though nobody changed their Gore vs. Bush preference. (The current system in the U.S. violates (b) a lot more than is mandated by Arrow's theorem--an alternate system wouldn't have this "spoiler" effect manifest quite so easily.) 

I think the answer depends on whether you're talking about ontology or epistemology. By phrasing the question as you have, I think there's only one practical answer given a modern scientific understanding: culture is the term for a certain set of semi-arbitrary social behaviors of social animals, most particularly Homo sapiens. It's not so much that natural objects have a wider and deeper breadth of existence; culture is a description of one aspect of the natural world just like the phenomenology and theory of lightning. Stuff happens; we describe it. Ontologically, culture is undoubtedly a subset of the natural world. But epistemologically, it is true that we can't know about the natural world unless we exist, and what we know and how we know that we know it is influenced heavily by culture. I've not seen an entirely compelling argument regarding the centrality of culture, so to be safe, I'd simply say that it is not clear whether epistemologically culture is a subset of the natural world--probably it is not. We're in a rather odd place where we recognize both that we are the interpreters of the world, and thus are central; and that the world is causally basic and we are highly elaborate arrangements of matter resulting from these basic causes. As such, any bivalent answer to "is culture a subset of nature" is almost assuredly an oversimplification. 

That's pretty weird--but look, we didn't have to go through the calcuation to find that. We have a sample space that by construction has heads only one time out of three (cleverly constructed from a process that has 50% heads!). So this is exactly right: the prior probability of heads is 1/3. And Miss Beauty and everyone else would agree on this in advance of the experiment ever being run (at least if they were up on their statistics). Alternatively, if the formulation is such that there actually is an implicit difference between the different awakenings (e.g. because the last one is part of Miss Beauty's permanent experience, or because if she's right once and wrong once on the tails branch you'd want to only give her half a cookie, and you don't want to break cookies, so you only ask her one of the two times on the tails branch), then she (and everyone else) should perhaps do a different calculation: 

Recast in a classical logical framework, you could start with a family of models for which your truth-statements are interpretable (i.e. they refer to things in those models); if these models are all reasonable approximations of reality (even if they differ in some details), then "in some ways it is" means "there exists in s.t. is true in ". Let be a decidability function (i.e. implies that there is a proof of given model --whether you want to work with different models or different sets of truth statements is a more complex issue than I have time to think through). Then "in some ways it is indescribable" means that "there exists in s.t. " (where means "not")--it might be true or it might not, but you can't show it. So then we have these three fundamental statements: 

I suppose your two trends are broadly correct (not counting the reactionary atheists who had a really bad experience with some religion and almost seem to be disbelieving in God in order to punish him). But I think you mischaracterize historical-skeptic arguments that can be found in many places including the writings of Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins. These at their core go something like this (my summary, not a real quote): 

The distinction between relativism and objectivism is, pragmatically, not particularly important when there is only one thing that one needs to relate to. Thus, aside from various thought experiments, the distinction collapses when talking about e.g. innate morality in humans or evolutionary pressures on social organisms (two very powerful sources of justification for morality). You don't have to start from scratch when using logic; you've got the entire world of observations to work with. For example: 

Ignoring the sociological facts as irrelevant by construction in a thought experiment, we can focus on the biology. One might assume that the answers are "no" and "1.000", in which case the answer is . But it turns out that the sex ratio is greater than 1.0 (~1.05, though it's complicated), so if siblings' sex is not correlated, the answer would be or thereabouts. Sex among siblings also seems to be very slightly correlated (pdf), raising the probability to about . Hermaphroditism is negligible compared to these numbers. Anyway, your answer was essentially correct. 

The reason it is not a tautology is that there is no reason a priori that deterministic patterns should be so easy to find (inverse square law?! How easy is that!), nor that behaving creatures should be composed of parts for which such laws act at such an incredibly low level as to be nearly useless in understanding the whole organism. To put it another way, we can reliably tell when someone is grumpy, and when an apple is falling. That mathematics is so good at precisely describing the latter and so lousy at describing the former is surprising. (Even if you have to admit that some aspects of flexible goal-directed behavior will be surprising.) 

That isn't a cyclic argument because it's not an argument. It's something of a cyclic definition as given there. One can do somewhat better, but you have exactly the same problem with language as a whole: it's necessarily cyclic, since you can't get started defining language without using it. So this isn't a particularly worrying state of affairs as long as you know how to use energy, force, etc. in calculations and intuitive understanding. The argument for the definitions being useful is the gigantic amount of evidence that formulae based upon these definitions give exquisitely accurate predictions. Presumably you've noticed this in studying physics. The logical structure of the endeavor is radically different than the logical structure of most religious practice and doctrine. 

(omitting the trivial case of no statement at all). I am not sure this exactly maps onto the Jain propositions, but at least it's a start in that direction. 

despite only seeing a small portion of it. All largish animals have this problem to deal with since they tend to exist around plants and animals try to hide from each other. Using prior experience to fill in the rest of the animal's position (so that you can then act appropriately given where the unseen parts are) is useful and fairly basic and is done by at least birds and mammals (I assume reptiles do also, but haven't actually seen any studies). Once you have that capability and add on sophisticated memory and abstract thinking/imagination, one ought be surprised if one could not imagine things that were not real. Being limited to what is real is in many ways more difficult than having a more powerful general capacity because it requires more information to specify what is and is not allowed instead of just allowing anything that remotely fits. For example, I have no trouble imagining an invisible winged turtle, as all of the components are things I'm familiar with and merging them together yields no blatant contradictions. How would one design a brain that could deal with a naked mole rat (even before one had seen one) but not an invisible winged turtle? Sounds very hard to me--like the brain would have to somehow reflect the composition of the entire universe.