I don't know about European/USA practices, but in Russia the most of available vacancies for juniors are like this one. 1-3 years of work experience, long list of requirements. Personally, I think it's wrong way to find an applicant, but the employers and recruiters think, that this way they can get both experienced and graduates for the same position to choose from. They want to assemble as many of them as they can to select the best. That doesn't necessarily imply you'll encounter all of it at work. It's common for mid-sized or micro companies and usually means you will be wearing many hats. Therefore you shouldn't look at requirements at all. Just send your CV. But, again, it really upsets young job-seekers like you (and me not so long ago). 

In my company we still use Skype for internal purposes. One client can have many projects and each of them can have one or more chats (sometimes my list can easily contain dozens of them). Even if you turn off notifications, those chats are always going up and down, blinking, making it harder to look for current projects info (another dozens of chats). Usually when you are being assigned to another client, a manager of former project excludes you from chats of their responsibility. The last time I switched projects one of the managers didn't exclude me from his group chats and recently one of those became so annoying I left it and others by myself. A few moments later a manager of one of the most annoying project's chat said that I was rude and said to just turn off the sound and never leave the conversations. I left that project 2 months ago and will never ever come back to it. The manager was one of the many and not a senior one. We have no internal regulations on this regard and I never had such problems before. But now it bothers me if he really was right. Are there any rules of etiquette that apply in my situation? 

My situation is that I am a full time student and in the meanwhile I have a job that allows me to work remotely most of the time and only come in to the office once or twice a week. I am not from the country I am in, and I work part-time as I need to attend school, so I have short-term contracts with them (before it was seasonal now monthly), I worked here for 2 years and did not have any problem with payment or the contract, and I was working directly with the CEO. Now that we have different projects going on and I was reassigned to work with other managers and a board member of the company. The board member was on the project initially but stopped participating in the process as a new person was hired for it. Then as usually I went back home after my exams during summer vacation for 3 weeks, I had notified them about my leave weeks ahead after one meeting and one of the people I work with took notes on the dates of my leave and my return. However, right before I left they seemed to be totally surprised with the fact that I was leaving, and they were NOT happy about it and in fact the person that took notes freaked out and sent me emails like "you can't be leaving in the middle of the project". (I totally should've emailed them about it instead of verbally). I left on the 24th which was almost the end of the month, and I was still working remotely from home. The reason why they are not happy is that before, I did not have much work to do, but the on-going project needed to be done as soon as possible, so they preferred to have me in the office at least once a week. My job mainly is to translate some texts from English into my native language and talk with companies we cooperate with which are from my country. So communication with them was more convenient while I was home because of the time difference. Now I am back in the office and I haven't got a contract for this month while I worked through out the month remotely and now in the office and I haven't got paid for last month either. I asked HR and they told me to ask the board member about it. So what should I do/say to him? In addition, during my leave they gave my work laptop to someone else and emailed me whether I have something I'd like to save from that laptop (I mainly use my own laptop for work apart from times when I did not take it with me to the office). They did not ask whether I still need that laptop at all but just gave it to someone else. Secondly, I came back in the office finding someone else sitting on my desk (I don't have many things there but still..). This happened many times already that they move me somewhere else without asking or informing me ahead but let me find out when I am in the office. So all these things happening is kind of a warning for me that do they want to replace me by finding someone else now? I'm sure they still need me on the current project as it's urgent and I know the situation and our partners the best. But should I confront with them? If so, what should I do/say? 

Is it unprofessional? Yes. Should you resign? Don't think so. You can resign, you don't need anyone's acceptance to do it for whatever reason. But you may be not so lucky to find one more company like that. If you eventually resign, don't tell your future employers the real reason behind it. It will damage your chances to get another job greatly. Should you just sit and wait? Totally No. Get up and tell your manager about your situation and make some proposals on how you think it can be solved beneficially to both of you. Ask if you can shift your schedule if it's temporal issue. In many companies managers understand that anything can happen in life and they can help you. But they need to know about when you'll have your piece of work done to plan further. Keep them notified and most of them will be satisfied. BUT you MUST make them know. It seems like your company puts up with it. Hang onto them. If it's just your behavioral problems - your vacation won't change anything. Learn how to get over them. It may impede your carrier and life. Such situations may happen endless times. You'd better learn how to solve them on the fly. P.S. I'm from Russia and a programmer too. FYI If your company has annual vacation plan, they have every right not to let you go on vacation. 

Office manager saw my hair in basin in WC. It accidentally felt inside and has been partly washed away while I was washing my hands. She contacted me by Skype and asked to clean it in the future. Now I'm confused what to tell her. Circumstances: our company has started to rent an entire floor, so all the WCs there are in their responsibility now. They didn't hire a cleaning company or person and don't plan to. Only office kitchen gets cleaned once a several months. Other office rooms hasn't been cleaned for a year so far. Although I agree we should keep office clean, I feel strong revulsion at being forced to dig into the basins each time I wash hands. There is no equipment or disinfectant liquids to perform such manipulations, not even spare paper (company bought electronic hand drier to save money on that and everything else). I can't stop my hair falling even though I comb it regularly. My responsibility, which is written in office regulations and I agree with, is to keep my desk clean. I don't mind because I'm the only one using it. I'm usually not conflicting person, but this goes overboard in my opinion. I'm planning to disagree with her. The problem is I'm a bit socially awkward, our Office manager tends to be unprofessional with the stuff. She is often rude and talkative while I'm shy and can't find proper words to answer on time. So I haven't been able to come up with some lines besides "Should I clean the carpets too? My hair is also falling while I'm walking, I bring soil from the outside as well". We are somehow on good terms (but not so good to blatantly tell her this). Other women' hair also occurs there (we are just 5 females in IT company beside this manager), they leave coffee/tea and other lumps in basins. But I can't simply approach and ask them "What would you tell her in my situation?", because other employees are arguing aggresively and openly (I can't choose this option) with her or ignoring completely. Am I right thinking like that? What other people do with their falling hair? How to tell her I won't clean the basins in a most professional way? Update.