The majority of the characters in the "Little House" books were real people. The majority of the places described in these books were real places. There was, however, artistic license (for lack of better term) used for the storytelling in these books. I would like to state that I was fortunate enough to attend a guided tour of The Laura Ingalls Wilder Historical Society in De Smet, South Dakota approximately 10 years ago. The tour guide explained to the group that some of the places that we were being shown and the people that we were learning about were actual people and places that were depicted in her books. However, due to the harsh reality of homesteading life, the majority of the storytelling in her books was fictionalized. (as described by my tour guide) Laura Ingalls Wilder began writing her memoir (that would later be an autobiography titled Pioneer Girl) in 1930 at the encouragement of her daughter due to financial difficulties the family was facing because of the stock market crash of 1929. The memoirs were originally intended for a novel targeting an adult audience, but were edited and revised and essentially marketed as fictional children's books. An article published in 2014 by The Guardian quotes Wilder biographer and publishing director: 

There are several reasons why Patrick Bateman spends an excessive amount of time describing these specific musical artists: 

The third scenario does describe an apparent gambling problem and some may interpret this literally as the table game "blackjack". That really does not appear to be the case. I have heard this song several times and I have never heard "blackjack". I have always heard "back Jack" as the lyrics were intended. However, everyone hears lyrics differently. I still sing the incorrect lyrics even when I know that they are incorrect. It's a force of habit with some songs. 

The novel is intended to be somewhat of a dark comedy with levels of illogical reasoning. It is a satire on the yuppie culture of the mid 1980's. The "take away" that I got from the novel is the absurdity of consumerism and how it can not only shape someone's identity, but entirely consume it. 

While Laura Ingalls Wilder and her daughter had their conflicts, they were both concerned with making money on the books. This is what caused the stories to be "embellished" or "dramatized" to appeal to a younger audience. 

But did this belief in the supernatural influence his writings at all? Do we see any evidence of this in the Sherlock Holmes stories, or any of his other fiction works? 

But what are some examples of Matt being less sure of himself? In what other ways are they different? 

The first 4 books in TombQuest all have an amulet featured on the cover: (Images from Scholastic.) And then... the fifth book: 

On some books, I've noticed that they have colors on the edges of the pages. For instance, on my Tikkun: 

In the first chapter of Jude the Obscure, we see this line about the old church being taken down and replaced, and the old church being broken up and used for different things: 

In the September/October 2017 issue of the Cicada magazine, they ran a story by Nino Cipri, entitled "A Silly Love Story". (Published online by the author (who also goes by Nicole).) The story focuses on Jeremy - our main character, a man - and Merion, a bi-gendered character, who are in a relationship. We see the story of how Jeremy and Merion met, and we see that Merion has an encounter with a girl who is curious as to whether Merion is a boy or girl. 

Why does O-san have a 'vacant look on her face, as though she had been roughly wakened from some peculiarly delicious dream'? What does this imply? 

Such a detailed description of what he chooses to wear should say a lot about this character. What can we learn from his choice of dress? 

When the kids go into the future in The Story of the Amulet, it looks like gender roles have perhaps disappeared. Some of the relevant quotes: 

At the end of my copy of Raven's Gate, there's a Q&A with Anthony Horowitz, the author. One of the questions is: 

We cannot ignore the influence of The Merchant of Venice, by william-shakespeare. In it, a Jew named Shylock is a moneylender who wants to 'take a pound of flesh' as payment. (There were actually no Jews in England at the time of the writing of this play, as they were expelled in 1290 and didn't return until 1657, and The Merchant of Venice was apparently written between 1596 and 1599.) As the play has been regarded as the play in which Shakespeare 'found himself the most' (source: Encyclopedia Judaica's article on Shakespeare), it was fairly well read. So a lot of people had this idea that Jews were moneylenders while there weren't even any Jews there, and people held that in mind for a while, and then it gained more credibility when the Rothschilds and the other bankers came on the scene. 

There is no proof that the lyrics were supposed to sound like "blackjack". Donald Fagan and Walter Becker of Steely Dan wrote the lyrics to this song. I have not found any first hand source from them or any other members of Steely Dan that the line was supposed to sound like "blackjack". The general belief is that the lyrics represent a man's failure to learn from his mistakes. Hence, the "Go back Jack do it again" line. There's a piece written about the lyrics of the song on musicbanter. 

The "Little House" series of books depict real people, places and some real stories when pertaining to major life events. For the most part, the books are embellished and/or dramatized versions of Laura Ingalls Wilder's memoirs. 

The majority of the characters in her books are real. Her mother, father, sisters, Reverend Alden and Mr. Edwards. However, their character is usually beyond reproach in her books. The memoirs of Ms. Wilder seem to depict certain characters differently. 

There are certain stories that are completely true and not overstated. One example is Laura's sister, Mary going blind. As described in one of the books of the series, By the Shores of Silver Lake, Laura attributes Mary's blindness to scarlet fever. Mary Ingalls did actually go blind due to what they thought at the time was scarlet fever. It should also be stated that there has been much controversy surrounding the authorship of the "Little House" books. Many accuse Ms. Wilder's daughter, Rose Wilder Lane of being the ghostwriter of her mother's books. This is due to the correspondence between mother and daughter during the time the book(s) were being written as well as Ms. Lane being a respected author herself (though not nearly as celebrated as her mother). This led mother and daughter to have several conflicts. However, Ms. Lane did the editing and "embellishments" using her mother's stories as sources. 

Note: There was also a popular and long-running television series based on the "Little House" books titled Little House on the Prairie that aired from 1974 - 1982. This series featured characters and places from the book series, but took drastic creative liberty with the story telling (as should be expected from a television show). This is just another example of the real people from Laura Ingalls Wilder's stories being exaggerated for dramatic purposes.