In order to know when a star will be above horizon, you'll need an equation with times, not "celestial latitudes". So you end up adding RA and sidereal time. EDIT In order to find out the position of a star you need to find out how its Hour Angle varies with time. The Hour Angle is how far the star is from the observer's meridian: Diagram of angles $URL$ In this image, it is the angle between the site's celestial meridian (North Celestial P ole-Z enith-S outh horizon) and the star's celestial meridian (P-X-Y). It is the same angle as between where X culminates and X. So it comes than $HA=ST-RA$ and since you may not have a "local sidereal time" clock at hand, you can use Greenwich's Sidereal Time: $HA=GST-Lat-RA$ 

The nearest one is the one you are on: Milky Way. It can be seen from any place, as it is all around us. If you want to actually look at a whole galaxy in a simple view, then the nearest galaxies easy to be observed are the Small and Large Magellan Clouds, and the Galaxy of Andromeda. There are galaxies nearer that those, but harder to be observed. A quite complete list is at $URL$ 

No, there is no pattern on 1%. There are cases of double stars and (allegedly) of double planets. In our Solar System, Charon has a mass of 11.6% of that of Pluto. 

The best definition of "still in space" you can have is that you make a weighted average of galaxy velocities around you and their mean movement is zero. This means all of them recedes from you at the same speed when at the same distance, so you are "still" regading what we can call "the cosmic expansion frame". Note that you must discard nearby galaxies, where their proper motion is big. And note also that you will not be still in reference to some other viewer that perform the same experiment. In fact, you both will be receding from the other at the cosmic expansion rate. 

Infinities are a type of singularity. As soon as you introduce an actual infinity into any kind of mathematical model you can't expect it to make useful predictions. Mathematical models can't deal with infinite time. Similarly, using a frame that moves at the speed of light, with infinite rapidity, is singular. In the particular case you describe, in a regular frame, the photon becomes progressively redshifted by the expansion of spacetime, its energy (to an observer in a inertial frame) becomes lower and lower. 

It is the remains of dead stars. Large stars are able to fuse light elements (like helium) to make heavier ones (like Carbon, Oxygen and Silicon, but also all the elements found on Earth). When these stars die, some of these heavier elements are ejected into space, where they condense to form dust particles. The dust particles are small, typically a few micrometres long (similar in size to a bacteria). The dust particles are mixed with gas and ices and form nebulae. If the gas and dust can become compressed enough, then clumps of dust and gas can collapse to form new stars, and planets. Every carbon atom in your body started out in interstellar dust. The dust is therefore composed of normal matter, and in fairly familiar forms, such as "silicon oxide" (which is what much of the rock on Earth is made of) There are also carbon grains, and metals: aluminium, magnesium and iron (usually as oxides). 

The "no hair" theory of black holes states that a black hole formed from the collapse of normal matter would be exactly the same as a black hole formed from dark matter. You could even form a black hole from photons, if you could get enough of them close together at the same time. What originally collapsed to form the black hole has no relevance to whether Hawking radiation is given off. A black hole formed of dark matter WIMPS would behave exactly the same as a black hole formed from normal matter. Dark matter can be converted into "energy" (I'll assume that you mean light, ie photons), in the same way that normal matter can: for example by antimatter annihilation. The actual formation of black holes, however, requires them to be mostly made of normal matter, since the matter has to lose energy as it falls together, and to do this it must interact with itself (essentially this is friction). As dark matter does not seem to interact with itself or with normal matter, it would not form a major part of a black hole, even in a galaxy dominated by an excess of dark matter. The supermassive black hole may be exceptionally small in such a galaxy, as there is less suitable matter to fall into it. 

Yes, you can, and it is easy. You only need a Nautical Almaniac. You'll find there both the tables you need for the Equation of Time and the formulas to use. 

There are plenty of sky simulators where you can calculate that information yourself. e.g. Celestia, KStars Just install one of them and it will tell you position in sky and distance to most known bodies in Solar System, for any given time. 

You can look at the code of the Free application Kstars. All formulas you may need are already programmed there. That is the good about Free Software. 

Time, as we know it, started with Big Bang, so there is no "before". And if there is "another" Big Bang (which I doubt as the universe is likely to expand forever) it will not be "another" Big Bang, but "the" Big Bang, as time will start anew with it. 

The Sun burns hidrogen, so it is a star. Jupiter does not, so it is not a star. Not even a brown dwarf. Since a non-star body orbits a star, it is a planet, a dwarf planet or an asteroid/comet. Since Jupiter has cleared his orbit, it is a planet. Why do I say that Jupiter orbits a star? This is where I go to the center of your question. The orbit of the Sun around the galactic center is (more or less) a circle. If you draw Jupiter's orbit around the galactic center it has some retrogradations and is not always convex. 

Both effects combined. Day being longer than year would just have retrograde motion of the Sun on sky, but no direction change. Variation of the distance alone happens on Earth, and we have no such effect. But the combination of both factors, in the precise amount they have on Mercury, makes this effect happen. 

Common misconception. It is not a blast in space. It is the space itself expanding, and there is no outside from where to see it decelerate and stop. 

Pure coincidence. Keep in mind that the Moon is going far from the Earth (and thus slowing its motion), and that Earth is no particularly important planet for the Sun. 

A tidal day is the MEAN time between successive meridian transits of the Moon. (This is sometimes called called a lunar day, a term that should be deprecated for use in this sense, because it is also used for the length of a day on the Moon and should be reserved for the latter meaning to avoid ambiguity.) Its length exceeds a mean solar day of 24 hours by X minutes, which is also the (mean) time-length by which moonrise (or its meridian transit) is later each day than it was yesterday. (Here is an animation by NOAA demonstrating this principle.) The exact value of X is variously given in different places, ranging from about 48 to 52. However, I cannot find anywhere an authoritative source detailing the "correct" way to calculate X. Does anyone know of an authoritative method of calculating X, and/or can anyone comment on the three methods given below. (1) I have a personal theory that puts X at about 48.763 minutes, but I am uneasy about how correct the underlying logic of it is, which is this: Consider two successive conjunctions (C1 and C2) of the MEAN sun and MEAN moon. At C1, the Sun's azimuth and the Moon's azimuth will, at ALL places on Earth, be the same, and, although this is no longer true for the rest of the lunation, it will once again be true at C2. This is analogous to two clocks: Clock 1 (the MEAN sun) keeps correct time, while clock 2 (the MEAN moon) loses a constant amount of time (X minutes) each day. Since the two clocks agree at C1 and at C2, clock 2 must have lost exactly 24 hours (1440 minutes) during the intervening synodic lunation, whose length (Ln) is 29.5305891203704 days. This suggests that X (the number of minutes that clock 2 loses per day) = (1440 / Ln) = 48.763. However, I feel uneasy about this logic for this reason: If C1 occurs on April 1 at 06:00:00, UTC, and it is then sunrise at Tema, Ghana (on the prime meridian, near the equator), C2 will be on April 30 at 18:44:03, UTC, and that will not be sunrise at Tema; it will be dusk there, and it will be sunrise at east longitude 169°. Does this negate the above logic suggesting that X = 24 hours / Ln? (2) Another method for calculating X suggested to me is this: It is based on the Moon's sidereal period (Ld), 27.321661 days. The MEAN angular distance along its orbit travelled by the Moon each day is (360° / Ld) = 13.17636° (which equates to a mean orbital speed of about 0.55° per hour.) So, each day, the Earth must rotate 360° plus an extra 13.17636° to point the same meridian back at the Moon again. The Earth's rotational speed is (360° / 24 hrs) = 15° per hour. At that rate, the extra time needed by the Earth to rotate those extra 13.17636° is [(13.17636/360) * 24] = 0.878424 hour = 52.7 minutes. (3) I argue that even if method (2) is right in principle, it requires two amendments, because: (a) The Earth rotates 360° in a sidereal day, which is nearly 4 minutes shorter than 24 hours, in which time the Earth rotates nearly 361°, or, more precisely, 360.98565°. (The fraction in the latter value is obtained from the average daily portion of the Earth's orbit: 360°/365.2422 days = 0.985647° per day.) (An animation demonstrating why this is so is here.) So, the extra time needed by the Earth to rotate those extra 13.17636° is: [(13.17636/360.98565)*24] = 0.8760 hours = 52.56 minutes. (b) Furthermore, in those extra 52.56 minutes, the Moon has moved on in its orbit by nearly another half a degree. More precisely, it is (360/27.321661)*(52.56/1440) = 0.48094°. So the calculation should be: [(13.17636+0.48094)/360.98565)*24] = 0.90800 hours = 54.48 minutes. So we have three different methods of calculating X, yielding values of 48.763, 52.56 or 54.48 minutes. Comments anyone? Either endorsements or criticisms of any of these three methods will be gratefully accepted.