Here is one such cyclone atlas for the North Indian Ocean basin - Indian Ocean Cyclone Atlas and while I am not sure about the cyclone tracks for the pre satellite era cyclones the site is comprehensive and covers all cyclones in the Indian Ocean up to the current period. After you register yourself here - Registration then you can view the cyclone tracks. Here is a sample of cyclone tracks between 2012 and 2016 

I am going to take a guess and say these are Frost crystals. There are few conditions that need to be present in order for these to develop 1) Light wind 2) Relatively high humidity(some water vapor source perhaps nearby) 3) Depending on your elevation - was this somewhere near a mountain basin ? As opposed to snow crystals frost crystals form more near the surface You can read this article Frost crystal and if the answers are in the affirmative then you know these are the conditions that caused these crystals to form. 

It's definitely not a meteorite Perhaps the easiest way to rule out a meteorite is to note the vesicles in your first picture. These alone make it almost certain that this isn’t a meteorite: meteorites overall are rare finds, and vesicular meteorites are very rare even among meteorites (around 0.1%). You mention that your specimen is highly magnetic, and this makes it entirely certain that it’s not a meteorite, because no meteorite is both vesicular and magnetic. It's probably slag As Dr Randy Korotev at Washington University in St. Louis says: ‘vesicles and metal together in the same "rock" are a good field mark for slag’. Slag would also be consistent with the flat face (from solidifying on a flat surface) and the ‘molten’ texture on the other sides. As requested, here’s a photo of some similar slag for comparison: 

ECMWF Model Levels The above link describes the coefficients used to define the ECMWF model levels in pressure in order to compute geopotential height. Is there a similar data for NCEP reanalysis model or is the data already on pressure levels in which case the above step is not required ? To be precise I am looking for the identical data for the T62 NCEP reanalysis data(2.5 x 2.5). The NCEP reanalysis model uses the sigma vertical coordinate. The same question can be rephrased in the following manner 1) What are the values of the sigma levels and where can they be downloaded? For e.g. if the sigma level is 0.995 and the surface pressure is 1000 hPa then the pressure at the sigma level 0.995 is 995 hPa. 2) Are the sigma levels of the NCEP reanalysis model comparable to the a and b coefficients of the ECMWF model ? UPDATE The hybrid vertical coordinate of UCAR Community Atmosphere Model(CAM 3.0) describes a similar equation to that of ECMWF and has explicit coefficients A and B as shown below $p(\eta,p_s) = A(\eta)p_0 + B(\eta)p_s$ where p is pressure, $p_s$ is surface pressure, $p_0$ is a specified constant reference pressure and A and B are coefficients that specify the coordinate being used and are defined only at the discrete model levels. GOAL - I have code that uses ECMWF data as input to run a few calculations. I am looking to run the same code using NCEP renanalysis model data. Reference 

Your question is quite similar to one that I asked some time ago, with the additional requirement that the glue be insoluble in water, which unfortunately excludes sodium and potassium silicate. Like you, I've found Ceramabond (albeit 571, not 569, in my case) to be too magnetic. I suspect that there's an element of random variation here. It's not (as far as I know) specifically formulated to be completely non-magnetic, so there may be some batches which are more magnetic than others. Khakhalova and Feinberg (2014) investigated some other high-temperature ceramic adhesives and found that they were also too magnetic for use with weakly magnetic samples. However, they do make one useful suggestion: 

Cyclones generally drift in a westerly/north westerly direction due to the Beta Drift and Beta Effect For atlantic hurricanes the forward speeds are summarized here by latitudinal range -Average forward speed of Atlantic Hurricanes and if there is recurve(turn more northerly) they can slow down or if they cross mid latitudes they may pick up speed by interacting with mid latitude troughs. For the latitude of Midge Point, Queensland you can expect forward speeds of about 17-18 kms/hr. So this cyclone is certainly slow moving. TC forward speed There are other factors influencing cyclone tracks which include steering winds, presence of high pressure systems,etc and more recent studies have studied the influence of SST on cyclone tracks Response of cyclone tracks to SST. From this peer reviewed reference Effect of forward speed on flooding modeling studies reveal that increasing forward speed decreases flooded volumes while increasing peak surge Back to Cyclone Debbie it looks like from this blog at least Cyclone Debbie Progress the forward speed of the cyclone is probably one of the reasons for the water to be present for more than one day and making sure storm surge occurs at the same time as the high tide. 

I don’t know that it is ‘the International Reference Observatory’. The Mauna Loa record is almost certainly the most-cited decadal-scale CO2 record, but as far as I know the observatory hasn't been accorded any special status: the record is used on its own merits. Googling for the phrase ‘International Reference Observatory’ gave me precisely one hit, which strongly suggests that it's not a well-defined term. The hit comes from Roussel-Debet et al. (2006), and appears in the following context: 

Note the lack of capitalization. I don’t think that this implies the existence of a single, officially defined ‘International Reference Observatory’ at Mauna Loa. Rather, it's like writing ‘the solar observatory at Mauna Loa’: there are many solar observatories, and this clarifies which one we're talking about. Similarly, there are several observatories which produce internationally used CO2 data, and this specifies which one we’re talking about here. 

I have this satellite derived sounding(T-phi gram) of a mountainous area and from what little I can make out it appears that probability of precipitation is almost negligible. Let us assume my model output for the same time predicted the rainfall event accurately that happened at the given time and TRMM satellite data was able to pick up the rainfall event as well. Is there something in the sounding diagram that I have displayed that can pick up the rainfall event as being likely? I for one cannot make it out as CAPE is zero and CIN is greater than 200. I obviously have a follow up question - accuracy of satellite derived soundings in mountainous areas but that is for later. 

As you can see (and as Laclare et al. point out), solar semi-diameter has shown no significant variation during the measurement periods. Given their deviation from the other data sets, the Wittmann data seem rather suspect, but even they show absolutely no change between the 1972 and 1981 data points. In short, none of these data are consistent with the notion that solar diameter changed in 1979. 

References Sylvie Roussel-Debet, Gilles Gontier, Françoise Siclet, Marc Fournier, Distribution of carbon 14 in the terrestrial environment close to French nuclear power plants, Journal of Environmental Radioactivity, Volume 87, Issue 3, 2006, Pages 246–259, ISSN 0265-931X, doi:10.1016/j.jenvrad.2005.12.002. Von Herzen, R. P., M. J. Cordery, R. S. Detrick, and C. Fang (1989), Heat flow and the thermal origin of hot spot swells: The Hawaiian Swell revisited, Journal of Geophysical Research, 94(B10), 13783–13799, doi:10.1029/JB094iB10p13783. 

When the altitude of the -10 C temperature level is below 1.4 kms no lightning activity is observed and the above reference also mentions that a Japanese aircraft that took off on 29th January 1991(during boreal winter) was stuck by lightning as it "invaded" convective clouds. However these are weak flashes and are known as "Single Flash" thunderstorms. 4) Can a tropical hurricane discharge lightning flashes ? It has certainly been observed in Hurricane Andrew Cloud to ground lightning in Hurricane Andrew and the authors report that positive eye wall flashes have been reported from the cloud tops in addition to negative eye wall flashes from the highest eye wall cloud tops.