Depending on the specifics, there can be some similarities and some big differences: Some courses I took in university could be passed by someone taking the old exams and using those to get a passing grade. In this case, the person never had to go to the lectures given or read the textbook. The exams were multiple choice which can be quite different from a corporate environment where you don't have only 4 possible choices before you to consider in how to get something done. How well does someone have to know the material after the final exam would be another way to see this. Some corporate training may not have an exam as it may be about being present to hear the company's harassment policy or have some other orientation that may be viewed as training or on-boarding. All of my undergraduate university courses had a final exam in contrast. Some corporate training may be outside of regular working hours that isn't necessarily the case of university courses that generally follow a schedule. I can remember going to the office on a Saturday morning to learn about ITIL and how my employer was going to bring that into the organization with this specific tool that was to be used in this way. 

Study the company - Find its website and some of the work they've done if they are a design firm that does campaigns for other companies. You want to peek at what stuff do they use. Are they on the latest jQuery or using an older version? Study your history - Have a 2 minute run down of your background so that you can answer the "Tell us about yourself" question that most interviewers will give early in the interview. Know your stories so that you can explain the context, what you did, what was the result and what you learned in a clear concise manner with enthusiasm. Cover the basics. Know how you are getting to the interview, what time are you leaving, when are you arriving, who are you asking at reception if you were given names, bring copies of your resumes and references. Dress appropriately. These are all straightforward things to do that I would advise doing before the interview. Go through some whiteboard coding problems. There are likely tons of examples on-line though if you want some words for Google try FizzBuzz, reversing a string, implementing a data type like a priority queue where the key is to communicate how you are thinking, what test cases are you keeping in mind, how complex is this in terms of time and space, and remember that the questions may be vague intentionally to see if you make assumptions or ask questions when you come to that fork in the road. The best code may be more mindful of space as it could be implemented on an embedded system with really limited resources while in other cases it may be more about how big of a code footprint does this generate in memory? 

Within some circles, I've seen this a fair bit. If the co-workers have more than a little familiarity with each other, e.g. if they have worked together for a year or more, then it isn't hard to expect hugs or handshakes as a way to noting the camaraderie that a team may have. I've had some bosses that said "Good morning" and "Good night" nearly every single day as his way of making an entrance or exit. 

Yikes, this is a bit of a mess. I'd suggest having a team meeting to see if the other team members share the perspective of things looking bad. Perhaps they share your view and perhaps not, but that would be one idea. Could be worthwhile to know how everyone sees the current situation. Second, consider the idea of adopting some form of methodology so that things can be at least a little organized. Scrum would be one idea though there are others that could be useful to get everyone on board with what has to be done within what window and move things forward. The structure here is key as without that you could have 5 people all scrambling to get the work done in different directions rather than being unified. There are other agile ideas that could be used though the idea here is to find something relatively lightweight that is relatively easy to implement so that you can start to get some traction. 

You tell them that while you have selected an opportunity to pursue at this time, you may be open in the future to new possibilities and would like to stay in touch in case something comes up. A key point here is to have the follow-up chats or lunches so that you actually do follow through here as otherwise you are asking for trouble. 

There may be something to be said for what kind of file they have on you. If you applied previously, there may be notes that were taken that could be useful in the new interview. While there is the potential for the person from Department Y to check with Department X, there is also the possibility that the HR system used for tracking applicants has the notes and other details and thus the other person may not even be bothered. At the same time there is also the possibility of someone that interviewed you previously could come back again as they used to work in X in 2012 but now work in Y. The point would be to see if the reasons for not hiring you are still valid or not as well as to see if things line up in your new resume compared to your old one. 

As an initial response, I'd see this being a poor tactic. The idea here is for the Candidate to give a brief pitch of why the Candidate is qualified and the best for this position. By flipping the question right away, this would appear to be defensive on taking a question that most people would expect in a job interview. Realistically, most places have enough information on the websites for why it is a great place to work that this may not work like you think. However, after giving an answer, I could see asking the question though I'd suspect you'd get the boilerplate of, "Well, we give competitive salaries, a good work environment, challenging work, etc." so be prepared to possibly refine the question a bit. If you refined the question to be, "Why should I join this team?" then you may be getting a bit of a different answer as the key here is to change the context of the question as the company would likely have the boilerplate answer whereas if you drill down then the answer may vary. For example, within an IT department in a development team, there may be specific things developers may want and this is a way to get those expressed that may not be seen in the initial, "Why should I work for you?" question as the "you" could be the manager, the company or a few other entities in theory. Another strategy would be, "Before I answer that, could you tell me why I should work for you?" would likely go over much better and produce the desired result. This way you aren't showing that you don't want to answer but that you want some more details before answering. 

Gallup's Q12 would be my reference suggestion here noting that all 12 questions are somewhat simple in being able to ask but would your team members be able to answer yes honestly to all 12 questions? If not, then consider which are the ones that they could have a hard time and address those. 

The second point is more about the idea that if someone is going for the top of the range and expects raises on top of that, this could be asking for trouble. Some people would rather have the raises and get more emotional satisfaction from that than having more money at the end of the day while getting paid the same each year. Thus, I'm questioning if the person getting paid $100K for 3 years with no raises will be happier than the person that started at $90K and got a 5% raise each year for the next 2 years. While some people want to make salary be all about money, there is something to be said for what expectations are coming with that money you are getting. 

How likely do you think it is for you to find other people like this in other workplaces? Seriously ponder this question for a moment as the guy may be technically skilled but not great at dealing with people which may be something you'll encounter in fields like IT where specialized skills can be sought and others find ways to work with difficult people that may be more than a bit eccentric at times. The conversation I suggest you have with him is about your background and that the tips he points out aren't needed. In a way this is more about how you are being treated as perhaps he doesn't know how much this agitates you. While I can see in your post you are more than a little rattled, I wonder how well is he supposed to know this? Avoidance just keeps the same cycle going as he may think this is useful and just keep at it. After all, what are you telling him that should lead him to think otherwise? Before the conversation be sure to have a few examples of what was pointed so that you can reference examples and possibly see if you could brainstorm solutions to this as I doubt this will be the only time you come across this kind of co-worker. 

If you have years of experience and did business studies, have you considered trying to get into management positions? Perhaps you have some knowledge in how to run businesses that may be useful to leverage in that form. This is simply based on what you studied and isn't considering what other interests or passions you have that may be useful here. What about working in social media and getting into that space? This isn't about going back to school but rather learning in your own spare time to build a reputation within specific communities that may be a way to get into marketing jobs that likely aren't all going to be automated as companies will need people that understand social media and how to use it. There is something to be said for what kinds of things do you like to do and how some companies could make use of these skills as chances are that grunt work will be automated, outsourced or offshored allowing for other work to still exist within first world countries. The question is how well are you prepared for job title changes and the creation of new kinds of work. If you don't want that, then I'd suggest trying to get into sales which may not evolve in quite the same way as other fields where using technology is likely going to increase. This doesn't mean you have to go to university but rather figure out for yourself what are your strengths that will add value for a company. A book suggestion around this would be to look at "The World is Flat" by Thomas Friedman that discusses how a graphic designer evolved their position into being a brand manager as they outsourced some of the menial work and left the creative stuff to themselves to do that added value for companies that I imagine will be a common story as the world keeps changing. 

I tend to prefer answering questions than asking them so most of my reputation comes from answering questions, explaining tags and those kinds of things rather than asking questions. 

First, is there an HR department? They would be where I'd go first to see what is the procedure for doing an internal transfer as different companies may have various rules about things. If there isn't an HR department, then I'd probably approach Manager 2 and ask if there is a way to be internally transferred to fill in the new role. You don't state if the posting was public or just internal to the company, which would be a distinction to my mind. If the latter, I'd just apply and see what happens. On the other hand, a public posting may be better to approach the manager if there isn't HR. 

First, you'll have to see what kind of agreements do you have with your employer as there is a good chance that the company would state they own the work for the personal project and it is their intellectual property. This can be important for some people as if someone finds that million dollar idea, they may want some additional compensation for that. Alternatively, some may want control over personal projects once they get past an initial prototype phase. From Seven Ways to Boost Employee Morale: 

While I would call B, I'd also still be applying to other possible positions until I had the offer in writing. There is something to be said for having specific contact information and the ability to reference what was offered exactly. 

The question is intended to consider the question of what kind of responsibility does one take as someone that works in the software industry. Does one read blogs, books, attend conferences, read tech news sites, etc.? The key point here is to see if you'll do things on your own without being prompted by the employer. Some people will come to work and do their job but not really follow-up on it in their own time and have a serious commitment to maintaining skills and looking at emerging trends. Crafting an appropriate answer boils down to stating what you do that keeps you in the loop with new technology things within the field in a sense. There are tons of tech news sites one could follow, more than a few blogs, and if you think about it almost no one could follow all the news within technology so there is something to be said for the choices made to look at this set of sites and limit the time spent as I'm sure some people could try to study Google or Apple 24/7 and still not cover all the nuances of what the company is doing because there are so many different people working on various projects within those companies. Thus, my suggestion for the key points in an appropriate answer are: 1) Show enthusiasm for what you do here and 2) Communicate the concise list to the interviewer. Part of this is about what do you do, part of this is about how well can you communicate that. The latter may well be what the interviewer is going to read into your answer. 

I'd be careful here. There are more than a few times where people will give something for free with the thought that initial goodwill can be rewarded. I can think of more than a few professionals where I'd have a free consultation before deciding to work together. Interviews are a two-way street though I can wonder if you understand that point here in this case. 

Telling them at the time you spot the improvement will often be better as otherwise you may be trying to remind someone of something done months ago that may be close to forgotten. For something like "come to work on time" I'd likely think this is more of a call for a team lead or manager if you have that position as peers may cause more friction. While you may have a valid point from your perspective, management may already be familiar with why someone may be late on a regular basis, e.g. this person may have weekly medical appointments first thing in the morning which is the best they can do to minimize work interruptions.