COMPARING MONARCHS WITH THE GENERAL POPULATION As already noted elsewhere on this site (see the link provided by the OP), life expectancy for a boy reaching the age of 20 in the 13th century medieval Britain was around 45. If we compare this to monarchs who were alive during at least part of the 12th, 13th & 14th centuries (using only the 13th century gives too small a sample), we get the following averages (Note: the data for England is taken from the link provided by Luís Henrique): England - Henry I [d.1135] to Henry V [b.1386] 53.4 years (13 monarchs) France - Philip I [d.1108] to Charles VI [b.1368] 46.1 years (15 monarchs) Leon - Alfonso VI [d.1109] to Henry III [b. 1379] 45 years (14 monarchs) Denmark - Eric I [d.1103] to Eric VII [b.1381/2] 44.3 years (21 monarchs) Note: John I (France) and Olaf II (Denmark) were excluded as they did not reach the age of 20. Sancha (Leon, b.1191/2) was excluded as her date of death is uncertain. Although the samples are smaller than one would like to be fully confident of the figures, one can tentatively conclude (for 13th century England at least, given the 8-year difference between monarchs and the general population), that being a monarch meant you lived longer despite the undoubtedly higher murder rate. Jean-Pierre Deregnaucourt, in La mort au Moyen Age: les hommes et la mort à la fin du Moyen Age, states that the life expectancy data for 13th century England given in Russel's British Medieval Population (p. 186) is applicable to France and Europe in general (this is also stated in one of Woodbury's aricles). This gives 31 as the life expectancy at birth, so it does not seem unreasonable to assume that life expectancy at 20 (45 years) was not much different in France either. For the 14th century, though, he states that the Hundred Years War had a greater effect on mortality rates in France than in England. 

Even with the advent of musical instruments, war cries or chants remained in common use in medieval Europe. Examples include 

Source: Frey & Frey At the same time, documents from the Comite diplomatique (also here) use both 'citoyen' and 'monsieur', the latter supposedly being strictly forbidden. As the term 'minister of the republic' was an acceptable term of address for French government ministers, it is likely that similar terms were used by French ambassadors and diplomats when addressing ministers of the foreign governments they communicated with. Frey and Frey note that diplomats were urged 

On this last point, Tarver gives some examples of cluster patterns achieved by a team of 16 pullers: 

The nearest footnote link (47) makes no mention of this. This article on the Great Western Railway offers no clues, nor doea Freight Operations - Non Passenger Coaching Stock - Milk (though it goes into a lot detail on transporting milk). Another, on British railway milk trains only starts with 1923. The British Railway Milk Tank Wagon article mentions a potential problem - milk 'self-churning'. Was the criticism of the early transporting of milk due to a problem with the quality of the milk upon arrival, or was there some other reason for this criticism? 

Actually, France and Guinea have since reconciled to a great extent, but at the time the French delivered a harsh message, one which other Francophone countries were well aware (before the referendum) that they would have received had they also voted 'No'. Sources T.O'Toole & I.Bah-Lalya, 'Historical Dictionary of Guinea' W.Page & R. Hunt Davis, 'Encyclopedia of African History and Culture, vol. 4' T.Chafer, 'The End of Empire in French West Africa' J.Abbink, M. de Bruijin & K. van Walraven, 'Rethinking Resistance: Revolt and Violence in African History' H. Adi & M. Sherwood, 'Pan-African History' P. Anyang' Nyong'o, 'The Development of Agrarian Capitalist Classes in Ivory Coast, 1945-1975'. In P.Lubeck (ed.), 'The African Bourgeiosie' J. Cartwright, 'Political Leadership in Africa' U N E S C O General History of Africa, vol VIII 

The Platt and Frisch & Karnes books state similar reasons to the above, with the former emphasizing that Vienna offered "numerous opportunities", while the latter quote a possible additional reason cited in Max Kalbeck’s book Johannes Brahms concerning the prima donna Louise Dustmann. Although the authors criticise Kalbeck for failing to provide sources, there is no doubt that Brahms had a close, maybe intimate, relationship with her and that this may have a been a factor, albeit a minor one. 

Despite claiming to cite “historical facts", no source is given for this, and it seems improbable given that at least twenty beacons had to be lit between Land’s End and London (assuming 15 miles (24 km) between each beacon). More believable is this from the National Trust: 

C.S. Denton, in Absolute Power: The Real Lives of Europe’s Most Infamous Rulers (2006) and in Ruthless Rulers: The Real Lives of Europe's Most Infamous Tyrants (2016) also mentions Osman II is his section on Mustafa I: 

DISTINGUISHING SLAVES FROM CITIZENS As noted in the question, slaves could easily be mistaken for citizens. On this, J.W. Roberts says: 

In short, there are too many ‘versions’ to cover all of them in any detail in this post so the focus will be on the main ideas put forward by academics. Among Russian historians, the prevailing argument has been that the annexation was predictable, the logical outcome of both historical factors and the ever closer relationship that had developed between Tuva and the Soviet Union since 1932. The key figure in this relationship was Salchak Toka, Prime Minister from 1932 to 1944. Reversing many of the policies of his predecessor, Toka and his fellow Stalin loyalist had come to power in a Soviet-backed coup and, over the following years, moved the country ever closer – in almost all respects – to the Soviet Union. Under Toka’s leadership, Tuva had three times requested annexation by the Soviet Union before it finally happened in 1944. Among Western academics, the most detailed assessment, until recently at least, is that of Walter Kolarz in The Peoples of the Soviet Far East (1954). He summarizes the reasons for the annexation as: 

'Mort de Roland' (Jean Fouquet [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons) Considering how badly the whole campaign had gone, Charlemagne really had little option but to retreat. Faced by a powerful enemy in a hostile country, and with his allies having defected or been defeated, there was no longer the prospect of an easy conquest, or perhaps even any kind of conquest at all. Retreat was the only realistic option, even if the Saxons hadn’t been in revolt. 

Turning to medieval times, music does not seem to have been used on the battlefield for the first half of the middle ages. The Crusaders were to change this, though, after their encounters with the Saracens. Referring to the Saracens in 1191, the Itinerarium Regis Ricardi says: 

Source: Ian Shaw & Robert Jameson (eds), A Dictionary of Archaeology The use of clay did not begin with pottery: clay figures date back as far as 30,000 years ago while the first pots are believed to have been made around 20,000 years ago in China. 

Other social events included the card-party, balls, the garden party (breakfast outdoors), the Venetian breakfast (an afternoon party) and a rout ("a crowded party with no music or dancing or places to sit but people went because it was a place to see and be seen"). The Georgian era in England is commonly used for the period 1714 to 1830/37 (so Georges I, II, III, IV + sometimes William IV 1830-7) and includes the Regency Era (strictly speaking, 1811–1820). The Scarlet Pimpernel is set in 1792, well within the Georgian era, so the reference is not anachronistic. A water party is also mentioned in Jane Austen's Emma (published 1815/16): 

The thatched well (below) in the village of East Marden is a well-known attraction in the South Downs, not far from Chichester. The village is recorded in the Domesday Book (as Meredone) and St. Peter's Church (in the background) is from the 12th century. 

Source: The Cambridge World History of Human Disease For reasons which are not fully understood, the plague which was so devastating in Europe in 1347-49 and which also affected northern and western India (no details on mortality rate given), had little effect on Bengal, southern India and Sri Lanka. The Philippines Mortality rates for the Philippines are also hard to come by. What follows is a summary from Linda A. Newson, Conquest and Pestilence in the Early Spanish Philippines China had extensive trade links with the Philippines but low population density, the time it took to travel from island to island, and ‘the Filipino habit of frequent washing’ seem to have ‘discouraged the spread of some infections’ in the pre-colonial (Spanish) era. Leprosy almost certainly came from China but, although leprosy and yaws were common in the Philippines prior to the arrival of the Spanish, they were rarely fatal. In short, the circumstantial evidence suggests that fatal diseases did not become endemic in the Philippines prior to the arrival of the Spanish. However, this does not preclude local outbreaks with high mortality rates. The first recorded major epidemic seems to be the smallpox epidemic of 1591, but this came via a Spanish ship from Mexico. A Jesuit priest of the time described it as 'vicious' with one third of the population in Batangas bedridden. Madagascar This island was hit by a smallpox epidemic which killed around 2,000 people in 1817-18. It was apparently spread by Arab slave traders and came from the coast of East Africa. These Arab slave traders subsequently spread smallpox to Reunion and Mauritius. Mauritius In 1867, a malaria epidemic killed 31,920 people. It had been introduced in 1866 either by Indian or African labourers (but possibly by British soldiers). The final death toll was around 43,000 out of a population of 330,000. This Mauritian Ministry of Health document states: