To start with: I don't think it is feasible to make a weapon like this that can be used in a fight. As a display weapon however, any of the other answers would probably work. Something to take into account is the incredible amount of force that acts on various parts of a bow to fire an arrow. I don't have math to back this up but I do DO archery - something that can absolutely destroy any bow is to "dry fire" it. That is - to draw the string and release without nocking an arrow. There is no resistance against the string in this case and it can BADLY damage the bow to even do this once. I think that the force of swinging swords against stuff would probably mimic damage similar to this. I will say however that since they would be probably made of metal or other "stronger" material than laminated fiberglass and wood, then they may survive this better than a normal bow-limb would. Running with the idea anyways: Regarding disassembly, there are plenty of bows that are intended to disassemble. They are typically made of three sections: two limbs and a handle-section. (the black piece in this image is a stabilizer that is unnecessary to have) $URL$ When the bow is strung, the curve in the limbs is actually flipped around such that they are curved in the OTHER direction - this is what allows them to "snap" and fling the arrow effectively. More traditional-style bows do use straighter limbs, however I do not think that they shot as far or as accurately. The feasibility of this sword-bow will also be dictated by how effective you want the bow portion to be. Do you want to be able to hunt with it and hit a small spot on a moving target (ie. a kill-shot)? Or do you simply want to be able to fire an arrow in the "general direction" of a target? If you want any measure of accuracy, then the limbs must not have any "twist" in them, and there must be no variance in how the bow portion is constructed each time. For example: a handle sliding together together to grasp the limb portions by the hilts as others have suggested MUST lock into place at the exact same spot every time. The string cannot vary in length or twist either. (Bowstrings are composed of several strands that have been joined into loops at the ends and twisted down the middle. More twist means a shorter string and more "shooting force" and a short string forces the limbs to bend more.) Furthermore, unless you are assuming a "very good or above" level of archer, then there are other "must haves" on a bow to allow/help with repeatable shot placement and reasonable aim: a reliable shooting platform ("arrow rest"), a string that only fits on the bow in one direction (ie. it cannot be flipped upside-down) as there is a "nock-point" that should be attached to the string to enable consistent arrow placement every time. This nock-point is not centered (it is close however) but is positioned according to the arrow-rest so that the arrow shoots straight. Perhaps the string could be stored inside the handle section on a spring-loaded roll. One end would be fixed to the handle and the other end could be pulled to run the string up the front of the sword-limbs (and sit in a groove to stay centered on them) and then down the backside of the bow to hook into a notch on the bottom sword-bow-limb. (The string would be attached in the middle to the front of the bow handle and looped over the bottom bow limb as a normal bowstring would be.) That would at least handle the string issue and keep a nock-point in the same place every time. If the user were to carry a middle-section to join the sword-limbs to, then that could potentially also work and would take care of the arrow-rest portion. It might take a few moments to switch from one form to another however so it probably would not work in combat. You would have to carry a quiver of arrows, although some quivers do actually mount to the side of the handle-section of a bow to store 3-5 arrows by clipping them into place. 

Since this is a reversal of the classic AI deciding to destroy humanity for its own good, the solution is a reversal as well: If the kindest thing to do for humanity is to euthanize or cull it, the cruelest thing to do is not to interfere. 

"Bonobo-Head" by User:Kabir - extract of this picture (Photo taken by Kabir Bakie at the Cincinnati Zoo September 5, 2005). Licensed under CC BY-SA 2.5 via Commons - $URL$ As an aside, this is probably also the reason for large irises as a trope. It makes emotion harder to read, so it looks freaky and untrustworthy to us. 

Antagonic pleiotropy Some genes benefit us in early life (ie. before we usually have children), and are detrimental afterwards. These genes proliferate because they increase the chance of the individual having children, even though they can wreak havoc afterwards. So you could find one of these genes or invent one, something we all have, and then add a condition (virus, bacteria, radiation) that massively amplifies its effects. The young would get fitter, and the old would die off. Tyrabel's hormone answer is a specific case of this, since a large amount of testosterone is apparently detrimental later in life. 

Have alternate plausible explanations for how they got the information. The British interception of the Zimmerman Telegram is a good example of how this can be done. In WWI, the British intercepted a telegram sent to the German embassy in the United States, and upon decrypting it, determined it to contain information that if revealed to the U.S. might get them to join the war. Specifically, it was an offer for Mexico to ally with Germany and invade the U.S. in the event that the U.S. joined the war in Europe, along with plans to engage in unrestricted submarine warfare. However, the telegram was sent over a U.S. cable that the U.S. didn't know the British were tapping, and encrypted using a cipher the Germans didn't know had been broken. The British needed a way to share the telegram with the U.S. and convince them it was genuine, without revealing either of those facts. Since the British knew the contents of the telegram, they knew that it would have been forwarded to Mexico using a lower-security cipher. The British had broken that one too, and they didn't care as much if the Germans discovered that. So they bribed a Mexican telegraph agent to get a copy of that version, then decrypted it and sent the plaintext version to the U.S. along with an explanation of how it was decrypted. Since the U.S. telegraph offices would have copies of the ciphertext version, they could decrypt their copy and compare with the one supplied by the British to verify its authenticity. So at this point, the only thing that might suggest that the British were tapping those lines or had broken the original cipher is the question of why they decided to steal the telegram from the Mexican office, but that's something they might plausibly have done without knowing the contents, so they were able to safely share the information with the U.S. embassy. 

Imagination is a means to create art, but entertainment is its main purpose (together perhaps with expression). People found it entertaining to listen to music, look at paintings and watch plays. The entertainment value comes mostly from the imaginative aspects of escaping to another world, the joy of seeing somebody do something skillful, and the more intangible, abstract kind of pleasure we derive from things like music. The people in your world will probably not be able to enjoy fiction, since it requires the consumer to have some imagination as well. But they will differentiate between pleasant and unpleasant experiences. A good example is food. most likely they enjoy eating calorie-rich foods, due to their evolutionary benefit. Surplus energy would be spent on seeking out specific foods that they prefer, and people with enough food could trade these for other goods and services. Without imagination it would take a long time to discover how to bake something like a cake, but small progress could be made by random experimentation, and with enough free time, lengthy random experimentation would be rewarded, even though people would have no concept of working towards a thing that doesn't exist yet. Music might emerge in a similar way. People could not actively put sounds together to invent music, but they would find certain sounds more agreeable than others. They would surround themselves with things that naturally make pleasant sounds and might stumble across simple combinations of such objects. they would perhaps come up with something like a windchime. Finally, interesting visual patterns could emerge randomly by setting certain events in motion. Cutting the head of a chicken and letting it run around in white sand as it bleeds (sorry for the gory example) might produce a pleasant pattern. Once this is noticed, the process can be repeated to achieve the same effect. Most of their art would emerge in this kind of indirect fashion. They cannot imagine a goal and work towards it, but they would discover that when things are arranged in a certain way, the universe sometimes comes up with new things, which they can then recognize to have value. Once they have seen an example, they might be triggered to reproduce it, but they could only reproduce it by repeating the same steps. They would not think to paint the pattern in the sand themselves, but would keep slaughtering chickens in order to achieve the same pattern. 

Normal people may not care about scientific advancement, but fortunately, we don't need to rely on them, even in a democracy. In the U.S., for instance, a lot of funding comes from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as a few Department of Defense groups, e.g. DARPA. Let's take the NSF as an example. Each year, they request a budget from Congress (in 2017, it was about 0.2% of total federal spending for the NSF) and give them a high level overview of how the money will be spent and examples of the sort of impressive things NSF funding has supported in the past. But then once the NSF has its budget, qualified people decide which research grants will be supported, so even if a research project only has long-term benefits, it will still get funded if it's a promising idea. Another major source of funding comes from industry. In addition to in-house research, companies will sometimes send funding to academic researchers working on topics relevant to them. Even if they won't be the only ones to benefit from the research, they don't need to invest any time or employees into the project, so if they have the money to spare, it can be a good investment. (It also buys goodwill from potential future employees.) And finally, a base level of funding comes from the universities themselves. Undergrad tuition pays salaries, and offering solid research funding will attract good professors to the institution. The average citizen may look at something like a particle accelerator and say "That will magically create a black hole and kill us all". A congressman may look at it and say "That won't have any practical benefits before the next election". But the NSF people will look at it and think, "That may reveal information that will open up new avenues of research in 50 years" and fund it. The more short-sighted people just need to know that funding "Science" has always paid off before, so if we show them that it has, they'll keep funding it. (That came out as a bit more cynical than I intended, but if I'm being honest...) The average citizen of a democracy doesn't necessarily understand or even care about specific research projects, but as long as you have a good research infrastructure in place, they don't need to as long as they're interested in having technology continue to advance. 

This species would be at a serious risk of dying out. As others have pointed out, there's a good chance the species would slowly diversify by simple random changes, but if there's another option to consider: Genetic drift. 

Knowing the history of humanity, I expect they'd figure out a way to capture them. If nets don't work, use chains, if the chains break make them heavier. Many people would die trying, but eventually the technological advance would catch up with the dragons. Then it's just a matter of doing it a few more times, breeding them, and raising the young amongst humans. Voila, instant military domination. Why, you could write some sort of gritty seven-book epic fantasy series about it. 

The most valuable data probably comes from Operation plowshare. In one test, a 104 kt explosion, displaced 11 million tons of soil, about 100 ton of soil for a ton of TNT. Let's say for the sake of getting a lower bound, that Mount Everest is made of soil. Mt. Everest has a volume of about 1.5 million million cubic meters, and a cubic meter of soil weighs about 1.5 tonnes, so a soil Everest should weigh a little over 2 million million tonnes. So we should need at least 20 000 million tonnes of TNT for the job. If instead we used thermonuclear bombs of the highest yield, we'd only need 344 of them. In 1960 the combined yield of the US nuclear stockpile was just about 20 000 Mt, so that would be in the ballpark of what is required. Of course, Mount Everest isn't made of soil, but on the other hand, you may be able to use the weight of the mountain to crush most of the rock, by starting at the base. 

Someone else mentioned D&D. Expanding on that: Clerics have a really large pool of spells to choose from but can only have a certain amount known at a time and these are divinely given knowledge. They really have no idea how they work, other than they do. Sorcerers are the innate, powerful type that have inherent talent but a fairly limited pool of spells. Wizards are the scholar-type magic user - they have to spend time each night to memorize the spells they want to use the next day. They have a wide array of magic (though not as much as the cleric) and can cast some powerful spells but tire quickly. Perhaps you can make distinctions in the effort it takes to learn/cast the spells that is tied in to the source of the magic. For instance, a genetic-ability person could cast some instinctively but have a hard time learning and casting more than that. A cleric type may be at the mercy of their deity and randomly forget some spells overnight - education and training for them may involve learning how to recognize what they have available each day or learning to actually learn the spells once they have them so they can still cast them after they would otherwise forget albeit at a less powerful level. A wizard would simply need to be in school for EVER and take a while to learn new things - in this sense wizards would typically focus on one or two specialty spells and market themselves as masters of certain useful things. Healers may get their powers from nature (perhaps they are human-dryad half-breeds) and need to be in contact with some form of flora or fauna to actually cast a healing spell. I like what you did with the Hexer class - using life-force is a good way to make a distinction and at the same time give them a limit. Also, I love what Jonah said (and don't know how to properly quote him): " [Witches] won't kill themselves trying to stop the tide or do something similarly ridiculous. Maybe they look down on sorcerers, who always seem to be setting their villages on fire." I play D&D with a sorcerer who randomly farts out bursts of uncontrolled magic... It makes things really interesting when he is trying to kill a zombie and instead casts levitate on the skeleton archer. 

Yes it does. And there are plenty of examples in human development. A real treasure trove for this sort of thing is Jared Diamond's Guns, germs and steel. He calls it idea diffusion (as opposed to blueprint copying, where you get not just evidence of the technology, but also some idea of how it's achieved). Couple of examples: 

Tools are for big, singular organisms. The anthill has much better solutions. Want to attach one piece of wood to another? Have each ant carve a tiny indentation/extrusion into the piece so they lock together perfectly. Or have each ant collect some sugar-water or tree sap and deposit it locally. Need metal? let each ant collect a tiny bit of ore, and collect it all, and process it in tiny quantities. Imagine if our carpenters and smiths and stonemasons could disconnect each cell of their bodies and let the resultant mulch flow over the raw materials, with each cell working on a tiny piece. The only exceptions I can think of are when a large amount of focused force is required (eg. to break rocks apart to create flint), or when the raw material is too tough to carve with parts of your body. In the first case, the anthill should construct a single tool larger than itself (for instance to use gravity). In the second case, it can create little body extensions for the individual ants. These are tools on the ant scale, so they should be so easy to use that no intelligence is required.