Pedal in an easier gear (but faster). Try to use more of the pedal stroke. Don't fight your own pedal power. Don't stand. Stay on the saddle. Generally try to keep everything smooth and even with no bouncing. 

Yes, people still use them and swear by them. I've seen them for sale in most of my local bike shops. The breaking-in thing (that they mold to your backside over time) is the big feature that everybody who uses one seems to love. They're very popular amongst the touring crowd, especially the B-17. Yesterday, I was volunteering at a huge road ride event and even saw some Brooks saddles on fancy new carbon bikes (though I think that was one with titanium rails). 

Most of this attaches to the bike, the rest can fit in an under-the-saddle bag or some other kind of small bag attached to the bike. This is what I'd bring for a recreational ride anytime of year. So no actual pack. Try to add to minimum, but don't always: 

Summary: a helmet that meets the new standard is going to protect your head better than one that just barely meets the old standard. 

The easier gear thing should be fairly obvious. You can get the same power by pedaling faster in a lower gear. This should reduce the strain on the bottom bracket area. Don't power through a tough gear when starting up, downshift while slowing down. There's a tendency for some people to "mash" the pedal from a bit in front of the top of the stroke down to about the bottom. Often with a substantial side-to-side weight shift. That will always be the most powerful part of your pedal stroke, but try to also use the top of the stroke and the bottom. That kind of mashing seems likely to be harder on the frame. Try to push the pedal over the top and scrape it across the bottom. As far as fighting your own pedal power: on the back side of the stroke, try to lift your foot a bit. Don't lift so much that your foot actually comes off of a platform pedal (this is an advantage of clips or clipless systems). Most people leave a fair amount of weight on the back pedal and they're pushing against it with the front pedal. If you provide some lift to the rear foot you'll go faster and produce less total downward force on the bottom bracket. Especially if you're clipped in, it might feel like you're pulling the rear pedal up. Standing puts your weight all on the bottom bracket and handlebars. The bike is designed to have a good portion of your weight on the saddle. Occasionally standing shouldn't be a problem, but doing it too often is a common bad habit and hard on the bike. 

I have a small aluminum bell with a striker on the side that has a good loud piercing "ding" that's easily heard from over 100 feet away (30 meters). However, when it's raining and the bell gets wet, the piercing ding turns into more of a sort of dull metallic "tink" that's barely audible from 10 feet (3 meters). I assume that water drops on the bell are dampening the sound somehow. Anybody know what to look for to get a bell that will still be useful in the rain? 

"Middle of the bar", "On the tops", "Middle", "Top", "Tops", "Center" Hands on the part of the bar closest to the stem. The middle has some width and you can slide your hands around there. 

But my hands don't really fit forward in the drops where I can reach the brakes. Unless I rotate out and/or squish my hand up a bit; neither of which isn't comfortable: 

A touring bike A Cyclocross bike Build what you want starting with an old steel frame. (70s or 80s road, or hard-tailed mountain bike) 

Just stick the directions in a pocket. With some careful folding you can fit quite a bit of directions on something in your pocket. Note the distance and directions for the next turn after you make the turn instead of fumbling in your pocket before the turn. Something you're going to hold in your hand can be printed smaller than something that's going on the handlebars. Look for a "map case". This is a flat bag that attached on the handlebars somehow with one side all transparent. Example Commonly available for 10-20 USD. Make your own map case. A gallon (4 liter) ziploc bag will let you show almost a full size piece of paper. Use some binder clips or something like that to attach it. Get a handlebar bag that has a map case on top. While not smaller, you might mind the size less if it fits your cellphone, some snacks, etc... 

In English, panniers originally referred to bags slung across the back of an animal (such as a horse), such that the weight hung down on either side of the animal. This keeps the weight lower so that the animal won't be as off-balance, and distributes the weight evenly. On a bicycle, the term is used for containers that resemble that, even if it's only on one side. Specifically, bags that hang on the side of a rack. It's also used for containers that aren't bags, such as buckets, baskets, or hard cases; though most often for bags. The term is used equally for bags on the side of a rear rack or front rack. A pannier could attach itself to the side of a rack (typically via hooks), or you could have a single unit where two side-bags are attached to each other and held on by the attachment between them sitting on top of the rack. The attachment could be as little as a strip of cloth, or as much as a whole third bag that fits on top of the rack. Even if it's one unit, something that hangs on both sides would be pluralized as "panniers" while a single bag on one side is singular ("pannier"). If a bag is designed to fit on top of a rack without hanging down the sides, it's not a pannier. Typically those would be called a "rack bag". A bag that hangs from the saddle (seat) is a "saddlebag". However, on a motorcycle, saddlebag and pannier both refer to containers hanging on the sides (the saddle on a motorcycle generally extends to the back). On motorcycles, "saddlebags" are commonly hard cases that wouldn't otherwise be called "bags". The huge difference between a motorcycle's "saddlebags" and a bicycle's "saddlebag" sometimes causes people to incorrectly refer to bicycle panniers as "saddlebags" even though they aren't attached to or even near the saddle (seat). 

The main difference between a 'road' saddle and a 'hybrid' saddle is going to be the angle they're designed to have the rider at. If you're new to road bike riding it's likely your main riding position is the same as that hybrid saddle is designed for. That saddle looks like a road saddle to me. A bit more padding than the more "serious" saddles. However, everybody is a little different. Depending what discomfort you're experiencing it's worth trying a different saddle. A lot of shops make it easy to try a different saddle (comfort guarantee, 1 week return policy, etc) because it often takes a few tries to get it right. In other words, the seat type is appropriate, but it still might not be fitting you quite right. For us or your shop to be able to help better, you'll have to be much more explicit about exactly what discomfort you're experiencing. 

From Trek's archives and Bikepedia, it looks like that bike has an FSA Vero compact crankset (no mention of the bottom bracket (BB)). From the Amazon page for the FSA Vero Compact it appears the crank is compatible with a JIS square taper bottom bracket. JIS square taper bottom bracket is a common type of cotterless bottom bracket, available from many manufacturers. You'll need to check that the bottom bracket shell sizing and threading matches the BB, too. You will need a special tool to get the crank off and another for the BB. See also: 

I don't think you're going to be able to do any reasonable conversion, since lux without a distance is meaningless. It's likely that the manufacturer has picked lux specifically to make it sound impressive, or possibly even to make it hard to compare. Here's a nice description of the (optional) standard: $URL$ One of the possible measures in that standard is the distance at which the light is 0.25 lux. Another is the candela (peak beam intensity). And, of course, there's always lumens (total output). Lumens seem to be the favorite. Instead of trying to compare the brightness of your current light, I recommend visiting this great light comparison site (which originally started from some posts on our blog): $URL$ In particular, the beamshot photos on that site are super-useful. There can be big differences between lights that use the same measurement (usually lumens) and being able to look at what that looks like on a stretch of road is amazingly helpful. 

There's a bunch of weird standards for naming the size of tires and rims, and there's an actual ISO standard. The best thing to do is ignore the big letter printed names that have inconsistent conventions, and look for the ISO standard stuff, like "42-622". The ISO standard size of your tires and rims is 622. (18mm wide rim and 42mm wide tire) ISO 622 is the same as "700c" (common road size) and 29er (new larger mountain tire). In other words: yes, a 29" tire should work fine, as long as it's not too wide. Try to stick with something close to the same width and they'll work fine with your existing rims. Mountain (off-road) tires with their knobs can require more clearance at the same size. As long as you keep to about the same size tire, your existing tubes should be fine. 

Bell. From a good distance back. And maybe again when getting closer if it didn't look like they noticed the first time. "Good Morning (pause) Bicycle" as a vocal warning. (adjust the first part as appropriate). That way you get their attention with the greeting, then once they're paying attention tell them that you're a bike. 

I bought a Surly Long Haul Trucker a couple years ago, and it has the stock handlebars. My hands don't really fit in the drops, and I sometimes would like a lower handlebar position where I can still reach the brake levers. For windy days, going down a hill real fast, going faster for the heck of it, etc. Having my "go fast" hand position be one I can't reach the brakes is kinda scary. My girlfriend recently got a Trek 520 (this year's model) and seems like with her handlebars my hands would actually fit in the drops. What's my best option for getting that extra hand position? If the answer is "buy new handlebars", what should I look for in those handlebars? There's a lot of options with "traditional bends", "ergo bend", "variable radius bend", flare, etc. and it's not really clear to me. It's a "touring" bike but I have it outfitted as a commuter. I believe the handlebars are "PMT" which turns out to be nearly impossible to google usefully for. The drops appear to be directly beneath the ramps (no flaring). The classic older 26mm (?) clamp diameter. I'd say a small reach and a small amount of drop, but not quite sure how to measure. Width measure (center to center) came out to about 44cm. Either way, handlebar tape is about due for replacement anyways. I spend maybe 75%-90% of my time riding "on the hoods", a small amount of time on the top flat part, and even less on the drops. Pictures: (click for bigger view. And yes, it's the wrong hand but it was easier to take photos that way. ) I can ride with my hand somewhat like this: 

Don't lock up your bike. Bring your bike with you instead of leaving it outside. Mine goes into my office. Choose a location where you or other people will see thieves messing with the bike. Not a super-high traffic area (in that case everybody assumes somebody else will do something), but a moderate traffic area. A thief will be more reluctant to do something obviously shady if there's people that might stop them. When I'm at a cafe, pub or restaurant, I try to lock up where I can see the bike from inside. Or use bike lockers of some sort where it's hard for thieves to get to any of the parts. Use locking skewers such as pitlock or pinhead. There are a lot of variations on the concept, but the ones I've seen can secure wheels (via skewers), seat post (seatpost collar), fork (headset cap) or some brakes. A locking skewer would protect the casette from being removed, but not the rear derailer. Replace the bolts with unusual bolts. Bike thieves are likely have a variety of sizes of allen wrenches (possibly in a single multitool) and maybe a T25 Torx (commonly used for disc-brakes). Also Phillips and flat-head. But they're unlikely to have other sizes of Torx or other more unusual types of bolts. Getting proper "tamper-resistant" bolts is difficult unless it's something like the pitlock stuff. Mess with the bolts so that they're harder to undo. One technique I've heard of is to put a ball bearing into the hex head and melt some wax/paraffin into it. Tilt the bolt, heat it with a small flame and the wax runs out. Or a bit of time prying and scraping with a small screwdriver. 

If you can afford it, another option would be to talk to a local framebuilder and have a custom bicycle made. I expect that almost any framebuilder could make a mixte (but they might have to special order some parts they don't keep stocked). 

Wheel clearance affects how big the tires can be and how easy it is to mount fenders. For the rear wheel you need to look at the chainstay bridge, seatstay bridge and seat tube. For the front wheel, look at the fork crown and downtube. Often either not measured or simply given to you as a maximum tire size measurement. "Toe overlap" -- how close the front wheel gets to the front of the pedals. More of an issue with fenders, and not really an issue once you're going any kind of speed. I never see this on the geometry specs from manufacturers, but definitely worth checking. You can get used to moderate toe overlap, though. Longer chainstay length gives you more heel clearance for loading panniers on the rear rack. I know from personal experience that the most likely place to kick a pannier off the rack is in an intersection, so if you plan to carry panniers this can be very important. Short chainstay length can be compensated for by getting a rack that allows panniers to be mounted further back (longer top, top further back, however they do it). 

Stock commuter The most economical option is getting a regular production commuter bike, but it sounds like you've tried that. I've noticed when looking that often the higher-end hybrids are more like a flat-bar road bike but often preserve some of the commuter features. (I'm thinking specifically of having looked at the Trek 7.2FX WSD and Trek 7.6FX WSD, the 7.6 is much lighter and sportier but has the same basic geometry and rack/fender mount stuff). It used to be easy to find 26" wheel hybrids, but they seem to be uncommon lately. Theoretically a smaller lightweight 26" wheel hybrid would let you replace the rims and tires with lighter ones and get something lighter than a 700c wheeled bike. Sporty bike Road bikes are light, and it may be possible to find one with smaller wheels. Cyclocross bikes need to be light enough for the rider to run with on one shoulder. I've definitely seen short women cyclocross racers, I've seen cyclocross bikes that had bolt spots for racks and fenders, and I've seen cyclocross bikes used as commuters. Not sure if I've ever seen a short woman using a cyclocross bike as a commuter, though. Definitely never seen a short woman carrying her commuterized cyclocross bike on one shoulder. Some of the hybrids are pretty much road bikes with flat handlebars. The more "comfort" type road bikes (Specialized Ruby, Trek Madone H3, etc) have handlebars about level with the seat and don't really require being bent over any more than on a hybrid. If she's doing 45 minutes on an indoor bike every day, a road bike might actually suit her better anyways. Probably not easy to add rack and fenders to, though. Specialty bike Something like the Terry Susan B. I don't know how much they specifically concentrate on weight, but smaller wheels let some of the other frame details be smaller and lighter. Many of these types of offerings have custom or semi-custom. You might be able to get a lighter "road" frame built up as a commuter, for instance. Custom bike If budget is no concern, it's worth looking at custom bike options. Look first for local framebuilders. The most common material for custom builders seems to be steel. For what you're describing you may need aluminum and titanium would be better. There doesn't seem to really be any custom carbon out there, but you might be able to find something. A custom framebuilder should be able to build a bike with a smaller wheelsize for her. If you work with one that does titanium, it should be possible to do this particularly light. This is an expensive option, though: