The initial question is asking two very different questions. One is what languages have a grammar/syntax easy to parse. Another is could computer programs extract meaning from the content that they parse. With regards to question 1, @Nick Anderegg is correct. English is as good as any other language as its grammar is fixed / parsable. Sure, you have ambiguities that prevent complete determinism. With natural languages,an input can sometimes lead to different interpretations. For instance because some token can be words or verbs. Two approaches. One you stick to a simplified version of the language. Hypertalk was a computer language using simplified english: 

Not efficient but readily available : $URL$ - Compact Language Detector in Javascript. Detect the language of any piece of text. 

If you take the approach to simplify, then the natural language that your computer language is inspired from is somewhat irrelevant. You can "translate" the rules to adapt to the patterns used in other natural languages. In javascript, the JS-i18n project proposed to translate the javascript syntax to a developer's native language. Another way around the parsing ambiguity problem is to add a few rules that removes these ambiguities. For instance, you force the user to clarify the role for each token (talk as Verb vs talk as Noun). The initial question then becomes could you find some natural languages that could be parsed with 100% accuracy with no rule added? The second question is what human language would the the easiest for a computer easily extract meaning from (cf. "meaningful relationships"). Computer languages are not designed to extract meaning. Computer languages execute one instruction (program statement) at a time. They don't need to know the meaning/intent of the block that they are part of. Dependencies, preconditions, logical inference, etc., yes. Understanding of the meaning (which often depends on an understanding of the greater context), no. You can write computer programs that extract very complex patterns from natural languages. But that doesn't meant that they "understand" what you say. Google translate or Siri are great pieces of software, however they don't really actually understand you. Many computer programs that appear to process language the way we do rely on extraction of patterns instead of extraction of meaning. They can produce frustrating or hilarious results with [people with accents][3]. Good coverage of issues and current solutions in this presentation on "[Can computers understand our language?][4]" Back to the Turing's Chinese Room. Is displaying a performance close to the human one evidence that the program does it the way human do it? If you look at the latest Loebner's prize (2012), the level of conversation that chatbot achieve are far from being in par with humans: 

While I'm not aware of any such place or academics that specialise in constructed languages, it is possible to research them for higher degree studies in linguistics. This is probably most true of departments which have a focus on descriptive/documentary linguistics. I am aware of one person who is doing a doctorate on a constructed language that is used for religious purposes by a group in an Asian country. Being a constructed language (and not anyone's first language) it is not complete, in the sense that there are numerous gaps in what can be expressed (ie things that all natural languages can express). For this reason a lot of the analysis is on the sociolinguistics of the situation that led to the construction of the language and which continues to support its continued usage. It has been suggested that Classical Sanskrit can be considered a constructed language. Classical Sanskrit may be studied at many universities and it is quite possible to do higher degree research on it. 

This is a complex topic but here's an attempt at an answer. My background is in describing and documenting relatively small, endangered languages, so I'll describe how it's done in that situation. I'll assume you have computers, software, internet, native speaking informants, recording equipment, and many years to spend on the work. Firstly, recorded texts are needed, which are transcribed typically using software such as ELAN, and with much help from the native-speaking assistant. The resulting transcript should be time-aligned and have the following annotations at a minimum, each on its own tier: 

The Greek graphemes Ψ ('psi', [ps]) and Ξ ('xi', [ks]) represent consonant clusters in some varieties of the Greek alphabet. These clusters are represented by the same graphemes even when they are spilt by a morpheme boundary. Some sources describe these clusters as phonemes but this is not correct, they are combinations of two phonemes in all varieties of Greek. It is not certain why the Greeks used single graphemes for these two clusters but it may be related to the fact that they are the only clusters that occur in coda) (ie. final) position in syllables. Earlier forms of the Attic alphabet lacked these graphemes and used ΦΣ and ΧΣ, respectively. While the majority of the Greek alphabet is believed to have been derived from either the Canaanite and/or Phoenician writing system, the graphemes Ψ and Ξ are have no obvious prototype in these traditions and may possibly have been derived from the South Arabian script. While the alphabetic tradition normally has the target of representing individual phonemes, this may not be possible when borrowing an alphabet for use with a different language. Other considerations such as prosodic phenomena, syllable structure, morphophonemics, may make single graphemes for multiple phonemes a better solution than a straight mapping of segmental phonemes. And of course there are many languages which have single graphmes for phonemes, such as affricates and double articulations, that combine phones found in other languages as distinct phonemes. 

So I ask: how common is the phenomemon of an afficate/stop both degeminating and prenasalizing, in Sicilian specifically but also more generally in other languages? And are the above etymologies correct? 

I sorta-kinda was "taught" that Sicilian turns all unstressed "e"s to "i"s and "o"s to "u"s. Then I got to know a couple Calabrian songs whose dialect seemed almost Sicilian, so I extended that principle to Calabrian (at least Siculo-Calabrian) as well. Except I was given the lyrics to them, and one of them has both unstressed "e"s and "o"s, and the singer in the linked video clearly pronounced e.g. "oliofanti" as /ɔ.li.o'fan.ti/ and "contentezza" as /kon.tɛn'tet.tsa/. 

This question arises from my research on Si maritau Rosa, a Sicilian song, where I found what seems to be a clear diminutive of vanedda, that is vanidduzza. Nowhere do I find that word directly, so I have no better guess as to its meaning than assuming it is indeed a diminutive of vanedda and see what the latter means. And here I find terralab, which gives me "stradina [little road] = vaneddha" – is the way that site denotes the retroflex that others (me included… well, I use to be very precise) indicate with plain – and salviamoilsiciliano, which explains vanedda as "piccola strada di campagna, o in città, vicolo" (small country road, or, in a city, alleyway). So I come to interpret "apru / a porta a vanidduzza" (which is the part of the song using vanidduzza) as "I open / the door to the small road". Then I find Sicilian Wiktionary, which gives me a vanedda as "a fessura, socchiuso" (in a slit-like fashion, ajar) in Italian, "entrebâillé, entrouvert" (ajar, half-open) in French, and surprisingly "small street, alley" in English. This gives me a meaning of "slit", with which I interpret "apru / a porta a vanidduzza" as "I half-open the door", which interpretation I prefer, also because of another version of the song giving me "Tegnu la porta aperta / La mettu a padiduzza", which seems to mean "I keep the door open / I put it ajar". So I wonder: does vanedda have both senses, i.e. mean both "small street" and "slit"? And what sense is used in the song? I try to go back into the etymology to see how this word formed and maybe choose the option closest to the meaning of its ancestors. I find this blog post which, while discussing the etymology of finestra, mentions vanedda as a possible cognate of vano, itself possibly related (at least semantically) to fanu in Etruscan, which the post says Pittau (never heard that name before…) gives as the ancestor of "finestra" (=window). So vanedda would have formed as a diminutive of vano, originally meaning passage, via addition of -edda, or -ella in Italian (cfr. Grotta delle Vanelle, which I gather is a cave on the Etna volcano in Sicily), so it would mean "small passage" and therefore allow both the above interpretations. However, when I look vanus (Latin) up on the Wiktionary, besides not finding any such sense (nor do I find it on this dictionary), I find etymological information linking vanus to PIE h₁weh₂-, which means "empty", and does not seem to support that other meaning, and is consistent with the meaning of "vanus", "vain", "empty", "useless". So where does this word come from? Is it possible that it does come from vanum, which had a semantic shift from "empty(ness)" to "passage", and then to "road" and "slit"? Or is this a bogus etymology? And in the latter case, where does vanedda stem from? And what does the word mean? Does it have both the meanings suggested above, or only one, and if the latter, which? And if it has both, which one is used in the song? Edit «Language-specific grammar and usage questions are off-topic unless primarily concerned with linguistics rather than usage», says the on hold banner on this question. So it appears that the last part of the question, about the meaning of vanedda, is off-topic. However, I have reason to believe that the etymology part of th question is not off-topic. Alongside the etymology question, the question "How did the meaning of this word evolve in the ages?" should be on-topic. So let me drop the "current meaning" part, and sum the question up as: 

As a linguist, when I go to work on a previously undescribed language I work with individuals to collect language samples then analyse these to make statements about the structure of the language. If one individual happily uses structures that no-one else in the community seems to use (and if I'm sure it isn't just performance error of some sort) then I'll ascribe that to the person's idiolect (individual variety). I might even mention this variation in my analysis though this would be more likely if there was a significant minority using it. I certainly wouldn't say that one variety is more 'correct' than the other. It could happen that this individual's usage will catch on and spread to become widely used in the community, or it may not. While linguists talk about 'the grammar of the language' as though it's a single entity (it does make a handy book title) it's important to remember that each of us has our own grammar inside our head which enables us to produce linguistic utterances. For speakers of the same language much of this knowledge is shared, but that doesn't mean they're identical. But it is also true that people produce utterances that are 'incorrect'. People make mistakes all the time and repair them if they notice, but they don't always notice. Geoff Pullum expands on this nicely. I suspect that at least some of the cases you've noticed of 'there is many…' might be mistakes, but some might not be. 

The use of motion verbs to mark tense and/or aspect and/or modality is very common across the world's languages, both as part of serial verb constructions or as auxiliary verbs. Below are some non-Indo-European language examples. Sùpyìré, Niger-Congo family. Serial verb construction with the verb sí 'go' indicating futurity: 

No, there is no such document however the set of thematic relations, particularly in its instantiation as 'semantic macroles', may be something like what you're after, but the way that these map on to actual inflections in languages will vary greatly from one to another, rendering comprehensive comparison problematic. Alternatively, There are comprehensive lists of the terms used by linguists in describing the inflectional morphology of the world's languages, such as found in a good dictionary of linguistics, but there will still be gaps as there are so many languages and numerous approaches to describing them. Even if there was such a list it would not be very helpful for comparison as the same term will have different meanings in different languages. Thus Latin and Warlpiri both have an inflection called 'ablative' reflecting the fact that there is some core commonality between the two inflections, but there will also be substantial differences in the range of meanings/functions of the 'ablative' in each language.