These respondents were also asked to identify the specific area of improvement in their own last published paper due to peer review: 

Here is the USDA report. Note that although the report is from 2016, the data is from 2011. Also, it is based on a dataset from a single grocery retailer; it includes $6.7 billion worth of SNAP household expenditures from that year, less than a tenth of the > $71 billion total SNAP benefits redeemed that year. The dollar amounts in the tables below show the dollar amount of transactions in the dataset, not of all SNAP transactions that year. The report says: 

You can check the actual numbers here by generating reports for each month separately, using the first and last date of each month as the date range (and choosing "Iraq" as nationality and "All" for religion). In 2011, the number of Iraqi refugees entering the United States in each month was: 

It was also condemned by the American Academy of Emergency Medicine, whose president said that the hospital's policies had drastically changed in the new plan: 

Similarly, "Puerto Rico: Characteristics of the Island's Maritime Trade and Potential Effects of Modifying the Jones Act", a GAO report from 2013, concludes: 

Of course there are also many, many false alarms. It is not clear whether the same kind of threats are present in significant numbers in the United States, but there is at least one instance of a potentially significant threat being identified by a civilian: 

Also see: "Economic Impact of Jones Act on Puerto Rico's Economy", a report by two University of Puerto Rico economists presented to the GAO. 

In 2015, the Government Development Bank of Puerto Rico commissioned a report (archived version) to assess Puerto Rico's economy. The report titled "Puerto Rico - A Way Forward" (by former IMF economists Anne Krueger, Ranjit Teja, and Andrew Wolfe) became known as the "Krueger Report" and it includes the following item: 

I heard some legends about an early 17th century outlaw, who on one occasion allegedly defeated alone a number of musketeers: because of the terrain, they could only advance in a single line, so one had to shoot, and retreat to reload (if surviving the shots of their opponent), allowing the next one to shoot. I never had the occasion to fire a matchlock, so I don't know that much about it. I know, that two explosions happen, when the burning match hits the priming charge, and a fraction of a second later, the shot is fired. So you can know in advance when the shot is coming, and may have time to react. However, there is the dilemma of the goalkeeper: you should jump before you know where the ball is coming. Maybe the shot would have missed you, but you dodged in exactly that direction for it to hit you? I can imagine, that if you see one flash, it means the barrel is perfectly aligned and the shot will probably hit you, so you should dodge. If you see two distinct flashes, it means the aim is bad, and you should not move. If I remember correctly, that was the explanation of how he did it. (Of course, this all assumes the inaccuracy due to aiming is generally larger than due to the spread, but I don't think it's that big of a problem, as matchlocks fire with a thunderous explosion near your face so most shooters close their eyes before firing, and the heavy muskets of those times were significantly slower than from Napoleon's time, but more accurate due to being longer and not mass-produced) So, can one really dodge the fire of a matchlock musket (let's say at the very edge of its effective range), using the tactics described above? 

Invisible color, size and distance According to Benjamin Radford (3) , who has conducted field research at Loch Ness looking for its reputed denizen, the video shows no creature color, size or distance: 

Web Sheriff claimed that, that the issue is causing Taio Cruz “unnecessary anxiety”, therefore a “correction” would be appreciated. Skeptical of the company's demand, Robert Kaye, MusicBrainz founder, requested proof of Cruz’s posted legal name to remove the name from his website, he told Web Sheriff that: 

As you see, this news article, assuming it was reputable back then, has exactly the quote in your question, makes it valid also. 

Long story made short, being overweight isn't necessarily an unhealthy thing. However, the Phd graduate didn't make a distinction between correlation and causality. Correction of the claim: "Overweight" people might live longer than "normal" weight people. 

In 2005, James J. Krupa, an Associate Professor of Biology, asked 600 students from his biology classes at the University of Kentucky if throwing rice at weddings would be harmful. 45% percent of the students alleged it was unsafe mentioning exploding birds as the reason. Krupa realizing this a teaching opportunity had his students test the claim as a lesson on the scientific method. The students carried out a series of experiments on: 

A depressant slows down the Central Nervous System. Example: alcohol. A stimulant speeds up the Central Nervous System. Example: nicotine. 

Lancet in 1989 mentioned one unusual alternative treatment for Psoriasis which is so-called ‘Doctorfish of Kangal’. These fish feed on the skin scales of bathers, reportedly reducing illnesses such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis. It seems also that a spa in Turkey has been offering a fish pedicure service for more than 100 years, to treat serious skin conditions in 3,000 patients every year, such as psoriasis and eczema. In 1988 it seems that it became an official treatment center for people who have psoriasis. But fish pedicure could transfer bacteria and diseases to you. The CDC has published a report by U.K.’s Centre for Environment, Fisheries & Aquaculture Science, which investigated the types of bacteria associated with fish pedicure. Results showed that those fish carried strains of several bacteria that could cause soft tissue infections for people with open sores, skin cuts, underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, AIDS, cancer, or advanced age. See: 

The proposed law co-sponsored by Clinton in 2005 prohibits flag burning under specific circumstances. It does not attempt to make flag burning illegal in general (i.e. outside of those specific circumstances). Clinton has voted against a proposed amendment to the Constitution that would allow Congress to ban flag burning in general. In 2005, Clinton co-sponsored the Flag Protection Act of 2005, whose summary is as follows: 

and it also cites the same report from the sheriff's office as the Oct. '04 East Valley Tribune article: 

And in [2], far fewer researchers surveyed said that peer review is effective at detecting fraud and plagiarism, than said it improves paper quality: 

They model the crime rate in NYC over the period 1974-1999 as a function of economic indicators, demographics, and deterrence measures, including: 

It is also difficult to "account" for the effectiveness of pregnancy prevention measures (and determine whether known mechanism explain all of the effectiveness). First, this involves predicting how many pregnancies would have been expected without intervention, and the statistical models for this are sometimes unreliable. For example, in [10], some pregnancies occurred in women for whom "the risk of conception was theoretically nil" according to the standard model. Also, many studies measuring effectiveness of interventions under various conditions rely on women's own reports of the timing of their menstrual cycle, which is prone to error compared to other, more invasive, means [2]. Other studies suggest that levonorgestrel may have some effect on the ovulatory process even in cases where it is administered too late to prevent ovulation. For example, in "Pituitary–ovarian function following the standard levonorgestrel emergency contraceptive dose or a single 0.75-mg dose given on the days preceding ovulation", 2004 [11]: 

The news of Hungary sealing its borders with Serbia sparked a lot of debate. I've seen claims they still let refugees through if they go to the official border crossings and fill out paperwork, and only those are rejected who refuse to register, claiming that those trying to sneak through or assault the police are only doing it to avoid registration. I've also seen many commenters who claim that migrants (in the train station crisis two weeks ago) were given temporary documents and they threw them on the ground because they refuse to register and refuse their personal identification to be taken, trying to hint to the claim that many are not real refugees. However, reading some articles on a few major news sites like the BBC, I never found any mention of this option (to be allowed into the country if they agree to be registered), they just state that Hungary sealed its borders. The words "sealed the borders" and "closed the borders" seem to imply that no one is allowed through, not even legally. As this is a controversial topic, please refrain from stating your opinion about the migrant crisis, no matter which side you are on. This question only seeks provable facts about whether Hungary allows refugees in if they consent to be registered. Is this claim true or not? 

I was surprised to see in advertisements for "miracle" natural / alternative / herbal etc. medicine that they contain "liquid chlorophyll" and that is really useful for our health. I wondered how it can be, because chlorophyll is actually what plants use for photosynthesis, so humans could make absolutely no use of it. Even if our whole skin could photosynthesize, it would provide only a small fraction of the required energy. By the way, absolutely any plant we eat contains chlorophyll, so why would anyone not eating exclusively meat require additional chlorophyll, even if it was useful? The Wikipedia article shows absolutely nothing about any medical uses of chlorophyll. A Google search for chlorophyll and "medical uses", "health benefits", etc. returned only sites belonging to companies actively selling it, and describing it as a miraculous cure-all. I did not manage to find any independent or independent-seeming article about the subject. 

This USGS Myths and Misconceptions page explains some of the differences between fracking and wastewater injection, and why wastewater injection and not fracking is the cause of most of the recent induced earthquakes in the central United States. You may also be interested in the video What's Behind the Earthquakes in Oklahoma? by Stanford geophysicist Mark Zoback (spoiler alert: it's wastewater injection, not fracking). 

Wheeler was not arrested the same night as the robbery. Here is a brief January 1995 article about the bank robbery ("Swissvale bank robbed"), which took place on January 6, 1995; here is a brief article about the arrest in April 1995 ("Arrest in bank robbery"), months later. He was, according to the latter article, arrested less than an hour after the broadcast of his photograph, in April. 

and try to quantify the impact of each of the variables marked with a * on felony crime rate. (Other potential contributing factors are not considered.) They find that their model explains "about one-third to all of the observed decline in index crime in NYC between 1990 and 1999" (depending on the specific crime), and that the deterrence measures have a greater effect than the economic indicators. The quote in your question comes from two sections of the paper (emphasis mine): 

In an interview with CNBC (video, transcript), United Technologies CEO Greg Hayes confirms that the recent deal involves saving 800 jobs in Indiana: 

Whether peer review is "broken", and whether it is worth the costs associated with it, are matters of opinion. (Researchers' opinions on this are also included in the two surveys cited below.) 

(emphasis mine). Previous reports on the impact of the Jones Act have noted that it is not easy to tease out its effects from all the other factors affecting freight costs. For example, a 2012 "Report on the competitiveness of Puerto Rico's economy", the New York Federal Reserve cited some representative numbers: 

Meat: Not to forget here that meat contains vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and various other nutrients that can have profound effects on health. My studies showed that red meat consumption is associated with an increased risk of cancer. For example: 

Those claims are actually true, since there is some evidence online suggesting that bilingualism may (and not will) slow Alzheimer's Progression. There is an academic article published by NIH in 2010 which has been cited by 144 other articles: Here is the abstract: 

The PDF report also mentioned that isurveyed 1,247 registered voters and has a margin of error of 2.8 percent: 

With no doubt, more research is actually needed before it's completely understood how cognitive reserve works to delay the onset of Alzheimer's disease. So answering your question: 

Source: Judith Willis, FDA Consumer November 1982 See more: "Body Wraps Come with Strings Attached," ABC News, July 26, 2009 

Moreover, a recent study published in PlusOne(2), pointed out that women’s restrooms are far more likely to have many more germs than a men’s restroom since Lactobacillaceae is clearly more abundant on certain surfaces within female restrooms than male restrooms. This is because the bacteria found in the vagina of healthy reproductive age women, and is relatively less abundant in male urine. Excerpt: 

(1) Enteric Bacterial Contamination of Public Restrooms: Created on December 22nd, 2007. Last Modified on June 3rd, 2010 (2) Flores GE, Bates ST, Knights D, Lauber CL, Stombaugh J, et al. (2011) Microbial Biogeography of Public Restroom Surfaces. PLoS ONE 6(11): e28132. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0028132 

Claim: In 1238, Pope Gregory IX denounced the Holy Fire as a fraud. Truth or hoax? Lets follow claims, starting with Wikipedia. All links can be found at the bottom of the answer. Wikipedia: