Recently I read a few articles about strikers playing as a "false 9". My understanding of a "false 9", is that he is a striker whose purpose is to pull defenders out of position so that his teammates will have a better chance of scoring. Is my understanding correct or is there more to this? Also, where did this term come from? And who are the best players who made this role popular? 

I have played table tennis professionally at college level and I never bothered about these stats. These stats do not follow a common standard. I assume that they are put up by the manufacturer as a simple indication of whether the rubber/blade is more suited for the players style of play (offensive/defensive). Professionally, players do not a buy a single racket and use it like they do in tennis. they buy the blade and rubbers separately and match them to suit their style. Fully assembled rackets are usually used by amateurs and semi-professional players. So, to clear your confusion over the price and performance of a racket, it really doesn't matter. If you are going to buy a racket, I would suggest you to try it before you buy it. 

Is it a foul if a player touches the ball with his hand unintentionally? Is it a foul is a player trips and falls and touches the ball with his hand during the fall? Also, is a foul awarded if the ball touches the hand of a player, when the player has his hand attached to his chest? This situation is likely to occur if a player is standing in the wall during a set piece. 

It is perfectly legal in table tennis to change the racket to other hand during a point. Though uncommon and extremely difficult, it does provide a few exciting moments for the spectators. ITTF has compiled a video capturing these exciting moments. And if it is legal for a point, it should be legal for a set and a match as well. 

As NBA viewers, we see that they keep time up to tenths of a second. But officially do they keep track of time to hundredths (or perhaps even thousandths) of a second? Here's an example. Say there are 'really' 27.12 seconds left in the quarter, with a team to inbound the ball. The team inbounds the ball and then commits a 24 second shot-clock violation. At this point the referees will typically stop the play and reset the clock to what it should be. Viewers at home will see that they reset the clock to 3.1 seconds (correct me if I'm mistaken). My question is this: Do they in fact reset it to precisely 3.12 seconds? Or do they really just reset it to 3.10 seconds? 

What is the length and amount of each of the following's contract with TNT? Charles Barkley Kenny Smith Ernie Johnson Shaquille O'Neal 

The NBA is constantly tweaking the rules to make the game more entertaining, faster-paced, etc. So has the NBA ever considered reducing the 24-second shot clock (say by even one second)? 

The NBA has no rule whatsoever about what happens if a shoe comes off. This was vividly illustrated on Dec 13, 2014, GSW @ DAL: Marreese Speights lost his shoe. Stephen Curry then later tried to pass Speights his shoe, whereupon Tyson Chandler deflected it out of bounds (YouTube). I do not know about the NCAA or FIBA. 

It is called "Plus/minus". According to this piece, the NBA itself has officially tracked it since the 2007-08 season. There is the obvious problem raised in the comments above. To mitigate this problem, people have come up with their own adjusted versions of plus/minus: e.g. ESPN's 'real plus/minus', basketball-reference.com's 'box plus/minus'. 

The short answer is edges. The blade on an ice skate actually has two edges: one on the inside and one on the outside. Having your weight on one versus the other causes your skate to turn. For example: Line up your feet so the left foot is front of the right. Have the weight of your left leg on the outside edge and the weight of your right leg on the inside edge. Your skates will automatically turn left. That's the basics. When you crossover you add momentum to that dynamic. Here's a picture I found that shows the basic idea. The skates are inlines, but the edges and pushing are labeled. $URL$ If you don't get a feel for your edges you won't be able to advance because all skating is edge work. 

This guy explains the long answer way better than I can say it. Jump to page three for your specific situation. $URL$ The short answer is the pull buoy is holding you up, but really all your questions come into play. You run out of breath without a pull buoy because kicking is hard work. The buoy saves you the energy you've been using to kick. It holds your bottom half up in the water without your input (even though those buoys seem so small). You also are more hydrodynamic with a pull buoy because your legs aren't moving. The buoy helps you keep a straight form. A lot of swimmers don't have that powerful a kick so what you are experiencing is totally normal. 

Generically speaking (rather than you specifically), socks are optional. Barefoot skating is a pretty common question in skating specific forums like $URL$ or $URL$ or $URL$ Skaters say they can feel the surface better and the grip is better especially with custom fitted boots. There is the same risk for infections as there would be for other sporting gear and shoes that touch sweaty skin. There is discussion that one's skates stink more if one skates barefoot, but I skate with socks (albeit real thin ones) and my skates stink pretty bad. 

Please see: $URL$ Greg Anthony (the commentator) is quite insistent that this should have been a jump ball. But it looks to me that the ball was not in Hibbert's "continuous possession" (as required by the rules, see below). Instead, it looks like Hibbert went up, Millsap blocked it, ball completely left Hibbert's hands, Hibbert rebounded the blocked shot (albeit while still in the air), and came back down with it (just like you would when getting any rebound). So this shouldn't be a jump ball (and the officials got it right with their no-call). Is my interpretation of the rules correct? 

I have only ever come across this 5-game series (1984 ECR1, NJN vs PHI, NJN win 3-2), where the road team won every game. Has this ever happened in a 7-game series? (In recent memory, one series in which the first 4 games were won by the road team was HOU vs DAL, 2005, WCR1. But the next 3 games were won by the home team.) 

He legally changed his name from to Metta World Peace in September 2011 (Wikipedia). After the 2013-14 NBA season, he played in China for a few months. When he first moved there, he announced that he would rename himself "The Panda's Friend" (CBS Sports). However, his name on his Chinese jersey remained Metta World Peace (or more precisely 慈世平, which is a three word/character abbreviation of his full Chinese name 慈善·世界和平). In March 2015 he moved to play in Italy. In this YouTube video of some his highlights while in Italy, I see that the name on his Italian jersey is "The Panda's Friend". However the commentators seem to call him "Metta World Peace". So, I do not know what his legal name actually is now. 

Of shoes designed for running (as opposed to "athletic shoes" generally), the superior shoe is the one that fits your foot and stride best which of course is completely subjective to you. The first point is fit: narrow versus wide verus wedge shaped. Arch height is in there too: low versus high. The "best" shoe is the one that is designed for what you happen to have. the second point relates to stability. Some people pronate more or less than average. $URL$ Where your heel strikes is a part of your stride that is partially separate from pronation. Other features to evaluate relate to the surface on which you run, your weight, your sex, your weekly mileage, cushioning you might want or need. All of those features interact to affect the shoe weight and construction. For example, a shoe with serious stability to limit over-pronation will be heavier than a shoe with less stability. If you are not willing to wear the heavier shoe, a lighter version with some stability will not last as long because you will be pronating in the shoe somewhat. That does not mean one shoe is "better" than the other. A petite (lighter-weight) runner can use a lighter a shoe in general because the shoe has to hold up less weight even if he or she requires lots of stability. Going back to fit, Saucony shoes have wider toe boxes and narrower heels than Brooks which are more uniform in width. Others are known for being narrow. (I mention Saucony because they fit my female, wedge foot. I do not know how their shoes for males fit.) To answer your question, the best way to choose a good pair of running shoes is to go to a store that specializes in running shoes. The staff there are trained in fitting new runners by evaluating their strides and are familiar with the fit and construction of the different brands. This little doodad $URL$ goes through many of the features that relate to evaluating, but I still would prefer a fit specialist for at least my first pair. If you go through the process, you'll see that one of the options is finding a pair that fit like the ones you have.