Although you want to practise vipassana, but it seems like you show more progress in samatha instead and are on the verge of entering the first jhana. If this is the case, why don't you try to enter the first jhana and beyond? Please read "Instruction for Entering Jhana" and "Entering the Jhanas" by Leigh Brasington. The first article teaches you to use the pleasant sensation on the top of your head (or anywhere else), to access the first jhana. So, it would appear that you are very close to it. Mastering the jhanas can help you with vipassana later, because the five hindrances are subdued in the jhana states. 

According to this theory by Malcolm Gladwell, Korean co-pilots spoke in Korean with each other that had a formal style of speech when addressing the captain, and this created an artificial barrier of respect that prevented first officers from directly criticizing their captains. They were politely making suggestions with hints to the captain, when they should be communicating directly, clearly and bluntly in the case of a flight scenario where timeliness is critical. On the other hand, in English, they would address each other simply as "you" or "I" instead of using honorifics. This apparently broke down the artificial barrier of respect and contributed to a reduction in crashes. I would argue the reverse. The use of honorifics like "bhante" and "ayasma" would create the right context and climate of respect that makes it conducive for teaching and learning the Dhamma. Argument 2: Courtroom Decorum Another way to argue this is to use courtroom etiquette or courtroom decorum as explained by these guidelines: 

As stated by Sankha, there are only two types of meditation - concentration (samatha) and insight (vipassana). Even these two need not be mutually exclusive. For concentration meditation, you can have various objects to concentrate on, like the breath (anapanasati), or loving kindness (metta) or unattractiveness (asubha) or any of the ten kasinas. The objective is to cultivate the jhana states. For insight meditation, breath (anapanasati) is generally used, but the focus here is to observe the nature of reality based on the four foundations of mindfulness. So, even here, it can be on the body, feelings, thoughts or the different mental objects or dhammas, but without an intentional choice of an object of concentration. Both are not mutually exclusively. For e.g. if you have a camera, you can zoom in and change other settings on your subject of focus, in order to get the best, sharpest and clearest photo of the chosen subject. That's like samatha. But if you move your camera around to find good subjects to photograph, then that's like vipassana. The four foundations of mindfulness show you what subjects are good to observe, just like in photography you have landscape, animals, portraits etc. Eventually you need to use both techniques to get the best photo of the best subject. It makes sense to me that learning how to focus your camera first (samatha), is preferred, before learning what kind of subjects to photograph (vipassana). If you try to take photos of your subjects before you learn how to focus your camera, your photos will turn out blurry or too dark or too bright etc (obstruction by the five hindrances). But in the first phase of learning how to focus your camera, you might focus on unimportant subjects like your toes (kasinas). Another analogy is physics and mathematics. You want to study physics (vipassana) to learn about the nature of reality. You may be very eager to do so. But it would be unpleasant and difficult to learn physics in detail, before mastering math (samatha) first. You need to study math and master it to a certain degree, then you can use it to study physics smoothly and pleasantly. In the first phase of studying math, you might use it to calculate unimportant things (kasinas) like using algebraic terms like x and y without having any specific meaning, for the sake of performing integration or differentiation on them. When you use it to study physics, then you can differentiate velocity v over time t, to get acceleration a. 

Development of insight preceded by development of tranquility Development of tranquility preceded by development of insight Tranquility developed in tandem with insight Mind's restlessness concerning the Dhamma well under control 

So, the insight into the impermanence, suffering and not-self of the compounded and conditioned thing, that is the body, leads to the monk becoming independent and not clinging to anything in the world. 

The problem with this question is the assumption that sensuality by itself always leads to bad outcomes. That's not entirely true. It leads to suffering, but suffering has both good and bad outcomes, which are temporary. Sensuality combined with good conduct or virtue (sila) leads to good outcomes. This can be seen in AN5.43: 

In my opinion, the Sutta Pitaka and Mahayana Agamas (the Mahayana equivalent of the Pali suttas) discuss the nature of the self (anatta, empty of self, dependent arising) in such a way that it is useful to the path towards liberation from suffering (such as overcoming self-view or sakkāya-diṭṭhi). Meanwhile, the Sutta Pitaka and Mahayana Agamas (the Mahayana equivalent of the Pali suttas) do not discuss the nature of other non-sentient things (e.g. a chair, the universe, atoms, five aggregates), beyond noting that other things are conditioned (sankhara) and impermanent (anicca). On the other hand, Nagarjuna's Madhyamaka seems to have expanded on these concepts to cover the nature of all reality (empty of inherent nature / svabhava, dependent arising, dependent designation). On top of this, Madhyamaka also posits that emptiness itself is empty of inherent nature. To a non-Mādhyamika practitioner, Madhyamaka's discussion on the nature of all reality may appear to be an exposition on the "poisoned arrow". That is to say, it is not useful to the path towards liberation from suffering. Some might even say that the nature of all reality falls under the fourth imponderable (Acintita Sutta). From a Mādhyamika practitioner's perspective, how is Madhyamaka useful to the path towards liberation from suffering? How is it useful to personal practice? This should not be seen as negative criticism towards Madhyamaka. Rather, I seek to understand its usefulness to personal practice. 

And the same applies to the other aggregates. For example, deep within you, you take the form to be your self. If you get a minor injury like a splinter in your foot, this would trigger despair and agony in you, because you take your foot (which is essentially part of the form) to be your self. Another example is, you may take the mental fabrication of your ethnicity, to be your self. You may strongly associate yourself with your ethnicity. So, when someone insults you with a racial slur, it goes in through your ears, and triggers anger and rage in you, because you take your ethnicity (which is essentially a mental fabrication, specifically a mental concept) to be your self. So that makes complete sense. Agitation is caused by clinging/ sustenance. Now if you become angry as in the second case, as I'm sure you have previously experienced multiple times in your life, did you assault or kill someone? I guess not. Somewhere along the way, you came to your senses and gained control of yourself. You just need to ponder this chain reaction and how you gained control of yourself. The method to control yourself here, is by practising heedfulness (or appamada), to watch your mind carefully. Please see this answer for details. I'm trying to convince you here that you have managed to control your anger before in your life, so you surely can do it again. And the same applies to other negative states of mind. There are details regarding the use of heedfulness (appamada) in the Vina Sutta (SN 35.205) as follows: 

In this instance, one who is fond of consciousness, who does not know or see that consciousness is conditioned and subject to perish, would be concerned with the notion that the Buddha does not exist after death. There are many other criteria in the sutta, like being fond of the other aggregates (body, sensation, perception, mental fabrications), craving for becoming, clinging/ attachment etc. The Buddha explained that consciousness is not eternal and is in fact, conditioned, in MN38: 

By reflecting on the notion that all beings are owners of their kamma (and inherit the results), the noble disciple cultivates a wholesome thinking that results in renunciation. 

In Buddhism, the preferred practice is to cultivate wholesome or skillful states of mind in any situation. In this scenario, you should not bear hatred or ill-will or anger or any such negative states of mind. You can do this by cultivating compassion. For example, ask "why did those people cheat others of their money?" Perhaps, they are desperate for money due to personal financial crisis? Or perhaps, their lack of understanding of the Dhamma leads them to act in ways that would lead them towards unfortunate future outcomes? In any case, those cheaters are suffering, and would continue to suffer due to their unwholesome mental states of having the intention to harm others. Another way to view this is to consider that the cheaters are overwhelmed by negative states of mind, so much so that they are not able to see the right path clearly. It's like they are suffering from a disease of the mind. If you see it that way, you can also cultivate compassion towards them. If your grandmother who is suffering from senile dementia speaks or behaves in a hurting way towards you, would you feel anger towards her? No. It's because you understand her condition and are compassionate towards her. Similarly, you can show understanding and compassion towards the mental condition of the cheaters. However, this does not mean that you should let them do as they wish. You can still lodge a complaint with the police and follow the procedures laid out by the law. However, you shouldn't do this with hatred or anger or malice in your mind. Instead, you can do so out of compassion for other innocent people, wishing for them to not suffer from the malicious actions of the cheaters. At the same time, it is also not wrong to consider getting your money back if that's possible. If the people who cheated others are punished by the law, they might become repentant and change their ways. So, by informing the police, you are also acting in a compassionate way to help them change their negative way of life. So, the main point here is that you can still lodge a complaint with the police, follow the procedures laid out by the law and try to get your money back. But the Buddhist way is to do so with wholesome states of mind like compassion and loving-kindness, rather than with anger, hatred and malice. When you understand that those who try to harm you and others are suffering in their mind, you can respond with a compassionate perspective. This you can see from Dhammapada 1: 

You can find here some selected sutta translations from the Pali Canon, as translated by Thanissaro Bhikku to English, in the azw3, mobi, epub and pdf formats. With Kindle, please use the mobi format for best results. $URL$ Here's what you can find at this page: 

From Wikipedia, you can read the story of Joseph Ratzinger. As a five year old boy, he was awe-struck by the distinctive robes of the visiting Cardinal Archbishop of Munich and the ceremonies to grandly welcome him. Little Ratzinger announced that very day that he too would one day become a cardinal. He became Pope Benedict XVI 73 years later. During his papacy, he reintroduced the traditional red papal shoes, the traditional red papal camel skin hat (camauro) and the traditional red wide-brimmed hat (capello romano). He also reintroduced an old version of the pallium and also the papal fanon. All of these grand papal vestments were not in use for many papacies but were revived again by Pope Benedict XVI. However, I think Pope Francis has dropped most of these for simpler garb. So, my point is that karma is not a system of justice and retribution, but rather, cause and effect. The seed of thought that appeared in the mind of a 5-year old boy with regards to the grand attire of a cardinal, drove him towards becoming a pope 73 years later, who had a personal interest in reviving the use of old grand vestments. (By the way, I'm not ridiculing the good pope. He was certainly very qualified for the role, and was not too attached to it, that he voluntarily gave it up when he felt that he was no longer physically fit to fulfil it. He now wears simple papal robes and does not interfere with or criticize the decisions made by his successor) Similarly, our thoughts and actions (karma) shape our inclinations and our future. By some mechanism that I don't understand, our karma also shapes our future (next life) physical forms, families that we are born in and, the fortunes or misfortunes that we experience. They were not meted out by a judge, but they were manifested as effects due to past causes. 

According to this article, the total amount of tears a person sheds on average in a lifetime is estimated to be 64 litres. According to this USGS estimation and this article, there is an estimated 1.332 billion cubic kilometers of water in the Earth's oceans. That's 1.332 x 1021 litres. If I divide that by 64, I get 2.08125 x 1019 lifetimes. According to the short scale, that's 20 quintillion (20 x 1018). Hence, according to the Buddha, every person has been reborn at least 20 quintillion times. However, since the Buddha says that "a beginning point is not evident", I guess that it should be far greater than 20 quintillion times. Maybe a googleplex amount of times. 

We can consider this the beginning of modern Buddhism as we know it. Of course, years later, it would split into various schools and traditions. My personal opinion is that Buddhism started the day the Buddha accepted the invitation by Brahma Sahampati to teach the world (see Ariyapariyesana Sutta). 

In the essay entitled "The Five Mental Hindrances and Their Conquest" by Ven. Nyanaponika, he wrote: 

In the Dona Sutta, Dona the brahmin observed the Buddha meditating under a tree and based on his demeanour, Dona thought that this cannot be an ordinary human being. So, Dona asked the Buddha whether he is a god (deva), a celestial musician (gandhabba), a nature spirit (yakkha) or a human being. The Buddha answered "No" each time. Then when asked, "Then what sort of being are you?", the Buddha replied: 

When you walk in a park and find some ants walking in a row, bend down and look at the ants and observe what they are doing. Then wave your hands at them and say, "ants, how are you today?". They don't respond back. If you place your finger somewhere near their path, they would ignore it and continue onwards. You would find that the ants are completely oblivious of your presence. Similarly, the devas or brahmas who are said to be superior to humans, may be watching us and attempting to interact with us, but we may be completely oblivious of them. We don't need to trust that the teachings of the Buddha are true by proving that devas and brahmas exist. All we need to be convinced of, is that the Buddha was truly enlightened in the nature of reality, just as we trust what Einstein taught in physics, because we are convinced that Einstein was enlightened in his area of physics. And just like physics, the Buddhist teachings are very empirical, in the sense that it is verifiable by practical experience. In this answer, I stated that it's quite possible to have "retrograde realization" (to quote Andrei Volkov) i.e. to realize upon reading some teachings of the Buddha, that it really fits your own observation of the workings of your mind. However, if the Buddha did not point it out, you would not have noticed. This kind of "aha" moments can convince you also, of the truth of the Buddha's enlightenment and skill in teaching. You can read the story of the world's happiest man, Tibetan Buddhist monk Matthieu Ricard, through whom neuroscientists empirically verified the efficacy of the Buddha's teachings, using 256 sensor nodes. Ricard also encouraged us to similarly verify the Buddha's teachings in his statement: “Try sincerely to check, to investigate. That’s what Buddhism has been trying to unravel — the mechanism of happiness and suffering. It is a science of the mind.”