Currently, we have built products that are not yet out in the public. However, they make up quite a huge and important chunk of my portfolio.. to demonstrate what I've done for the project. I am a UX specialist and I need a lot of visuals to showcase what I've done. And I am not even sure if I can even mention about these unreleased products. How do I handle this? 

I want to record our meetings, especially discussions about projects, because I often miss some important details they tell me and my writing cannot catch-up. However, I don't feel like I need to tell them as they may feel it's an invasion of privacy. I have no malicious intent whatsoever, just really so that I can review the project details / comments and not miss out any. 

I went for an interview and the employer asked for my current salary to which I replied X amount. However, I included in the amount the yearly bonus that we receive which essentially bumps up my monthly salary by a little bit (whether this is ethical or not is another discussion). However, to continue with the process of hiring, they asked for my payslip which doesn't reflect the bonus that I've received. This is also the first time I've been asked of my payslip during the hiring process. How do I answer to them if they ask me why my payslip amount is a little less than what I've mentioned? 

As a background, I am currently working as a foreigner where in 90% of my colleagues speak the local language and while the other 10% speak another language. Cut the story short, I'm the only one in the office that is of my nationality. We recently shifted office and my seating arrangement changed. I am currently sitting in the middle of a group of all-locals and they'd often speak their language unless they're specifically speaking to me (where in they'd switch to English). For one, I am not complaining that they should speak in English. It's their country and they can speak their local language. However, I feel very distracted and feel unintentionally left out when they banter which I didn't feel when I was seated further. It makes me very unhappy in an otherwise friendly and nice environment. Is it reasonable for me to ask one of my colleagues, who was actually was previously in the same seating position I currently am to swap seats? I say same position because the arrangement of the group didn't change even if we shifted office. Only the two of us swapped. His seat is on the edge and I'd feel more comfortable to be a little bit further from the rest (which was where my old seat was). I don't know how to say it to him without offending anyone. Like, what if my current seat mate thinks I don't like him (which isn't true) because I wanted to change seat. And without coming off as fussy. But it really affects my concentration. 

You won't like this answer, but you should not seek compensation from your workplace. Consider if you drove a car and it got dinged in the parking lot. Would you expect to have your employer repair the damage? (In case you're unsure, the answer is no.) This is made even worse by parking your bike in a spot not designed or designated for bike parking, and that you know cars frequently get close to. I understand the desire for convenience, and nobody appreciates having their property damaged, but there is no way your employer will pay for it. You will seem whiny and entitled if you even ask. Don't do it. Your only recourse to recoup the damages is to find the person that hit your bike. You can try filing a police report, but if the costs are minimal, they likely won't bother to pursue it. If there is a camera at the front of the building, you could ask security to review it and get you a plate number. If it's a really small company, you could try putting up a notice somewhere asking the person to come forward. You have to be really careful how you word it to not come across as passive aggressive, though. I personally wouldn't bother unless the costs were really high, as it's unlikely anyone will 'fess up to it. To prevent this happening in the future, I suggest you request a designated, safe, and relatively convenient place to park your bike. This is entirely reasonable, especially if they provide parking for cars. Tell your management that you tried to find an existing place to lock up your bike, but your bike got damaged there, and you'd like a safer place to put it in the future. If they don't agree, then you are stuck with the same preventative measure that car owners have to use: park your vehicle somewhere that cars are unlikely to get close enough to damage it. That generally comes at a convenience cost, so you will have to decide if the trade-off is worth it or not. 

This is easy. Don't ask for anything; make them give you an offer. You should never name a number first when negotiating anyway. If they bring it up, say that you're sure the two of you can come to terms on compensation if the position is a good fit. If they insist, say the salary you expect depends on what else is in the total compensation package, and you'll be happy to talk about it after they make you an offer. You have nothing to gain by giving them a number first, unless you just happen to guess at the high end of the range they're considering offering you. Have them make an offer first, and then you know the ballpark of what they consider reasonable, and you can go from there with confidence. 

I'm working overseas and almost all of my colleagues speak another language (their native language). They talk to me in English regarding work-related stuff and everyone speaks English during meetings. So this is fine. However, during lunch time or other personal conversations in the office, everyone almost speaks their native language and I feel excluded. Like, whenever we all go out for lunch, I would sit with them quietly while they all talk about something I don't understand. Sometimes, they would change into English and that's only the time I can join in the conversation but after a while, they'll speak in their native language and I'll feel excluded again. (Personally, if I am talking to someone who speaks my native language and someone joins in who doesn't speak it, I would automatically switch to English. I would feel very uncomfortable with someone sitting there not knowing what we are talking about.) I'm not used to this set-up because in my previous work (in this same country), all my colleagues would speak English once they know that someone in the table cannot speak their native language. That way, I was able to make good friends in the office (who are friends outside the office too). Most of my waking hours in a week are spent in the office and it's very frustrating to have no friends in the office where I spend 8 hours a day, 5x a week due to the language barrier. And even more frustrating because they all speak fluent English, just that it's not their preferred mode of speaking. Which I understand because it's not their native language. My question is how do I deal with such an environment? Should I just consider the people in the office as just colleagues, start distancing myself (like maybe lunch on my own?), and give up on any hope of making personal friends there? On one hand, I won't have friends in the office and I'm just there purely for work but on the other hand, my life would be easier if I remove any expectations of making friends. If I distance myself, then I won't feel intentionally excluded (although they may not intend it, that's how I feel). It's just a bullet I have to bite by working in a foreign country. 

Is it alright to take 1-2 days leave if you are still on probation? I would almost be 3 months in the company during this period but this trip I'm planning is 2 weeks earlier than the end of my probation period. And I cannot move the date. How do I negotiate with our HR about this? I'm willing to be unpaid during this 1-2 days leave. 

When your manager asks you to perform a task and you don't have time to do both that task and everything else you've committed to, tell him that. You can inform him of your workload and still be respectful. Try something like, "Sure boss, I'd love to do X, but I've already committed to do Y and Z, and I don't have time to do all three. Which tasks should I prioritize? Is anyone available to help me?" Then go from there. If you're concerned about future backlash from not doing a task your manager tells you not to do, follow up your conversation with an email. If there are other stakeholders involved (i.e. people other than your manager request your time), copy them on the email or ask your manager to speak with them. If someone asks you to perform a task and your schedule is full, refer them to your manager. Don't be afraid to use your manager as a buffer between you and the people requesting your time; that's part of their job. Don't complain about the work ethics of others. It will make you look whiny, and it's irrelevant anyway. The only thing that matters is your workload and whether it exceeds the amount of work you can do. It's the responsibility of your manager to decide how to deal with you having too much work, and it's also his responsibility to deal with slackers. Don't try to do his job. 

Forget the law about smoking in a public building for a moment. Even if you are right that he can be fined, bringing that up is going to cause a lot of sore feelings. Nobody appreciates being ratted out to the authorities, no matter how wrong they are, and it should be your last resort. Instead, consider the problem as if there were no legal remedy. I think most people, especially smokers, would consider smoking in a personal office to be reasonable behavior. If he keeps the door shut while smoking, then there shouldn't be enough smoke leaking out to cause problems for the grand majority of people. It's possible you are the only one bothered this, so don't approach him as if he is posing some dire health threat to the entire office. He's not; he's acting in a reasonable way that happens to cause problems for you, and you need to find a solution that is agreeable to you both. I suggest you meet with him at your desk or a conference room. Say something like "I understand you like to smoke in your office, but even small amounts of smoke bother me due to a medical condition." Then suggest a solution that allows him to smoke and you to not have to suffer it. Can you be assigned a desk that's farther away from his office? Can you find someplace to meet other than his office in the future? Can he keep the door shut for at least fifteen minutes after finishing a cigarette and/or open a window? You get the idea. In short, there is likely a solution that will make you both happy. Find it and pitch it to your boss. Do not attack, threaten, or blame him. He's not your adversary; he's someone you need to work with to solve a problem. If you go to him with a cooperative attitude rather than a confrontational one, he is very likely to want to help you.