Generally in defensive formations they are listed "downline men - linebackers - defensive backs*" (*defensive backs are not usually listed, 4-2-5 is an exception). So in 4-2-5, you have 4 down linemen, 2 linebackers and 5 defensive backs in this setup. This is a setup where you are expecting the pass, and have confidence in your linemen to get pressure on the quarter back. A 4-2-5 is mostly regularly played in college where spread offenses are very common and you need more defensive backs to combat the prolific passing game. However, on long third down situations, this is also a fairly common defense in pro football. For instance, one version of this formation is the one you will hear referred to as the "Nickel Package.", in which you have 3 corner backs and 2 safeties. However, there are other version of this defense played in the NFL where you will have 3 safeties and 2 corners. While it can be viable as an every down defense in college it is relegated to situational football in pro defenses in favor of more traditional 3-4 or 4-3 setups. 

A deal like this that has Seattle sending young pitching to Chicago, Chicago sending young positional talent to Tampa and Tampa sending Price to Seattle could workout. However, it requires that all sides, especially the intermediary thinking they are getting a good deal. This is largely why these deals don't happen. If a team doesn't have the players to get a deal done directly, it's very difficult to convince a third party that to give up their prospects (or ML talent in some cases) for players who weren't good enough for the 2 parties to swap directly. 

Yes. Until the out at first is completed the runner standing on first has no rights to the base. MLB rule 7.01: 

The answer is 13. It has happened twice, once in a 10 inning game, and once in a 9 inning game. The nine inning game was Pete Schneider for the Cincinnati Reds on July 6th 1918 against the Philadelphia Phillies. The Reds beat the Phillies 10-9 in regulation. Schneider was charged with 6 runs, all in the 9th failing to record an out. The reliever that followed him also failed to record and out. Fred Toney was finally able to come in and get the save. No play by play is available so the exact order of events is unknown. What is for sure is that Schneider did give up 13 walks and still managed to take home the victory. Retrosheet also has the box score here 

Yes! Though you may not be able to get a lot of what you want for free. Basically all of the box score information that we have is in the public domain So it's all available for free from retrosheet. However, that's not a very usable format. Thus several services (including the ones that MLB and it's announcers use, Stats Inc) are available for you to peruse. However, this is expensive data to maintain and format, so you'll probably need a subscription to use it. Baseball Reference is perhaps the most comprehensive publicly available store of baseball records (and can definitely do the kinds of queries your curious about). They will offer a limited amount of data for free, and all of the results of your queries if you're a subscriber. If you have an actual need for this, it's quite affordable. 

Obviously this is apples to oranges. Aggregated polls versus very small sample analysis means that the results really aren't comparable between the two functions. As to why they differ dramatically in how they move teams about, it actually probably has a lot to do with their intent, but also how the post season in each league is structured. With respect to intent, College football polls are used to rank teams, and have long held importance in both determining who is who in the league, and in generally determining who is the better team. Power rankings have never had much importance and at best are the stuff of Sunday afternoon BSing in bars. The post season structure in the leagues is the real money here though. Poll results have for decades played a huge roll in who was, or got to play to be the national champion. It used to be that at the end of the season the AP #1 was declared champ. Then the BCS came into being and the AP poll became a factor among others in determining who would play in the title game (there were BCS standing released based on computer formulas). The winner of that game was declared #1 team in the final AP poll of the season. Other post season games also take poll placement into consideration in college, bowl selection is a big deal, and bowls by contract get to choose teams in a specific order from various conferences. The polls help them decide who to choose. Also, the way that college football post season is structured, lends itself heavily to week to week adjustments. If there are four top conference undefeated teams, and a bunch of good one loss teams, those 4 top conference undefeated teams are going to the playoff, not those good one loss teams. In contrast, top NFL teams usually lose 2-4 games a season, so power rankings can afford to be less capricious. NCAA rankings have to be harsh, because there are usually a lot of good, comparable teams, and losses are much more magnified (since the best teams go undefeated or lose at most 2 games). The NFL does not use polls, but instead uses actual standings (which is more fair in the NFL where teams play consistent schedules year to year, and have approximately the same difficulty schedule...or at least within an order of magnitude compared to collegiate schedules). Since they have no polls, none of the rankings actually have any consequence in the NFL game and can thus be more capricious. last thing to reiterate is that generally NCAA polls are decided by large bodies and NFL power rankings are often just a guy, or maybe a small team. They aren't really comparable. 

Typically a sign and trade is a maneuver that is used by teams and players to allow a player to make more money than he would have otherwise been able to make by just signing a contract with his new team. NBA teams (particularly the ones like the Heat and Lakers that have several max contracts), live on the edge or even past the salary cap, so there are serious restrictions on how much they can pay players acquired in free agency. Sign and Trade is a way to allow these players to make the money they have earned, and allow teams with max contracts to actually fill out their rosters (and make competitive offers to appealing free agents like Nash). In the case of the Nash trade, the Lakers would only be able to offer him a starting salary of (likely) about 3 million through the mid-level exception. However, by trading for Nash they are able to use the trade exception they received last year for Lamar Odom to account for Nash's salary. This allows the Lakers to pay Nash 27 million over the next 3 years. In contrast, Toronto has salary cap flexibility and offered Nash 36 million over 3 out right. Sign and Trade allowed the Lakers to make a competitive offer to Nash rather than a pittance of the mid-level exception. Nash weighed the opportunities (better team, closer to his family in Pheonix, leaving the Suns with some assets) vs cost (giving up $9 million in the next 3 years, getting to play in his home country of Canada) and decided that the Lakers were the better deal. (source) 

The first case, if a runner picks up a live ball, who is called out probably depends on what the play would have been. The most likely case is that the runner would indeed be out for interference. On the dead ball play, the runner could probably pick up the ball, but it might irk everyone involved in a way that probably makes it imprudent. On the first case, the exact rule would be 7.8 and 7.9. 7.8 (l) has something to say about the case here: 

Here's what Vegas has on hand to determine this stuff: Tons and tons of stats, and smart folks to interpret them. They have historical game stats, but more importantly, they have stats on historical betting tendencies. The other half of this is that oddsmakers don't make their money predicting outcomes with their point spreads, but betting tendencies. Do you ever wonder why college lines are sometimes super ridiculous? Like 28 points ridiculous or more? It's because the odds makers know that if they make it any closer than that, everyone will bet the favorite and they'll lose a lot of money. So instead they set a line that's in play, but it moves the goal posts on the betting so that the favorite isn't the clear bet. Then the magic starts. For football especially, Vegas will set an initial line at the beginning of the week. And then, as the bets roll in, they'll judge the balance of the betting and shift the line to entice people to put money down on the weaker side. This means that largely, the final line is dictated by the initial stats Vegas uses to set the line, but then it's dictated by the wisdom of the crowds.