Can I safely ride my carbon crank, sans pedal washers, without worrying about long term damage to the crank arms? 

Cut the access length (about 1 cm), leaving enough for adjustment Melt the ends of the straps with a torch Use electrical tape to wrap the ends tightly so they resemble 'method 1' but without the excess length. 

What are the advantages of upside-down (USD) forks vs traditional forks? I have read they are 'better', 'stronger', etc., mostly in the context of motorcycles. Some high end downhill bikes use them as well as some cross country bikes I've seen (that are equipped with RockShox inverted suspension), like this: 

Disc brake hubs are built to withstand different forces, i.e. the twisting from using a disc brake rotor attached to the hub. Usually this means the hub is a bit beefier and also it may have a different spoke lacing pattern meant to help with the twisting forces from the brake. It won't hurt to have it, but the price for sturdier parts is usually a weight penalty. I'd say that's worth considering but you may not care in your situation. 

Yes, my friend just bought that bike new and ended up taking it back and getting a similar priced Cannondale, mainly because it came with a Shimano 105 group set. I would look at that as a major upgrade especially if you are experiencing poor shifting. If you have 500 to spend you could probably get an Ultegra group as an even better upgrade and have a really nice performing bike on your hands, as well as lighter. I'm not partial to Shimano so I'd probably check out Sram as well, Rival will be in your price range. A new wheel set would be the other major upgrade you could make for 500. There are a ton out there at that price but if shifting is what's bothering you I'd get that taken care of first. 

It does completely remove the chain lube/grease, which is the point. When I clean the chain I want all the old lube off, along with the grit and dirt in the lube. As long as you remove the solvent afterward, let the chain completely dry, and then re-lube it, on every link, carefully hitting both sides of the link, you won't have problems or shortened chain life - you should have extended chain life. I've been using this method on a Sram 11 speed chain that's used as my daily commuter (rain, snow, city road grit) and it's like new. The chain is 2 years old now. I should mention that I do clean it regularly and thoroughly, probably once or twice a month. 

They function fine. Cyclocross bikes with mechanical discs wired to brifters are a common sight in races. However, mechanical disc brakes are in fact inferior to hydraulic disc systems and I wouldn't recommend buying a new bike with a mechanical disc setup when there are so many good hydraulic options out there. Mechanical disc calipers only move to squeeze the rotor from one side, leading to uneven pad wear. They also have less power at the lever than a hydraulic system, which it seems like you may be concerned about. In a hydraulic system there is virtually no friction as it is all fluid, and no cable stretch or breakage. The only reason I would personally have for a mechanical system, and I think it's a valid one, is that the shape of hydraulic brifter hoods is very different from their mechanical counterparts within the same brand family. Usually the hydraulic hoods are taller and more robust, which can be good for people with large hands, or uncomfortable for others. 

I've used it on a pair of gloves for a tear near the finger and it worked well. Here is a a different glove, similar to the pair I used it on before. I'll be repairing the finger soon. 

Are there any types of indoor trainers that are suitable for training sprints insofar as they allow the rider to tilt the bike to get leverage as one would when sprinting on the road? 

Getting rear-ended is obviously the most common type of accident. These numbers do not say the percentage of fatalities from rear-end collisions (they mention it for T-Bones). However, if one holds to certain basic assumptions regarding the topic at hand: 

When riding through city traffic, what are the best ways to increase the chance you are seen, given a bit of space, and are not touched by any vehicles? 

I have a crank and chainring setup pictured below, running as a 1x with a chain guard where the outer ring would be. I am trying to remove the chainring from the crank and am having trouble. The bolts take a standard allen key but on the other side there is an irregular screw that needs to be held in place in order for the bolt to loosen. It seems one would need a special tool to hold it in place while he bolt is loosened. I managed to loosen one of the bolts without holding this screw in place, but the others won't budge, i.e. they turn with the bolt and thus do not loosen. One can see in the pictures below that there isn't enough clearance to fit a standard flat head screw driver to hold it in place. Is there a common tool(s) I can use to remove these bolts? If not, what is the tool called that I need in order to loosen these bolts? 

Regarding part 1: I'd start by raising the stack height a bit so that you lean on your wrists with less weight; your position will be more upright and less aerodynamic. Along with this, make sure your saddle is properly adjusted for height. More importantly you should try strengthening your abdominal muscles. With a stronger core you will be able to support yourself less with your arms/wrists. Regarding Part 2: It could be happening because of improper position/bit fit (saddle too high/bars too low), weak core, bars are too narrow for your frame (approx. chest width), etc. From my own experience on a Specialized Allez and Secteur - both similar Aluminum road bikes, the latter considered more comfort/endurance - I can say that I have had wrist pain on long rides and the core strengthening was really all that helped me, regardless of my position in relation to the bars. You might also try some bar gel under your tape for extra comfort. 

I agree with Batman's answer and would add to it that weekly pressure checking may not be enough depending on your setup and riding goals. I can get away with a weekly topping off of my tubes under 28mm conti road tires that I'll run at 100psi. If it's snowing/raining/whatever and I decide to run them at 80psi, they will be too soft after a week. I cannot do the same with my tubular cross bike that I run at 40psi. I need to carefully check the pressure before every ride. Fat bikes are probably different too. I don't own one but I imagine the large volume can stay for quite awhile. As far as knowing when, you should start feeling the tires after you fill them to pressure with an accurate gauge. By feel I mean squeeze them, hard. Really see how stiff they are. You'll build an intuitive feel for what the right pressure feels like and be able to tell when they need air, quickly, by just grasping them. 

As others have said, and as you said, the frame is probably too small for you which can cause pain and a bad time in general on your ride. I find I get pain in the Vatsus lateralis (outer quad) either when I am using too much quads all around and need to creep forward on the saddle and pull more with my hamstrings at a higher cadence, or, my posture is poor and my knees are collapsing toward the inside of the bike during the pedalstroke. If it's a real problem that you can't solve yourself without some third party perspective, I'd recmmend a professional bike fitting. They aren't cheap, usually a couple hundred dollars, and it's takes a few hours of your time. Some places will even have shims and heel cups for your shoes to get a really nice fit. If you still have pain after a couple weeks riding out from the fitting I'd see a doctor. 

In broad terms, I'm wondering if it is possible to repair a high quality lugged carbon frame, say a Colnago C60, that has been cracked in the top and/or down-tube. Normally once a carbon frame has a crack or chip it is considered unsafe to ride and it will usually get scrapped. However, it seems like if one were to crack a lugged frame, it might be possible to take it apart and replace only the tube that has cracked. Is this possible and if so what does the overall process look like? 

Is fork trail or chainstay length is a bigger determinant in the overall steering of the bike? Consider an arbitrary frame that I think is steers too slowly. I'm going to rebuild it because I want a fun project, have some scrap metal, all the parts, and I want to build another similar bike that steers a bit quicker and is more racy. All other things being equal, mainly the head tube angle, would building another frame with shorter chainstays be a better way to go about it than using a fork with less trail? I'm interested in the rate of change in the steering of the bike while changing those two factors, and which one affects the steering more, and by how much if it can be measured - i.e. 1mm change in trail could be offset by 2mm change in chainstay length (that's probably wildly inaccurate - I'm hoping to hear from some frame builders). 

Assuming one makes it onto a pro team that's been selected, I was wondering how much it costs per rider to race in the Tour? I'm interested in the set cost for each rider to race, if there is one, and also how much (approximately) it actually costs the team to put the rider through, taking into consideration all the ancillary costs like bikes, mechanics, team busses and cars, food, lodging, etc. 

Yes you can use a Force 22. I have a Force 22 GXP and a RED 22 BB30 crank. I've run both successfully on different bikes - one with a Mavic 11 speed free-hub, running a 10 speed cassette with a spacer, the other with a regular 10 speed free-hub and cassette. I usually do this in the winter to run a 10 speed tubular wheel & knobby tire combo at low pressure on my 11 speed. What you don't get with the 'regular' non '22' Force front derailleur is the yaw technology that helps with chain rub. But, it will still work. 

What was the last grand tour won on an aluminum frame? Also, any details about the bike itself and the rider would be appreciated. 

You might want to just use a regular bike and stand up instead as it will probably ride better for normal riding while standing. 

Yes, I think it's totally worth it. It depends on if you have a budget to spend on extra parts of course. I have a specialized secteur as my commuter and after a year or so of owning it I replaced the stock wheels with some mavic aksium wheels. Now, the decision was made as part of a groupset upgrade. The bike was equipped with a low end shimano 8 speed and I got the wheels as part of an upgrade to an 11 speed groupset. That said, the wheels are on the low end of an aftermarket wheel and they still make a huge difference. They ride much better than the stock wheels, are lighter (but still heavy by road/race standards), more responsive, and brake better. I also bought some locking skewers with them and don't ever worry about carrying an extra cable or anything besides a good lock. The downside is that you need to carry your skewer key around everywhere, but I usually just keep mine in my bag. Of course, they might get stolen, or your whole bike might get stolen because it draws more attention, but if it's something you want to do and aren't going to be upset if it happens, don't think twice about it. Make the upgrade. I'd recommend getting a used wheelset. 

I've been riding with method 1 and method 2 for awhile. Is there a better way to secure the straps other than cutting? 

as it being softer metal and hence "gentler" on your parts, but this is sort of a fallacy, as others have pointed out in the comments. It may be gentler, but will probably cause wear faster due to stretching and the pins not being "as hard" as the hardened chain. So if you consider this "gentle" claim and weigh it with the fact that your cassette is probably getting "shark teeth" more quickly due to a (marginally) more stretched out chain, then yes, a softer chain could be considered gentler on the parts themselves, but I would expect the drivetrain as a whole to wear faster. This begs the question; is it actually worth it to buy the more expensive chain? If the extra wear (or lack thereof) of the cheaper chain causes me to have to buy 2 more chains and an extra cassette per season, than I'd probably go for the better chain. But if using the cheaper chain doesn't really affect my drivetrain consumables scheduled replacement (cassette, rings, chain, pulleys, lube), then I wouldn't be inclined to spring for the more expensive chain. Weight comes into play (i.e. hollow pin) but it is so minimal that I wouldn't really consider it unless I was counting grams. (256g vs 259g for Sram PC1170 vs PC1130 ).