If there are no prebuilt tunnels, then your characters must dig the tunnel as they go, so you are talking about a Tunnel Boring Machine. The technology exists, especially when you think about using it to dig through sand. The main problems TBM machines have experienced in the past have to do with digging through rock. Nor would such a machine necessarily leave a trail, if it is filling in the hole behind itself as it digs in front. If it is near the surface, yes, it will probably disturb things enough to leave a visible track. But if it goes deeper and fills in behind, there should be no question of leaving an observable trail. I think you just need to do a little reading on TBM's. 

"what general body type that would be most beneficial for a soldier? Huge and muscular? Small and lean? Small and stocky? Somewhat average?" The average Navy Seal is about 5' 10" and about 175 lbs. You do not need the bulk of a running back (5' 11", 215 lbs) to make a really good warrior. The main changes would be mental. Situational awareness is huge in any battle, and armed with the same weapons, i'd place my bet on the warrior with better situational awareness any day. That means a huge capacity for four dimensional thinking. Along with this, linear thinking would be heightened. This builds into the situational awareness, but it also adds to their capacity for strategy. Basically, they would be bred to be geniuses. The other major genetic change would be in healing capacity. They would be genetically engineered for the fastest recovery time. This does not just help when they get wounded. It also means that a hard run through a forest takes less of a toll and the solider requires less rest before they are back on their feet and at 100%, ready to fight. Another major genetic change would be in nerve conduction speed, and signal processing - i.e. reflexes. This race would be wired like a tight spring, but with the mental control to manage reactions. Just shooting from the hip, so hopefully this adds a little to the other answers. 

I have my own space-Geneva conventions. It is based a few basic notions which might inspire you. You are accountable for every missed shot. That encourages people to fight close range where a miss is unlikely, kinda wait to see the white of their eyes situation. You can still miss, and then it's on you to either render your projectiles harmless, or accept that you might commit a war crime somewhere and somewhen else. In planetary defense, defenders set the tone. Attackers are allowed to reply on the same order of magnitude. WMDs aren't forbidden, but you can only use them if defenders use them first. At that point, they unleashed hell on their doorstep and that's on them. Attackers cannot target civilian population purposefully. This preclude using meat shields as well. If defenders do use civilians to hide behind, that's on them. You could apply the rule to civilian infrastructure as well. But again, placing an AA gun on top of an hospital makes the hospital an acceptable target. A ship can exit combat and must be left alone. Depending on the outcome of the battle, they'll either go home or become POWs. Exiting combat is permanent for the duration of a battle. That ensures ships can survive rather than being totally destroyed, which could limit debris significantly. You can't prevent debris but you could conceivably have clean up agreements, like a fund contributed by both parties and overseen by a third, neutral party. That makes clean up costs a non-problem. The key is that rules should be designed to protect both sides. Defenders know they won't be genocided, attackers know there is always an appropriate force they can use. If you need further enforcing, I use the third, neutral party aforementioned as a tie breaker, i.e. they won't pick a side and won't severely unbalance the conflict as long as everybody plays nice. 

have a magnetic field that funnels any and all particles the ship finds in its path into the ship's engines. The engine separates the hydrogen out of what it grabs, fuses it into helium. From the fusion reaction it obtains the energy it needs to power all ship systems, plus the heat to superheat the rest of the elements it grabbed and send them out the "back", sort of like a jet engine. I have seen hints of this type of ram engine in fiction stories I have read. 

Must have - windshield. I have eaten beetles and ants, and believe me, it ain't no picnic. You do not want to be eating (or wearing) that many bugs on your way to a dentist appointment. Also a must have - altimeter and computer controlled altitude. The computer controlled altitude is government regulated. The computer calculates the altitude as a formula of direction (degrees from true North) and speed, to maintain safe flight altitudes so people going in the same direction and speed are all travelling at the same altitude. But hackers make a business of bypassing the regulated controls so people can do drag-races down the Grand Canyon, or the Redwood Forest or downtown New York. 

If they are ubiquitous, one could assume the cost of robot-cops (totally not a trademark) is a solved problem. If you want to make a fair comparison, you must account for the price of training a human, their equipment, their retirement, their hospital bills or funeral, and maybe the checks sent to their families. Why robots over humans? You can train a robot much faster. If the robot dies, you can transfer its databanks to a new one. They are typically superior to humans in terms of strength, speed and reflexes. Intellectually, they can process more information, and access any data in the system on the spot, which is an interesting trait for a detective. They can also operate 24/7 without having to pay overtime. Lack of morality is an interesting point, one that can also be found in humans. On one hand, there's the cold logic of a robot's programming, which drives them to make the "right" choice, depending on their programming. On the other hand, human can blatantly disregard human life. In a number of countries, police corruption is a big problem. You can't corrupt a robot. Related to the previous point, robots have no second thought. If there is a danger, they are more likely to dive into it if it means saving a life, whereas a human would rightfully so fear for their own lives. In case of an injury, a robot can get repaired and get back in active duty much faster as well. And because they have no strong feeling one way or the other, they might not kill a kid on sight because he's black. Why not robots over human? In the present, humans aren't really ready to trust robots with their lives. Likely, that doesn't change much in the future, so first contact would probably be cold. Human-cyborg relations would probably get better over time though. Security would be a major concern, the possibility of your police force switching off or turning against you is a frightening one. However, as the hacking capabilities of bad guys increase, so does cybersecurity. You can take steps to mitigate the risks of hostile takeover. Ultimately, the common criminals will likely lack the proper skill to hotwire high-tech machinery so the real threat is organized crime, which is already known to bribe/threaten police officers. There is still no such thing as zero risk, so it comes down to how acceptable the risk is versus the risk of humans losing control of themselves. Another thing to consider is that if they'll be chasing human criminals, then a human mind might be a better frame of reference. Humans are most likely to better understand how a human criminal think than a robot would. Conclusion A favorable environment I think would be high crime rates and/or high probability of getting your skin shot. In that case, a replaceable police force would make sense. Another possible scenario would be lack of trust in human police. If your police force is known for its corruption, then a robot might be a better sight than a cop. What I would recommend is to have humans and robots doing the job together, as opposed to one or the other. They both have strengths and weaknesses, so going one way may solve some problems while creating other. A last point I'd like to make is that police is supposed to protect and serve the public. In an ideal world, financial considerations shouldn't matter as long as the public service is effective. But you know, that's ideally speaking. 

The thing is that you have to realize that there is no such thing as a 2d object. Even sheets of paper, no matter how thin, are 3d. Looking at it from a 3d perspective, we live in a 3d world and all objects in it are 3d. 1d and 2d are theoretical constructs that we use to incrementally understand our universe. So then, when you start thinking of our universe in 4 dimensions, you realize that nothing in it would have zero length in that 4th dimension. Say you think of time as that fourth dimension. If an object had zero length in the fourth dimension, it would exist for 0 seconds, i.e. it would never exist. Ergo, no such object can exist, and it should not be hard to see how this would extend to any dimension (1st or 2nd or 3rd or 4th or ...). Here is another thought experiment to help you think in terms of four dimensions - Our perception allows us to look "backwards" through that time axis, so we can "see" an object projecting back in time. I can see my car out in the parking lot, and I have a vivid memory of it when I was getting into it in my garage. But our perception does not allow us to look forward, so we do not see the extent forward of an object in that time axis, but that is ok as a backward look is sufficient for this experiment. Now, look at your computer; it's there. Then remember it at a time before, and realize that you are looking at a 4d object. As far as filling a 4d hypercube with 3d cubes of water, realize that there is no such thing as 3d cubes of water. They are 4d, because they exist in a universe that has more than 3 dimensions. If your 4th dimension in your 4d hypercube is a real dimension that exists in the same universe as those 3d cubes of water, for example "time", then those "3d" cubes of water are going to have some sort or extent along that dimension in order for them to exist in that universe. Therefore you could extend their length or stack them, end to end, along that dimension and fill that hypercube. 

Area 51 would be a good candidate as well. Reason #4 maybe wouldn't hold as much, but to counterbalance that, the base has a perfect cover. If anyone were to say "Area 51 is home to a super secret military project that explores other planets and fights aliens", that'd sound like a conspiracy theory from the 1950s. It's probably why they stacked their alien artifacts there in the first place, because reasonable people won't lend any credit to Area 51 conspiracy theories. 

The People's Republic of China includes mainland China, Macau and Hong Kong. The last two are Special Administrative Regions of the PRC. According to the PRC, it also includes Taiwan. On the other hand, Taiwan is occupied by the Republic of China, which claims all territories of the PRC. They both recognize themselves as the only legitimate governments of all China (mainland, Macau, Hong Kong, Taiwan and surrounding islands). So obviously, the ROC would make a claim. They wouldn't be the only ones to make a claim by the way. There are a lot of natural resources and technology (including WMDs) to loot. You might think the ROC has a stronger claim than other countries, however Taiwan isn't a member state of the UNSC, and that's a big deal. 

The moon's orbit is about 380 thousand kilometers from the earth. The moon is about 1/100th the mass of the earth and it's diameter is about 1/3.5 that of the earth (1/3.66... but close enough). The moon is less dense than the earth. Suppose you had a second moon twice as far out as our current moon, and say 1/2 the diameter of our moon. Say that it is the same density as our moon. It's mass would be 1/8th that of our moon just by the difference in volume, which would make it 1/800 the mass of earth. When aligned with our moon, the new moon's pull on our current moon, being at the same distance, would only be about 0.125% that of the earth. It would cause a pretty good wobble on the moon's orbit, but nothing out of the realm of possibility. Our moon is about 100 times less massive than earth, but, when aligned, would be at half the distance from this new moon. So our Moon's pull on this new moon would be about 4% that of the earth. The wobble in the orbit of the new moon would be significantly more pronounced, but again nothing that the right orbit could not account for. This new moon would be 1/8 the mass of our moon, and twice as far, making its pull on earth 1/32 that of our moon, or about 3% that of the moon. I do not think this would yield any significant atmospheric effects, but again, I am no astrophysicist. Mind you, this smaller moon's orbit would also change in speed near the alignment. As it approached alignment, it would speed up, and as it passed alignment it would slow back down. Overall, at twice the distance from earth, it would move about 1.4 times slower than our current moon. But it's angular speed, which is what we would "see" would be about 2.8 times slower than the moon (the square root of 8 for anyone who cares). Also, light intensity changes inversely proportional to the square of the distance, so at twice the distance, the same object would be 1/4 as bright, but this moon would be much smaller (1/4 the surface area) and possibly made of different material, so even if it was quite reflective, it would be somewhere near one tenth as bright. Finally, as others have said, other planets in our solar system have multiple moons. I am no astrophysicist (just a physics nut) but it would seem there is nothing to preclude your scenario. So yes, this is plausible, and the orbit would be stable. At those distances, the orbits would have some interesting characteristics, but I am fairly sure it would be something for astronomers, not very visually apparent to the average earthman observer. 

Doing it in ten years will depend on how converted you want them to be, how much people you want to convert and how far you're willing to go. While in ten years you can easily have a majority of people accept the new god, you can't convert all of them. Furthermore, you can't really guarantee they aren't just pretend-converted. Fear works fast Fear usually works well to manipulate people. Torture doesn't get reliable information because people will say anything to get it to stop. On the other hand, people will say anything to get it to stop. If your goal is to make them say your god is cool and theirs suck, don't read any further. You could also genocide unbelievers for similar fear-striking results. It may be a fast solution, but it may also reflect badly. Particularly if your religion features "you shall not kill" as one of its primary rules. People might have a moment of brilliance, put two-and-two together and start revolting because your religion is hypocritical, so be careful with the executions. Lost in conversion The problem you face here is how genuine people are about your religion. Someone with survival instinct may show up for mass like a good believer, and then just sit their praying to their old gods in their head with a smile, and you wouldn't see the difference. Conversion is hard to force. It's hard to convince someone that the thing they believed for all of their lives is wrong. Forcing change on someone may have all sorts of reactions, like resentment and hate. Therefore, while force and fear may have immediate positive results, it could backfire later. Like they say, who lives by the sword, gets their head chopped. Change I may be going to be wildly anachronistic but bear with me. What you are asking for is change. And the oldest trick in the book of change management is: make them think it's their idea. Consider this: what if you just put your religion in the competitive space? Build new cool churches, and hold receptions with free food or whatever will get people to come. Your religion has an explanation for anything, you may hold a Q&A sesh where every question is awarded. You know you have the answers anyways, right? Make them compare your religion with theirs, and then make it so the comparison favors yours. They may not all come to the conclusion your religion is better, but some will. And since they'll think they came up with that, they'll believe much harder than if you just point a gun at their head. And the bonus is that it's a double whammy. Your religion will be there, projecting a positive image. Sometimes, you just have to repeat something until it becomes the accepted universal truth. That's what advertisement is, and it works. Your religion has to be there, it has to remind you that it exists, and it has to show that it is cool. I wouldn't go as far as advertising your religion as a new disruptive spiritual paradigm in the religious headspace, that might be a bit too avant-garde, but telling people that your god did it enough might just convince them he actually did. At worst, it won't be that foreign god that came out of nowhere, it'll be just a normal part of their life they don't reject. Non-rejection is actually a pretty good result. Total conversion Okay, but you still can't convince everybody, so what do you do with the rest? Nothing. They'll die off eventually. The ultimate long con isn't to change the present, it's to change the future, and future starts with the kids. That's why the Church starts indoctrination early always welcomes children. Although I guess it could also be for the diddling, but that's another issue. Kids will believe anything: Santa Claus, God, Disney princesses, that life is fair and they'll all be equal, etc. That's why any good dictator has to be on point with education. It's hard to convince someone that the thing they believed for all of their lives is wrong. And when that thing they believe is the thing you want them to believe, then it's a good thing. The kids will become adult believers that will teach their kids that your god is the best. They may even convince their parents because what they learned at school must be true. The side effect is you just created a religious dictatorship. 

As with all things that seem impossible, like eating an elephant, the trick is to do it one bite at a time. So... Start by using your 10,000 to get yourself elected to your district's city-council seat. Hopefully you are in a small city with district rather than at-large elections, and the 10,000 is enough. Mind you, you get above 100,000 people, and the 10,000 probably won't cut it. But you also need to be sure to follow a good strategy that will take years to implement, even to just get on the council. Then start with small steps. Maybe start to encourage that the historic downtown get cordoned off for vehicles, so that people can park on the outside, and walk in. Change the roads to being for bicycles or other non-motorized transport. The city builds a parking garage right outside the cordoned off area and gets income from the parking fees. Then start growing the idea. Just growing one spot may prove undoable, as it would be difficult to grow it large enough to make mass transportation viable, before people get too leg-sore to accept the change. So grow it by building on the success. The first spot is doing so well, that we cordon off another spot, in another part of the city. Maybe create a large park area on the outside of the city - trails, outdoor amphitheater - and/or maybe your city has a river, away from the historic downtown, so you convince the council to move towards developing a river-walk a la San Antonio river-walk. Then add in mass transportation. You can start by adding it between the two spots that were pedestrian only. Can do some shopping and sight seeing in historic downtown, then zip over in the electric trolleys to the river-walk for more shopping and dinner. Then start making spots in between the two areas, in the trolley's route, also pedestrian only. Now you have mass transportation and the community starting to get used to the pedestrian-only areas, so you can start growing it more. Mind you, you'd have to be one crazy good demagogue. People are going to be incredibly reluctant and push back every step of the way. If you were someone with the charisma of an Obama or Bill Clinton (I may or may not be against disagreeing with their politics, but cannot deny their charisma), you may, one chance in a million, get the plan through. But that would make for a good story. Someone with that kind of charisma who rather than going for power, decides to simply transform his own community for the better. 

Another option is to keep it hard all the way (that's what she said - sorry, I had to) and travel at a fraction of c. That means it takes a relative long time to go to another planet. If you have a self-contained adventure on each planet, it doesn't really matter how much time passes. However, the time difference can be used to add to the strangeness. Even places you know could be radically different. An example of that is The Forever War. Every time the characters come back to Earth from a mission, they essentially are at a different point in the future where everything is new and weird. That would qualify as strange new worlds. 

It's war on other planets! A century old feud devolved into full scale interstellar war as the Federal Fleet goes on the offensive for the first time in its history. In an attempt to end the war swiftly, Federal Strategic Fleet Command devised a daring plan, a plan that hinges on the success of military operations on the surface. With the battle still raging in space, battleships move into position to land their troops on the planet below, and stand by to deliver orbital artillery support.... 

Is it possible, yes. Is it probable, no. Consider Genghis Khan. He started out as a peasant within a clan, watched his father killed by the warlord of an opposing clan. But he was the most successful conqueror in history. Became the warlord of his clan, united the clans more and more, and eventually formed an army and set up an empire that was pretty much unstoppable. He conquered more of the world than Alexander the Great. His empire was larger than any other empire in History. And he did this without a telepath. A telepath would help, like any other (admittedly powerful) resource or intelligence source would help. But like others have pointed out, it would not be the be-all-end-all that some might think. Just a tool. So possible, again, yes, if you are a Genghis Khan. But such men are few and far between. So, probably... not. But then again, most good stories are built on the seeing the improbable and unique and hyper-talented come to life. And this all means that whether the warlord can conquer the world or not rests a lot more on his personal genius, people management skills, and drive than on any one specific individual under his command.