There is an Anime where an fantasy army invades Japan and more or less gets anhilated by modern weaponry. It's called Gate maybe you can get some ideas from there. 

I assume with static you mean you cant post or change things, but you will still get the latest info, like the mysterious disappearing of yourself in the local news. A way to archive this: Your smartphone is no ordenary smartphone, it has special designed OS and automatically generate a VPN to your cooperation instead of your normal access to the internet, you access it through the cooperation firewall. However your cooperation has the policy that posting is not allowed. Any HTTP request other then GET will be filtered. And maybe some other popular Sites. While this would not completely prevent the ability to influence the internet, it could be enough for your story. You would still appear in the logs, everything that uses get to transmit data will work (unless the firewall has some special rules to prevent this, because it is a relay good firewall), but that doesn't mean your character knows this or find such services. Some company also have the rules of no mails on holidays, which would prevent you from writing emails. Maybe after some time someone will notice that your character access the network, and starts communicating with him. Or he will be trapped forever. 

Yes, the adaption would be beneficial. Your main concern seems to be a combat imbalance with non cold adapted humans, and adaptability to non-cold climates. Lets take these one at a time. Combat: Likely not a negative factor, particularly when fighting in the cold, on "home turf" These humans will need to be active and mobile, and capable of carrying and managing the movement of loads. If they are living a tribal lifestyle, that involves a lot of hunting, gathering, and general hard labor. Putting on "armor" for combat is unlikely to have a large factor in home turf. Humans, are combat capable while carrying a lot of gear: $URL$ Their warm weather adversaries would need to bring their combat gear, supplies, AND warm clothing. They would be at a distinct disadvantage. Now when traveling to warmer climates and trying to manage heat they could be at a disadvantage, and suffer symptoms of heat exhaustion/hyperthermia in temperate climates, and be unwilling or unable to enter warmer tropcial or desert climates. Adaptability: They would have an advantage in adapting to temperate climates, Their thermoregulation, maintenance of body heat, requires the burning of calories. As long as they are not so warm that they are fighting against the heat, they are simply burning fewer calories than their "home turf" baseline. This would give them the ability to expand into temperate climates during the winter, fortify, and attempt to defend them during the summer. 

What would a typical user use such a network for? Well we talking about interplanetary internet so the user will (want) to use it for what we use it today. 

How reliably would it work? I would assume that the network would be very reliably (on the higher layer). The question would not be if the message arrives, but when. However interference could delay a message for hours (or days?). What would the expected bandwidths be? I think we can build a network that has enough bandwidth, but I didn't found information on this. So the rest of my answer assumes we have enough bandwidth. Would using it be exorbitantly expensive? I think the network would be quite expensive. However not necessary for the end user. A system wide internet could be subsidized by government and content provider which want to sell there content to the users. That's what happens today in not so dense populated regions to get fast internet there. And how would it actually feel to use such a system? If the user access planetary (his current location) resources there won't be a difference from today. As soon as he actually uses the interplanetary network, however somethings most likely will change drastic. Entertainment Any online game that has real-time interaction won't work. You could still have something like racing against ghosts of other players, simple leaderboards or playing something like chess. Like in the time when you played chess via mail (not E-Mail). Instant Video wouldn't be so instant as long as it is not cached anywhere. Big players could maybe hold a copy of all there content in different datacenters around the system. However if you want to use a service that don't provide this, the question would not be "what should we watch (now)", but "what should we watch tomorrow". So you will request the content and watch it when it comes. If you have an abo for series they will start sending you a copy to watch offline as soon as it is released (maybe still DRM protected). Information News will be as today. You will still be notified but it will take longer. This could result in a trend back to traditional media. If you need to wait several hours for your information maybe you can wait an hour longer for verified information. Surfing the internet from link to link will not work. There could be an indicator how long it would take to load a Link. Is it a local resource or it is already cached. Often accessed sides will (as already today) be cached. But good caching will get much more important. Surfing will often result in I want to read this and that later. On the technical site requesting a Website would not only deliver the site but also other sites of the domain and other linked content directly. Communication We would not use messengers as much. There wont be any direct communication. We will go back to E-Mail, or something similar. Maybe we would write more and longer letters, like in the time where there was no telephone. Communication on websites should change to (in order to be still somehow use full). Forums will need to structure the communication better. You need to know which post related to which other in order to follow the discussion. Some websites will only used locally because the discussions are to fast to allow anyone from far away to participate. Other Sites could use some mechanism to counter this by showing posts only after a specific time they where posted (when the user pressed send, not the server received the post). 

On earth, the generation of oxygen is dependent on the presence of surface water. In a planet without this abundant water, you will need a different chemical reaction to provide this. $URL$ Sodium or sotassium chorate mixed with iron will burn and generate oxygen. So a geology on this planet that spews chlorates over red iron rich sands, and creates thousands of square miles of shouldering wastelands at the base of mountain rages is one option. 

Your animal could have a hyper-slick fur belly, and powerful limbs on the sides, rather than under the body. This would allow them to slide along the ground. Penguins and river otters do this when traveling across the snow. They are built for swimming rather than running, so this is their best when conditions allow for it. But they are not optimized for it. 

I would assume a raising popularity of IaaS provider that will replicate your content over the howl system. Even small blogs that currently are hosted in private environments maybe want to migrate to bigger providers. We would maybe also see more toplevel domains that indicate the location, like .us.earth or .mars, .pluto and .sun. The underling protocols of the internet must change drastic as the application the end user uses must change in order to give him enough information what will happens if he clicks this link. Nobody wants to click a link in twitter and sitting there for hours until the site loads. I think log distance communication will feel more like in old days before telephone. There wont be any non local news with live broadcast from the place where something happens. Nobody can ask questions to the journalists at the place. Most likely the information will still be published as soon as it is available. But the livetcker would not be live anymore. 

Yes, definately. Play this one straight up, and armor that dino and equip him with laser assisted tracking miniguns. 3 Guns, a small one firing incendiary tracers mounted to his helmet, and two larger ones on the shoulder that are slaved to the head mounted one. Alternate armaments can be RPG racks. He armors up in camp, moves out with infantry. His battle armor can be easily made to resist small to medium arms fire. While he can deliver substantial firepower. Think of it as rather than having a soft squishy tank, you have a heavily armed/armored 20 foot soldier, with the ability switch back into a normal infantry troop for retreat, or when the big targets become no longer desirable in the current theater. His battle armor could pack his standard infantry kit, it would just change into it when done with his dino duties. 

They could cultivate some kind of space animal. Those animals wander through the galaxy and the nomads would follow them. For more inspiration see Wikipedia. 

I'll have a limited space like $1 km^3$ that have (through handwaving) more then three dimensions. But anyone entering it would perceive it as a three dimensional space. A little bit like this video, but more or less a flat version. This results in two people walking around the same tree in clockwise or anti clockwise direction would end up at different positions. What I would like to know is how big is my surface area on which I can walk at maximum inside the multidimensional space. My first guess was, if I have a $1 km^n$ hypercube and ignore height I would have a surface area of $1^{n-1} $. With an 4 dimensional example I would have a surface area of $1km^3$. Unfortunately this is a unit of volume. So my formula is missing something to get $km^2$. I would also assume that the result would be something greater than $1km^2$ 

Security. Malware is rampant, and the more code that is running, the more code that is available to be hacked or corrupted. If they are hacked en route and re-directet, they will have no ability to detect that something is amiss, since they are in cryo. They will simply at the wrong destination, staring at the business end of a laser-pistol, or not wake up at all. Because of this, the number of network connected systems is limited to the absolute bare minimum, The code bases are well known, checksummed, SHA-Hashed, and routinely re-installed back on bare metal from source. There is simply no reason to risk your ship, crew, and cargo, because you want a pretty display 

Yes Fundamentally it's magic, so you can define how it's mechanism works however you like. To help define a mechanism by which "too much of a good thing is bad" here are some sources. A scientific mechanism of "too much of a good thing" is oxygen toxicity. Essentially if the partial pressure of oxygen is too high, it becomes toxic. Cell membranes are damaged as they become "oxidized". Your healing magic could behave the same way. Too much magic in the system causes the target's flesh to essentially cook or burn. A literary example of too much healing being a bad thing is a book by Orson Scott Card. "A Planet called treason". The main character has regenerative powers, but is a "Radical regenerative" The body cannot distinguish between healthy and injured. As a result the regeneration is constant, resulting in extra digits, or limbs that must constantly be cut away. 

I think it depends of the initial defense of the wizards. If they posses the Chinese wall which is secured from the beginning, or know they will be attacked, they will probably win. If not and the caveman will lunch an surprise attack, 3,000 people is to few to survive. If the caveman raided the village at night when everybody sleeps, there would be almost no resistance. Most would be killed in sleep or while waking up. The next big part of people die while in panic. The rest dies fighting or fleeing unarmed before they get any weapons. Only a few would be able to arm themselves and effective fight back. To few. In the last scenario I assume the wizards have an open town design and almost no military facilities. Also normal people don't posses firearms. That what I would assume from an peaceful society. Additional from those 3000 people not all are able to defend themselves. They could be to young or to old. And if they have the correct age, they still cold be in a fitness state where they would be no match for an enemy. The caveman on the other side have 100 people per wizard in addition they will most likely die younger and all young and adult men and woman would be stronger and tougher. So for every wizard that can defend there town would be 120 or more attackers. I could image 20 to 50 people to fend of the initial attack, get some firearms and regroup. Even if they use there superior firepower to kill enough caveman so they will retreat, the wizards would be as good as dead. Most likely all children and older people are dead, without some luck all women also. That would be the end. The survivors would soon run out of essential stuff like weapons, food, fuel, medicine or something else. Higher advanced civilizations have an higher specialization of individual. It is not likely that the survivors will have the knowledge in all fields they need to keep on fighting the caveman. Eventually they will get hunt down by the caveman. 

Green hair could be a natural color variation for this particular race. Green hair could be caused by algae living on or inside the hair. Polar bears in captivity have been know to turn green from algae inside their hollow hairs. 

Really, I would work this desire into the growing "humanity" of the robot. They have a complex brain that is suddenly idle. Maybe they spend hours just watching the water. We build houses in places where we have a good view of the water, in many cases, near the beach for example, this creates houses that require much higher maintenance due to weather, much higher construction costs, and much higher risk of damage and destruction. Is it worth it? Yes for many. Moving water has deep spiritual connotations for humans. It has philosophical connotations "Can a person step in the same river twice?" If your robots are lost, and searching for their souls, and if they are anything like humans, it seems perfectly reasonable for them to share a fascination with water. As a literary device, it can be used to effectively create a bridge of sympathy to your robots. In this way it is not a question you need to "answer" in your book. It can be asked, explored, and ultimately left open.