Credit: Starting Strength. I've been using green and red lines for good and bad, but note how this could all be reversed. 

So one reason to engage in long, slow, distance training, is because it helps you run more miles, and the more miles people run, the faster their times tend to be. However, that doesn't mean it's optimal or the cause of faster times. One reason to not immediately buy into this philosophy is it's really quite different than other human performance events. There are far and few events where merely doing the event more and more will keep increasing performance. I'll give two areas for food for thought. 

This could be an entire day at a personal training conference, so forgive me if we generalize a fair amount.          General warm-up You want to go with dynamic over static stretching. Static is a more relaxing type of stretching. We don't want to do that to our body before getting into more intense exercise. We want to gradually up the intensity, which dynamic stretching can provide. Having said that, I've had some clients who whether they be into yoga, in their 50s and used to habit, they're going to do static stretching before they start their weights. I've had clients get to the gym an hour before me to do this work. Which brings us to weights being part of the warm-up. If someone does whatever type of stretching before we start squatting, it's not like we just jump to their max squat weight. We still warm-up that exercise, which in effect is adding more dynamic stretching. That is, the static stretching isn't some huge no-no / the person is going to die. It's not desirable, but it can be worked with.          Specific warm-up If you're someone with a shoulder surgery history, you might have some exercises you want to do most won't care about. Like some rotator cuff work.          Weights vs Cardio There are no hard rules here. Prioritization is the theme 

General warm-up with predominantly dynamic stretching. Specific warm-up based on how your body is currently doing. Weights or cardio, with a warm-up specific to that exercise e.g. if you're going to start running, you don't start running at your maximum pace. Lessening of warm-up later on in workout. If after doing chin-ups you're going to do bicep curls, you don't need the same warming-up, if any, that chin-ups necessitated. More flexibility / mobility within the workout to increase productivity of rest sets. Core work Cool down, relaxation focused. 

For rec athletes, this is one of the harder problems. You see this with marathoners, softball players, pretty much anybody who regularly does rec sports. The way I frame this to my clients is, "Ok, we've been lifting 100 lbs the last few weeks. Tomorrow, we're going to lift 200 lbs. Sound like a good idea?" Of course, the answer to that is no. Yet this is the biggest and most common mistake rec athletes make. If you're interested in running a marathon, and you've only been running 10 miles, running 26.2 is going to hurt. If you're a softball player, and you've been playing one game a night, per week, but championship week you have to play two games back to back, you're going to feel it the week after that. You've, overnight, doubled your work load. In any scenario, this is a recipe for pain. (Imagine you've been regularly working four hour shifts, an eight hour, double shift, out of nowhere is rough. Even just mentally.) Name the sport / activity, tennis in your case, and the same rule applies. What you want to do, and this is why rec sports can be so hard, is gently build up your stress tolerance. There are various ways to do this. I have an equation I use, where the primary variables in your situation would be how fast you're going, how long and days per week. The biggest change you're going through on those weekend days is you're e.g. tripling the duration of a day of tennis. Ideally, you'd go into that weekend and say, the previous eight weekends, have built up to that amount. For instance, say you typically play an hour at a time. A couple months before a weekend competition, you could add 15 minutes per week to that hour at a time. After eight weeks, you're now pretty damn accustomed to that much tennis. Of course, this is not always practical due to the rec athlete's time constraints. Back to the variables I gave, you might find you can't play tennis for e.g. two+ hours at a time, but a month out, you can build up to playing 4-5 times per week rather than 1-3. Or you can try to play faster in each hour you play. There are a few ways to attack it, but the idea is you need to build the level of stress up, gradually, so a given weekend tournament isn't such a drastic change from what you've been doing. 

           Structure Injury history is one way of individualizing the squat. A lesser appreciated element is bone variation. Perhaps most well known is lever lengths. Notice the difference: 

Ok, 170 pounds of muscle isn't technically accurate. "Fat Free Mass" also includes organs, bones, but we don't usually break it down to that degree. Regardless, you can grasp the notion: a severely obese person can have a great deal of muscle on them. (This will be even more clear in a moment.) If we deduce the average non-obese person in America -we're not even talking super thin, we're just saying non-obese (BMI 22.5)- weighs 141 pounds, with a body fat percentage of 12, then they have a fat free mass of 124 pounds. Muscle strength is related to cross sectional area. The bigger your muscles are, the more strength you have. A Biggest Loser type obese person can easily have as much fat free mass / muscle as a non-obese person's total weight. So yes, an obese person can easily be stronger than a thin person, due to having more muscle. However, they may not be able to express that strength immediately. Plenty of obese people have plenty of muscle, but if they've never squatted before, they may very well not lift as much as a thin person, initially. They might need a few weeks to adapt to a squatting motion, so they can express that strength (neuromuscular coordination). As the first day somebody does resistance training, their legs are often wobbling after a couple sets of bodyweight work. But sure, tossing a couch around? Moving furniture? Pushing a car where you also have demonstrably more mass to lean into the car than a thin person? An obese person can definitely have an easier time with that. In terms of an average, that really gets into a matter of perspective. If I have a thin client who has been lifting for months, then have an obese person try to do the same workout, the obese person is going to be in for a rough day. If we're squatting, then deadlifting, then doing walking lunges, the obese person might not make it through without being dizzy. That is, if we massage the term strength to mean strength endurance, rather than pure maximal strength, we've changed expectations. Particularly because in this example, we used some exercises which are heavily dependent on lifting your own bodyweight. If we consider strength to be relative strength i.e. load lifted relative to your bodyweight -chin-ups are a favorite example of exemplifying relative strength- then an obese person will never be stronger. Relative strength goes down as humans get heavier (or taller). Which brings the final point- we've only been talking external load. If we're talking absolute load, if the obese person can merely sit up and down out of a chair -a box squat- then they probably can lift more than the thin person. After all, there aren't many 140 pound people who can squat 300 plus pounds, more than double their bodyweight! That is, just moving the obese person's weight around is resistance training itself. More resistance than most thin people will ever encounter in a gym. Sure, obese people tend to be sedentary, but it's not like they're on bed rest. 

As you hit on, the definition of flexibility is paramount. Rather than debate a proper definition, I'll give some takeaways I use with my clients.           The quick timeframe examples First, flexibility can improve virtually instantaneously. For instance, in those with pain, it's common for them to be "guarding" a given motion. Say you have someone who has lower back pain when they lean over. Because of this, when you assess their ability to hip hinge, they only go e.g. 25% into the range of motion. One might say "they have stiff hamstrings." However, if you change how this person leans over e.g. you don't allow the lower back to round as much, or if you put a chair in front of them so they have some support and lessen the load on the spine, they might suddenly have 50% more range of motion. By changing the motion to be more lower back friendly, or doing something to give the person some peace of mind, range of motion can dramatically improve in real time. This isn't typically what people think of with flexibility, but it's actually rather common. Point being: in that small time frame nothing muscularly was changed- we didn't acquire a new adaptation that quickly. Just like getting stronger, you don't change sarcomeres in seconds. But wait! You can change the microscopic instantaneously too. For example, you can tear an ACL functionally without tearing it physically. That is, you can have a traumatic event happen to your knee, causing such a stretch on the ligament, that while it doesn't tear, it's no longer capable of responding to a stretch stimulus. It has no "rebound" left in the material. Called a plastic deformation.           The longer timeframe examples For the more conventional, where a person has say, a stiff lower back, and they want to know how long it'll take to not feel stiff, I usually tell them 4-6 weeks to notice improvement. Here is why: Even if you’re actively doing everything better, you're stretching every day, doing enough volume to garner an adaption, passively you aren’t. What does that mean? To be more clear, we’ll say actively means you consciously manipulating your body (this includes modifying any activities of daily living which may be holding your lower back in a shortened position / causing it to feel stiff), and passively is unconscious. Not only do muscles work actively, they also work passively. They’re always pulling. The size of a muscle is a great indicator for how much it’s pulling on something i.e. how much tension it’s generating. Let’s say your lower back muscles are working overtime, but your abdominal muscles undertime. A common example of this is an anterior pelvic tilt. The lower back muscles pull the back of the pelvis up, while certain abdominal muscles pull the front of the pelvis up. They counteract one another. We could likely say the lower back muscles are excessively hypertrophied and the abdominals not hypertrophied enough. So, even if you’re avoiding an anterior pelvic tilt (or whatever) ALL the time, those lower back muscles are still pulling on your lower back more than you want. It’s simply going to take time for 1) The abdominal muscles to hypertrophy and catch up and or 2) The lower back muscles to atrophy and calm down. In other words, you can view this similarly to how long does it take to acquire noteworthy hypertrophy: 4-6 weeks. If you look deeper, you can notice hypertrophy quicker than that, but this a commonly accepted benchmark outside of the microscopic level. Said another way: you can see improvement in strength, flexibility, muscle size, often only a few days apart. For instance, a person comes in for a session one day, a few days later it's certainly plausible they're a bit stronger, more flexible, whatever. But those aren't usually big jumps. Instead, when someone looks back a month or more, the change is a lot more obvious. You can flip this to look at atrophy too. If you don't do anything on your legs for a week or two, you can definitely notice atrophy happen that quickly. Astronauts are a good example of this. Two weeks in microgravity and they can be 10% weaker. (Deeper dive on astronauts here.) But you have to look a fair amount harder than at the 4-6 week mark, where it just jumps out at you. (Your average everyday person isn't going to think much of a 10% difference.) That's a long way of saying the definition of flexibility can be hashed out, but the definition of improvement can too. Personally, whenever clients ask me how long until they notice improvement, I go with the above for a rationale of 4-6 weeks, even though many will notice improvement quicker than that. Because the final point with all the above is we're assuming the person is perfectly adhering to whatever is necessary to acquire an adaptation. A lofty assumption for many.