According to Arab sources, the Christian Ethiopian kingdom, and/or their client state in Yemen, invaded central Arabia in 570 on what was likely (if it happened) a punitive expidition. This is noteworthy because the army supposedly brought some African elephants with them, so the locals called this The Year of the Elephant. This in turn is noteworthy because The Prophet Mohammed was (traditionally) born there in the Year of the Elephant. As for why such things haven't happened more often, you probably ought to look at what resources are there worth fighting over. Its a desert. Until Oil was discovered there in the last 100 years or so, there wouldn't be much reason to go into the interior of Arabia if you weren't wanted. 

Not only was it not totally smooth, but it also wasn't much of a change. At least not on personal human timeframes. You have to realize that the break in England didn't happen because anybody had any kind of doctrinal issue with Rome. King Henry VIII was not a protestant, did not like Protestantism, and did not want protestants in his Church. The only part of Catholicism he ever had any trouble with was the part where he wasn't allowed to do what he wanted. At first you would have to have been part of the upper Church hierarchy to even notice a difference. The head of the Church of England no longer reported to the Pope, but rather served at the pleasure of the Monarch. The rites themselves didn't change all that much. The split between the two was always much more about politics than about religion. It wasn't until the excommunication of Elisabeth I, 40 years later, that there was any truly significant doctrinal break between the two. Prior to that there were still CoE Bishops openly talking about reconciliation, or even alternatively joining with the Eastern Orthodox rite, as viable future options. People who held more typical European "Protestant" beliefs were not accomodated in the Church and were forced to become religious dissenters (eg: Puritans). That papal bull was significant, because it was designed to empower an active rebellion against the Monarch. Effectively, it turned the political dispute between Rome and London into an active threat to the State. What followed was a couple of hundred years where the Catholic hierarchy was trying various ways to depose the leadership in England, and thus being a supporter of theirs was tantamount to treason. So the main bone of contention was never really religious, and the practice didn't change all that much. The most obvious thing, performing mass in English, Catholic churches in English-speaking countries have changed to doing anyway. So even today, a lot of the more "high church" Anglican services would feel very familiar to a modern Catholic. 

If you'll allow me to be a little crass here, I think the meat of your question boils down to, "This looks racial. Is it?" I'm gonna say, No. I think it would be more comprehensive (and perhaps accurate) to say the more successful former colonies are mostly populated by direct descendents of the colonizers, rather than the indigenous population at the time of colonization. Not only does this remove the racial element, it allows you to explain successful societies like ancient Carthage (founded and peopled by the Semetic Phonecians), and the various successful Greek colonies of the ancient era (the Greeks were "white" Indo-Europeans, but so were most of the natives). These all shared some similiar charactaristics with the British colonization efforts you mentioned: they were efforts to build home-country style societies on the foreign shore, with no input whatsoever from the natives, and they served as a valuable release valve for overpopulation or persecution problems at home. Contrast this with the less wealthy former colonies in the New World, like most of the former French and Spanish colonies. In their case, the colonial drive was mostly economic, not demographic. So rather than rebuilding their home societies with their own people, the colonizers just sent over the bare minimum amount of their citizens required to exploit the resources of the colony. Its like the difference between a mine and a home. 

DeSoto himself reported natives in what is now the USA Southeast lived in fortified cities in the 1500's. Now I've personally visited some Maya ruins, and I can vouch that they didn't have any ruined walls around them that I noticed. However, that would have been largely superfluous as the ruins in question were on a towering hill surrounded by jungle. If that particular site had felt like building a wooden palisade as well, the wood certainly would have been available. Either way, searching for the research on the subject, it does appear that the Maya fortified some of their cities, and there are at least a couple of researchers who are happy to discuss Mayan fortifications at length. As near as I can tell, the same is true for the Inca. 

For Cyrus specifically, the closest to a contemporary image I could find is this bas-relief found at Pasargadae. I think the best we can really draw from it is that he most likely had a beard. There isn't really any other racially identifying characteristics, and its monochrome so you can't really guess at the hair or skin color that is being portrayed. 

Well, the United States aren't exactly tivial to get to from Eurasia, but in its 200 year history has absorbed the following mass migrations: 

The one fact I know of regarding carbohydrates and diet is that they are, indisputably, worse for the teeth of homo-sapiens. Paleontologists can tell the teeth of (neolithic) agricultural people apart from those of hunter-gatherers at a glance, due to how much worse their teeth are. 

Personally I think that's a rather backwards way of looking at things. One of the main points about the big multistage missiles required to launch things into space is that you need pretty much the same capability to be able to launch things at another country tens of thousands of miles away. So a large part of the space race was always showing the other side that you could destroy them, but doing it in a way that isn't overtly bellicose and can't really be complained about publicly. This is part of why NASA has been hemoraging support (and funding) ever since the Cold War ended. It just doesn't seem to have a point anymore. Clinton tried in the 90's to redirect NASA's mission to promoting international cooperation and understanding instead, but that's a tougher sell for funding. However, you can still see this phenomnon today in the little mini space race that China and India appear to be engaged in. Again, its just a proxy for saying "we now have ICBMs that can reach your major cities". 

The Zamboni machine has become one of many people's favorite parts of Ice Hockey. Technically this device is called an ice resurfacer, but everyone just calls it a "Zamboni" after the inventer. 

I'm actually a little dubious of the "never defeated" claim in the first place. Not only does it seem highly unlikely, but then there's this: 

I suspect that is referring (at least in part) to the pre-Constitution office of President of Congress (aka: President of the United States in Congress Assembled). The pre-Constitutional governments were a very different kind of government though, and those offices were roughly equivalent to the modern Speaker of the House, not to the modern USA office of President. 

Probably the oldest examples of this that we still have are the epic poems. Poems like the Iliad or Mahabharata or Epic of Gilgamesh long before being written down were recited orally (most likely sung) by people who had the entire work memorized. In this way, early bards would have combined the the roles of entertainer, historian, cultural propagandist, and sometimes priest. (They also clearly had to have amazing memory) There were certainly other popular songs (just as there are today) but most of the shorter ones wouldn't have achieved the cultural importance required for somebody to bother to write them down. Some of the few that did can be found in Psalms, and in much of our recorded ancient Tamil poetry. 

As near as I can tell, at the time of the publication of Luther's 95 Theses in 1518, there was not a significant openly-protestant movement in England. The kingdom would not break with the Catholic Church for another 25 years, and even then the differences were initially only over King Henry VIII's personal desire for an annulment. The native movement of the time was the Lollard movement of the 1400's. The similarities between it and the start of Lutheranism are in fact rather striking, right down to the political points posted on the church doors. The only thing the Lollards were really missing was the printing press. If they'd only had that, we might today be talking about how the reformation started in England. However, Lollardy had to spread by much slower and more expensive hand-copying, or by word of mouth, so it was much easier for the Catholic Church and English civil authorities to suppress it. There were still Lollard heresy executions up to 1532, but by then what little of the movement remained had been driven very much underground. By this time of course there was a printing press, and the Lollards had their own (banned of course) books. One such book was The Obedience of a Christian Man by William Tynsdale1. In it he defended Martin Luther from the charge that he had started a large-scale peasant uprising. Tynsdale worked for a while in Lutheran areas of Germany, and was apparently an admirer of Martin Luther. Sadly, he was executed 2 years before his king broke with Rome2, but his work certainly lived on. Analysts have said his English translation of the Bible makes up more than 75% of the King James Bible, which is probably the single most influential work in English literature. 1 - Admittedly, Tynesdale was not himself a protestant, but he had very unconventional views for a Catholic priest, and was eventually denounced as a heretic. 2 - His opposition to the aforementioned divorce, rather than his heresy had a lot to do with this 

That particular website, well ... its not very credible. Its part of Wikia, a site designed for Science Fiction/Fantasy fans to create their own wikis. In other words, things don't get deleted/removed/edited out there just because they have no relation whatsoever to reality. This person's Wikia site reuses the name of the defunct precursor to Wikipedia, which I find highly dishonest and misleading. Outside of that website, I could find one other decent reference to this supposed Alphabet: from a Mormon website.* It claims this is the alphabet used by the speakers of "Adamic", supposedly the world's first language, spoken by Adam and Eve, and also currently spoken in Heaven. In other words, this is somebody's religious belief. The current scholarly consensus is that the Greek Alphabet is was copied from the Phoenician Alphabet. Technically this was an Abjad, not an Alphabet, as Semitic languages have predictable vowels, and thus don't usually need to bother representing them in their writing. Indo-European languages like Greek don't have that feature, so the Greeks had to re-purpose some unneeded Phoenician consonants to indicate vowels. This is how the Greeks managed to get credit for the first Alphabet, even though all they really did was hack an existing Abjad to work for their language. Here's a comparison chart of the two Alphabets, taken from the Greek Alphabet Wikipedia page just now.