With time, you'll learn that there seldom is one "right way" to do things, that you may not have all the answers as to what is "right" and what is not, and that for businesses to run efficiently, they often need to get to "good enough" and then move on. Over time, you may learn that you can often make changes in a company slowly and that it is sometimes worth the wait. And you'll learn that impatience seldom helps. Eventually, you'll learn that the only way you can dictate that everyone do things your way (even if you are convinced that your way is the "right" way) is to either work for yourself or run the company. Otherwise, you'll need to compromise. Try to learn these things as quickly as you can - they will help you keep your patience. 

There's nothing improper about either action. Certainly you are anxious, but if it's been less than a week since your last contact, it's most likely nothing to worry about. Often, HR needs to coordinate things on their end. Sometimes that requires a lot of paperwork and discussions with the hiring manager, etc. These things can take some time. If you want to send a quick email indicating that you haven't heard from them, and asking if there's any more information they need from you, there will most likely be no harm in that. On the other hand, waiting at least a week wouldn't be harmful either. Try to relax a bit. If you still haven't heard by Thursday, shoot them a note. One time I had to wait 3 weeks (due to vacations and a lot of other hiring going on) before I got my formal offer after having informally being offered the job. It came through, we negotiated a bit more on the final details, I was hired, and it worked out fine. One more note - don't give your notice at your current job until you get the real formal offer. It's unusual, but things could happen which derail the process. 

They don't know the code on Github is yours. They can't compare that code to the code of the other candidates. Sometimes more important than the end result is how you get there. What questions you ask, how you solve problems, etc. 

Have your answers written down going into the meeting. And let your boss know that you'll share them with him, but that you're not going to be doing the talking first. Before you tell him what's on your 'crib notes' in front of you, ask him to say what he thinks the reasons are for you leaving. The bottom line is, he has at least one employee (you) who is leaving for things he had control over. Now, they need to go gamble on a new employee, spending money to hire, train, and break-in this new employee who might end up being not such a good employee and they repeat the process again. At the very least, he has cost the company tens of thousands of dollars by making you want to leave. If he's going to fix this problem before he does it again, he needs to do some analysis himself. So ask him, why he thinks you want to leave. Assure him that you'll tell him what he got right and wrong in his analysis, but if his goal is to really improve his environment, then don't just list your problems - make it a real conversation, and make him go first. 

No. Work isn't like school where you can do some tasks for some extra credit to bring your grades up. If you talk with your boss, explain that you understand your mistakes and have taken corrective action, that will usually suffice. If you have free time when you "can't really do anything" you should be talking to your boss about how you are expected to fill your free time. Perhaps you are expected to sit at your desk and be available, but likely there are always "fill in" tasks that you should be doing. 

There is only one way - just ask both companies. You are unlikely to get them both to agree for several reasons 

Is there really a need to specifically say "I spent 2 years on a 1 year course"? Every resume I have read simply lists the graduation date (or at most the start and end dates). These days, it's not uncommon at all in my part of the world for folks to spend 5 years attaining a 4-year degree. I think there's no need at all to call attention to one course. 

Obviously, for real contract law you need to talk to a lawyer. We can't help you with that. That being said, if the contract specifically states that what you pay is for training fees, and you can actively demonstrate that they didn't pay those fees, then you shouldn't have anything to repay. If they did provide a few training sessions, you'll definitely have to pay those. That's what happens when you sign a contract, even a contract with dishonest people. If you're looking for a loophole, we can't help you without the full text of the contract, and if we had it even then we wouldn't because that's not what we do here. You need a laywer. Or you can suck it up until the contract ends. Or get a side job to cover the cost of breaking the contract. Just make sure you are more careful about what you sign to in the future. 

This is a tricky situation. You got lucky: you and the employer both decided (independently) that it wasn't going to be a good match for you. But the reasons for that are completely different. Here's the key difference. Your reason was because the job wasn't a good fit for your particular career path. Their reason was implying that you are not a good employee. I personally disagree with their logic here. Specifically, having the fortitude to decline to answer an interviewer's question shows you have more confidence than the average interviewer, not a lack of confidence as they seem to indicate. So it's easy to logically say they are simply wrong in their assessment. What they should have said was "we didn't like that you didn't disclose your salary information, so we cut you loose" because that's what it seems like. So we can all agree, these guys are jerks and we should forget them. But... 

If your self-assessment as to your value is correct, you hold all the leverage. You are extremely fortunate, because very few people are truly in this position, even though many believe they are. You can go to your boss and demand a raise of your choosing. You can threaten to walk immediately if you don't get what you want. Or, you could take a softer approach, and just discuss a raise with your boss. You could point out how valuable you are. You could talk about much better you are than freelancers. You could point out how you "literally** hold the company up". And you could indicate what you feel would be fair compensation for someone with your value to the company. Then you could talk about what you might have to do, in order to get that raise. If your viewpoint is shared by your company, you will quickly get what you deserve. On the other hand, if your company doesn't share your viewpoint it could be risky. At best, they could see that they need to ensure you aren't a single point of failure, and start finding ways to spread your work around. At worst, they could take you up on your challenge by getting rid of you and replacing your work with freelancers (or new hires). It has been my experience that nobody is irreplaceable. But only you are in a position to assess your true value. And you have made it clear how you feel. So you should probably just go for it. ** Note: I'm not sure you understand what the word 'literally' actually means. 

Like so many things in business, this can be fixed with some polite but firm communication. Immediately (even if it's a Saturday!) contact the head of HR and clarify if this is another interview request or if it's just a meeting to discuss employment terms like salary/vacation. We know it's because you're afraid they're sending you back for interviews. You'll tell them it's because you want to properly prepare for whatever meeting is coming up. What you don't want to do is: whine, beg, be rude, be unprepared, be surprised, or walk away. You do want to be firm, polite, and flexible. By the way, that's good rules to live by in general, not just for this interview situation. 

I think you should draw a distinction between requesting different interviewers and requesting additional interviewers. You mentioned that your current interviewers are "executives" - are we talking like VP level and C level executives? Because that seems very odd. If it is the case then either your company is very small and they do all the hiring, or someone is going to groom you for a high level management position. If on the other hand you said executive but really meant HR representative, then that's a little different. When I'm going for an in person interview, I insist that the hiring manager be there. I insist that the person who will be responsible for my workload, performance review, and day to day management is present during the interview. The one time I deviated from this rule, I hated my entire tenure at the firm and I won't do it again. However, I would never ask that someone -not- be there. That is definitely rude and also makes it look like you don't play well with others which is not a trait you'd like exposed in the interview process. So if you would like to request that the hiring manager be present so he can make an evaluation, that is a reasonable request. I've made it (politely) and had it be met with warm reception. It's especially relevant when considering that you are responsible for asking them questions and making a decision too. How can you make an informed decision about whether you want to work there if you can't interact with the person who knows more about what you're going to be doing than anyone else? Now this is strictly for an in-person interview. If this was another phone screen that wouldn't matter so much. You might get stuck with many rounds of phone interviews before you get to an in person interview and you aren't really in a position to make such a request there. 

No. During the interview process, you must always clarify your salary. And it only makes sense to understand your role and anything else you think would be important about a company where you might wish to work. You must do all this before accepting an offer. (Accepting via email or handwriting your signature on a piece of paper is immaterial to this process). Next time, learn what you need to about the company first, then accept the offer. As far as your eventually turning down the already-accepted offer, the "rightness" of that decision is one only you can asses. Without knowing a lot more, nobody can know how right that was. 

If you have already concluded that you definitely don't want the job, then it would make perfect sense to contact the company and decline the interview. Most hiring managers would appreciate it that you don't want to waste their time. On the other hand, if you aren't sure, you should attend the interview and make up your own mind about the company, rather than depending on the opinion of others. 

As a non-drinker myself, I've struggled with this. My 21st birthday involved a 24 case of Mountain Dew and 40k honor on WoW (back when that was a lot...) For a long time, I simply went and had pop. I never got any flack for it - turns out, for the most part, adults don't really mind. In time, I found I was a fan of Mike's Hard Lemonade because the alcohol content is low, it tastes kinda like pop anyway, and I didn't mind it. Not that I'd encourage you to give in to peer pressure, but I'd also point out that moderate peer pressure isn't always bad. The best thing, though - be yourself, don't be afraid to stand up, but also don't be afraid to join them. Have a good time! People are very adaptable and for the most part respectful. 

I had the same condition on employment once. I completed my course work and even walked in the ceremony but there was some paperwork that needed to be done somewhere. Not on my end, but still it meant when I walked I got a blank diploma in the folio. To this day, I have still never actually received my degree. It's been 7 years. And no one has ever been like "hey corsiKa, you don't have a piece of paper on your wall. Did you really get your degree?!" Yes, of course I did. And the paper is really meaningless anyway - if someone truly wants to hold your feet to the fire, they'll send for an authorized transcript with your current status. As professionals, we tend to take people at their word for common things like that unless and until it becomes apparent that it might not actually be true.