Interesting question. I may be misunderstanding it but here's one possible answer. In the second-century CE the Buddhist sage Nagarjuna logically proved that nothing really exists. Here the word 'really' would mean 'metaphysically'. Nobody has ever invalidated, falsified or refuted his result. If they ever do they will have falsified the Perennial philosophy, which claims the Unity of All. We find the same argument made in Bradley's Appearance and Reality and in 'Laws of Form by G.S Brown. For a theory in which the Universe is a Unity it is necessary that 'things' do not exist independently or truly and that they are reducible. So yes, lots of people claim that nothing really exists and a few have proved it. Usually it is considered a truth only knowable in experience but logic supports it. This would be why nobody can prove that anything exists, and why existence (as we usually think of it) is paradoxical. It is a difficult idea, but not incomprehensible with a bit of work. 

I'd agree with @mobileink. Science pays no attention to its foundations and endorses unproven metaphysical conjectures. Even if the conjectures happen to be correct this is not a rational or scientific approach. I would not agree that science has ever shown our 'rationalizations to be wrong' where they are, as it were, rational rationalizations. Just as metaphysics cannot contradict science so science cannot contradict metaphysics. Science may choose to endorse a naive materialism but it fails in metaphysics, where rationality and logic count for something. 

I would prefer to phrase the problem using suffering instead of evil. It is a tricky one for those who see evil and suffering as real and believe in a God as here defined. I would call it a contradiction as stated, one that derives immediately from the premises. I feel it shows that a more sophisticated idea of God, evil and suffering is required. These problems only arise for naive or philosophically-unreflective monotheism. They are very useful in helping us to straighten out our ideas and ensure they are rational. Fortunately non-contradictory views of these issues are also available. There is also the problem that you do not define God as creating the Universe, in which case none of it is His fault. 

I haven't read all the answers so forgive me if this is a repetition. Positing a First Cause of any kind causes insurmountable logical problems. The only way around these problems is to adopt the traditional idea of a 'causeless cause'. This refers to the idea of our Origin being causal simply by being what it is, such that there is no original causal action or intention. The idea is far too subtle to explain here and it takes some pondering to grok it. We see this idea in Lao Tsu when he explains the laws of heaven and Earth as following ineluctably 'Tao being what it is' and if you read around Zen you'll find widespread mention of this 'causeless cause'. The moment we say there was an original cause we are in trouble but a causeless cause (once carefully defined) makes sense and allows us to escape from the usual problems. So even with a very loosely defined 'God' as a First Cause the problem is not solved. The problem is with the idea of a First Cause, not with who or what we assign it to. . 

Natural science is all about empiricism, the evidence of our senses. It is therefore extremely limited as to what it can investigate and what data it can collect. To rely on science for our knowledge of the world would be to ignore the fact that we are conscious and therefore perfectly capable of establishing facts that science cannot establish. There are other ways of establishing truth than empiricism, as we know from our own experience. It would be a major and easily-debunked error to imagine that empiricism is the only way to verify 'what is the case'. There is a difference between proof, verification and demonstration. What can be verified cannot always or even very often be demonstrated. Hence there is no demonstrative proof for pain, consciousness, knowing, anger and so on, but verification is easy enough. If we rely on empirical science for our knowledge then we cannot know about these things, yet we do. It is also not just religious folk who believe in empirically untestable ideas. Materialism is a classic, a theory that if it is true cannot be tested by any method whatsoever. 

Your question is a good one but is based on the assumption that events happen. Clearly they do in some sense but is it a metaphysical sense? Some philosophers would say not and that nothing ever really happens. This allows for your static (aspect of the) Universe, as proposed by Parmenides and proved by Nagarjuna. The trick would be a dual-aspect theory by which events both do and do not occur depending on our level of analysis or perception. For Buddhists these are the Conventional and Ultimate aspects. Thus if you ask a mystic whether events happen they are likely to answer 'Yes and no'. This does not answer your question but it suggests that there is a prior question about the reality of events that needs to be asked. 

It might be argued that everyone should be forced to study philosophy to a certain level but as to whether everyone can learn it this is another question. It is clear that the vast majority of professional are unable to do so. What kind of person can learn it? I'd say one who is curious, at least averagely intelligent, scrupulously honest, loves reading and thinking, is a little arrogant, is an iconoclast, has the courage to follow the logic wherever it leads, is good at self-study, is too lazy to study theories that do not work and who is reluctant to go anywhere near a university philosophy course. Age eighteen is not too late, nor is age seventy-eight. Philosophy is like a musical instrument, it's never too late to derive some benefit from studying it. if you mean study to become a professor then eighteen is probably just in time, but if you mean study so that you come to some understanding then the pressure is off and you can start anytime. The former task is enormous, the latter more manageable. For me it was age fifty, so plenty of time yet. 

This may not be an answer but it seems to be relevant. In metaphysics our ideas of space-time as either 'grainy' or continuous do not work. They both give rise to contradictions. Thus metaphysicians who take a naively-realistic view of space-time encounter endless problems, many of which are equally problems in the foundation of mathematics (Russell's Paradox in particular is a major problem). These problems in metaphysics and the foundations of mathematics can be solved, but only by abandoning our usual notion of extension and existence. Thus questions such as this one tend to be left unanswered. The question is whether the paradoxes mentioned would imply that space-time is quantised but this ignores the other set of paradoxes that would imply it is continuous. Paradoxes arise for both views and this is why the argument is ongoing. To transcend this dilemma would require the same strategy as is required by all metaphysical dilemmas, which would be to reduce or 'sublate' the distinctions on which they depend. The problem is that to do this requires the adoption of a 'doctrine of the mean' in respect of metaphysical problems, and immediately we find ourselves in the 'Land of Woo'. aka the nondual doctrine of the mystics, for which extended space-time would be conceptual and should not be reified. This is the solution favoured by the Professors of Unreason in Samuel Butler's Erewhon, who argue that the 'illogical mean' is better than the absurdity of the extremes. Because this view is sometimes considered 'unscientific' (for some reason) it is not much discussed in relation to questions such as this one, but if we address it head-on we have no choice but to consider it. If both continuous and quantised space-time cause logical contradictions then we must either scratch our heads for the rest of time or investigate a third option. If we see the question as being strictly mathematical then we will find all sots of work-arounds for these paradoxes that work well enough, the calculus etc., but they are not helpful in metaphysics where the structure of space-time is an ancient dilemma yet to be solved. It is solved elsewhere, was long ago, but not everyone is interested in the Perennial philosophy so it is often believed that there is no solution and that 'grainy-continuous' is just another undecidable metaphysical question. 

Hmm. You seem to be asking whether there is any fact of the matter as to whether there is any fact of the matter. In the comments 'I ruth' makes a good point. Your question is subtle though, for although there must be 'facts of the matter' it wouldn't follow that we can describe them. If you read the wisdom literature you'll see that that although there are facts of the matter it is a devilish job to describe them, and at the limit it is said to be impossible. Lao Tsu says 'true words seem paradoxical' and this would be of direct relevance to your question. The problem is Russell's observation that our words almost always have metaphysical implications. So 'The cat sat on the mat' implies 'There exists a cat and a mat such that...'. It is the implied existential claim that causes the problem, since we cannot thoughtlessly reify the cat and the mat. For Kant they would be reducible phenomena, and we'd have to say 'It appears to me that the cat is on the mat'. Heraclitus would have said 'The cat is and is-not on the mat', and this would be the fact of the matter. 

I find this a poor argument against Materialism. If Materialism is true then ethics is a matter of taste and social convenience and we can each have our own views on how we should act and behave. The Achilles Heel of Materialism is not that it causes social problems or explains nothing since it may yet be true. The real problem is that it doesn't survive analysis. If it is true despite this then how we respond to injustice and what we class as injustice are pragmatic and personal judgements having no long-term consequence. We may not like this idea but it's not an argument against Materialism. However, it may be an argument against assuming the truth of Materialism. It might be turned into a stronger counter-argument if it were expanded to say that Materialism is useless using your example as a case in point. Uselessness is usually considered a telling objection to theories. Because it is useless it makes no difference to science whether Materialism is true or false, but while it may be suggestive its uselessness is not a final argument against it. A solid counter-argument would require that we show that Materialism gives rise to fatal contradictions. This is usually enough to dispose of a metaphysical theory, albeit that Materialism seems to be an exception to this rule due to its role as a safe refuge from religion and mysticism. If nobody is obligated to respond to demands for justice this is not an argument against Materialism but just a simple fact. A successful reductio argument could only be made in metaphysics using formal terms and logical processes in the manner of Aristotle. 

What Francis Bradley calls 'commonplace' Christianity is very unlike Taoism. To see their similarity, some would say equivalence, one would have to compare the nondual form of Christianity, ('classical' or 'gnostic' Christianity' (lower-case 'g')) of such people as Eckhart, de Cusa, David Bentley Hart. Keith Ward et al, with philosophical Taoists like Lao Tsu and Chuang Tsu. The later 'religious' Taoism that developed some 500 years after Lao Tsu, with its Heaven and Hell, Gods and angels etc., might seem rather like ordinary dogmatic Christianity, but where Taoist writers explicitly endorse the teachings of Jesus it is the esoteric Jesus of the Gospel of Thomas, not the Jesus of the Church of England and the Protestants. I have a book here somewhere here by a Taoist writer who uses Jesus as a model throughout and refers constantly to his teachings and stresses that Taoism is the path to becoming a True Man, thus to achieve what Jesus achieved. This would be the esoteric teaching, that our goal should be to emulate Jesus and find Truth, Reality and Immortality. If I can find the book I'll post a reference but at present it's hiding somewhere. The complication would be the various forms of Christianity and the two main types of Taoism. But if we read A Course in Miracles, The Mystical Theology or de Cusa's On the Vision of God, it is not difficult to see the connection with Taoism. We see that de Cusa states that God 'move and moves not, rests and rests not, is and is-not', and so forth, while Lao Tsu tells us 'True words seem paradoxical'. This is not a coincidence but evidence of a shared truth. The topic is vast. To see the close connection between Christianity and Taoism it would be necessary to have some understanding of the principle of nonduality, and this is not something that can be acquired quickly and easily. Or not unless one has a sudden revelation. 

It would be impossible to refute or falsify the reality of Nirvana or Moksha in any other way than in ones own experience. Nozick's idea is not relevant to the issue. His machine would ensure that it's users never discover true happiness, the cessation of suffering or deathlessness. They would be modern lotus-eaters lost in their sensations and emotions. Note that for Buddhists most of our notions of pleasure would be classed as suffering. I suspect that if you were to expand your question by closely defining Nirvana and Moksha it would answer itself. 

Nagarjuna can be made very complicated but it is not necessary to do so. He proves that nothing really exists or ever really happens. This puts paid to almost all conceptions of God. The world would be a Unity such that all distinctions and divisions would be reducible. If there is a God, therefore, then we are Him. In other words, by reduction there is no 'we'. Nagarjuna gives a strong argument against God, the strongest I know of. Definitions matter here, but no self-respecting monotheist is a fan of Nagarjuna. As for the 'First Cause', Zen speak of the 'causeless-cause', indicating the subtlety of Nagarjuna's view. Lao Tsu explains that the issue we need to grasp is identity, not relations. The laws of Heaven and Earth would be as they are 'Tao being what it is'. These are extremely difficult issues that require considerable thought and it is not possible to do them justice here. I would recommend a quite brief and simple introduction to Nagarjuna, The Sun of Wisdom by Khenpo Tsultrum Gyamptso, (Wisdom Books) Most introductions are hopelessly over-complicated. Or you could have a look at Rhadakrishnan's Philosophy of the Upanishads. It makes me laugh that all the best arguments against God are found in religion, and that atheists can only appeal to weak arguments because they don't know the strong ones. There is a certain irony... The problem stems from assuming that religion is always theism, but it's very difficult to stop people with a Western upbringing making this assumption.