The quantum mechanics distinction is not between "global" variables and "local" variables, but rather between "distant" variables and "local" variables. Bell's inequality proves that quantum effects cannot be accounted for by locally acting variables not yet understood. Because "entangled" particle pairs share quantum effects (I am mangling the quantum mechanics description a bit for brevity) at a distance (farther than a light speed message can travel in the time under consideration - what Einstein called "spooky action at a distance") in ways that cannot be predicted except in a general statistical manner we are left with no ability to specifically predict the behavior of the entangled particles, nor can we expect that the unpredictability is due to current ignorance of some effect that will surface in the future (no hidden local variables). This lack of predictability does not appear to me to relate in a meaningful way to what I understand to be the issue in determinism - namely, does will have a role in determining the future. The fact that we cannot predict an outcome does not lend any support to a thesis that outcomes are determined by will. Casual readers are often led astray by the terminology used in quantum mechanics. Terms such as "observer" and "measurement" appear to open the door to will having a causal role, but that is misusing the terms - in no way do these terms imply willful control of outcomes, they only specify times when unpredictable outcomes might become known. 

I would tend to characterize Machiavelli as 'amoral' rather than 'immoral'. One must be careful to specifically indicate whether one is assessing the ethical character of an historical person retroactively with modern ethical meanings or with the ethical meanings of time. My understanding of Machiavelli is that he advises a ruler to be utterly pragmatic, because the ruler cannot afford the luxury of ethical equivocation without putting at risk the very power that enables and supports the ruler in their position. Such a deliberate blindness to ethical limitations would be "amoral". 

It is incorrect to assume that a belief that some things in the universe are designed necessarily implies a belief in a Designer. According to some (see Daniel Dennett's "Darwin's Dangerous Idea" as an example) evolution provides an automated process of design that does not require any oversight. So it does not follow that a belief that there is purpose and intent (taken to be expressed in designed features) requires a belief in in a "Designer." On this account, evolution automatically drives a process of design for the "purpose" of making creatures better able to survive and reproduce themselves. Thus one can believe in design and not be a theist or pantheist in any recognizable sense. 

I believe that the nearest one can get to an argument against solipsism is that it is hard to account for a deep sense of either surprise or mystery when dealing with others if they are a creation of one's own mind. One may, of course argue (as the creationists do about evidence for evolution) that things were arranged so as to permit surprise - but the further you pursue that line of reasoning the thinner the sense of substance to the stance gets. One eventually arrives at the point where the stance has no explanatory power because of all of the extraordinary wherefores and whereas's which must be included to keep the solipsist stance meaningful. 

missing the point is proving something different than what was sought. false cause is asserting a predecessor statement that is not required to arrive at the desired conclusion. 

I am not sure if this is the right place to ask, but I think I can give you an answer to this question. Some details First of all, Visual Studio is an IDE (Integrated Development Environment) which costs money, the programming languages are actually free. For example, VS is often used for C# development, but you can just install csc.exe without needing visual studio. Programming languages are almost always free to use, the tools are often not-free, but you can find free IDEs for most popular programming languages. In addition, you don't need to use an IDE, I have used notepad when I was on a machine that did not have an IDE and I quickly had to test something. Something to keep in mind is that when a programming language is NOT free to use, it means that the compiler is not free to use. The benefit of a free programming language First of all, when your programming language is free to use, which essentially just means the compiler / interpreter is free to use, it is easier to have a wider adoption of your programming language. You can then earn money from selling an accompanying IDE. But take note that even in this case, people do not NEED to use your IDE. You'll have to provide a good reason for them to choose your IDE, and free IDEs often get a plugin for your language. (Look at how Eclipse started supporting more and more languages). The benefit of an OpenSource Programming Language This is something different than the previous question and what I actually think you are trying to say. When a programming language is open-sourced, it means that the community can contribute to the language and you get the advantage of a lot of passionate people helping to build a great tool. This way, people who like your programming language because it has some features they like or because it is popular in a certain domain, will contribute back to the language and it will keep becomming better. Or at least, it will evolve. Currently, because a lot of languages are already OpenSource, some people might really like 95% of the language but 5% they think should be different. It's "easy" to build your own language based on the already existing OpenSource language, but can have the restriction that you are free to adapt the language BUT, every adapted languages needs to be OpenSourced as well. This is a way for the 'original' language to ensure that no one will release a commercial version of the programming language. And why do people do this initially? I think there are subjective reasons here. I prefer to share my code and make it open source, because I believe that first of all other people might benefit more form it than I will. Secondly, I think that code should be like mathematics and should be 'public knowledge'. But this is personal. And why do people contribute to OSS projects? Well, once again, this is personal, but when I contribute to OSS projects I do so because I like the project and I enjoy programming. It can just be fun to solve some challenging problems on big software, it's like a hobby. after writing this, I see this really has nothing to do with philosophy and the question should probably be moved to an appropriate SE site 

As the title states, what would some of the implications be if mathematics was discovered (as opposed to invented?). If it is discovered to be an innate property of our universe then I assume this can have consequences for how we view our universe and the study of physics. As an aside, what are some good resources that deal with mathematics from a philosophical point of view? (Note that I am not asking if mathematics is discovered or invented, but just implications if we assume that it is, in fact, discovered). 

The probability distribution for a real coin is synthetic (i.e for a given, real coin, it can only be known empirically). The probability distribution for a theoretical coin is analytic (or a priori): I.e. it can be derived from the stipulated state probabilities. The theory that relates the mathematical distribution to the actual empirical distribution of the coin is what Kant called synthetic a priori. I.e., synthetic truths about the empirical world that come to us a priori. He stipulated this third option to account for Newtonian mechanics. If you don’t accept Kant’s third option, then the relationship between the theoretical and empirical should be regarded as empirical—i.e. the connection itself between the mathematical and empirical can only be known empirically. Conceptually, this is just a restatement of the experimental requirement of science. I.e., while the mathematical equations in science might be derived analytically, to know that they are true, we still have to go out into the real world and experimentally test them. 

It's probable that no scientific theory will ever imply free will. This is because our concept of free will appears to be impossible to articulate. And the simple lack of determinism does not satisfy our intuitive sense of free will. Take for example completely non-deterministic random behavior: suppose my arm started behaving randomly, swinging this way and that with no dependency on any antecedent cause (and uncaused by me). I would hardly want to call that free will--especially since I have no control over it! So it seems that free will is something else, or at least something in addition to a lack of determinism. 

There is no such thing as the scientific method. Axioms exist within theories and are called postulates. However, they don't typically translate across theories. Ochman's Razor is not an axiom or postulate, but rather a guideline for pick what theory to believe when you have two or more competing theories that explain the data equally well. 

My first impression is that Dawkins is equating genetic code with personal identity. His first statement: 

1) Lack of data 2) Intrinsic bias/world view/Weltanschauung 3) Disagreement of the interpretation of data 4) Disagreement over the experimental methods by which that data were collected 5) Disagreement over what data to use (often different sets of data will support different conclusions) 6) Disagreement over the analysis used Just to name a few. 

Locke, who was born 50 years before Berkeley, was an empiricist and maintained that all knowledge (and ideas) come to us through our experience of the physical world. He was specifically interested in denying the rationalist view that knowledge and ideas come from within (a priori knowledge). Berkeley, on the other hand, held a position referred to as subjective idealism, which not only claims that ideas come from within but actually denies the existence of an external material world. 

First, the problem of free will might be the most difficult problem in philosophy. Mixing it with quantum mechanics hardly helps. Second, I think the simple answer is that quantum mechanics does not imply free will. The word 'imply' is probably too strong here. What quantum mechanics does do for the cause to imply that determinism is false. A couple points: 

Newtonian Mechanics on Kant. Quantum mechanics, specifically the measurement problem, on modern philosophy's concept of ontology and epistemology. Computer science on philosophy of mind. 

Nagel does not offer an answer; he only points out how difficult and profound the question is. And it doesn't seem like simply connecting DNA to self will suffice.