I am trying to figure out the geological effects that would happen if earths upper mantle was drained of heat. I am sure there are many ways that this could happen but the method that I am asking about is a species of titanic eldrich abomination like creatures that exist across multiple dimensions. They infect planets much like a virus infects a cell growing and spreading inside of the mantle until it is drained and then bursting out to move on. While growing they absorb the surrounding heat which is passed to parts of their body in another dimension thus draining heat from the mantle of the planet. They do not act quickly enough to be visible in a human lifetime but over the course of thousands of years the temprature drop should be very noticable and would likely have some effects on the crust. One other thing to note is that this earth like planet is technically a moon (one of three) orbitting a large planet. Their will be various and stronger tidal forces acting on the planet than happens on Earth though none of them too extreme. 

If you are willing to handwaive away the issue of storing the chemicals and making sure it stays cold, you could freeze areas of skin via the use of liquid nitrogen. I'm envisioning one of the following. 

As your speedster is activating powers 0(human)-100%(86400x), just slow down time by that much. You don't need to slam your fingers as hard as you possibly can while typing. I don't see any reason why this power would be treated any differently than using a muscle. Now that is not to say that using the speed muscle exerts effort (my heart is pumping blood and that costs me no effort). With that being said, some psychological effects of such a power would be... 

If you want to focus more on the psychology of having the speed power, your speedster should be able to use the power (both movement/speed perception) in a similar way that you use your muscles. 

You always win!: Your speedster can play almost any skill game and either be amazing (playing FPS/ any traditional sport/martial arts) or cheat to victory (playing poker and peeking at opponents hands/move an opponents darts midair if playing darts/get the answers to test by running around a room) etc... This might contribute to confidence in many social events such as bars, carnivals, street pickup games allowing your speedster to shine in many areas while putting in a lot less effort than normal folk. Ring of Gyges: There is an argument to be made that your speedster might have to deal with a lot of moral issues. Assuming your speedster is the only one she can steal, kill, commit petty acts such as putting individuals in awkward position (trip/draw on someone's face/undress a coworker at work until they are fired) without impunity. She couldn't even be perceived. Having the speed ability is a burden or a vice. Dealing with the cost of time: Your speedster can interact with many people face to face with basically no lag time in terms of getting to an individual. Your speedster has also had a life where most of the time she can ask herself "Oh if I want X task to be done, I'll just do it really quickly and I still have my whole day ahead of me". Cleaning/traveling/maintenance/possibly her job can all be optimized by going faster. It might be frustrating that hanging out with people consumes so much of her time when she can be doing other things. Consider going out on a date to the movies. She is probably accustomed to speeding up all movies and then perceives everything normally at relative speed so she can watch an entire movie in seconds. NOW when she goes on a date to the movies it's a huge time sink. In this way the power makes her very selective of the people/places/events she interacts with and perhaps even a bit impatient. Even hanging out with someone that speaks to slow can be a huge burden of time on the speedster. Anxiety/Guilt: Just because she can think faster does not make her think better. There may be some circumstances where she sees a problem, but is helpless to solve it. Panicking while the world is in slow motion. Worse yet, a circumstance where she could have solved the problem but only thought of the way in hindsight. For instance, if in the speedster's past a helicopter fell nearby her and only after it fell to the ground exploding she realizes she could have spun her hands real fast and lowered the helicopter to the ground slowly. Or perhaps some sort of Gwen Stacy situation Food: OK so here's how she should eat. She will typically eat a cheeseburger when she is hungry 3 * a day (cheeseburger is example, substitute for meals). So that is 1 cheeseburger every 28800 seconds. Every day she goes into super speed mode, run the following calculation (keep adding while doing it per day)=> **(relative seconds spent in speed * power level (0%-100%) * 86400) ** Whenever she breaks 28800 that's another cheeseburger she needs to eat. example 60 seconds * 100% power * 86400 = 5184000 => 5184000/28800 = 180 cheeseburgers consumed that day. She may need to eat a lot depending on power usage. There could be some social pressure to not eat around others. Your speedster could be seen to pig out all the time yet never gain any weight. Might cause suspicion rumors or contempt to arise. Self taught: Literally no one can keep up with your speedster. Even if the person knows a wealth of knowledge, the best thing a teacher can do is to just throw books at your speedster. Your speedster probably knows an insane amount of information at subjects she is interested in. The rate of speed that she can acquire info will quickly allow her to become a specialist in any field she desires. 

The idea behind the first two is not to make it impossible for them to read the message but rather make it easier for them to ignore. Due to cross-breading there would be a small number of demi-cats with human eyes that could understand these signs. Rumours and gossip would probably spread about what these signs say but my thoughts are a lot would not want to talk about it, and children especially might just not know they say anything. The first part of my question is it reasonable for signs to exist in this manner but for people to not know what they say? And would making signs in this manner be an effective way of reducing unrest? The second part of my question is how hard would it be for people to simulate what the other sees? This society is similar technologically to our own but access to computers is extremely limited (only upper class humans would have transportable computers). From what I've found lenses can simulate or give colourblind a glimpse of full colour (EnChroma lenses). But I'm not sure how hard these would be to make and if these would be widely available to a low income environment. On the other side from what I've found it seems computers are needed if you want to see what a colourblind person sees. I have seen a few people asking if it is possible for lenses to turn things grey scale but it seems impossible. 

My answer may be a cheat if relative time does not count... Well, unless the aliens have vats of Handwavium (RonJohn) or containers of unobtainium(D.J. Klomp) to make the problem away, I don't think they could speed up evolution in any meaningful way without a lot of direct intervention over time. Although it seems from your question that the aliens don't want to do a lot of effort, but still see how things will happen over time. One way that your group of aliens could see a planet evolve however, is for the aliens to go really really fast. If the aliens have access to advanced enough technology (I'm assuming they are flying around in star trek like ships discovering planets and such) the aliens don't need any chemicals to see the evolution. They merely need to abuse time dilation. So we want to turn 100 relative alien years into 100000 years or in other words, speed up time by 1000 times. This would allow your aliens to speed up the relative time of evolution and be controlled. So say for instance the aliens observe the planet, try a few different experiments, expose some bacteria to different radiation etc, then leave. Fly away for a x years, see what happens, and then play more with the evolution each and every time. There isn't really one chemical that will speed evolution up (to my feeble meatbag brain), but if your aliens played with the environment or did some artificial selection every hundreds or thousands of years it could definitely make for an interesting playground that would change how things evolved. HOW FAST TO DILATE BY 1000 TIMES THOUGH? Roughly 299792.30812 kilometers a second or 99.999950005413% the speed of light There's some interest info about the topic here I used a tool located here to assist in the calculation 

Your people would have adaptations similar to the Sherpa who live at high altitude in Nepal. There are numerous studies of their adaptations, here is a review of the studies and their findings. Some highlights are increased blood flow, more oxygen-carrying capacity in the blood, stronger hearts, and larger chests. A more complete summary is below: 

Climate Depends on several things, if we are sticking with the Earth-Sun system then the Earth will get much hotter since it will receive more the solar energy than it gets now. Probably pretty bad for the majority of life on earth but Antarctica could be a nice place to live at least. Now, this is assuming nothing is done to alter the Earth. If we are talking moving planets then altering the atmosphere is easy. Removing the greenhouse gasses is one step that could preserve the earth because without them the earth would be very cold. With a faster rotation expect winds to be very different, again hard to say directly but expect them to be moving faster. The Coriolis Effect will play a much larger part in the weather than it does here on earth. A combination of more winds and higher temp extremes probably will cause superstorms. Probably still habitable, just much hotter. For example the solar system inner limit may be as low as .5 AU. 

Genetic Engineering is Common A possible reason for your universe could be that your humans are especially advanced at genetic engineering in comparison to other sciences. If your humans commonly use genetic engineering as part of every day society (designer babies, counter diseases etc.) then the idea of genetically engineering a subspecies specifically for water environments is just an extension of what they do every day. 

For a world I am working on humans managed to create a race of demi-human cat people. These people where tradionality treated as slaves/property but have in recent times been gaining some degree of freedom. Slavery has not been outlawed and there still exists large numbers of slaves many of who live in very poor conditions. However many have moved to become indentured servents, bonded labourers, 2nd class citizens or even just better treated slaves. This has created a lot of low income ghetos which are primarily dominated by the demi-cats. What I am trying to figure out is how cats having different eyesight could be used in this story. From what I've found cats are red/green colourblind, they also have trouble seeing far away objects. Mostly I see this being used in different aspects of art or in advertising/signage. For example: 

First Question:Yes, as Samuel and RonJon points out, Io is a moon orbiting a gas giant that is tidally locked to a gas giant Jupiter. Second Question: As for the effects to the moon that is tidally locked (like Io is to Jupiter). As far as I can tell, heat! Neil Degrasse Tyson wrote a piece about Tidal Forces which are responsible for Tidal Locking and should shed some light on what we can expect as side effects. 

For more conversions (if your aliens want to speed up time in a different manner) here is a handy chart to show you Percent Speed of Light and how many days/years that would be if you spent 1 day going at that percent speed. For example 0.99999999999999 c, for every day on board the alien ship, 19380.535 years have passed on the planet. 

Grand Absorber needs fuel: Grand Absorber can absorb another item to acquire new effects OR you can use it to gain more magical fuel to power the magic the Grand Absorber already has access to Grand Absorber has limited versatility: Grand Absorber can only remember a few spells or one spell at a time or only the most few recent spells absorbed or Grand Absorber memory is bounded by tiers of magic it is storing. Grand Absorber time limit: After your Grand Absorber has eaten a new item, there is only a limited number of time (you can spam a spell 24/7 for a month for example) or the spell can only be cast X number of times Grand Absorber is intelligent and greedy: Grand Absorber isn't too fond of freely handing you a crap ton of magic that it has absorbed. You're going to need to pay a price (this could be anything from your memories/gold/lives of loved ones) as tribute if you wish to use the magic Grand Absorber is TYPE limited: Your Grand Absorber can only take in spells of certain schools at a time. For instance your Grand Absorber can only eat magical items that are part of the evocation school. If a user wants to store a new type of magic (like swapping to abjuration/transmutation), the user has to drop all the spells the Grand Absorber uses. 

You aren't as safe as you think Other properties of the ship The combustion chamber need not be made of any sort of imagined material. Conditions in today's rocket nozzles readily exceed the material properties of the nozzle, so measures are taken to protect them. Cooling is the biggest, some use the cryogenic fuels through the nozzles as a preheat, others use a stream of fuel to form a layer between the combustion and the nozzle. The same could be done with the nuclear fire of a torch ship. The plasma in a test fusion reactor is contained in powerful magnetic fields and kept away from the walls of the container. The same could be done with the torch ship, stand off the reaction from the walls of the chamber, add some radiation shielding and a cooling system and you are all set. Beam Weapons (To include directed energy) A beam of charged particles could easily wreak havoc on the nuclear reaction, admittedly it would be challenging to ram through the exhaust stream, but focused enough and it could get through. Adding alpha partilces to a fusion reaction could snuff it out or cause a runaway reaction. Beta Particles could cause issues as well by changing the charge of the plasma. The effectiveness of this depends on the magnitude of the magnetic containment and its polarization. A beam of neutrons could also cause issues, interfering with the reaction and adding a ton of extra energy to the chamber as they decay. Heavier Ions will also interfere with the reaction and do physical damage to the containment chamber. Pick your wavlength of the laser, and dump plenty of power into it. Depending on the content of the reaction some wavelengths may pass right through it and damage the walls of containment. I'm thinking gamma radion of a magnitude that exceeds the design of the torch ship. Likewise, some wavelengths may be absorbed by the reaction and exceed the design of the ship, I'd guess microwaves. Results may vary, ask your lead engineer if you have questions Kenetic Weapons Relevant XKCD Comic. Moving fast enough and your kinetic projectile will be unaffected by the nuclear fire. If the contact with the heat is brief then the projectile won't have time to vaporize/ablate away. I'll see if I can apply some thermodynamics to it later on. Also, even if you manage to vaporize it, now you've got a cloud of vapor with the energy of the projectile moving towards you. Explosives Getting them into the chamber is the main issue. Get through the exhaust stream and your payload will do its job. 

use glass arrowhead to contain the liquid and have them shatter on contact spraying the liquid nitrogen on the enemy use a hollow metal arrowhead that contains the liquid and have a small explosion on contact that will spread the liquid nitrogen onto the enemy. 

Closer the moon is to the planet -> MORE HEAT Smaller the moon, the more the gas giant will affect the moon via gravity -> MORE HEAT 

Magical Silk Harvest the silk from Glarnakian spiders. By placing the spiders upon your wings before battle, the spiders will weave an intricate netting of silk to block all arrows from piercing through. Due to the lightweight materials, you shouldn't have a problem maintaining flight while also blocking projectiles. 

Although, Pliny the elder wrote that it may give you magic powers, but that has yet to be determined 

blurred vision in the affected eye poor, dim, or double vision in the affected eye oblong shape of one or all additional pupils issues with glare a bridge of iris tissue between the pupils 

Not for a very long time Energy is not a good form of currency because it is everywhere and it is very easy to get more. Aluminum used to be more valuable than gold, now it's used as foil and thrown out by the ton. Its abundance has made it nearly worthless (compared to gold). In order for energy to have significant value, it would need to be very scarce, especially since a kilocalorie is not much energy at all. Energy may be a currency if a society survives until the Heat Death of the universe. In the far far far future energy in the universe will become very scarce. The expanding universe will rob the universe of energy and what remains will be spread so far and thin as to be essentially nonexistent. In this time there will be no stars that shine, nor radioactive elements to derive energy from. The only source of energy will come from the Hawking Radiation from supermassive black holes. Their energy will be the most valuable thing left in the cold dark universe because without it nothing could occur and thuse its value preiceless.