Very useful information from Margus regarding the detailed assembly of the Sussex shaft drive. I wasn't aware the tube and end assemblies were fastened with an adhesive. I thought they were a press fit or threaded. Maybe it would be possible to drill & tap the end pieces, and fit some set screws to secure the pieces. I had cause to dismantle the front gear box which seemed to be noisy....that was only partly the problem. The main problem was actually a faulty pedal bearing, but there was some noise from the gear assembly due to incorrect lubrication. The gear box had been assembled with grease & not gear oil,when filled with EP gear oil it was noise free. There are no effective oil seals on the spindle so it tends to leak through the crank bearings....I just overfilled it & eventually it found the correct level, and I just put an occasional shot of oil in the filler hole. The rear gear assembly needs a regular application of grease otherwise it starts to become quite noisy & rough. Apart from these issues it is still working fine. I got an almost complete spare shaft drive assembly from the XDS Australia importer. There were a couple of missing parts but I was able to purchase these from Dynamic Bicycles USA (Patrick Perugini). They were still holding spare parts for the range of Dynamic bikes they used to sell, probably the only source of parts for these transmission systems. Sussex Technologies left Taiwan and went to China operating as Sussex Goodman (Taichang), part of Goodman Machinery Company. They did respond to emails for a while and then disappeared (d.xu@g-d-m.cn). XDS stopped offering their range of shaft drive bikes, which they listed as XDS Direct Drive so I assume the transmission systems became unavailable. XDS Australia no longer list the range of bikes, they were products handled by Lifespan International and sold on eBay. Maybe they still have some stock if anyone is interested. They are very interesting pieces of machinery. 

I recently destroyed the clasp on my pair of Fox Head Demo shorts while riding this weekend (don't worry, I'm OK). Do cycling clothing brands/companies offer any sort of warranty on their clothing for something like this? I am specifically interested in clothing intended for more extreme use like downhill where it should hold up. 

As usual, these all depend on the specifics of the wheel, the bike, and the rider and how all three interact. If your looking at dropping whole pounds by switching equipment I'd do it, but if it's just to save 50g, then it's probably not worth it. 

If you plan on doing slopestyle/dirt jumping, you'll want at least front suspension in the range of 80-120mm (80-100mm being preferred) and no rear suspension. With larger slopestyle type jumps you may want a full suspension bike, but it's not worth it when you are just learning. On the other hand, if you are looking at doing more street BMX and park style riding, you can get away with a rigid fork, but a suspension fork wouldn't be unusual here either. For gearing, most dirt jumpers and street riders ride single speed and just vary the ring/cog sizes as needed to suit their pedaling needs. As for brand, I would say Schnell, but neither of those brands look like they make a good trick-related bike. I would spend some time researching Dirt Jump/Slopestyle bikes, you can get one for the same price new or used and it will fit your purpose much better. 

It's fairly simple; to stop effectively, you need to apply the two controls in a different manner. When you start braking, you have a given amount of weight on the front and rear wheels. As you apply the brakes, the deceleration shifts weight from the rear wheels to the front wheels, which gives more traction at the front, and less traction at the rear. More traction at the front means that you can apply the brakes more there, less traction at the rear means that you need to reduce the power on the rear brake. When I used to teach motorcycle safety, we would say "progressive squeeze on the front brake, light to lighter pressure on the rear". 

There likely isn't much difference in performance. Some people do find that SPD cleats lead to "hot spots" (painful spots) on the balls of the feet; that's why I went to SPD-SLs. You might find a difference in platform height; IIRC the height of the SPD cleats + pedals is shorter than the SPD-SL. You'd want to adjust your seat height to deal with that. 

I'll typically go a couple of hours between stops. I like to have enough food so I don't have to depend on food stops for anything (assuming it's an organized ride). I try not to carry too much clothing; I'd rather be a little cold at the start than carry a lot of extra clothing. I may wear a thin vest that collapses into a small package so it can be stuffed into a jersey pocket. 

Update...I have now covered about 10,000km on my XDS shaft drive bike in about 2 years with no problems. No evidence of wear was visible when the drive system was recently dismantled & no unusual noise or play in the system. Everything working just fine so I'd say the long term prospects are good.The front bevel gear system is sealed & runs in EP transmission oil, the rear gears are enclosed & coated in EP grease.....the bike is now fitted with sealed Shimano Roller Brakes....the Nexus 8 speed hubgear is also a sealed unit....a low maintenance bike & very easy to live with. I totally agree that the proprietary components would be close to impossible to source, these are the frame and the shaft drive system. I do have access to a complete spare shaft drive system which is a plus.....but I think that part could be the most durable part of the bike. All the other bike parts are readily available standard components so not an issue at all. In fact they could be used to construct a conventional chain drive hubgear bike with an appropriate frame. It seems the opportunity to purchase these bikes has almost gone.....I believe they are no longer in production. Sussex Enterprises Taiwan manufactured the drive systems, moved to China & later disappeared. Dynamic Bicycles USA, a main player in this area no longer manufactures or sells this type of bike. Not sure about XDS, maybe just selling existing stock. I'm pleased with my purchase....it wasn't a big investment but it exceeded my expectations for recreational use. 

Unicycling is such a niche thing that I doubt you're going to get much in the way of scientific results saying any improvement in riding skills, but I'll give it a shot. Since there are such things as mountain unicycles, you can certainly improve your skills! Balance, cornering, and trail sense (knowing what to do on what terrain) are common skills no matter how you ride. Things will be a little different in regards to bike handling, managing the front wheel, and jumps. If you're looking to do it expressly to improve on your mountain bike skills, I would recommend sticking to the two-wheel variety. Now, if you've got an arm injury or something like that, then it would be a good alternative to at least do something. *Personal note: most folks think unicycling/cyclists look ridiculous and you will get laughed at more often than not (if not always to your face). So if you can handle that too, then go for it! 

Other than that, I strongly recommend alerting whatever trail maintenance person/body is responsible to have the tree removed. 

In my experience, it depends on how much has actually changed. Usually the lower quality groups (Shimana Alivio/Deore, SRAM X5/X7) don't change too much because they are very similar to the OEM parts. However, the more expensive groupsets incorporate the trickle down method you mention. Things like clutch derailleurs are becoming available in the middle price ranges versus the top tier. Adding something like that will greatly decrease the previous year's model, while increasing the new one's. Most of the time though, it's like a car. As soon as you drive it off the lot, the value drops. Even if it's brand new, as soon as the next year rolls around it's lost value. Marketing and hype are what sell product and new product is always pushed first. 

MTBR.com does a big review of lights every year; here is the one for 2015. They have a ton of useful information. 

Tubular tires are very common in cyclecross; their construction and the way they mount to the rim make it possible to run a lower tire pressure. 

Your options to reduce the force on your knees are to reduce bike + rider weight or get lower gearing. If you have a standard road bike cassette, there are climbing cassettes that will reduce the gearing slightly (around 10% or so). Is it dangerous to your knees? Well, that depends on your personal physiology, how much force you are pushing, how much to you have trained for this, and how well your bike fits you. If you can do this without your knees hurting, you are probably fine. You might also consider standing up; this changes the mechanics a bit and mixes things up. When you stand up, make sure you slow down or you will spike your heart rate. Welcome to the steeps! 

You don't mention where you get your calories burn/hour rate, but 800 cal/hour is a very fast ride. 800 cal/hour would be around 220 watts, and that's a lot for 6 hours. When you are riding, some of your energy is coming from carbohydrate metabolism, and some is coming from fat metabolism. The ratio between the two depends upon how hard you are riding, your personal fitness level, what kind of training you have done, and your genetics. If you are riding at your limit, you are burning a lot of carbs, if you are just spinning along, you aren't burning that many. On a 6-hour ride, a decent guess at your ratio is something like 75% fat / 25% carbs. You don't have to try to replace the fat when you ride since we all have stored fat, so you merely need to replace the carbs. If you were burning 800 cal/hour, that would mean that you would need to replace around 200 calories of carbs/hour. You don't need sugar to replace carbohydrates; any simple or complex carb will work, assuming that you tolerate it well. What somebody can tolerate depends a lot on their genetics and effort level; if you are riding hard, you might have to try a few things to find something that works. 

Check out Chrome Industries, they make a lot of commuter apparel and have a whole line of clip and non-clip shoes. I'm not sure how dressy you need, but these might work for you. Plus if you ever decided to go with clipless pedals you'll have shoes! 

Full suspension will not, by itself, prevent pinch flats. Since pinch flats are something that occur from the way the tire and tube move in regards to the rim, adding suspension won't change that. Now, adding suspension could move some of the pressure forward, depending on the pivots are arranged. If you're riding at 40psi on a 2.10 tire, you should be fine on just dirt roads; however, if you hit a really nice square edged pot hot at that speed you're probably going to flat on either type of bike. Preventing pinch flats is usually more about tire pressure and deformation of the tire than anything else. 

Manufacturer: Contact the manufacturer, in this case Cannondale, and see if they have any sticker sheets available. Sometimes they'll have old stock, but more often they only have the last few years. 3rd Party: Look for someone selling sticker sheets or vintage logo sheets. Sometimes they may have one but not advertise it because it's not popular. Custom/Make your own: Definitely the most time consuming option, but if you have a decent photo or reference, you can recreate the logo in your design studio of choice (Inkscape, Illustrator, etc.). Or, you can find someone to make some for you. 

There are lots of different field tests approaches. I've been using the Carmichael one (two 9-minute full out TTs with a cooldown between them). 

Genetics Amount of training Type of training (if you train only for long periods, your ability to work hard at a high intensity will be low, for example). Recent training history (if you've trained a lot, you will have accumulated fatigue) Recent stress history Recent health or sickness Current mental state 

Is the cleat tight on the shoe? If it can rotate at all, you won't be able to clip out. Are you rotating your foot outwards to unclip? When I first got my clipless I tried to rotate in, and that doesn't work too well. 

I doubt you will find a way to do this; it would require a shoe with a pretty deep sole to recess the cleats into (that's what SPDs do). Note that the SPD-SLs are pretty similar to the Looks but much more walkable. 

Well, the simple answer is that aerobars aren't very helpful unless you are riding at reasonable speed (say, >18MPH or so), but most people who ride at that speed would prefer to ride in a paceline, which gives more benefit than aerobars. Aerobars are unsafe in pacelines because riders cannot maneuver as well as being on the drop bars. 

The difference between 28 and 30 is only about 8%. If you climbed a hill at 70 RPM on a 28, you would only be riding at 75% on a 30, and your force would only go down a little bit. 

Aligning the gaps will allow the clamp to compress the tube a little better, therefore reducing the amount of tension needed from the clamp to hold the seat post in. And less tension means a longer life for your seat post clamp. Now, there's the issue of which way your clamp lever faces if you use a quick release clamp. Most have it facing backwards so it doesn't interfere with clothing and doesn't catch on anything while riding. But, with something this small and utilitarian, I think you can put it any way that keeps your seat post from falling and it's probably OK. 

I used to have a Saris Bones rack and ended up wearing right through the paint in several spots. I learned that simply wrapping a sock (or other cloth) around the tube/spot in question and tightening it in with the strap eliminated almost all the rubbing. For longer trips I would secure the padding with a zip tie or tape. Pool noodles and pipe insulation are great, but be careful when the foam degrades or is in high heat (think black foam on a sunny day) as the foam can melt and stick to the bike (had this happen once)! 

Since V-brakes use pads that are almost exclusively made of rubber or a rubber-like compound, they will have experienced some changes due to the temperature and moisture fluctuations. The rubber is most likely dried out and/or cracked and significantly harder. What does this mean for your braking ability? It means the pads won't have much grip and will instead slide against the rim. Plus, if any cracks begin to separate while riding, parts of the pad may shear off and your braking ability will quickly degrade. Since v-brake pads are relatively cheap you should invest in a new set and avoid any trouble. Also, if the pads had been in a sealed package, they would still degrade, just much slower.