No - Distances between objects get larger, but galaxies and clusters are dominated locally by gravity. The scale at which the expansion of the universe is significant is larger than the largest bound structures in the universe. If you thought objects in the universe grew and stretched with the expansion, you would be forced to predict things which we do not actually observe, like the tearing apart of galaxies/clusters of galaxies at very high redshifts. 

So the question is, Can black holes be really be extraordinarily bright due to lensing of background objects? Let's first also specify that these black holes must certainly be super massive. If not, we're talking about stellar mass black holes (or intermediate mass black holes), and the lensing signal would be much weaker. More mass = more lensing generally speaking (there are some exceptions, e.g. - microlensing, where the lensing is done by stars in our own Milky Way galaxy and the signal is enhanced because the source and lens are aligned nearly perfectly). This is an important statement to make because virtually every galaxy has been identified with a super massive black hole at its center. The reverse is also true - every super massive black hole is associated with a galaxy. It's also important to note that, realistically speaking, galaxies have total masses of about $\sim10^{11} - 10^{12} M_{\odot}$, whereas super massive black holes typically have masses of millions to hundreds of millions (maybe even billions) of solar masses. This is a smallish fraction of the total mass. This means that most of the lensing will be done by the galactic halo and not the super massive black hole. If we modeled the center of the lens galaxy as a point-lens, and the galactic halo as a singular isothermal sphere, the relevant question I would ask is what are their Einstein radii (which is a measure of how effective or efficient they are at lensing) individually, and what are they in combination? Essentially, how much does the existence of a central super massive black hole matter to the system as a whole. Strong lensing features (arcs, rings, or multiple images) generally occur at around the Einstein radius of the object. My best guess: Quite honestly I don't see the central super massive black hole mattering all that much when it comes to lensing. Many of these mass profile models for the lens galaxy halo are singular, or rise very rapidly to a central core. Furthermore, I've never really heard of a situation where a lone super massive black hole (not associated with a galaxy - call it a 'rogue' smbh if you will) has been found floating around in space to do this sort of lensing. They generally hide at the centers of galaxies, or show themselves only if they're actively accreting material. Correct me if one has been found (maybe it would come from a merging of two smbh's where one is kicked out of the system). 

In fact, the "waves" are much smaller (400.000km Moon orbital radius to 150.000.000km Earth orbital radius) This is mainly because $R_{Earth-Moon} \ll R_{Earth-Sun}$, and $M_{Moon} \ll M_{Earth} \ll M_{Sun}$. In general, 3-body gravitationally bound systems tend to be unstable, i.e. one of the components tends to fly away with time. But this system seems stable, because the ratio of the masses are big. The same can't be said from the whole Solar System, (it is a notoriously unsolved problem) although also this seems stable in human time scales. 

The relative recent WMAP result shows, the Universe seems infinite. However, the "is the Universe infinite" question has a hidden problem: it doesn't matter, how far away can we see, we can't be sure, if anything out of it is finite or not. :-) Thus, it is about a definitely unknowable thing. The WMAP measured essentially the curvature of the Universe and it found a zero curvature (i.e. it seems to be planar). If there is a minimal curvature, below a measurement precision, and we have a cyclic, spherical geometry, then its radius must be at least 300billion light years. 

by running what's known as a survey. These are large projects which maps out the positions (and potentially other properties, depending on what their science goals are) of galaxies in the universe. How you should look at this picture is the following: 1) You're at the center of the image, 2) Each point in the picture represents an individual galaxy, 3) Distance from the observer, the redshift of a galaxy, increases with increasing distance from the center, and 4) as you travel around the circle in angle, you're sweeping through the right ascension coordinate of the celestial coordinate system (think longitude). You're seeing a pizza slice instead of a sphere because this is a particular slice in declination (lattitude). As you look to higher redshifts, you are looking further back into time, and earlier into the universe's history. This is how astronomers/cosmologists can say something statistically about models of structure formation of the universe (how objects like galaxies, and clusters of galaxies came to be). The problem with looking at galaxies at very high redshifts is that they become very faint. At a certain point, you need more powerful telescopes to continue looking further back in time. Though, we can get around this somewhat by looking at the radiation component of the universe at microwave wavelengths (most surveys are in the optical region of the electro-magnetic spectrum). This radiation is called the cosmic microwave background radiation (CMB), and can also be mapped out (see: COBE,WMAP, and most recently Planck satellites). 

Brown dwarves don't have fusion in their core, thus they don't have their own light. They may have a little heat production from other processes (for example, contraction, or radioactive decay in their core). These aren't enough strong to heat even the dwarf significantly. Many brown dwarve were found orbiting a star closely, they may have surface temperature even in the order of some thousands K. But they get their temperature from their stars. For example, the Jupiter's temperature is only 40K more warm as it would be reasoned by the Sun. In the case of red dwarves, the situation is better. The distance depends on the star. You can very easily calculate it: check its absolute luminosity, so you can see its total power output, compared to the Sun. The radiation what a planet receives (per surface area) depends quadratically from its distance. 

This is a great question. I know of a couple of really big things about inflation people want to be able to nail down by using the cosmic microwave background. The first is measuring what are known as E- and B- modes, which are the curl-free and divergence-free components to the modes of cmb radiation: 

There are a couple of different horizons you should care about. The first is the cosmological horizon, which is the furthest you could possibly see given that photons travel at a finite speed and the universe is not infinitely old. Since nothing travels faster than the speed of light, this is quite literally the furthest we could ever hope to see - everything outside is causally disconnected from us (though this horizon does increase with time, it asymptotically reaches some ultimate distance due to the accelerated expansion of space-time). Practically speaking, the horizon which we really care about is the cosmic microwave background. This is the point at which the universe became cool enough such the atoms could remain neutral. Why is this the important horizon? Before this, photons simply could not travel very far before interacting with charged particles. Before the surface of last scattering the universe was essentially opaque (it would be like looking through a cloud). Afterwards, however, it was transparent. Everything from the surface of last scattering and later (redshift of $z\sim 1100$ and lower) is said to be part of the observable universe. Though the universe may still be infinite in size, we will never be able to see these objects (if they exist) if they are passed this horizon. The other thing to remember is that the further you look, the further back in time you're seeing. Galaxies did not always exist. It took time to form larger overdensities like stars, galaxies, and clusters from small perturbations in density during the early universe. After the surface of last scatter, there was a period of time in which the universe was very dark and potentially very boring from an astronomer's point of view. This is the time after atoms became largely neutral yet before the first stars and galaxies "turned on". 

There are relatively big varieties, but most of them is between 10 and 70 km/s. If a comet is a periodic comet, that means it needs to have an elliptic orbit around the Sun. That gives an upper limit to its speed of the escape speed from the solar system on the orbit of the Earth. That is around 40 km/s. But this 40 km/s is in the reference frame of the Sun. The Earth is moving in this reference frame with around 30 km/s, on a nearly circular orbit. Between the escape speed and the mean speed of a circular orbit there is always a $\sqrt{2}$ relation. It is a physical law. Theoretically it were possible to find extrasolar comets (if the speed of it were bigger as around 70 km/s, it were a clear signature of its remote origin), but they aren't coming. 

There are a number of things which are important for a telescope. The first is the light collecting power of the telescope, which is simply a measure of how many photons the telescope can collect from an object. This, not surprisingly, is affected by the size of the primary mirror/lens of the telescope. The second issue is the telescope's angular resolution, which is a measure of the level of detail which can be seen within an image. Telescopes on the surface of the Earth have to worry about the atmosphere, which due to its non-uniformity causes blurring and smearing of images (this contributes significantly to what's known as the point spread function). The HST is in space to avoid atmospheric effects, and thus, it achieves higher angular resolution by doing so. 

It has a very, very low chance. However, if the asteroid is larger as some centimeters, it will irrecoverable destruct the satellite. Typically, mm sized space trash can damage a satellite already, although the tipical impact velocities are in the order of some $\frac{km}{s}$. As a comparision, cannon balls are flying typically with lesser speed as $1 \frac{km}{s} {}^*$. A collision with an asteroid on a solar orbit would have the impact speed in the order of some tens of $\frac{km}{s}^{**}$. A direct collision with an asteroid larger as the satellite itself would have enough energy to vaporize the satellite. We, from the Earth, would see a space explosion. *: Orbital velocity on low earth orbit is $7.8 \frac{km}{s}$, but most satellites are flying prograde with a not very high inclination. Thus, the we can estimate their "typical" relative collision velocity in the order of some $\frac{km}{s}$. **: The configuration is similar in heliocentris orbits, but the velocities are higher with an order. 

As you can see, the majority of the elements (not necessarily by number or mass in the universe) do decay through some type of process. There exists a 'stable' ridge (called the island of stability, surrounded by the sea of instability) of elements which will happily exist forever. The question is, which modes of decay produce protons (Hydrogen nuclei)? Well, there is proton decay (not the proton itself decaying), which is colored in red, though I have to admit that I don't know exactly what this refers to. Fission bi-products are gamma rays (high energy photons), neutrons, and daughter nuclei (see Decay chain). Though, I should mention that free neutrons produced from this type of radioactive decay are not long lived, decaying into a proton and an electron (this process takes on average approximately 11 minutes). By this logic, also isotopes which decay by emitting neutrons, colored purple, would also eventually produce protons. $\beta^{-}$ and $\beta^{+}$ refer to the beta decay process, where the minus sign refers to the emission of an electron and the plus sign refers to the emission of a positron (the anti-particle of the electron). $\alpha$ decay is the emission of a Helium nucleus, which is stable. Now, given that there are ways for heavy elements to naturally produce protons, the question I would ask is what is the rate of these processes in the universe compared to fusion processes occurring at the centers of stars. I'm not sure that I could give you an answer to this question (or even point you to the appropriate material), but in principle these rates are known. I'd imagine that it'd be quite a lot of bookkeeping to get it correct. 

Extending @Aaron: Which also does matter, that it is relatively common in the universe ( $URL$ ). For example, rubidium has a much lower ionization energy, but it can only be found in traces, while sodium is one of the most frequent elements in the stony planets. 

But the problem is a hypothetical one, as no alternate Universe were found until now. We can play with different Universes in some theoretical constructions. For example, the spacetime of a rotating black hole looks like as if it would be some gateway to somewhere, out of our Minkowski-Universe (or to a different point of our current one). Google for Penrose-diagrams and for the topological extensions of the General Relativity, if you would like to play with it more. 

The reason why this matters is because lensing provides a mechanism for turning E-mode polarization (take the $E<0$ mode for example) into a B-mode type polarization. Most plots of the BICEP2 results show the effect of lensing at much higher multipole moment (i.e. - smaller physical scales), so I believe they have a good way of differentiating between the two types of secondary cmb anisotropies. 

The loss of the Martian atmosphere can be mostly attributed to its mass. The reason why Earth still has an atmosphere made of lighter elements is because with larger mass comes larger escape velocity, which is the speed at which an atom's kinetic energy overcomes the gravitational potential energy of its planet. The distribution of speeds of most gasses can be described by the Maxwell–Boltzmann distribution.