In language description, the goal is to develop generalizations about the grammar of a particular language. This leads to results like "This language has an iambic stress pattern," "The basic word order in this language is SVO," or "This language has twenty demonstrative pronouns, distinguished by the shape, position and location of the referent." On this approach, data is valuable mainly as evidence for a particular generalization: e.g. "See, you can tell that there's a shape distinction among the demonstrative pronouns, because this one is only used to refer to round things [examples] and that one is only used to refer to flat things [more examples]." Often, negative data is especially important: e.g. "If I try to use this pronoun to refer to round things, speakers tell me that I'm using it wrong." In language documentation, the goal is to record examples of the language in use, ranging from everyday conversation to oral literature, formal or ritual language, special terminology such as plant names, and so on. On this approach, data is seen as valuable in its own right, whether or not it serves as evidence for some sort of descriptive claim. The result of language documentation is often a collection of texts or recordings: e.g. "Here's ten hours of video of traditional epic poetry being performed. We've also transcribed the poems in the original language, translated them into English, and added a few notes about the grammar." But documentary work can lead to descriptive claims as well: e.g. "The distal demonstratives are rarely used in conversation in this language, but we've noticed that they're very common in traditional poetry." In language conservation, the goal is to help keep the language from dying out. This often means starting up development projects or getting involved in local politics: building a school, training teachers, founding a radio station, lobbying for a bill that protects indigenous rights. It doesn't necessarily involve any sort of data collection. When you do collect data, it's generally in order to write textbooks or teaching grammars, or to build up teaching materials to use in school: e.g. "This poem has some great examples of the distal demonstratives in use. Let's read it for the sixth-grade class when we teach that unit." 

(Once again, the St'át'imcets word order is the reverse of the English word order: the modifier comes first, before the head.) So if you want to describe the syntax of relative clauses in St'át'imcets, you do need a noun/verb distinction after all. And this seems to be the case for the other Salishan languages as well, though the jury is still out on some of them. This handout by Seth Cable is a good place to start for information on the noun/verb distinction in Salishan (and also Wakashan) languages, and the references in it go into more detail. (The St'át'imcets examples here are all from Cable's handout.) So okay, the Salishan languages have a noun/verb distinction. What about other language families? I'm less familiar with the literature here. Some people have made similar claims about Austronesian languages. David Gil, for instance, claims that Riau Indonesian has no noun/verb distinction. But here's a paper by Brendon Yoder arguing against Gil's conclusions, claiming that Riau Indonesian does have a noun/verb distinction after all. Long story short: In the cases I'm familiar with where someone has said "Language X lacks a noun/verb distinction," further study has suggested that their claim was dubious our outright wrong. We still can't be dead certain that all languages have the distinction. But it would be a big surprise at this point to find a language that really and truly lacked it. 

Would you count a language that has lost most of its (original) number system? The Mayan languages used to have words for numbers going very high up into the thousands. Most have now lost these words due to encroachment from Spanish. In K'iche', the Mayan language I study, speakers will use the original number words up to maybe three or four at most; above that, they'll switch to Spanish. Some speakers now count entirely in Spanish. Nevertheless, K'iche' has an indefinite article — which apparently developed before Spanish contact, but which has remained part of the language even as the Spanish number system has taken over. (And since I see you're also interested in the connection between numbers and articles: yes, it's derived from the old K'iche' word for "one." The number one is jun, the indefinite singular article is jun, and the indefinite plural article is jujun.) 

I don't think this is the same phenomenon, no. My understanding is that написа- is always perfective in meaning, and that писа- is always imperfective. That is, it would actually be ungrammatical to use написа- in a context that calls for an imperfective form, or vice versa. Whereas putting durar in the preterite, or tardar in the imperfect, would still be perfectly grammatical in Spanish. It might be less common, but it does happen — as your corpus data shows!  So in Russian you're looking at a hard grammatical rule, whereas in Spanish you're looking at a mere statistical tendency. You might be interested in learning about grammaticalization, the process by which statistical preferences (like you have in Spanish) gradually turn into hard grammatical rules (like you have in Russian). It would be possible for Spanish to grammaticalize the link between durar and the imperfect, so that, in a few decades or a few centuries, people would start feeling that forms like duraron were actually ungrammatical and not just unusual. But the link hasn't been grammaticalized yet, and it may well never be. 

Navajo would be one to look at. It is still clearly an agglutinative language, but it's well along the pathway that's hypothesized to lead to inflecting morphology. The Wikipedia article — which FWIW is pretty decent — puts it this way: "Navajo is an agglutinating, polysynthetic head-marking language, but many of its affixes combine into contractions more like fusional languages." To pick out an example from Wikipedia: the underlying morphemes di-'a-ni-sh-ł-bąąs, after various phonological rules have been applied, give you the word di'nisbąąs. Just looking at the surface form, you can't segment it cleanly into six morphemes. (There's no clean segment of the surface form corresponding to the underlying -ł-, for instance.) At best you can split it into three "chunks," some of which correspond to several morphemes and contribute several grammatical features to the word. Eventually, the hypothesis goes, speakers will cease thinking of the word as having six morphemes, and start thinking of those three "chunks" as morphemes in their own right. Keep this up over a few more centuries and you'll have a truly inflecting language, where each word is made up of just one or two "chunks" and each of the "chunks" has a complex meaning like "third person singular past tense." 

I'm looking for good recent books or articles on experimental methodology in syntax or semantics. Ideally they'd be geared towards working formal linguists who don't know much about psycholinguistics or experiment design. The biggest question I'd like to see addressed is "What experimental methods are appropriate for answering X?" where X might be a research question about word meaning or syntactic structure or whatever. I'm familiar with Baayen's book on stats for linguists — and it's fantastic, but it's mostly focused on how to analyze the data that comes out of an experiment rather than on how to set up the experiment itself, so it's not quite what I'm looking for. 

Among languages that use the auxiliary strategy, there are different verbs that can be recruited as a passive auxiliary. It's not always "to be." So for instance in English, get can also be used as a passive auxiliary. In Italian there's a passive formed with venire 'come.' In Norwegian you use bli 'become.' 

These pronouns are one of the arguments offered in support of the Indo-Uralic hypothesis. But that hypothesis is considered pretty shaky by most linguists: either because they disagree with it or because they think there's just too little evidence to tell. Anyway, there's other possibilities. It could also be that PIE and Proto-Uralic weren't especially closely related, but that one borrowed pronouns from the other. Pronoun borrowing is rare but not impossible. It could also be that the whole thing is a coincidence. There are dozens of function words and morphemes in any given language. Between two neighboring languages, you'd expect a few tempting matches like this purely by chance. Part of the trouble is, Proto-Uralic is harder to reconstruct than PIE, because the written record for Uralic languages is a lot shallower. The oldest Uralic writing, from medieval Hungary, is less than a thousand years old. (By comparison, the oldest IE writing goes back over 3,000 years.) So it's hard to be very confident about what Proto-Uralic looked like, and harder still to be very confident about its history going further back. We may just never have enough data to say anything certain about the Uralic/IE connection. 

You're using the words "language" and "dialect" as if they were mutually exclusive: as if some people spoke "languages" and other people spoke mere "dialects." But that's not how linguists use those words. Think of them instead as referring to two different levels on the same hierarchy. 

For instance, I speak the Midland US dialect of English. Asking whether I speak a dialect or a language is like asking whether I was born in Michigan or in the United States. The answer is "both," because one includes the other. Saying "I don't speak a dialect, I just speak proper English" would be like saying "I don't live in a state or territory or in Washington D.C., I just live in the US," which is pretty much nonsense. So maybe it makes sense to rephrase your questions, like so: 

I too would like a link to the paper: a Google search for turns up this thread and nothing else. But I can take a stab at a general answer. The notions of possibility and necessity in modal logic are commonly treated as involving quantification over possible worlds. So "It's possible that P" is taken to mean that there exists a world where P is true, and "Necessarily P" is taken to mean that in all worlds, P is true. We can get different sorts of possibility and necessity by restricting the set of worlds we quantify over. So for instance, for deontic modals, we quantify over worlds that are in accordance with the rules. ("John is permitted to do x" means roughly the same thing as "there exists a world in which no rules are being broken, in which John does x") For epistemic modals, we quantify over worlds that are consistent with our current knowledge. ("For all I know, maybe P" means, roughly, "there exists a world that's consistent with what I know, in which P is true.") The semantics of modal expressions in natural language can be modeled this way too, though there are some additional complications. Kratzer's 1991 paper "Modality" is the classic reference here, but unfortunately I can't find a copy online. In this context, a "witness world for P" is just a world in which P is true. So for instance, we can say that for "possibly P" to be true, there must be at least one witness world for P within our domain of quantification. This is indeed similar to the way the word "witness" is used in talking about nominal quantification — it's just that here we're quantifying over worlds instead of entities. 

One interesting source of information comes from what old prescriptive grammarians found to gripe about. Every now and then you'll see someone write something like "It's very bad to use the form X. You should only ever use this other form Y." What that tells us, in an indirect way, is that some people had started using X. (After all, why would you complain about a "mistake" unless some people around you were actually making it?) In other words: for at least some speakers of the language, we can conclude that X had become grammatical. So in these cases, we can learn about how people actually talked, and not just how they believed they should talk. But this sort of thing is pretty rare. Usually, yeah, it's just corpus work on the written language, like Cerberus describes. 

It doesn't make much sense to ask whether the concept is valid. You've gotta ask, "valid for what?" In other words, it makes more sense to ask whether it leads to decent performance on a specific task. Look at it this way: if you give me a writing sample and ask me "Which of the five hundred million worldwide speakers of English did this come from," there's absolutely no way I can answer with any degree of confidence. If you give me a writing sample and ask "Is this by Winston Churchill or Charles Bukowski," I'll bet you any sum of money you like that I can get the answer right. This suggests that "linguistic fingerprinting" is suitable for the Winston Churchill Detection Task, and not so suitable for the task of picking a single author out of a pool of five hundred million. For tasks in between those two extremes, its degree of suitability is likely to vary. :) You might be interested in this head-to-head comparison of two authorship attribution systems. Depending on the task, the winning system gets accuracies as high as 96% or as low as 31%. The paper also goes into some detail on how the winning system works. The feature set includes 

You ask, "How can the linguist be sure that grammaticality is not just the test subject's dialect?" It sounds like you're making an unwarranted assumption in that question. You can't be sure that you're not just learning about the test subject's dialect. In fact, it's just the opposite: no matter what you do, you are just learning about the test subject's dialect — or about one of their dialects, if they're fluent in several. And the way to do good fieldwork is just to accept that fact and work with it. You start with the speech of a single town (or family, or person), you note down variation when you run across it, and you gradually widen your sights from there. It's important to remember here that everyone speaks a dialect. For instance, there is no such thing as "pure," non-dialectal English. And this means that, strictly speaking, "grammaticality" is always just "grammaticality in a particular dialect." When a linguist says a construction is "grammatical in English," what they really mean is, "It's grammatical in the American and British dialects that are culturally dominant right now in the anglophone world." And in fact, to be really pedantically correct, they'd have to say "It's grammatical in the personal idiolects of most or all of the people we've surveyed who belong to the American and British dialect groups that are culturally dominant right now in the anglophone world." Which is a bit of a mouthful — you can see why someone might just say "It's grammatical in English" instead. Also, as jlovegren points out, there are ways of getting a decent idea of how widespread a construction is. You talk to different people, from different regions. You take advantage of your consultants' metalinguistic awareness: someone in Philadelphia will tell you "Oh, yeah, they talk funny in Pittsburgh," and then you know to be on the lookout for especially big dialect differences between the two cities. Sometimes you can pick a particular construction and ask "Do people in other towns say this too?" and someone will say "No, actually, whenever I say this outside my home town, I get funny looks," and that's an even stronger indication that you're looking at a construction that's limited to certain dialects. Even better, some people are bi- or tri-dialectal, and can tell you things like "Where I was born they say this, but where I grew up we say this, and on TV what they say is this." Ultimately, though, you can never be absolutely certain you haven't missed some bit of variation. If I can elicit a construction from a thousand different people, covering all the major dialect regions I'm aware of, there's still a miniscule sliver of a chance that the thousand-and-first person will say "No, I would never say that, that's totally wrong." The only consolation here is that any natural science has the same problem. All the terrestrial life forms we've found so far are carbon-based, but it's still logically possible that someday we'll turn over a rock and find a bunch of silicon-based ones. The strongest conclusion we can ever draw about anything outside of mathematics is "That hasn't happened yet, and we'd be incredibly surprised if it ever did." I'd be incredibly surprised to find a monolingual English speaker from a major American city who didn't say "S + [be] + VERBing," but you know, it's still technically possible that someday I will. 

(Note that the word order is backwards from English: Salishan predicates come at the start of the clause, before their subjects.) So people have claimed, based on data like these, that there is no noun/verb distinction in Salishan languages. The trouble is, in all the Salish languages where people have checked, it turns out that there are other morphosyntactic asymmetries between nouns and verbs. For instance, in St'át'imcets, only nouns can be the head of a relative clause. You can say this...