I call BS on this. 25km/h is not a high speed, nor is the extra weight significant compared to the weight of the rider. Compare this to touring bikes. A touring bike will generally be expected to ride at this speed (less than 16mph) and the luggage will exceed the weight of a motor and battery - but nobody makes touring bike tyres that are made due to the expected "high speed". 

I can understand wanting disc brakes for commuting but the only justification I can see is that they work better in the wet. I can't see any justification for a high end bike, especially as you're going to put panniers and mud guards on; that's going to negate any performance increase the more expensive bike has. All-weather commuting destroys bikes. Sounds like you've already figured this out. An expensive bike will still suffer, but will cost a great deal more in maintenance. With the amount of commuting you do you need a work horse, not a performance bike. It sounds like you've wrecked the groupset on your current bike. If you do that on Di2 it will cost you a grand to replace it. Are you willing to spend £1000 a year to keep a commuting bike on the road? 

These are things I considered when I decided to ride and bought myself a dutch commuter with chain guards and mud flaps etc which made my life much much easier. I cant view a pic of your bike but the decision to ride is inherently linked to what you currently have or what you would need if you do decide to ride as your primary mode of transport to work. Good Luck 

I am asking this question as I ride a dutch bike (chain guard, mud flaps etc) so my chain is not directly impacted by salt on the roads. However, seeing that there is a lot of water splashing with a lot of salt in it, I was wondering the following: - Many experts have mentioned that cleaning the chain and lubricating it is advisable. Is it the same with bikes with full chain guards? While I assume the frequency would be less for a bike with a chain guard vs a bike with no chain guard, what is advisable as my chain is not visible. - What about the wheels (rims and spokes and hubs)? Are those part of the cleaning too...and do you put grease on every nut and bolt on the bike...does it not stick to your clothes when you ride or get on/off the bike? - I bike to work (about 20k a day RT) so the general advice is to sponge off daily using a sponge and a bucket of warm water...is this to be done for the entire bike or just the sensitive areas (hubs, what else?) My first year riding so these may be novice questions. Appreciate your advice in advance, Sal, Toronto, Canada 

I live in an area with a lot of potholes and commute daily (between 10-20 miles depending) on a modern road bike. Today while coming in hard (18+mph) to a stop, I went over a worn paving layer with the front heavily loaded. I heard a loud CLACK, and my first thought was to look to the carbon fork. No cracks, but it got my mind on to my head set and head tube. (It was probably just the rear derailleur swinging out and coming down on the B screw.) What's the minimum mileage interval for headset tightening, and what are the symptoms that indicate it's time? (It's not covered in the Optimal Maintenance question.) 

I made the decision to ride starting this year in Feb (yes, Toronto in February) but it was then or never. I have never looked back. Only things that I wondered before I started (and what took me longer was): 

I bought an Arkel Pannier (Signature H Urban Pannier series) and it doesnt need specific racks but you can put it on with hooks on your existing rack. I was faced with the same issues as you but the Urban Commuter H has been so convenient in putting on and off the bike with minimal effort. Only thing I would want is a better strap to carry it but it as worked well for me so far. ...it is in the same price range as the Ortliebs. Good Luck. 

I was persuaded to switch to race SPD-SL pedals after losing the old MTB pedals to theft (along with the bike!). They're one-sided, though, unlike the MTB pedals, and I find that coming off of a red light full stop, I either pop my down foot right into the pedal, or I miss and have to toe it across the intersection while trying to get the cleat in. It's too dangerous to look down and watch the pedal when this happens. Is there a strategy that makes this easier and more consistent (and therefore safer)? 

I had a mild spill today on my new bike, which put the (Tiagra) derailleur cage a little bit out of line. With some bending and eyeballing, I got the two jockey wheels lined up 'almost' perfectly parallel with the cassette, and shifting is okay. My problem is, when I shift down to about the 3rd largest gear and larger, the cage 'ticks' when pedaled about 240 degrees (not in the same spot, just after about that much pedalling). I watched the cage and what's happening is, the chain starts to drift to the right (outside) of the lower jockey, and then, for some reason, one end of a link rises up off the jockey, and the cage pulls back a little bit like it's trying to get in position for a shift. It doesn't go far, though, and by the time the bunched link gets off the lower jockey, it loosens up and the tension drops out of the cage, causing it to relax into position again. None of this happens on smaller gears. What's going on here? Can I fix it without shelling out cash for a whole new derailleur (was basically new)? 

For the Frame: I wash my bike with a sponge and warm water and I usually have a towel that is under my bike so I can squeeze the sponge in hard to get areas and the towel grabs the excess under. I wipe off with a dry cloth. For the chain: same as some comments above. Cheers. 

You could try the following brands, some have roller brakes with Shimano Nexus hubs etc..best option would be to speak with a dealer in your area for the following brands: Achelle Bikes Simcoe Bikes Pure City Bikes (step through) Benefit of these is, its a more upright ride vs. leaning in position. In addition, you can attach panniers to these bikes to integrate the rides into your daily errands etc. Also, some come with chain guards and coat guards which is very helpful so you dont always have to ride in racing gear or perform daily maintenance. Good Luck. 

I live in an area with lots of debris, dodgy paving, and rain, and to make matters worse, I fall down sometimes (I know!). The main things that get damaged, of course, are the brake handles and the rear derailleur. The brakes aren't so bad since the cinch just needs to be scooted back into place, typically. On the other hand, the rear derailleur is a bunch of fragile, lightweight dangly bits sticking further out than anything on the rear of the bike, and takes a special tool and time out to bend back into place. The question is, is it worth buying a derailleur guard like this one for a road bike, or am I going to get noob status, ruin the frame instead, or weigh down the wonderfully light frame? Given that a replacement rear derailleur (Tiagra) would run me 30-50USD and the guard would cost 5-10USD, it seems to be more effective to get a guard. On the other hand, this bicycle co-op raises a serious concern about the axle: