I can actually be slightly more encouraging than Rob. The warm spot would create a constant flow of air upwards, with air coming in from around. That flow of air would bring ice and snow with it which would melt once it entered the warm area and provide some supply of water. You could always fetch snow or ice and let it melt to increase the supply. The ground being made mostly of stone does make it hard to work with but there will still be fertile areas, and a gradual process of bringing in more soil from surrounding areas would allow that fertile ground to grow and increase over time. Plants may be confused at first but they would adapt over time (after all our jungles have little seasonal temperature variations for example). Plants grow just fine in greenhouses which do basically this (keep the temperature constant). The constant breeze would allow quite a few options for energy generation (wind mills, wind pumps etc) if it came down to it. 

If there was a massive threat and a defensive weapon which both required a substantial mass to place it on (potentially using the gravity well itself or maybe just to absorb the recoil) and could not be used inside the atmosphere then you would have a good reason to place another moon on the exact opposite side of earth from our current one so that you could get complete coverage. 

I think it would be much easier to abuse than you would like - and correspondingly, the behavior would alter in favor of those more ruthless, not against them. Joe would probably be much better able to send to the other planet, those who object to him, rather than the other way around - which means more people would act like him, and fewer would dare to object. So, first, you need someone to keep track of what is an exile-worthy offense or not. What those factors are, and how they're portrayed, is going to be very important. There's lots of historical precedence for people judging, with harsh penalties, "moral" values that do no harm (personal preferences like sexuality or religious beliefs) over "practical" values that do a lot of harm (practices like exploitation in the name of business, or socially common abuses). It probably won't take much before people are exiling for "being different" without harm, and leaving be those who cause harm in expected ways. Next, there will be a really, really clear power differential based on online presence. After all, the trial depends on whatever is being said online about him, and the online doesn't really have a mechanism for being verified as truthful. Joe, with his lots of money, can fund a big website devoted to his charitable acts (whatever they may be), and populated by his friends, acquaintances, or yes men. He can fund a genuinely useful or popular site, and use it to spread bits of pro-Joe propaganda. He can fund a few online rants, through proxies against some person who's questioning his practices, and make it look like they're persecuting him or others who are successful in business, this person has a grudge, they're being mean. So, someone who is quiet and minding their own business, will not have a strong online presence to debunk any claims made against them. Anyone who does have a strong online presence, will have people for and against them, people who think the world of them or hate them - its human nature to polarize. A few big, showy, well trafficked pages (something which, unfortunately, money can manipulate) can swing opinion about somebody in a big way - especially in a very large community (all of online-world), where people who actually know the person are very, very few. And, even at the very worst, it can be easy for Joe to swing up enough dirt about whoever is complaining about Joe, to make it look like an argument, opposing viewpoints, and mutual antipathy rather than "Joe is being a real jerk" - which can derail the voting-for-exile process altogether. What process is there for verifying things attributed to a person are really from them, especially online actions which use screen-names? Joe can deny that the nasty rant posted under a similar screen-name is his, or can fake up a nasty, obviously biased, anti-Joe rant under an opponent's screen-name to undermine their credibility. What process is there for verifying that nominations are made by people with a real or even personal grievance, instead of people who find a ranting webpage, take a side based on the clever portrayal of one-sided or biased information, and bounce over to fill the nomination forms without verifying what's going on? And, finally, once you have your thousand nominations - who gets to set up the voting process, and what information is given, in what priority? Does the page list the person and grievances against them first, does it have a space for the person's defense, does it show the votes for and against (people tend to vote with the "winning" side - so an early imbalance, even if not based on factual evidence, can influence a swell in public opinion and manipulate the voting). Does it rank these kinds of resources by how much they're verified, how much they're viewed, what kinds of things they directly said or participated in, or what things other people are saying about them? Does it include the context and behavior of the accusers? Context is key. Context is key. And online presences can be manipulated in a lot of ways, both legitimately or covertly. The voting will not decide whether the person is exiled to another planet or not - the process for deciding what context will be used to show Joe's life and character, and the grievances against him (and the actions and characters of his accusers) will influence the vast majority of people into voting one way or another. The contributions from those who know Joe and are themselves for and against him, and the contributions of those who carefully researched and weighed the evidence and judged him - are both going to be overwhelmed by the huge numbers, the majority of the world's population who haven't met him, and don't really know what's going on, but are influenced by popular opinion and the context in which he is presented. Just take a look at online witch hunts - proof is a lot less important than how something can be made to seem. 

There are already good climate classification systems such as the Köppen Climate Classification. We do not need to redefine those or list the climates. Instead we are looking to described the processes that result in these climates and use that to inform the creation of a map that has a realistic climate distribution. 

Not only could this have happened, but it has happened many times here on earth. There is speculation about just how intense it was but the flooding of the Mediterranean basin here on earth could have been a cataclysmic event: $URL$ It's a specific instance of an Outburst Flood. You just need to have appropriately placed fault lines in the continent that pull it apart in the shape you want to then flood and the eventual flooding can be as fast or slow as you want depending on whether you lower the middle and then let water in or do it the other way around. 

There is a precedent for this, and it holds up well to what you are looking for. Cockney rhyming slang arose around the 1840s and became well established in only 20 years. It is completely impossible to understand unless you know it despite being mostly English words... $URL$ 

Create an inner circle for the religion who are well aware that is is a hoax, however get them to go along with it by the fact they get money/girls/whatever. Make it very clear to the inner circle that they need to end the party at the correct date and how they should create two new religions, fake a schism, and then cause the believers of the original religion to all fall into one of the two new ones. If they don't do that you will return and be very unhappy with them... (It doesn't matter which new one they join, the important thing is that they leave the original. The new ones are different enough in some central tenant that they qualify as a new religion). 

There are a number of good answers that deal with how imprints might be made while the people are living, that can then be recycled into guides when the person is dead. Several generations down the road this covers a lot of immediately known ancestors. You mentioned in one of the comments you wanted this to work on ancestors who had died before the alien intervention occurred - since that's trickier, I'll focus on that. So there are a lot of theories on how ghostly imprints (or residual haunting) might be a kind of natural recording - some minerals, geographic formations, and locations under certain circumstances might 'record' whatever is happening, and then under the right stimulus, probably requiring some access to energy, the area can 'play back' whatever was recorded. Often, the circumstances that lead to such recordings are tied to strong emotion. Gems and crystals are also sometimes said to be able to store this kind of emotional or psychic imprint. Don't worry, it's already in the question that you wanted something more interactive than these kinds of traces, but I thought this could be paired with your other requirements to make a solution. So, if your people before the alien intervention had a couple of beliefs and practices, this can help make the whole thing work. They need a strong tradition of venerating ancestors, including praying to these ancestors for guidance, a sense of duty to their descendants, and the idea that lasting, living memory is somehow useful to spirits. They also need some idea or superstition of the stone tape type of residual imprints, which they happen to successfully use - I'm thinking some ritual jewelry, which happens to be made of the right crystals and the right mix of minerals, which is ritually given and worn every day of their lives, and which becomes the focus of their family's memory rituals after their death. So these crystals have some kind of emotional imprint or overlapping recording of the person's most intense emotional moments, as well as a bit of how others in their family remember them. So, during alien intervention, a computer (or several) get dropped on your people. It might be bulky, or self replicating, or dropped in all differing locations, or have a really long range, or be actually connected to the Pactite, I don't actually know. Programs get generated for each Guided One - and maybe they were supposed to guide them (as some kind of social experiment from the aliens) or maybe they were only supposed to observe. As it happens, it uses some vaguely-similar crystal technology to store information - and predictably, that means it somehow actually picks up and interacts with the recorded imprints from the burial crystals. A program which has some of the memories, will self-identify as the person, and seek other memories that fit and discard those that don't, so it ends up one set per program even if they weren't actually programmed that way. Alternatively, once one program 'wakes up' it may deliberately try to pair the memory recordings with other programs either because it thinks that's how the programs are supposed to work, or because the person it's acting like realizes what's happened, and waking others will help their families. The two sets of stored information collide, and programs "wake up" with memories, emotional memories, of the people in the recordings. This is starting from imperfect, static imprints and recordings, mind, but once the program self-identifies with the person, they can seek out other information about the person (from records, and living memories of Guided Ones), and develop their personalities based on the impressions they remember. And since they already have beliefs that ancestors are supposed to help guide and teach their descendants, they make the situation fit even if it wasn't what the programs and computer were originally supposed to be doing - which is why I mentioned that the programs might not have been meant to guide, but only observe or even other things (since this is a really tricky thing to intend). Once the programs have emotional memories, they will self-identify with the person and act as the person would, not necessarily as the program should. They might also resist deletion once their guided one is dead, and prefer to work with only their own bloodlines if they can. The society that has them might advance more quickly by having ancestors given time and memory storage to think about and plan new things, to not lose bits of information to death or forgetfulness, to simply have more minds working on any given project, or even by having some access to things stored in the alien computer - with strict limitations on what's actually in the computer, what they can understand, and what they can use. So, my first thought was the Pactite itself was the source of the computer and programs directly - nanomachines or the like. However, since you mention in a comment that you might not want everyone to be dosed with nanotech, maybe there's another solution. Maybe people in your world have a low-level telepathic ability - obviously a science-compliant one. Low level enough to be subconscious and have people be mostly unaware of it (maybe it comes out in hunches or intuition). Perhaps that is why the people could successfully make the stone tapes for recording in the first place. In this case, the Pactite might boost the native ability long enough form a link or alter their minds to make a permanent conduit through which their Guide can find them. Their native ability might be enough for maintaining the link once it's set up. On the other hand, if ingesting more Pactite just boosts the telepathy, that wouldn't necessarily create a second link - but it might be that no one does ingest it without that intention, so the second guide is actively trying to create the link at that time. Or maybe it's not actually telepathy, but somehow the combination of the Pactite and the rituals let a (wireless) link be built to a main computer, where the programs live. As a bonus, the period of time in which all this is getting set up (the memories meeting the programs) would seem to be the ancestor spirits adapting to the boost the Pactite gives (and the changing rituals), and figuring out dosage and empowering on both sides, for the guide and guided. The framework for ancestral guidance is already present, and if they already have coming-of-age rituals incorporating the Pactite and guides can be easily done once they have some ideas for what works. And, double bonus, this doesn't have to be something the aliens intended, per se (as it is a strange and difficult thing to do on purpose). The aliens might come back and discover their observation computer has been taken over by programs, which somehow have emotional attachments to their subject and identity disorders, and be very confused. 

One answer not suggested so far would be to not have the humans be the apex lifeform. If you had something big (dragons, demons, aliens, sky whales, or anything else you like) that was capable of crushing human settlements and devouring all their crops/herds then you would be forced to keep spread out and nomadic. Any fixed habitation and certainly any fixed farming is just going to become an all-you-can-eat buffet for the apex lifeform. This does have a big advantage over the other suggestions that you can have a fertile planet with plenty of life. You also get plenty of potential plot interactions with the apex lifeform. 

I'm not aware of any animals which have evolved projectile weapons that they fire. There are a number that spit venom but none that even throw rocks, let alone using projectiles. On the other hand though creatures that do so are a staple both of fantasy (e.g. Manticores) and sci-fi (e.g. Zerg). Is it even possible to evolve natural projectile weapons? What would need to change in order to allow creatures to do so? Would those constraints change depending on whether they used found ammunition (for example an appendage that works like a sling, the animal gathers rocks to use in the sling) or had to grow the ammunition. The sling at least has the advantage that it can evolve gradually out of a more usual grasping limb. Would it even be realistic for a creature to expend the time and energy required to grow a weapon (for example a spike) only to lose that investment after firing. 

You might want to look up obsidian, volcanic glass, for some ideas of how it actually works in actual geological formations. There can certainly be big deposits of the stuff in a mountain - for example, Glass Mountain is named after the large deposits there, but there's always other stuff there to, to make up the rest of the structure. Glass is brittle, it breaks and shatters before it bends and flows. If the glass was solid, you would end up with fractured chunks (scree or talus) before it could bend enough to be thrust upward to mountainhood. If it was molten, it would melt back down (obsidian flats) before it could cool. You can get a mountain that's mostly glass, if your conditions are just right or if there's interference - you just need a bit of something else to bind it together. Maybe even sand or sandstone, if that's what you've got the most of on hand. 

For why silver kills werewolves, I'm pretty sure the original idea had to do with the magical associations of the metal - silver was for the moon, with associations of water, transformation, and purity, just like gold was for the sun. Given the moon plays a big part in a lot of werewolf legends (and given that these stories were based on magical worldviews), the magical associations would make silver a vulnerability in the stories they were telling. Silver was believed to purify, especially used to fight off or prevent infections - and the werewolf of legend seems to follow the same pattern, so they applied the same logic to the legends. It also served the purpose of being a) valuable, so it took knowledge, effort, and expense to kill off the mythical monster, for appropriate drama, and b) reasonable as a weapon (as opposed to, say, gold which would have sun-connotations but probably would have been seen as too soft for weapons) As for garlic and vampires, I think both Fayth85 and Rhubis covered garlic being historically associated with cleaning the blood, and given a lot of credit for being potently medicinal, even supernaturally so, supposedly treating a lot of different ailments. It may be additionally relevant, that it was originally the garlic flowers, not the bulbs, which were repellent to vampires. That might draw from older symbolism of flowers being used to ward off death and cover up the scent of decay. Flowers and herbs were used to sweeten the air during plagues, some believed it would ward off illnesses that they vaguely believed were airborne, and could infect people via the stench of the infected. Breathing sweet air, which was believed to be good for health, was more often "achieved" by trying to cover up odors, rather than remove their source and achieve "clean" air - so sickrooms would be scented with flowers, incense, and all sorts of nonsense that probably made people worse. Beyond that, there is a long history in magic of using herbs and flowers, for protection purposes. The garlic flower was not only associated with garlic's claims for cleaning the blood, it was itself also used as an (effective) insect repellent, warding off mosquitoes... which were bloodsuckers, and might (like spirits) come in the night to feed, and leave the victims suffering (the link notes the similarities between malaria and the depictions of vampire victims). It also might be worth noting that other herbs and flowers were also supposed to ward off vampires, including the wild rose, and hawthorn - garlic just became more popular, perhaps because of the myth crossing between the flower and bulb (which had its own mythology).