Warm up thoroughly. I suggest spending about 5 minutes until you break a light sweat. Run or Bike for 4 minutes. You should be too out of breath to talk. Active rest - walking or easy cycling for 3 minutes. Run or Bike for 4 minutes. You should be too out of breath to talk. Active rest - walking or easy cycling for 3 minutes. Run or Bike for 2 minutes at which point run or bike as fast as you can until you reach exhaustion and can’t continue. Immediately take your heart rate. This is your MAX HR 

For weight loss, no exercise involved, it made no difference. Another research: the group that ate breakfast were a little more active during the morning, but also also consumed more calories. 

I've just bought a heart monitor. It looks like the fundamental number for my training is my Maximum Heart Rate (MRH or Max HR). This number changes if you are cycling or running. I've seen protocols to measure it running or cycling outdoor. I believe I'll get a more precise measurement if I do it in cycling indoor. Does anybody here can give me a protocol to measure my MHR it in a stationary bike? 

Simple answer: exercise before, if you want to loose weight. The New York Times has some articles citing research about this subject The article "What is the best time of day to exercise, if my goal is weight loss?", from 2015. Cites a Belgian study where 3 groups of young men were asked to eat 30% more daily calories. First group did no exercise, second group exercised after breakfast, last group exercised before breakfast. Quote: 

I commute by bike and go to the gym two or three times each week. At the gym, I usually do upper body workouts, since I already cycle a lot. Not all my lower body muscles are exercised when I cycle. Can you recommend me good lower body exercises that would complement my cycling routine? With explanation, please. I'd like to know which muscles I'd have to focus. I want recommendations based in a health standpoint, not to increase my biking performance. 

Why not try a body recomposition program. A well defined six pack is well built muscles and a low fat percentage. A way to attain this is to eat 500kcal above maintenance levels on training days and 500kcal below maintenance on non training days, training each other day so that the net balance is zero over the week. To build the muscles you need to hit them with hypertrophy training. Cardio is detrimental towards that goal. It puts alot of stress on your body which really should be resting and building muscles. Try to eat somewhere around 1.5g protein per kg lean body mass, which also helps towards building muscles. As long as you hit your protein, the rest can be pasta, rice or whatever you like to eat which helps you keep the dietplan. As long as you are in a net equivalence, or in net deficit. This will, albeit slowly, gain you some muscles and lose fat leading towards a six pack. 

If we are talking metabolism, meal timing have no effect what so ever. There are heaps of studies made and I don't think there is anyone refuting this (at least not in the scientific community), read this and this for example. Much of this is about perceived satiety, which of course is individual. So if you go around hungry all day if eating 2 meals per day, then don't do that. If you on the other hand need to count every calorie to not overeat on 6 meals per day, then that maybe is something you have to think over. Eating six meals per day is fine and maybe even preferable for people with exceptional high training load, only for the reason of getting enough energy. For average Joe with a somewhat sedentary life I would say that it invites for overeating. There are also endocrine issues and other things that really is yet to be properly explained. (I have some early reports and might edit this post later). 

Assuming that "minimal" means minimum number of exercises, the easiest thing is to look at all of the "beginner" workouts, and see what they have in common. Beginner workouts are generally aimed at achieving the best results with a minimum to learn or do. Nearly every beginner workout plan I've seen includes the Deadlift, the Squat, and the Bench Press. Most also include the Shoulder Press, though not all. These four exercises will work the largest muscle groups of the upper and lower body as well as the torso. An argument could be made that the Olympic lifts also work many of these same muscle groups all in one exercise, but I'd certainly hesitate to call them "minimal". If you want a workout that uses minimal equipment, the recommendations are largely the same: Bodyweight Squats, Push-ups, and planks to strengthen the abdominal muscles. If you have access to a pullup bar, I would absolutely add pullups and chinups to this list as well. The downside to doing only bodyweight exercises is that because you cannot add weight, you will need to do more repetitions to improve instead. For more on this, look for books like "You Are Your Own Gym" or "Convict Conditioning". 

It's not a very scientific answer, but I hope it answers your question all the same. You need to do whatever you most want to improve on first. If you do cardio for 60 minutes before working out, your muscles will be fatigued and you'll have consumed much of your body's energy reserves, and your weightlifting will suffer. The same applies if you lift first, and then run. Strategies that others have used would include splitting your workout up by time of day (run in the morning, lift weights at night), or splitting up by days (lift weights M/W/F, run on T/Th/Sa). Both of these options will have an effect on your recovery, however. I would encourage you to just experiment, and see which kind of programs helps you the most. There's no one right answer to this question.