If it is shin splints, as per your picture, the first step is to stop running for a bit and to ice the area to reduce inflammation. To be perfectly frank, the pain you're feeling is due to injury, and continuing to operate despite the injury is courting greater damage. This is also important because stress fractures are sometimes mistaken for shin splints, and you definitely do not want to keep running on one of those. Outside of that, stretching can sometimes help: 

Poking around a bit, it looks like simulating walking looks like this Reebok video. In case link rot leads to the video going away, it's less like actual walking, and more like "marking time" in marching band, shifting your weight from side to side by bending the knee of the leg that's not bearing as much weight. Alternately, some doctors just suggest "rebounding", or bouncing in place on the mini-tramp, in place of walking. 

How much space do you have? Is there a clear space of at least 5 foot by 10 foot, that you could use? It doesn't even need to be entirely clear, just enough that you can move without constantly tripping. Hallways can serve the purpose if you don't have room in your apartment. This is what I do in inclement weather, or when I don't feel like dressing up to work out (obviously less feasible for the hallway method). Alternately, if you feel that you must practice in place, walking in place is just a matter of picking up your feet alternately. Unlike running or jogging, you always have one foot on the ground. As with other forms of stationary exercise, I'd advise lifting your knees a bit more to compensate for not having the extra effort of actually moving. As for differentiating running and jogging... honestly, that's largely a matter of semantics. For the purpose of stationary exercise, they're basically the same thing, just a matter of how intensely you're moving. Either way, you will likely be using the time method rather than the distance method, really not an issue. 

I have no hard data, but my experience is that a fast walk is best if you can do it. It keeps the heart rate elevated, but gives you a chance to take a breather and works some different muscles. The Zombie 5K app directly calls out fast walking most of the time (although it has some intervals in the early weeks where you alternate fast and slow walking). The walking pace should be fast enough that your muscles stay warm and your heart rate remains elevated, but not so fast that you're tired before starting running again. 

Generally, this loss of appetite recedes within an hour or so of your workout. In fact, a common problem among people working out is that, when the hormone levels reassert themselves, they can do so with a vengeance, resulting in eating more than you had intended as your body tries to refuel itself. If it's a more longterm problem, particularly if you're finding yourself getting woozy from low blood sugar and if you're doing an excessive amount of exercise, then you need to take it more seriously, finding some easy-to-eat foods that you can eat an hour or two after exercise to ensure your caloric intake. As with many things diet-related, one of your best first steps is to start writing down what you eat. That will give you an idea as to whether you're still getting in the 1200 calories (1000 for women) that the FDA recommends as a minimum. Under the heading of anecdote, I've personally found that I seem to eat less overall since I've started running three times a week. I just don't feel like I need as much food. However, that's more from the perspective of snacking, and smaller portions, than not feeling like eating all day. 

It really depends on what you consider to be the primary part of the exercise, and whether someone is doing this for the exercise, or to show off. Most hand-grippers are essentially springs, which means resistance increases as it's compressed, which should make the initial setting easy to budge. However, at that uncompressed position, you may be forced to squeeze from a position of mechanical disadvantage, with your fingertips and thumb at maximum extension, increasing the risk of straining ligaments as you pull with them strained tight against bone and joints. In comparison, if the gripper starts out partly compressed, you're able to work with your ligaments in a better position. Compare it to how, for benchpresses, the spotter often lifts the bar off of the rack for the person lifting. Sure, they could probably straighten their elbows and push it off themselves, but it's putting their body at more risk because they're applying a load when the limb is fully extended. 

I don't think they'll really give you all that much in weightlifting. For the biking, you'll theoretically get more feedback on foot pressure on the pedal, but that will be balanced out by not holding rigid in the toe clip or other strap. For the most part, VFFs are good for better awareness of movement (I have friends who swear by them for sword-fighting). They provide very little protection against impact on the top, so you lose out on the small amount of protection from dropping a weight on your foot that shoes normally give you. There's a minor benefit from letting your toes naturally spread in terms of stability. That said, they're expensive, the durability is a bit iffy, they're not waterproof, and they're far from the miracle work that people propose them as (which is the reason for the current class-action lawsuit). I own a set myself, and I much prefer my thinsoled huarache sandals. 

The good news is that, while sitting will kill you, the research seems to show that as little as a two minute walk each hour largely reverses the effect. Either set yourself an alarm or get up and get coffee or water on the hour. Add the recommended 20 minutes of moderate exercise three times a week and you should be fine. 

I say start now. The program really does ease you into it. The worst that happens, you repeat the first week again until you can work up past the initial 15 seconds of running. 

I'm a big proponent of barefoot in general, something I sometimes blame on growing up in Kentucky. I've been walking barefoot for decades, but I personally use minimalist shoes when running, because a) my feet have a tendency to harden and crack and having some sort of a sole helps with that and b) it helps protect against foreign objects and hot pavement. I've never gotten a blister from barefoot, but I have received 1st degree burns from hot asphalt I've had to cross and I've had a few objects I'd had to pull out of my feet. There are a number of minimalist shoes out there. I personally use Xero Shoes, specifically their DIY huarache sandals (I disclose that I own stock in the company, but I do not work for them. I'm just a big fan), which had very few contact points to create sliding blisters, but help protect my feet from sharp objects and hot asphalt (although I will note that they do not protect your feet from bruising. I currently have a quarter-size bruise from stepping onto a large pebble while casually walking with my cousin's son in Vermont and I avoid grates and gravel when running in them). I also have their Hana shoe, but I picked that up for Capoeira, because the sandals don't handle torsion very well in my opinion. They do not recommend those for running because they're not build for that sort of extremely repetitive stress. Your feet will adapt over time, developing calluses that will help protect them, but mostly, it's about technique. You need to land on the balls of your feet, not your heel, which naturally shortens your stride and leads to a higher cadence. You'll also learn to place your feet and not drag them, which will help with the blisters. 

It's more likely to have been a matter of diet. Unless you actually track your food, there's a good chance that you might not have noticed a decrease in food consumption. Add to that variations in water weight and what clothing you're wearing (assuming you don't hit the scale nude) and 1.4 kg could be a reasonable change over two weeks. 

I'm in the same boat myself. I don't have an authoritative answer to it, but I think it really just boils down to any given form of exercise targets a different form of muscular and cardiovascular exertion and performing a particular set of motions has an aggregate positive effect, but doesn't necessarily apply to the next set of motions. Walking is a different form of exercise than running with a different motion and impact. As for me, the primary thing that I've found works for me is slowly transitioning into the exercise. It feels really awkward at first, but start with jogging slowly, and not for very long. I know that, for me, I assumed running was more or less a slower sprint, but there's a difference in gait. Starting slow lets you more gradually accustom your body to this different form of movement. Additionally, starting slow decreases the impact. I walk very fluidly, but I'm still working on running and not feeling like I'm jolting myself at every step. Pay attention to how your gait feels. If it feels like you're literally pounding the pavement, you're probably not doing it right. Pull back a bit more on the speed and consider how you can land and push off on your feet to make maximum use of the elastic properties of your foot structure. I won't lie... running is not easy to get into for some of us. But I can assure you that, if you take things only as fast as you're comfortable, it is possible to transition into. Lastly, general caveat, if you're instantly out of breath, especially if your chest and throat get really tight, get yourself checked for asthma. Walking might not be triggering it because you've naturally adjusted to never push yourself past that threshold of effort, but the unfamiliar action of running, the stress of it, can serve as a trigger for a breathing problem you never knew you had. 

When I'm doing push-ups to failure, most of them are relatively effortless, then I'll have 2-3 where I'm feeling the strain in my arms and they start feeling rubbery, and then I can squeeze out 1-2 more push-ups, but only by clenching the muscles of my torso, my buttocks, and my legs. I've tried experimenting with not doing that (and thereby doing a few less) and it seems like that's correlated with not feeling muscles soreness the next day (it's not 100%, but those 1-2 extra push-ups just seem to put me over the edge). I know that muscles soreness can be sign of breaking them down to build them back up, and that the last few reps, when you initially think you can't do any more, are where you're really getting the benefit of the exercise because you're pushing your limits. But, such pain can also mean that you're doing something wrong, or pushing yourself into the area of damage. So, the long and the short of it, is tightening those muscles to squeeze out the last rep or two a bad thing? 

Traditionally speaking, the technique generally used for training a person for a back handspring involves either a spotter with their hand lightly on your back, ready to push up if you need it, or a giant foam roller so that you can literally roll through the movement at first. Other than that, the other bit of advice I seen is doing the back handspring a little bit sideways, what Capoeira generally calls a macaco. Because you're not going straight back, it's a lot less scary. Once you feel comfortable doing one from a standing position, you start trying to do it more and more straight over your head until you're able to plant that other hand, at which point you are doing a back handspring. 

I have a fairly persistent problem with "sloshing" sounds when running. Specifically, on the downbeat of each step, I get this feeling and sound like there's fluid being dropped suddenly. It's annoying, and eventually starts to interfere with my running since my stomach starts cramping and I start feeling like I need to find a bathroom (although, in actuality, there often is nothing to discharge). Poking around on the internet, the general consensus is that it's a factor of too much fluid in the stomach, and the way to solve it is to drink less when running. However, a) that doesn't do much good if it starts after I've been running for several minutes and b) it doesn't feel like it's at stomach level, but lower down on the body and more toward the back. It doesn't always happen, although I've found that it's a bit more common at times when I'm having one of my days-long borborygmus incidents (and yes, I've seen a doctor on that, and they basically shrugged and said it didn't seem harmful). Keeping my core tensed seems to help, oddly enough, but that's tiring to do for several minutes at a time. Other than trying to drink less fluids during the day (I'll often down a fair amount during the day, although I try to avoid drinking too close to running for fear of cramps), is there anything I can do? 

As with Dave's answer, it is preferable to breath in through your nose. It's evolved over the years to do a great deal of filtration, from catching pollutants to warming the air as it comes in to adjusting the humidity. Breathing out has been more debated with some people claiming that breathing out through the nose helps you keep from getting dehydrated (the moisture gets caught on the nose hair and mucous membranes so that it can hydrate incoming breath) and others claiming that breathing out through the mouth helps clear more CO2 from your system. The one exception that I've run into, and it's a big one for some people, is whether you can get enough air through your nose. If you have a cold, or you suffer from allergies, it may be impossible for you to get sufficient oxygen through your nose, and the process of trying may make things worse (the nose is where the primary mechanism for respiratory allergies activating lies). So ultimately, if you don't have obstructed nasal breathing and you don't suffer from severe allergies, I recommend breathing in through the nose. When your nose stuffs up, or when you can't get in enough air to sustain your exercise, switch to mouth breathing as necessary. But hold off on the latter to train yourself to increase the amount of breath you get in through your nose rather than relying on mouth-breathing from the start. 

The program for You Are Your Own Gym is pretty close to that. It's all bodyweight exercises with "equipment" involving tables, sills, boxes, and broomsticks. There's a suggested series of exercises which consist of a particular way to follow the routine and then four exercises for the session, which vary across the week. For example, for the beginning program, for your first day, you do a "ladder" (do one rep, rest as long as it took you to do the rep, do two reps, rest as long as it took to do two reps, etc until you decide to go back down the ladder in decreasing order) for 7.5 minutes of Push-ups, then "Let me Ups" (Inclined pull-ups with your feet on the floor), then Tricep dips, then "Let me Ins" (pulling yourself into an open door). That's 30 minutes of arm exercises. The next day a ladder of Backwards Lunges, Romanian Single-leg Deadlifts, Squats, and Swimmers. And so forth. You basically check what four exercises you're doing, then go at it. The first two weeks are ladders. I don't have my book with me to check the later days or weeks, but it's always four exercises in a particular area and a simple way of doing a set number or a set time of them. I will give you warning that the simplicity of it does not make it easy. You probably will wake up sore the first few times. 

Standard comment when people complain about pain when performing their exercise, especially when it involves your head or chest, schedule an appointment with your doctor to be sure it's not a health problem. That said, the idea of recoil is a decent guess. If this is a one-time thing, it's possible that you had a headache that was only becoming evident when you got some shock into your system. Outside of that, are you breathing correctly, either breathing normally or exhaling sharply with the hits? My experience is that many people either hold their breath or try to release it at a constant rate through the punching. That can raise your blood pressure and heart rate, which can cause headaches. Usually, you'll also get a bit more of a flush to your face from the strain. 

Exercise intensely - This is probably a no-brainer since the reason why you want to boost testosterone is to increase gains, but sprints and weightlifting have a positive effect on testosterone production. Proper diet - Low carbs, high animal protein, high fat, and reduced sugar are all positively correlated with increased testosterone. And, of course, fruits and vegetables. Reduce stress - Stress reduces testosterone and cortisol also reduces gains. Get sufficient amounts of sleep - Sleep is an important part of how your body builds strength. This also helps with the stress levels. Reduce your alcohol consumption - Alcohol can have negative effects on testosterone, and muscle growth in particular.