Electrical weaponry The most logical option for a future humanity would be railguns or coilguns, even today electrically powered weaponry is a viable (but still sub-par) choice. It seems to me that gunpowder weaponry is as good as it can get, and almost all upgrades or new innovations to modern weaponry are based around electronic additions or advanced manufacturing techniques. With our current rate of technological expansion, electricity storage and handling will likely be good enough to surpass modern gunpowder weaponry by the time humanity goes interstellar, and since these guns just run on energy, the production and maintenance of such weapons would be a simple endeavour. There are two types available, railguns or coilguns. Railguns are very simplistic, as you just feed electricity through the projectile, an on/off switch is all you really need. Railguns are prone to wear however, particularly the point of contact between bullet and rail. Replacement components may be needed if firing at high power and high rates. Also, the rails will try to force each other apart with each shot, requiring a strong design. Coilguns are more complex, you need multiple coils to activate as the projectile passes through them, requiring more electronics and circuitry, and thus creating more points of failure. Greater speeds can be achieved however, and there may be less wear, as the projectile need not come in contact with the rest of the components, the coils can be wrapped around the barrel and stay separate. Finally, since each coil is separate and doesn't need to touch other components, they can be completely insulated from the outside world, but a railgun requires its high voltage rails to be open to the world, risk of electrocution, keep rain of the barrel! Pros: 

As far as offensive capabilities go, depending on the range of your ability you have huge possibilities. Pick a particularly important object in your opponents body, lets say, the skull, compress it down without any concerns about its contents, and you just instantly killed your opponent in the most gruesome looking way imaginable. If you can't target one part of an object, then perhaps expand whatever they had for lunch, or just shrink any threats to insignificant sizes. However for defending against projectiles, it may not be as useful as you'd think. Conserving both mass and velocity means that the force behind the object is also conserved, so our best options are to change the magnitude or direction of the force in some other imaginative way. Expanding an object into a shield is a possibility, but keep in mind that this larger object has the same mass and therefore a smaller density. Expand your block of titanium large enough and all you have is the worlds shiniest piece of paper. Compress different parts of the object at different rates Perhaps a more useful ability would be to alter the shape of the projectile, that way you can add instability to the bullets drag and force it to miss its target. If it is possible to target part of an object, then a skilled user, or multiple users working closely, could expand one side of the object and compress the other. With enough time to react, make it huge Expand the bullet in two dimensions, so that you suddenly have a giant slab of metal flying at you, but with a very low density, akin to metal foam or iron wool. Once bullet bill has slowed down enough, you can compress him back down to regular size, and allow the now slowly moving bullet to fall harmlessly to the ground. Calculate the trajectory fast enough and you can pluck the once-deadly bullet out of the air for extra style points. Without enough time to react, make it tiny Uh oh, there's a bullet directly in-front of my face, why did they have to make these things so darn fast‽ At this point you have one fall-back plan, compress the projectile as small as you possibly can, if an unimaginably small needle hits you with the force of a speeding bullet, it will likely penetrate your entire body with a hole too negligibly small to be concerned of. If you find yourself faced with a hailstorm of bullets, this is also a possible option, compress every object in-front of you and hope that none of these needles get stopped by bone or sever a particularly important neuron. 

You could see where you are going. You could observe the panorama below. You could hunt with ranged weapons from an eagle without much risk of killing it. Archery would almost certainly be fine in terms of not knocking your own bird from the sky. You'd have to do a bit more research to figure out if firearms would work. I certainly wouldn't recommend using a bazooka or rocket launcher, regardless of how fireproof these eagles are. You could jump off with little risk to yourself or the mount. If people could ride eagles, that someone would try parachuting off an eagle is pretty much a given. You could have eagle-based UFC with strictly the riders fighting each other. This would probably be much more acceptable from an animal rights perspective, as well as safer. You would not want the platform and the combatant to be one and the same when you are very high up. 

If it works, the chances of immediate death are reduced greatly since you are not likely to drift off or be battered by the flow. There will still be a danger of the plug collapsing, as well as being buried too long, but over all it would significantly increase the chances of survival. 

Going in the direction opposite to @Green, you could carry a suit that is designed for burial under the flow. The suit/kit would have the following items: 

The scientists are in an underwater prison. They have all committed crimes that would normally have sent them to a maximum security prison, but instead, they had the option of spending 6 months of every year in a facility from which there is really no escape. The scientists may be studying deep-sea oil extraction, or new organisms that were found, or even the effects of extreme claustrophobia on extremely intelligent people. It could even be something totally unrelated to the ocean, like figuring out how to weaponize some particular toxins or diseases. If the experiments go wrong, the lab is already sealed off as far as possible, at least according to the government official who authorized this secret base. All the staff are expendable prisoners, so there is no down side. Until you contaminate the entire ocean. 

Most people have referenced personal taste or societal trends or fashion, and indeed this is a sufficient reason. I'll focus on two other reasons: Status A futuristic world could have a growing population living on a relatively fixed amount of land. In such a case, land is a commodity, and having a large amount of personal property would be a visual indicator of wealth. Now it defeats the purpose if the house doesn't match, so why not make it extra large? Add a handful of guest rooms, a ballroom, an oversized library and/or study, and you've got yourself a manor or a mansion. 

I'd like to note that your problem might be stemming more from your approach. It sounds like you might be describing the material world more than you are describing the culture. As a reference, Treasure Planet comes to mind. It's a futuristic world, but has a heavy colonial and piratic feel. 

It seems for someone to fit your requirements, they can't instigate what they are famous for. Even if they don't instigate it, you may disqualify them for having an aforementioned trait whether or not that trait (indirectly) caused the thing or was utilized in their response to it. 

If they already have to speak verbally in so many situations, then it might become the default mode of communication. However, I suspect it would still be used to clarify assumptions/understanding or establish facts. Consider the impact on testing, teaching, and legal systems. E.g. testing an apprentice's understanding of your craft; teaching what front-line warfare is like; "Is my kindergartner lying to me?", ask for the memory. 

Hard science: No. That said, the best theory I can give you is that humanity has always had the potential ability to manipulate reality—something intrinsic to our intelligence probably. To activate the ability requires the right mindset, and maybe the right genes. The right mood or mindset creates the right brain chemistry to allow the ability to turn on, but then it also takes the right effort or skill to actually apply the ability. You can cite all the scriptural miracles as evidence. If your character isn't a prophet sort of person, then maybe his genes are a new mutation that allow for a wider range in brain chemistry to turn on the ability than the rest of humanity.