There's a more detailed description given in this formula: Knowledge of the destruction of the āsavas I won't quote it here because it's better to see the original page (i.e. follow the hyperlink). All the words on that page are linked to dictionary definitions, if you hover over the word with a mouse. 

It's referenced as (or, at least, that list is also quoted in) AN 3.86 Sekhin Sutta on access to insight. A few other reference numbers (which I can't chase but which you may be able to) are given in the PTS dictionary definition for Eka says, 

That sutta (or, at least, one of those suttas) is sometimes summarized as "a handful of leaves". Simsapa Sutta: The Simsapa Leaves 

Yes if I hadn't read it I'd be skeptical too. It sounds a bit contrary to the primary/normal message: almost as if the Buddha were giving advice on how to be rich or become wealthy! Nevertheless there are other seemingly-health-related suttas, for example Ittha Sutta, 

So perhaps samue was a traditional uniform of Zen monks; and so, perhaps it isn't that monks are wearing lay clothes, but some lay people have started to wear what were traditionally monks' clothes. 

I won't mention saving others at all (i.e. the Bodhisattva ideal), but instead take a look at for example the background story to verse 5 of the Dhammapada. You wrote, "everyone has a different mission, a specific reason to be here" and maybe this story is a Buddhist version of that: i.e. these specific women had a personal feud, which continued through rebirths, until eventually they learned to stop feuding. You could phrase that as saying that their "specific reason to be here" was to learn that "hatred could only cause more hatred, and that it could only cease through friendship, understanding and goodwill". 

I think that Buddhist are supposed to be "motivated" by compassion ... but may also feel equanimity. Some Buddhists work with (or found) an animal shelter. 

... and that all of these are necessary for there to be a sight. Similarly for the all 6 senses ("6" because "mind" is treated as one of the senses ... the mind is a sense organ which perceives "mind objects" e.g. ideas). See e.g. saḷāyatana for further details. A physical entity exists if and only if it is the actual cause of something else I guess this reminds me of Heisenberg, i.e. that you can't be aware of something (so it might as well not exist) unless it has an effect on (and incidentally is affected by) something observable. Maybe it also reminds me of light cones. In a Buddhist context I suppose I'd understand it to mean we should discount many things as unreal (or not existing) because they don't cause something else. For example, if I'm worried about the monster under my bed and ... wait for it ... I'm not eaten ... I'm conscious of breathing ... then the "monster" didn't actually cause anything and thus doesn't exist as a physical entity. Buddhism has a lot to say and not all of it agrees with the quoted statement: for example it might say that actions or intentions cause things; or that physical entities are maybe not "entities", but are mere "aggregates" (and temporary aggregates) of other things. Another fundamental doctrine is that anything which exists because it's caused (or when the conditions exist for its existence) will cease when its cause no longer exists (or when the conditions for its existence cease). Buddhism may encourage us to try to stop causing more and more (which is called Saṃsāra), and to attain Nirvana (which is also called the "unconditioned" or uncaused, "timeless", and so on). The past is not defined until it produces an effect, but once it does, the past has been defined since it occurred originally. I don't know; Buddhism has some things to say about the past ... that what happens now depends partly on what happened previously ... but perhaps it isn't (or sometimes tries to encourage us not to be) overly interested in that. To become "attached" to something past is a cause of suffering (if I love someone and become attached to them and they die, for example, that's kind of unfortunate; or conversely if I fight with someone and become attached to that fight and carry it around with me for the rest of my life, then that's too bad too). Perhaps Buddhism is more interested in being mindful of (or in) the present, and the future. Buddhism does suggest that there's been a lot of past (ever so many lifetimes), perhaps for salutary reasons. Its doctrines about karma (actions sometimes have an immediate effect, sometimes a later effect) are barely comprehensible IMHO. 

Lastly there's a Buddhist aphorism, that "This is not mine, this is not I, this is not my self." Having "a view of self" apparently makes things worse: a thought like "I am hurt" increases suffering. If instead you avoid that view (of self), perhaps that's a kind of emptiness which she seems to hint at when she says, "you begin to see that there isn't anything in between". Phenomena are maybe transient, distant, and/or localized, passing, past, or future (not present). See e.g. this essay about Emptiness (emptiness is an important part of Buddhist doctrine). 

That doesn't explain exactly what "my duty" is, however. And there's probably something somewhere about repaying parents by teaching them dhamma. 

So, when the Lama is asked whether he has ever lied, his question is reply is "what need?" The chief lesson I got from that was to live a life in which you don't need to lie. I suppose a secondary lesson is that he (remembering that this is an idealized character in a novel) is willing to ask whether there might be a need, just that now as an old man he hasn't ever found a need yet. 

I think that an artist might get rich: which, is not necessarily the same as "accumulating positive merit". If you're asking about artists' livelihood, you might like to read quotes from the suttas about Right Livelihood. 

Translations of these suttas are listed here on Access to insight (Chapters 4 and 5 of the Sutta Nipata within the Khuddaka Nikaya). Each chapter has an introduction by Thanissaro Bhikkhu (here and here). The former says that evidence for its being earlier than the rest of the canon is weak; the latter says (without explanation), 

An article like Sinhalese birth rituals of yore isn't clear about when the baby goes outside for the first time, but maybe it's "in the fourth month after birth": 

When I was learning Maths at school, that first half of each lesson would be the teacher explaining a new technique or theory, and how to use it. The second half of each class would be exercises which each student would practice, while the teacher walked around the classroom helping anyone who needed it -- in other words we were expected to "figure out for ourselves" how to practice something ... but not without having been taught. 

There are definitions of metta and karuna here: What are metta and karuna? There's a metta-bhavana meditation. I'm wondering how to practice these socially, though, e.g. as a lay person when talking with people individually or in a group (or perhaps even as a monk talking with people). In particular what type of view should you try to have of (or see in) people? 

The best example would be the Axis Powers during World War 2 I'm not sure that's a good example. Buddhism includes doctrine like, 

In English (Christianity) the difference between priest and monk is that a monk lives in a monastery or priory (with other monks); while a priest will, more likely, live alone (in parish) to serve the lay community. 

I think that Buddhism isn't trying to make statements about "the world" -- it isn't physics or geology, nor is it philosophy or pure logic -- it's applied logic, and it's trying to make statements about our experience of the world. Consider dukkha, for example, you're not going to measure that with a thermometer, it's not a property of the physical world (the world of physics), it's a property of our experience of the world (perhaps our clinging). Ditto other important components of Buddhism: view, wisdom, clinging, and so on. 

In other words "stress and the cessation of stress" is the only topic that the Buddha intends to "take a stand on" (conversely, at other times the Buddha is described as "trackless"). Why did he only specify two? I think that "stress and the cessation of stress" is a summary: the four noble truths are detailed in a different sutta (SN 56.11). Also this sutta (SN 22.86) says something slightly different about stress and cessation: e.g. it says that "that which is inconstant is stressful", that the five skandhas are stressful... and that it's good not to regard these as "self" (i.e. the anatta doctrine); good not to regard the skandhas as the Tathagata; and improper to "pin down" (make declarations about) the Tathagata existing, not existing, both, or neither. So this sutta does talk about stress and cessation. The whole suttas starts with, is the Tathagata described as: 

Definition of Dukkha is an axiom Craving as the origin of Dukkha is an axiom Cessation of Dukkha with cessation of Craving is a logical conclusion from these axioms 

Well, I hope the above can be a useful introduction to Buddhism. I didn't mention karma. I suspect that karma may be more important in Hinduism than in Buddhism, because apparently (correct me if I'm wrong) Hindus believe that our current state is caused by past karma (which is why you might be wondering about actions in a past life), whereas Buddhism believes that karma is only one of the factors which affects our current state. I don't know what to tell you about your individual state. I'm not a doctor or a teacher. For physical exercise I personally like bicycling more than jogging. I can cycle for hours (can't jog for hours), and find the exercise increases my breathing (more than walking does, e.g. because I try to cycle fast or up-hill) and it's relatively easy on my knees and hips etc. One answer like this can't solve your problem (perhaps only you can solve your problem) but I hope you discover how to maintain equanimity. 

I think that Buddhism categorizes things (including thoughts, views, intentions, habits) into categories of "good" and "bad". For example something is good if it's "moral/ethical", "kind", "harmless", "skillful", "helpful", "benevolent", "conducive to ease", "conducive to non-delusion" and so on. Conversely something is bad if it's immoral, unkind, harmful, unskillful, unhelpful, malevolent, conducive to disease, conducive to delusion, and so on. "Enlightenment" is meant to be a good thing ... so if you're not seeing it that way, perhaps it's your view of enlightenment that's wrong, not enlightenment itself that's wrong. More specifically I think of enlightenment as being intended to counter-act (it acts as an antidote to) a pre-existing unenlightened fear of death. It's meant to be an escape from death (and rebirth). 

According to the three Suttas identified at the bottom of this page, the purpose of the eight precepts is to "emulate the arahants". The eight precepts aren't only practiced on Uposatha days but also, for example, by people who visit a centre such as this one. 

The first is that Buddhism distinguishes like a rainbow or spectrum of mental phenomena, which occur one after the other, for example: 

A sutta like this ("the skeletons of a single person, running on and wandering in samsara for an aeon, would make a heap of bones, a quantity of bones as large as this Mount Vepulla") or this ("would that blind sea-turtle, coming to the surface once every one hundred years, stick his neck into the yoke with a single hole") implies that it may be (or may have been) a very long time indeed. It's not clear whether that long time is past, future, or present. IMO the implication is that it has been a very long time in the past, and that unless you start the follow the Buddha's way (for liberation) it will continue indefinitely (until you do). The question of whether it's literally endless may be another of the unanswered questions ("Is the cosmos eternal?"). 

I think it can be described as being liberated (freed) from the dissatisfaction which is caused by wanting or clinging to impermanent things. 

I'd guess that reply, that speech, would be neither lying nor being an accomplice. I'm not sure whether that speech would be welcome (by the hunter) or timely, but that's a separate consideration. most probably I'm lacking the wisdom to see the third choice Yes I'm guessing that there is a third choice: if the question were "Should I choose 'this evil', or 'that evil'?" then the answer might be, ideally, "no" to both. 

This attitude (the question of what if anything are children's responsibility towards their parents) varies from country to country and from one society to the next, and one family to the next. This (that children aren't responsible) is an lesson which is taught to children, especially when the parents are or have a problem: 

Have you read Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance? I liked it. I'd rather not spoiler it but I was remembering it earlier today: towards the climax (which isn't at the end of the book), he goes back to Homer and the Sophists. He quite loses his cool over Aristotle, which is funny at the time, sadder later. 

One way to view consciousness is e.g. as described in this Wikipedia article: Vijñāna. My paraphrase is there are three things for each of the six senses: 

If you'e doing it with a group other people, or schedule it as a regular part of your busy day, then it's timed. Instead of "the alarm rings", a usual sound is of a small bell, e.g. like this: Bell Meditation.mp3 The sound fades away, decays. In real life i.e. physically, such a sound is produced by two little disks/bells, each suspended, which the meditation leader tings together. The leader has a clock within their field of view. Or it's a simple application for an electronic device. Apart from "timed" meditation, like that, I guess another way might be to continue until you have reached a goal? But timing is the obvious method. The point of timing isn't what some people call "spiritual materialism" (e.g. being proud of how spiritual you are, based on how long you meditate), of course; instead I think it's to free you from having to worry about whether the session is supposed to have ended and whether it's time to stop. I agree that Suminda's advice, i.e. "one hour is a good time for a beginner" and "increase the timer", is feasible. A way to do that is to set the timer for 20 or 25 minutes; decide that you're still alright, and that a period like that isn't harmful ... and that if you could do that, then you can do a bit more; and reset the clock for slightly longer, 30 or 35 minutes. 

It details a number of exceptions: if you kill a person by accident; if you thought they were already dead; or etc. It also details some non-exceptions, e.g. telling someone else to kill does count as "effort". Perhaps I could mention that attempted murder (where the victim doesn't die as a "result") is considered still an offence, and punished ... but with "lesser penalties". The penalties (and the deeds for which monks are punished) in the Vinaya aren't necessarily the same as the working of kamma -- they're more well-defined (and so easier to list in detail). 

... so you might try to avoid doing anything with "a mind of hate", for example, e.g. motivated by revenge. Apart from literature, people recommend you practice (actions, e.g. generosity and ethical behaviour; and meditation); and that you should have "good friends". There's two little bits I find helpful, to "know what's right without having much knowledge about Dhamma". 

In this video Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu explained why he prefered to eat once a day. It's noticeable that both his companions laughed at time 12:15 of this video. 

I tried to understand what it might mean etymologically; all I can offer on that is this discussion, perhaps especially this answer. However Payutto (quoted by Piya Tan above) goes on to say, 

They're each useful. And it's not that "they interact", it's that we have to pick the appropriate model -- and the "appropriate model" changes depending on what we're trying to describe, or what problem we're trying to solve. Consider just mathematics: is maths algebra, or is it trigonometry ... which is it? When do you use which? How can they interact? 

So it is natural (a property of the world). And it is learned (taught by the Buddha). Not everyone walks on this Dhamma naturally. Being able to swim (in water) instead of drowning is maybe natural too, also an acquired skill ... not everyone can swim (though maybe every can learn to swim if they're taught and if they practice). Wny naturally one believes in Self? Now you're starting to ask about (specifically) anatta instead of (more generally) dhamma. I think an answer might be that one maybe usually doesn't believe in Self -- many hours, many instants might occur without that belief -- but when the belief does occur (for example, "That cookie is mine!") then that belief is dukkha so it's better to not hold that view. Also, remember the Three poisons: ignorance, delusion, confusion are blamed as a root cause.