If people think you're leaving, they may not offer you opportunities you might otherwise get. You may change your mind. If you find your work fulfilling, meet someone significant, become part of a community, you may find you want to stay. 10 years is a long time when you are young, free and single.* 

You turn it down You accept, and fail to improve things like you predecessor You accept, and succeed 

Work with your employer to construct a more resilient structure. As an example, you could have an assistant position in your team for someone who will be able to step in when you are unwell; assuming you are still able to talk to them about the current status of a project, to explain details etc, then handover is still very possible. In any team there will be people looking to step up the ladder, so there should be willing candidates for such a role. They may become competition for you, but there is no silver bullet here. In an ideal world I would suggest becoming a 2-person company with someone else, and being taken on together by an employer. That way you could train them to be able to step in, and come to some arrangement on pay and training with them privately. Unusual arrangements like this, however, are usually hard to sell to employers. By approaching your employer to seek to address the issue constructively, you should be able to come to a workable arrangement. If you do not, then events may decide things for you. 

I would say that piece of wisdom applies more to typical IT shops than to software companies. The typical situation is an IT shop at a company that makes widgets, and has some software that is a "cost center." They want to have a base of employees who can support their systems, and aren't terribly likely to move any time soon. Occasionally, they will have projects where they will need to ramp up their staff or acquire a specific skill set. Or they may like to have a "buffer" if they need to cut expenses fast without risking the hassle of laying off employees. In this case, the typical contractor will be making more than the typical employee. The trade-off is for stability. If there are budget cuts, the contractor will likely go before the employee. On the other side, the employees' skills are likely more localized and domain-specific than the contractors', so they may not have as much leverage to negotiate raises, etc. Again, there are exceptions, but I think this is a rough picture at your typical IT shop. -- For companies, that make software as their main business, the model is a little different. They want talent, and are probably willing to pay for it, and may not be as concerned as an IT shop about costs, so they're working off a different model. 

I find the PERT estimation useful for software development tasks. Summarising: a = time if you fly through it, no delays, no problems b = time you think it will realistically take given known delays and known problems c = worst possible scenario, everything gets delayed, your other bosses give you extra work, and you find a flaw in your implementation at 80% through your plan Estimated time = (a + 4b + c) / 6 Variability = (c - a) / 6 Say you think a task would take a day in ideal conditions, and normally you'd get there in the next 2 days because of meetings, but there are a few stages that could cause problems and then it would be 9 days. Then your estimate is (1 + 4x2 + 9) / 6 = 3 days, variability is 1.3 days, so you would say "I expect to get it done in 3 days, but it could easily take 4.5 days." This way, they have an idea of when to expect it (for delivery to customers, you want to estimate the time to delivery in calendar days, including the effects of meetings, holidays and so on), and an idea of what a conservative estimate might look like. If there is a big variable, like 'it might break component X, so then I'd have to modify and rebuild that component, which would be an extra week', then flag that up in the response - 'I expect it to be done in 3 days, but it tests the limits of component X, so there could be an additional week there'. This is one of the hardest bits of working in small businesses with multiple competing demands on your time. So grasp it with both hands and don't shy away from giving estimates. The sooner you get a handle on it, the better things will be. If quizzed in person, don't be afraid to say "I can't give you an estimate that would be any use off-hand, let me send you something by the end of the day". Good luck. 

The usual social sanction for a joke that falls flat is lack of laughter or silence. Hopefully, this would be sufficient not to try it again. If the pattern continues, you can tell him you'd prefer he not joke about your height. Of course, for a certain class of folks, this would be an invitation for a steady stream of jokes about your size. Your description makes him sound like he's more clueless/ignorant/insensitive than sadistic, so he may respond well to the feedback, but you would know better than I would. 

Assuming these are all legitimate mistakes that are the fault of the employees and not the process, a system of peer accountability seems be in order. If you have a regular meeting with the employees to review tickets (e.g. projecting them on the whiteboard), and point out if they have not been updated in a regular enough time. If you have regular stand-up meetings, where the root cause of a problem repeatedly comes down to a certain developer forgetting a semicolon, that should be embarrassing to the programmer and provide the incentive him to change. I don't like meetings anymore than anyone else, but making the team members accountable to each other for results and their performance in following through with certain things will in most cases make them more likely to do it. 

Talk to HR. If the employee is making claims about their disability impeding their capacity to do the job, it is worth bringing an HR representative into play. Your friend is not in a position to judge whether the excuses are valid or not, and making a call either way could be a mistake. An initial chat with HR should clarify matters, and if they agree with the apparent opinion that the employee's excuses are not valid, then he should bring them into a 3 person chat. That way the employee is reassured that they are being fairly dealt with; if they are abusing their status then they may be more likely to misconstrue (intentionally or not) a private conversation between 2. 

I've heard of people doing this; one guy mentioned having an always-on video conference for remote work, which seems to be the usual context for this kind of appliance. Finally found it: Virtual Camaraderie His take on it - having a separate machine for the video conference - is what you're talking about. [Edit: also Project Stargate] I would make a few suggestions: 

It is an interesting balancing act. Against my egalitarian instincts, I do think some degree of "star treatment" is warranted if you want to achieve the highest levels of success. Success should bring with it some privileges, and the smartest companies are willing to look the other way on certain things in order to attract and retain the most talented people. The workday starts at 9, but the star engineer needs to drop her kids at school and can't get there until 9:30? Maybe let it go. Or you can say "rules are rules" and accept that you're going to hover around the average. I don't think it's a coincidence that the NBA Finals features 4 of the top 10 players in the league.* Think they might be difficult at times? Think they get treated differently than their teammates? You bet. I think this also applies to having some reasonable level of control over work assignments. Mike Scoscia shouldn't ask Albert Pujols to lay down a sacrifice bunt*, or bat him eighth in the lineup without having a conversation with him first. And if he does, he should expect some friction. But here's the other side -- with star privileges comes star accountability. If Albert Pujols can call his own hit-and-runs, then he needs to answer questions when it fails in the World Series. If the team fails, the star is going to take a good part of the blame. I have been on teams where some members were given star treatment, allowed to go off and work on something outside the team's normal processes. This wasn't a big deal until they essentially tossed the resulting project over the wall to another team and declined to stand behind it. Then the real resentment came in. This is where the parallels with sports start to break down a bit. Because in sports, the star players are paid more and are generally more famous than coaches/management, so fans and the media have no problem holding them accountable for the team's results. In business, managers typically make more than even their best employees and are the ones accountable to management for the success of the team, so ceding some of that to a star employee is not seen as a good move. But it may be the best way to go. This also has to be balanced with the reality that star players are typically de facto leaders, and play a big part in setting the tone and culture for the entire team. If that tone is non-cooperation and defiance, then you're in some trouble. But I think that can be avoided by getting them on board in private as much as possible. Good luck. -- 

Your founders do not value you very highly. It is an entirely classic setup for bosses to think they are doing you a huge favour by employing you, undervalue you and underspend on things that would make you happy. Often, that is why people start their own companies. I don't think the problem is that being cheap is affecting morale, or that you are not communicating clearly enough. They just don't think you're worth it. What they want is a set of compliant workers who are just so happy to work at such an exciting company that it doesn't matter if there's no money being spent on them. Just look at the contrast in your question; the founders boast of their extravagant lifestyle, yet expected you all to pay for a team event that they had picked. That is at best myopic, and at worst you are being screwed. Unfortunately, some people work on this level; it's dog-eat-dog, they really only care for what they can take and they will do the bare minimum to stop you all leaving. If they have investment money, they probably barely care if you aren't working so hard; if they can justify the extra expense to the investors, they can get more money. They only care if you leave because it would look bad to the investors. In this environment, where the management does not show any real care for the workers, the answer is to unionize. Unionize for some R&R? What am I thinking? I'm thinking that this is more than the culture, or the occasional trips out being funded: It is about the management taking the workforce seriously. If you do not stand up to them properly (or quit), they will continue to pay you all poorly, fail to look after you, and generally drive you as hard as they dare. What's to stop them, if they don't have compassion for you? You are incentivising them to do just that; they can keep more of the money by just pushing you all harder for less reward. Some bosses do care for their workers, and those are the companies you want to work for. The rest you have to force into behaving better by threatening to strike, leave, etc. Most are just weak and only need you to show some mettle before they will back down and treat you better. They just don't see the world your way, and can't justify spending more money on you unless you might leave, because nothing is as important as their immediate bottom line.