So it seems that there were at least some enlightened rulers, but they were not 100% effective (much like modern times, [1]). Another place to look is this WIkiepedia article where they speak about it happening in Greece in about 600 BC. But it seems slavery was only banned for Greeks, and they still had Barbarian slaves. [1] I'd ask readers to note that while slavery is illegal in the United States and much of the world today, it still exists in different forms. 

I know the question is asking about whether original 2100 year old bamboo versions of Sima Qian's Records of the Grand Historian exist or not. I liked @samuel-russell 's response about source material being tough for just a few decades. I'd like to note that there are copies of Sima Qian's work available online on the internet in Chinese. And there are also English language versions in books, for example: ISBN 0231081693, ISBN 978-0835106184, ISBN 9780199574391 

To a certain extent, the plague brought about the downfall of the Yuan Dynasty[1] and allowed the founding of the Ming Empire. You might want to read a bit about the Ming Dynasty. It was one of the most innovative empires in worldwide history. However, instead of innovating science and technology, they innovated governmental administration via meritocratic exams, and arts and literature. Information about Ming Innovations in statecraft and painting and other stuff was transmitted to Europe and the rest of the world starting with Matteo Ricci and the Jesuits towards the end of the Ming. It can be said - I need a solid source for this, will update soon - that centralized European states were loosely based on the Ming administrative methods, as reported by Ricci. [1] Wikipedia says that 

No, not without a major change in philosophy. If Nazi Germany had been able to somehow defeat the Soviet Union, they certainly would have "controlled" a large portion of Eurasia for a small period of time. However, guerrilla warfare in the conquered territories would have made holding these territories difficult. Administering the conquered Russians would have been very resource intensive, just as it was resource intensive to administer France and other conquered territories. The Nazis would have been stretched to thin. What about the whole world? Could the Nazis have conquered China, India, and Africa? The answer is an emphatic no way; there is only one proven way to conquer and administer a huge empire for a long period of time. This proven method was demonstrated by the British time and time again; it involves just a little military action and a whole lot of patience, which Hitler didn't have to much of. In a sentence, the British spent 300 years double-crossing and co-opting indigenous ruling structures around the world. Why they did this, and how they did it for so many years, is another question. The fact is that the Nazi did not have the social philosophy to do this. A grim alternative is that the Nazis would simply exterminate entire conquered populations. Perhaps they would try to liquidate the whole of Russia? I honestly don't think they would be able to do it; it would be just to much blood. Another thought is worth considering though; maybe Germany actually won WWII? Sure, the stated goal was to control Eastern Europe and ethnic cleansing. They didn't succeed in this. But what if we re-interpret the Nazi goals? What if "Lebensraum", mentioned in the excellent post by DevSolar, was simply the end British economic hegemony over Germany? In that case, they succeeded as the British Empire collapsed within two decades of WWII. And in retrospect, Germany is doing pretty good these days economically. So maybe Germany won? This too required a change in philosophy, and buying into the vision of the conquering Americans. 

A couple of data points: Firstly, The Song Dynasty (960-1279) pioneered many methods of modern finance, trade, and economics. Subsequent to the Song, the Mongols ruled China and much of Eurasia. In administering their civilized territories, the Mongols used administration and economic management techniques that they learned from the Song. Indeed, they employed Chinese engineers and bureaucrats throughout their empire. The merchant classes from South Asia, the Middle East, and Europe grew greatly as a result of this style of management, and commercial activities (banking, corporate arrangements, trade management) grew as a result. Likewise, Chinese manufactures like Tea, pottery, silk, etc, along with spices, spread to the Middle East and Europe. The royalty and the wealthy in these areas developed a taste for these goods, and empowered merchants to increase trade. (this led directly to colonialism) Secondly, Matteo Ricci spent about 3 decades (1582-1610) as an advisor to the Ming emperors. There is much emphasis in history about his influence in the Ming courts concerning his introduction of European culture there, and his conversion of many Chinese to Christianity. Much less spoken about are the result of his reporting, and the reporting of others who followed his footsteps, about the structure of the Chinese state, especially how it was centralized, and its meritocratic bureaucracy & civil service exams, and its "strict" legalism. Modern European states in the late 1700s and 1800s structured their post-feudal, centralizing states in a manner patterned after Chinese methods. What does this mean? Much of modern society, with centralized secular governments ruling with somewhat meritocratic methods, with high priorities on trade and living standard, are the result of worldwide Chinese influence over the last 1,000 years. In summary, the whole world is currently undergoing "sinification" at this very moment, and you didn't even notice! A side note: I've had difficulty building a non-racist definition of "sinification" as China is a really diverse place. People of the Han ethnicity in South China and North China are as different as Scandinavia and Egypt; does this mean China hasn't been sinified yet? Or does it mean the only commonality is a secular centralized state with managed economic organization ? It might be easier to discard the concept of sinification all together, and view the world as a place where ideas flow in every direction at once. 

The Iliad, the most important of Greek Mythology, in ancient times was at the center of western education. Children in Greece prior to the Roman expansion started learning with the Iliad, and the Iliad remained a prominent part of education through the Roman era into the middle ages. Not just Homer was important, but it is also my understanding that the works of Aristotle and Galen were studied as a part of medical training until the 1800s. In western Europe in the "dark ages" literacy even among clergy was lower, but with the Renaissance there was a revival of Classical Education which according to Wikipedia was led by Petrus Ramus. Children from families that could afford it (and desired it), received such an education. So the question is, what about England in the 1300s? What was the state of classical education, and hence knowledge of the Iliad and hence Greek mythology in general? This source mentions the Quadrivium being prevalent in Medieval Europe at that time. So I think odds are if someone in 1300s England could read, they learned to read via some variant of classical education. And if they learned via classical education, they would know some Homer and Greek Mythology. If they could not read, odds are lower that they would know about this, or much else. 

Instead of the "popular" vs "not popular" dichotomy, the question asks "how popular." I am also interested in how much support existed as the years passed. (Edit: It has been noted that it will be impossible to produce exact, perfect numbers. ) 

I don't know a ton about this topic, but in Molotov Remembers, a reprint of a bunch of conversations with Molotov in the 70s and 80s, the interviewer asks a lot of questions about this topic. Molotov said that Stalin knew there would be war with Hitler, and the whole point of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was to stall for time and prepare, and that Stalin felt the country needed two more years before the USSR was ready. Molotov makes clear that all of the ruling circle knew that the Nazis were enemies, and that they knew an attack was eminent. Molotov laughed at the idea that Stalin naively thought that Hitler could be trusted to keep the terms of the Pact - indeed he points out that Stalin trusted no one, even Molotov himself! So why was the Soviet Union "caught by surprise" when the Germans attacked? Molotov says that Stalin was primarily worried about an anti-USSR German/British alliance, and that Stalin sent orders to his troops specifically to make sure that Germany was the clear aggressor. The orders specified that there was to be no military response to anything the Germans did, except from Stalin himself. Prior to the invasion, there was a number of border skirmishes and false alarms. Molotov says they were worried about being baited by Hitler into escalating the war, and thus be blamed for its start. The orders helped delay the start of the war by weeks or months. He also mentioned the British intelligence report and that they felt it was something of a joke, that "how could we not know the invasion was eminent? And how could we trust the British?" Molotov then goes on to call Stalin a genius for this tactic, because: 

You want Mythology by Edith Hamilton. It is fantastic. And the first to read, as it is the most important, is the Iliad by Homer. This book formed the basis for classical education until at least the 1800's. I suggest the translation by Lombardo for several reasons.The language is very readable, and without pretension. Also, this translation is far less censored then the others; all the sex and gratuitous violence of this war story remain intact. As far as allegory, as Hamilton explains, over 2 millennia the stories and allegory change, so it very much depends on what you are reading, and what the author was trying to say. Ovid was a pampered Roman dandy with disdain for mythology, so he tells the stories like simple fairy tales, where the allegory relates criticism of his own society. Homer, on the other hand, uses the horrors of war and the passion of human emotion to explain what it is to be human in a serious, epic style. I personally found the Iliad to be very inspiring, and Ovid to be somewhat trashy. In the Iliad, as Hamilton suggests, you can substitute psychological emotions for each deity; for example, every time you see the word Athena you can substitute in the word courage and the story remains flawless. Likewise, you can substitute Anger for Ares, and status quo loving for Hera. An example: 

It would be really hard to pick up an individual piece of sushi with a fork or spoon. Chopsticks, however, make it easy to pick up a single piece and eat it. Essentially, to convert Japan to a forks culture, the whole cuisine would need to change. And if I've learned one thing, it is that people generally don't like to switch foods - they yearn for the food they grow up with. 

These are just a few examples of US intervention; most people from South America are well aware that the US has been meddling in their affairs for decades, generally to the benefit of the US and not to the common welfare of South American people. The US generally backs rightist oligarchy/aristocracy types against popular rebellions, so honestly, we can't blame the US 100% for these problems; really the South/Central American ruling classes refusing to share power and wealth with the people is the primary cause. However, without US help, it is unlikely that popular reform would have been as suppressed for as long. 

The reason for the existence of Eunuchs was that they could serve the Emperor without risk of impregnating any of his Harem. Without Eunuchs, there is more doubt about whether the next heir to the throne is truly an offspring of the Emperor. The rest, as Congusbongus says, relates to access. As they controlled access to the Emperor, and indeed were his primary "friends", they had power over the emperor. 

Another set of old data was a ton of written records as old as 111 BC found on a archeological dig in the 1930s. There are more than 10,000 of them as found. See page xxxvi in this google book. Written on bamboo, wood, and pottery. 

(picture from Wikipedia) Historically speaking, most spoken about in the media and in Wikipedia are the various territorial claims by different claimant entities. Anyone who glances at a map can see that several countries might have valid claims: China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, Singapore, and the Philippines. Which of these countries ultimately control this water has nothing to do with my question. It is notable that the United States does not have any territory in this area, and that the United States has no territorial claim. So why does the US Navy have a significant presence in the South China Sea? Why is this an important election issue for Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump? Why is this front page news in the US? The media gives a few "standard narrative" answers for this, related to international freedom of navigation, international law, trade, and to protect US business interests. Strangely absent from the standard narrative is the US colonial legacy in the Philippines. The US didn't recognize the Philippines as an independent country until 1946, and had a significant military presence there until base closures in the 1990's. It would not be hard to characterize the Philippines as a client state of the US, or at least under neo-colonial control. Edit: It is suggested in the comments that the word "neo-colonial control" is to strong. The characterization is considered incorrect by many; but it is undeniable that the US has a history of economically punishing countries to do not follow its policies) It is significant that Vietnam, Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei were not fully independent from the colonial powers until after the 1960's. It seems that to fully understand the South China Sea territorial dispute, it is critically important to understand the colonial history of the region. So the preliminary questions are prior to 1930, were there any formal colonial claimants to this area? Did any have recognized sovereignty over this area of water? The Big Question: What impact does this colonial legacy have on the current US presence in this dispute? Edit: Perhaps the US colonial legacy has no impact on US interests in this area! Any and all answers are possibly acceptable.