What do you think: can Dhamma be realiced by animals? Easy or nearly to no way for humans having gained an animal state? Visible right here and now. 

To be outardly potent and give birth and becoming, is not the noble intent seen within the Noble Ones, but to uproot and destry the Linga at its root, cut it of, for oneself. Jesus-like self-sacrify, martyr of all kind, the wise and the Dhamma does not see as prais worthy but merely as "impotence" to be winner over one self and have failed to even trace the cause of suffering in ones own heart. Understanding the quote in this way in regard of potence, than it fits to the Dhamma, for one who ignores the real enemy within one self, fighting outwardly, has put a cloak of ignorance, with favoring colors above ones ability (potence) to get a real hero. So to rephrase: 

At this point your refuge grows firm and no more to slight far away. Nature, by given the cause for it, is now on your conductive side. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

There is no more intent to perform kamma, even wholesome (e.g. deeds which "fall" back to one) So an Arahat act "So" or "Such". He is compassion, dwells in compassion, formost as a unexceled field of merits. Others might act in what ever intention toward him. If asking what does or can an Arahat give outwardly: it depends of what is left. Maccariya (stingyness) is absent in all Noble beings (beginning by streamenter). He is also incapable to act on ill-will, for sensuality, for any personal interest... Since he has perfect virtue, he has perfect compassion since virtue = compassion. To become an Arahat is based on compassion, right intention/resolve comming from right view. That is the reason why they (who waer the flag or the Arahats) are called "prah/preah karuna", "lord of compassion" in Southeast Asia. So again, there is no such as an intent to be compassioned because he is compassion, embodies compassion. And of what he might give (which seems to define compassion for the asking person) by word and deeds, e.g. physical, depents on what is remeaning. There is no more accumulation for the sake of giving, no more intent of becoming and not-becoming, either to be or not to be. And there is no way that he could fall back and act on merely defiled compassion. What ever he gives is totaly free of string (to the world) and directed to liberation. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

I work in a highly competitive market, and often people around me only talk about money or finances or the global economy day in and day out. A few of my friends/interns were attracted to Buddhism after I told them about meditation recently. Some of them became lay practitioners, but are now questioning what seems to be a contradictory lifestyle. In short, is having a goal of seeking financial success and money considered an attachment to the world? Is this contradictory to the Buddhist path of humility? Thank you. 

I recently, and accidentally, found out one of my very close family members has been watching pornography on my computer. He had borrowed it and had used it apparently for his own purposes one night. I am not too bothered by this, but I did find that in recent history he had watched some very extreme videos in sexual nature. I had to think about it for a long awhile. On one hand I know I cannot control his karma and what decisions he makes. On the other I still question whether or not it is considered a break of the sexual immorality precept. I do not wish to judge anyone, but I was just so shocked to see one of my family members watching some very extreme videos in nature. Again, we are related, but his karma is not mine. I cannot push such a thought away, and I constantly wonder, not to my choosing, whether to consider it his personal free will and to let everyone be or if I should be worried if a relative was enjoying videos almost abusive in nature. I suppose some of this suffering stems from attachment to this relative, but I am just asking for advice from fellow Buddhists. I am pondering whether or not pornography is considered a violation of the precepts? How should I view such a situation? Should I ignore it and move on? What is the buddhist response to a situation like this? I am dearly confused. Thank you to all. 

Given the good hint of Dhammadathu: "psychiatric hospital", if using a retreat, the Buddhas teaching, just to funcion for the world, e.g. as a compensation, not really up to go beyoung, it's nothing but missuse of gifts. It's not good, not adviced, to get torward a an unexcelled gift with the inspiration of function for the world. As Psychiatrist Lanka might know how the matter of reintegration and earnings with such works. Having this basic fear possible change to a better, it would be nothing but hindrence to gain right view but as often a door to develop strange wrong views, willing to use high Dhamma for the world. This often "schizophrenic" way of live that is further leaded, a broad visible phenomena of so called Vipassana doer, is for the most not of benefit and those people are usually very unvirtuose, not ashamed to perform even grave missconduct, often continue wrong livelihood, having developed such as householder equanimity, a equanimity not based on penetrating the world, e.g. sensuality, matter. So my person advice is to simply lead a proper lay-persons life, focusing much on generosity, service for worthy and Sila and when the day comes that actually seeing the danger in the world, taking on the going forth if the conditions outwardly, previous cased, are avaliable. Todau even monks make retreats in same way... look at them. Today a very open remark of a, to that extend, very wise nun. Accidentally from the same lineage (if my person is not wrong) as it seems: A silly Nun, she calls her self, sadly. Here a share of the (hidden) comments on the "luck" of reintegration, her resume: 

Wisdom, here especially what is called "emotional-wisdom" is not a matter of age and is always up to ones persons previous and current deeds. As the Buddha told, some might have an easy way, some a hard. It's totally not a matter of age in regard od dealing with feeling, and the younger one is learning skills, the better, for an old is hard to bend. There have always been kids who even gained Arahat shipp and that even old are foolish till their death is a common usuall. So better than to worry about the young would be worry about ones emotional problems in regard of young and uproot the cause of emotional problems with if by one self, wouldn't it? As soon being able to chase off cows, one is already prepared to even live the holly life in its full, from outwardly aspects. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other lower wordily gains by ways of exchange or trade] 

I was reading on some later Buddhist and Mahayana sutras and kept seeing the principles along the lines of "all phenomenon have no nature of their own and are thus empty." I've studied on scriptures like this before, like the Heart Sutra, but I don't think the Pali Canon or Tripitaka mentions anything about this doctrine. I'm curious what exactly later Buddhists meant by this, and if the Buddha actually taught this doctrine or if Sunyata has basis in the original sutras. Thank you to all. 

I live and work around a person (relative) whom is constantly negative in my life. He always belittles me about what I do, and whenever I succeed at something, he claims it was luck. When I fail at something, he usually mocks me or says it was my fault, or calls me deragatory terms. Given this is a relative, he does care about me, but I think it is from caring too much that he always puts me down or spreads negative karma when I am around him. If I am too afraid to do something, he calls me a coward. Being that my environment calls for existing around this person for much of the time, is there any way I can respond as a Buddhist? It will be awhile before my living condition changes. I tried Metta and showing compassion, and I read stories on how Buddha had historically handled insults from strangers. The hard part about this is that this person is a relative and family member. I tell myself to not be attached to my ego or self image, but I am very much a beginner, and when reality hits me, I find my peace broken by the negativity. I find the day poisoned by this bad karma. It is like I wish for others' opinions to not bother me or steal from my inner peace, but somehow what others say or think about me eventually robs me of the day's equanimity. Eventually I succumb to the negative energy. I always feel low in self-esteem after this happens. I always think as if I have failed in my practice by being bothered and robbed of my sense of harmony. One morning I woke up for Samatha meditation, and as soon as I left my room to begin the day I was greeted with a barrage of cold remarks. I'm wondering what Buddha taught on this? I feel as if I am wrongly clinging to my self image or sense of self-worth in life. Sometimes I am mindful of it, and realize the attachment is there. Thank you, peace on you all. 

There is nothing wrong to receive a meal, give talk on Dhamma and a blessing. Offerings to the deceased and blessing the deceased There is nothing wrong to receive a meal, give talk on Dhamma and a blessing. Also encouragement to do offering toward the death is the Buddhas way. Worship of the Devas or Brahmas Nothing wrong with paying respect to the Devas and Gods, the Buddha encouraged as well. 

Death, in the realm of humans and Devas (for them), where Dhamma can be understood, is defined with "break up of the body", so a "unconscious" human being should not be regarded as no more living as long the body "works", ages. 

depends on the way. In giving a talk, there is no problem. Harming a ghost, or doing healing others then by giving Dhamma might be failing. 

Since the questioner asked for "seeing here and now the truth", even he him self might be not capable, again to be seen by the wise: 

Those common views, that "non-violent" agression and actions of politic and "manipulation", yet most for an opinion, one side, and in opposition, are merely a notion of secular approaches and in Mahayana spheres often accepted "doing evil for a good", which is common tolerated by normal people, given the titel "hero" to one taking side. There are NO of such "heros" who had not caused a mass on suffering, and if we think on what Maha-Atmas approach caused on wars and death in the following, to what has been giving rise to ripe, it's merely the observation of blind to gratify such as good. Virtue which is not based on right view can not be real virtue but falls for the most into the frame of just another hypocrisy. So in this regard it's possible better (althought aggressive as well) to listen more on such as Oshos statements on heros, like Ghandi (not, it's merely vulgar speech or better provoking) As for the Buddha and his Dhamma, uprooting the flag, the potence, as well as giving up holding to being, becoming and birth (and its effect death) clearly contradicts not only the words but also the conduct of what ever might cover himself with non-violence, yet still on a fight and after win in the world and outwardly. In somehow it seems in this way merely like a selfreflection, this quote, by him. Opposing ones leader, father and mother, contemplatives, disrespect toward them, even if covert in "non-violence", leads to violence and to the other extrem on the same coin. The Pema, love-sutta might explain it well. It shows the four kind of tools to win fools in politic in detail: