It seems 'normal' that philosophers of religion and divinities scholars in the West would focus mostly on the Abrahamic religions. Along with that, many philosophers have engaged with Eastern traditions such as Buddhist and Vedic philosophy. On the other hand it seems to me that non-Abrahamic Western traditions,in particular Neopagan and Wicca, are not taken seriously at all by established Western academic philosophers. For example, here are search results on the Harvard Divinity Schools web site: 

You say "On earth,or after resurrection , if there is resurrection," but that actually makes it two very different questions. If resurrection is involved, then all bets are off from a philosophy point of view, and the question is probably more suitable for a theology site. So I will stick to the "on earth" part. There is then a pretty straight forward answer to your question: If one subscribed to functionalism or to the computational theory of mind with regards to the mind-body problem, then the answer is "Yes, humans can develop into transhumans". The human mind is just software that runs on biological hardware (i.e. the human brain) and there is no a priori reason why it cannot be upgraded or set up to run on better hardware than the one it runs on now. If on the other hand you are a dualist, then the answer is "Not likely", since there is more to the human mind and consciousness than just software running on a brain, and until we figure that out, we can't just "upgrade" the mind. 

Well they couldn't, that's why Carnap and the Logical Positivists' program is considered to have failed (*). It is unique among philosophical school in that it declared dead by its own people after it faced several challenges including the one you allude to which is that the verification principle is itself a statement that cannot be verified empirically. See here and here for details, and this video of here's A.J. Ayer, leading British L.P, admitting it all turned out to be false - starting just before 34:00 

Not all of my answers are sourced, some are based on my general reading of ethics courses, they are still accurate. 

From one point of view this is really a technical question: What tests do we have for recognizing Strong AI? There is of course the Turing test and its variations. The Turing test has its problems. There have been since then other proposals for tests, such as Winograd Schemas, The Lovelace test, and others. Your question in one way reduces to a technical discussion of which one of these tests is the right one, and then how to convince people that this test is, and is one to be resolved by further research in cognitive science more so than a philosophical discussion. Keep in mind that even once the philosophical and scientific communities arrive at a consensus on what a legitimate test for strong AI is, and then computer engineers proceed to build such a strong AI, there will always remain people that are unconvinced. After all, the scientific consensus is that the Earth is billions of years old, yet many people still believe that it is only 6000 year old or so. Of course in the case of strong AI, there is a chance that such an AI will, in true Matrix-Skynet fashion, enslave us and become our overlord, and most people would then be convinced the hard way that Strong AI is possible. 

This question came to mind when reading about Adorno and Horkheimer's Culture Industry, but it might apply to any Marxist theory where the bourgeoisie/capitalist class performs some action to defend its interests. Adorno and Horkheimer state in "Dialectic of Enlightenment" that pop culture is used to manipulate the masses and distract them away from their dismal economic condition by getting them hooked on movies, magazines, talkshows, etc... Implicit in this idea is that this is intentional, and that for there to be manipulation, there has to be a manipulator. Do Adorno and Horkheimer believe that there is an actual cabal of decision makers getting together and thinking "Hey let's make more Star Wars movies and Kardashian tweets so that our workers don't go on strike!"? Or is the intentionality implicit in the act of manipulation an emergent phenomena of capitalist social dynamics, in the same way that the apparent intentionality of evolutionary dynamics is emergent in ecosystems? 

According to the Duhem-Quine thesis and the underdetermination of theories in philosophy of science, no theory can ever be completely dismissed by empirical data (See Quine's "Two dogmas of empiricism" 1951). I will give you two examples, one historical and one hypothetical, to illustrate my point: 

Have philosophers addressed the questions of what constitutes a religion and what doesn't? How to differentiate between a secular ideology or philosophy and a religion (for example the status of Confucianism or some Schools of Buddhism)? How to differentiate between a cult (in the heaven's gate sense of the word) and an established religion? What exactly gives a religion or denomination accepted status? 

Normally these would be considered separate questions, and you would be asked to ask them in separate posts. But there is one response to them that ties the two together 

First of all, you need to specify which system of ethics you want to base your judgement of incest on. People tend to think that "right" and "wrong" are absolutes (even when removed from religious considerations), when in fact "right" and "wrong" can only be specified with regards to specific systems of ethics, of which there are many. Second, you need to define incest more precisely: In some cultures, incest includes relations between cousins, and between relatives by marriage, etc, while others consider only relations between direct blood relatives to be incest. Henceforth, I will consider only relations between siblings and parents to be incest. In your question, you add the additional twist of seeking reasons "beyond science and religion". This would rule out any consequentialist ethics like utilitarianism, since you are looking for something other than the negative consequences of incest, typically based on genetics and medical science. It would also rule out virtue ethics and some deontological ethics based on religious considerations. This would leave us with non-religious deontological ethical systems as our only system for figuring out whether incest is wrong or not. I can only think of two such approaches: 

Based on family resemblance polytheistic belief systems definitely fall under the category of religion. Moreover, polytheism and monotheism are both forms of theism, coming from the Greek word theos meaning 'god'. If you want an irrefutable argument that polytheism is a subset of religion, then you might say that any form of theism is a religion, although not all religions are theistic. 

It seems, that simplistically, that Gödel's incompleteness theorems can be applied to ethics in a very straightforward way by: 

Seems to echo Douglas Hofstadter in GEB and "I am Strange Loop": The difference between conscious systems and non-conscious symbol processing systems can be a matter of degree not just of kind. Consciousness arises when a symbol processing system is capable of self-reference, however the self-referential strange loop has to be very tight for it to be truly conscious. Your idea that human consciousness seems real compared to fake computer consciousness because of its speed and near instantaneous character strikes me as being in the same vain as Hofstadter's idea that the strange loop has to be "tight' to some extent for consciousness to arise. 

Does the existence of a method for artificially recreating an emergent property necessarily imply the existence of reduction of that property to that of its individual components? Are there any examples of emergent properties that can be artificially recreated? 

I'm reading Daniel Dennett's "Kinds of Minds" right now and from what I read he has an answer to your question. While he doesn't make the claim that consciousness is caused by sexual reproduction per-se, he does show how consciousness arises from the properties of self-replicating DNA and RNA, i.e conciseness arises from biological systems' urge for reproduction in general. That it happens to come from sexual reproduction and not asexual reproduction is not discussed explicitly. His reasoning is the following: 

I call this "mainstream", because it is supposedly a mainly white/anglo approach (I myself am of mixed Irish and Arab descent). Amy Chua contrasts this with the more disciplinarian and traditional approach that Asian-Americans supposedly take with their kids in her notorious "Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother". I object to this approach and my friends are always surprised by this, since my political views are usually to the far left, and this school of parenting and education is somehow associated with liberal and left-leaning thinking. My questions: 

We can take a simple border case to show why invasion of privacy is bad: There are some behaviors that a moral law abiding citizen engages in which are completely acceptable from a moral and legal point of view, yet the citizen still wants those behaviors to remain private. It is 100% legal and morally acceptable to be naked in your shower or to have sex with your spouse. Yet most people do not want total strangers to see them naked in their shower or having sex with their spouses. So here is a case of behavior where somebody has "nothing to hide" from a moral and legal point of view, yet it would still constitute an immoral act to try to monitor such behavior, and doing so would constitute bad and unjustified invasion of privacy. See the SEP article on privacy. 

In a philosophy 101 lecture I listened to recently, the lecturer said that if a philosopher is successful and is able to solve a philosophical question for good, the topic of that question branches out of philosophy and becomes a separate field of study. He gave as an example mechanics: Newton was a philosopher who was successful, and in the process created the science of mechanics. If that is the case, what was the purely philosophical problem that Newton was trying to solve (as opposed to the physical/mathematical problem of how to quantify the laws of motion)? 

But does it? Consider the number of philosophers who say science is not everything - or even those of the Frankfurt school, who saw scientific thinking as having been harmful in many ways to humanity. See among other things, Logical Positivism and why many considered it to have failed, Quine's Holism, non-overlapping magisteria, and Pragmatism (as Philip Klöcking ♦ said: Dewey and others). The short answer is: Science, for all of its problems, still works better than anything else. If you are sick do you go to a priest, a guru or to a scientifically trained doctor? If you need to make a decision about what to wear tomorrow, who do you ask for advice, the meteorologist or your horoscope reading? Which ones do you trust, and why? See here for details. 

In listening to the following philosophy of mind lecture by John Searle, and he mentions in passing the following argument against materialism (starting around 43 minutes into to the lecture): 

Per the example you pointed out: someone who is in a terminal condition and an intolerable amount of pain, yet somehow still be rational, may decide to terminate their own life this would be a rational suicide by some people's account. A more interesting case is the typical Hollywood scenario of someone purposefully dying to save loved ones or their country or something. I am not talking about suicide bombers or people blowing themselves up for a political cause, but the movie scenario where some has to die to prevent an asteroid from hitting the planet or something like that. Such a suicide would indeed be considered rational by any measure. 

I disagree with this opinion. If not all out communism, some socialist policies have been successful to some extent in Scandinavia. And then there's Japan, which is officially capitalist, but which is defacto communist. Lifetime employment and livelihood is guaranteed by most employers, and the overall lifestyle and income level is much more egalitarian in Japan than it is in the West. In effect the role played by the state in an ideal communist society is played by large corporations in Japan. Workers are not driven in any way by fear of loosing their jobs or their houses. And yet Japan has been one of the most economically successful countries in the second half of the 20th century, with one of the most productive and creative workforces around. As to why that is the case? I have no idea. 

One of Kant's most important (if not the most important) result is his argument (proof?) that synthetic a priori knowledge is possible. If one agrees with Quine's argument against Analyticity as being circular and the subsequent dissolution of the Analytic/Synthetic distinction, what is left of Kant's epistemology? My understanding is that if Quine's result from Two Dogmas holds, then everything is to some extent synthetic and nothing is really a priori. Is this interpretation correct? Can one preserve his notion of synthetic apriori (or any form of rationalist epistemology) in the face of Quine's critique? 

This question has been put on hold as opinion based. Let me clarify: I am not asking anyone how they feel about the question "is it OK to assume guilt until proven innocent" - I am asking for what philosophers who have worked on questions of law, questions of rights, and questions of minorities have to say on the topic. 

To summarise: Self-replicating -> agency -> processing outside information -> perception and self sensing -> consciousness. The specific role of sexual reproduction isn't discussed explicitly. It is easy however to argue that since the process is driven by evolution, and sexual reproduction provides more efficient and faster evolution than asexual reproduction, sexual reproduction will lead to consciousness before asexual reproduction does. P.S: * I have not completed the entire book, so this is my interpretation of what I am reading so far, things might change later. ** Moreover, further in the book Dennett explains how language plays a crucial role in how human minds evolved, but I haven't gotten there yet. *** You might want to check Douglas Hofstadter for more details on how self-perception evolved into consciousness. **** Dennett's main ideas are explained in further detail in his more famous books "Consciousness Explained" and "Darwin's Dangerous Idea", but I haven't read either of those yet. 

Choice feminism (see here, here, and here) includes the idea that women can occupy traditional roles (housewife, stay at home mom, etc...) and still be regarded as feminists, as long as it's their own choice to do so and they aren't being forced into such a role by their husbands or by the society around them. But if women represent an oppressed category, isn't this notion contradictory? Nobody would have argued for "choice anti-slavery", where it would have been OK for African Americans to remain indentured servants to their owners, as long as it was their choice to do so. If even after passing emancipation laws, some African Americans still chose to remain indentured servants, progressives would have questioned their judgement and tried to change their mind, and their owners would have been condemned for accepting such an arrangement. So insofar as traditional female roles are oppressive to women, why is it still acceptable for women to take on these roles? How do feminist philosophers justify choice feminism? Or is it an oxymoron? 

Stephen Hawking's "A Brief History of Time" has some info on early cosmology. Though brief, it might be a good starting point and you can use the references to further elaborate. 

First you have to distinguish belief from worship, they are not the same thing. A traditional Christian believes in Satan but doesn't worship him. So you would have to distinguish two groups, (a) those that don't worship because they don't believe, and (b) those that don't worship even though God exists, because they don't want to.