The game against Chaminade is part of the 4-game multi-team event exemption (17.3.5.1.1 Qualifying Regular-Season Multiple-Team Event) for the Maui Invitational. Those three games, plus the "extra" game played earlier against Chatanooga, make up their four-game exemption. H/t to GB11 for pointing the right direction (the right part of the bylaws). 

I didn't find raw statistics available, though I suppose someone with sufficient time could comb Baseball Reference box scores. However, Fox Sports posted an article by Baseball Prospectus' Zachary Levine that included a chart of call-up dates for #1 prospects. While you do see a decently large number called up on opening day, you see large bumps in the third bucket (when that prospect will then have a seventh year of control) and the buckets around day 70 (around when Super 2 usually hits, between 128 and 140 days, subtracted from the 183 day season means between day 43 and day 55 - hence the bump around 60-70. 17 players were called up during that bump, which is over 25% of the total 68 #1 prospects. Additionally, a player who is optioned to the minors for over 20 days in a season then loses those days from their service time. Levine goes over the 8 star players who were called up on opening day, and only three of them - Colby Rasmus, John Danks, and Jose Fernandez - were not sent down for a qualifying period during the first few seasons. The others were sent back down, and still gained the extra year of control. 

I don't have a definitive link, but the answer to the basic question is- sort of. They don't use pine tar, as that would leave a residue on the gloves; but they do occasionally use other substances that are more subtle. According to a user on the ModSquadHockey forums, one common practice is to rub the tape against some more tape - the sticky side, that is. That would apply a little bit of the sticky substance from the tape (and probably also make the tape on the stick a bit rougher). I've not seen anything saying NHL players do this other than forum posts, but it seems a fairly common recommendation (to make a ball of tape or reverse-tape a stick, then rub against your stick). You also commonly see candycane patterns - that is, areas of tape and no tape diagonally wrapped; this gives more grip than tape all the way because it gives you more contours to get grip on. Lots of Youtube videos showing you how to do that out there. Finally, they make composite shafts that have a rubber-like grip built in; I'm not sure if NHL players use those or not, but they're fairly easy to find; this discount hockey store has some examples. 

This isn't exactly an accurate question. MLB starting pitchers are generally suspended for 5 games at a minimum, which is intended to mimic being suspended for a start. While it doesn't exactly mean a start is missed, it does affect the team - you need 5 other starters for those 5 games, likely meaning you are starting someone who wouldn't normally start, or someone from AAA, or you're starting someone on short rest. This is most easily seen in the default suspensions for actions a pitcher would likely take. In recent years (more recent than the question, following the latest CBA largely) starting pitchers are actually given 6 games commonly, which will often reduce their total start count for the season. In the case of things like brawls, starting pitchers get similar levels to position players, except they usually start at 5 games. That's reasonable, because it's a similar proportion of the season for them (2/32 instead of 10/162, both are effectively 1/16). Ian Kennedy for example received 10 games, or effectively 2 starts, for his role in starting the Dbacks-Dodgers brawl in 2013; only one other player received even 5 games. 

In addition to the historical reasons, the reason that not only do you have to have 7 men on the line, but you have to have a particular seven men, is to avoid confusion about who is eligible to catch a pass. From the rulebook, rule 7 section 5: 

Seems to me this is pretty similar to how our park district does things for sports/gymnastics classes/teams. They have a slightly different approach. What they do is have an early signup period, during which the only option is to confirm your enrollment for the next season/year/whatever of the exact class/sport you're in: same exact schedule, etc. So if you're in Thursday Nights Soccer, you can re-register for Thursday Nights Soccer, but can't change to Tuesday Afternoons or whatever. Then, a week later, regular signup begins. This gives parents a week to make up their mind. After regular signup begins, it's up to first come first serve. You still can reregister - if there's a spot open, but you could lose your spot if enough new people already applied before you got around to registering. You could easily do something similar. Decide on a date. Tell everyone they have until that date to officially register (pay, confirm explicitly they'll be playing, etc., with an understanding that they will only do this if they absolutely will be playing next year). Then, if there are some slots open after this period, your returning player is welcome to the slot (as long as he/she pays/commits). Set that date fairly early - before your current season is done, typically, so you have more leverage. 

So the primary question is, "Does waving the arms below the belt qualify as a "waving signal"?" The timing is irrelevant (as b. clarifies, invalid signals can be made after the ball hits the ground or are caught, and are still considered invalid signals). This detail isn't clarified in the rulebook, but it seems a reasonable interpretation that waving other players off is a "waving signal", and in fact may well have been specifically considered by the rules committee given that terminology. As such, it is a reasonable interpretation that this would be considered an "invalid fair catch signal", which means the ball cannot be returned. 

Automatically reviewed plays are plays that have clear, significant impact on the game. As Coach-D noted, you can't review everything - it would take too long. As such, turnovers and scoring plays are subject to automatic review, because they have significant impact on the game. What you're sort-of-asking, I think, is that since this is a potential turnover, why isn't it reviewed if it's ruled not a turnover? The same question is possible for almost-scoring plays: if a runner is ruled down at the 1 foot line, there's no review even if he might have scored (unless the coach throws his flag). The answer is simply that they aren't because they're not ruled as turnovers or scoring plays. That's what the coach's flags are for. 

According to this page of NCAA rule changes, the following rules changes occurred over the years. I cannot substantiate all of the individual details, but the ones I can (1941, 1953, 1965) are consistent with what I've mentioned above. 

So the third baseman could hold the ball indefinitely, standing on the basepath between second and third, and eventually either the runner from first would be declared out (because he has no safe location to go once the batter reaches first) or the batter would be declared out (if the runner from first stayed at first). That may have been what the third baseman was thinking about, although it doesn't apply until he literally is caught up with (not just 'forced'), and even if the runner from first reaches second, the runner from second doesn't cause this out unless he is standing on the bag as well or is passed by the runner from first. The specific play that occurred (the third baseman or shortstop fielding the ball some distance from the bag, and choosing not to tag the bag) occurs regularly in MLB, often because the fielder could not reach the bag in time, or because he believes he could start a double play 2nd-1st but could not start a 3rd-1st double play. Runners overtaking comes up occasionally in the MLB particularly on pop flies to the outfield, where one runner feels it is going to land safely and one player feels it is going to be caught. The earlier runner runs head down, and often from first (meaning he has no base coach in his view), while the later runner (on second, say) stands on the bag waiting to tag. 

I don't have time to look up specific statistics right now, but will edit them in when I do. However, the general details around this: This will vary by team, in particular based on the financial constraints of a team. The downside of calling up a top prospect before late June is that he may be a Super 2, meaning he has one more year of salary arbitration - leading to higher total salary (by quite a bit in some cases). It also may impact when a player becomes a free agent, as a player becomes a free agent after six year's playing time - not calendar years, but season-years. A player may earn 172 days of service time in a year, from day of game 1 to day of game 162; if he earns 171 or fewer, then he hasn't completed his full year of service, so it's standard to wait at least 2-3 weeks for that first year (and a bit more if a player had a few days of service time the year before in September). A team like the Yankees or the Dodgers, who isn't all that worried about salaries, is more likely to call up a player before the Super 2 deadline, though they usually will at least wait the few weeks to get one more year of control. I would expect pitchers and position players are similar, in that if they are a top prospect they'll wait either way. A pitcher is more likely to have been called up for spot starts in a prior year, so might be delayed slightly more the next year. 

Follow up: I emailed the folks at the National Bobblehead Hall of Fame, and they replied with (in part):