Although I have never had to give out my drivers license #, it may be different in your state. Its perfectly normal to provide personal information for a background check prior to receiving a job offer. Drug tests proving you aren't an abuser are commonly performed before a final offer is made. Even if you had a job offer and your background check returned something fishy, the offer can be revoked. Most offers are 'pending background check'. So if I were you, I'd go ahead and fill those forms out without having a written offer on hand. 

Such people exist in most teams. A colleague of mine will CC the VP and the entire team when the manager asks for a status update on his tasks. If I were you I wouldn't be worried about my manager managing his work load because of a few extra emails. Once your boss is in CC it always makes sense to keep him in the loop, in your case primarily for the reason no. 2 that you have mentioned. Mostly, it's a CYA practice many professionals these days follow. It is almost a protocol to keep all originally CC'd people in the CC even if none of the CC'd members have any contributing role to the content of the the email. It's a different thing to wonder why the CC'd people were actually CC'd. 

Screen privacy filters are out of question. Most of the times I just lock my computer as and when someone is stepping in and I can locate them from the corner of my eye. But being a programmer that is not an option for every single time. I have hinted to them that I don't like what they do, but is not helping. I don't want to sound rude. What do I do? 

I am applying for programming jobs listed on websites. In a few of the job descriptions one of the requirements is : to be able to work in a multi-disciplinary team. The job ads also say that the prospective candidate should be able to mentor juniors and learn from seniors. What exactly does it mean to work in a multi-disciplinary team ? 

The only situation where a manager can 'create issues' by adding some new tasks, is when you already had a list and projected dates of when you will be able to complete the tasks on hand, on the day you sent your resignation letter. If this is the case, you have to make sure you are managing expectations appropriately and keeping an electronic trail of all your interactions with your manager. Most of the times it is the HR that issues the relieving letter so in your case you could email the HR with details (the email trail with your manager) of what was agreed upon. You will obviously have to do whatever is asked of you till you are an employee. I think a couple of days before your last working day you could send out an email to the manager and HR asking if they need anything from you. This will also act as a reminder. 

This is the kind of letter I would send. (I will also assume a job with your skills is listed ) Dear Mr./Ms.{insertName}, I had the opportunity to be technically/{insertSpeciality} evaluated by you about 6 months ago. This opportunity never materialized {if You Want, include abstract like: since the joining period was shorter than the notice period I have to provide to my current employer}. I was browsing the career section on your company's website/{monster/website} and see {ref:jobListingNo.}that your organization is on the look out for a profile like mine. Would you please be able to guide me on how I can apply again ? Yours is an organization that I have longed to work with. I will be highly obliged if you could please point me in the right direction. Sincerely, {insert Your name} 

A background check is not a grey area.Your background is either verified or it is not. Unfortunately, a background check isn't just about a criminal record or substance abuse. It also verifies all information you provided during your interview process. Most job offers are valid 'pending background verification'. The company reserves the right to revoke your offer letter if you don't clear the background check, since for them, you have falsified information. 

In my experience this indeed is a common practice in many (IT) organizations. Remuneration is one of the prime reasons why employees in IT industries around the world move on to other organizations. Sure shining with technical brilliance and inventing the next big thing are some of the other reasons. What were your reasons of leaving these two jobs ? It is a market place out there. A lot of internal HR performance benchmarks are met when recruiters are able to get a candidate with profile X to be working with salary+benefits under compensation Y. The actual 'Cost to Company' of that candidate can be Y + some percent. That some percent is usually the cost the company bears on your training/entertainment/etc. So when you resign or show intent of leaving, the company knows that the cost of recruiting another person and bringing him/her to your level would be more expensive than offering you a say 2% bump in salary. So they make their move. In a few places I worked they used to call it R&R. Not rewards & recognition. Resign & renegotiate. Of course if you didn't know your company engages in R&R you would be resigning and moving on instead of negotiating. 

Most importantly, you need to remember that you can still be a peaceful guy and track the status of your project while you keep your project properly 'managed'. 

Did the company B mention it is specifically a sign on bonus ? If yes, its a sign on bonus. Not a payout amount. What you use the sign on bonus for is upto you. However if you had wrongful intent during this process, due to which you got the said amount as bonus, it is best to come clean. Nevertheless, if I were you, I would drop in a mail thanking company B for the offer and the signing bonus. The mail would also reinstate that 40k was a sign on bonus and that there were no strings attached to it (of course, other than having to pay back a part if you quit within some period of time). I would also put in a point saying it was my mistake to not confirm the exact amount that I would have had to pay to company A. The exact amount is X and I was under the impression it is Y. For all you know company B gives a sign on bonus to everybody. EDIT : Just read your edit. I see no need of any clarification. As Chad says "beyond what is already there" and let things be the way they are and let this be a learning lesson for the future. 

Background : Mr.John is emigrating (from USA) to Australia in mid of 2014 and would like to get in the circle with recruiters so he can be in touch with Australian IT market. What is the most professional way to customize a personal note in linkedin (that comes up as an option when you are connecting to someone on linkedin and generically says : I'd like to add you to my professional network on LinkedIn.). A template would be great. Edit: This is the current note "Hello, I am in the process of applying for an Australian PR and I would be interested to keep in touch with you for job openings in the future." How could this be improved ? Any other templates are more than welcome please 

Typically, a walk in interview strategy is used to conduct interviews when the recruiting firm is wanting to hire in huge numbers. Or are so desperate for good people that they are ready to scan anyone who can 'walk-in'. The number of rounds of an interview generally remain the same. The time taken from start to finish can be painfully longer than a scheduled interview. I have found that being at the venue as soon as the event begins is the most helpful since no part is worn out and almost no one 'just wants the day to end' 

Looks like you haven't received the offer yet. To answer your question, yes - anything can be negotiated. If this is important to you, then discuss it. Also, if you bring it up, be prepared to negotiate on other perks in exchange of salary or salary in exchange of other perks. Even after you get a offer, you still can negotiate. Although in my opinion, most organizations in the US really have boundaries in place for a typical entry level job. I would assume this to be the case in other countries as well. 

Even if you go to these outings and don't mingle with them folks, you risk being branded outcast. This is just one of those necessary evils. May be you can try and attend half of them in a month. You could also try and take them to a lunch once a month to make up for it. 

You yourself are of the opinion that you need to learn something. Then how would you expect a team lead to assign you tasks ? Would you give your money to a plumber who is learning to fix taps at your dime ? If I were you, I would talk to the team lead. Sort out hard feelings. Even apologize if you have come across as over stepping boundaries. Ask if there is a genuine reason why he is not assigning you tasks. Explain him my strengths and weaknesses and the approach I would take for any task assigned. I would also explain what steps I plan to take if I am stuck with a given task. Even draw a map on what I think is the right process once I have completed my task (regression testing etc). From my experience, I would get used to the idea of sitting late at work especially since you are a fresher. Stop forming opinions about others and start focusing on how you can improve. If nothing works and you are still idling time away, start creating POCs around the technologies you use and demo them to your team lead. Make an effort to show you can be a dependable software engineer. 

Although I doubt if answering this question can ever decide the employ-ability of a candidate, from my experience in the IT industry, it has never been inappropriate to ask this question. I wouldn't be surprised if interviewers from most industries would definitely like to ask this question at least once in an interview - without getting into minute details. This gives a peek into how a candidate spends time outside work. Most of the times it has a direct correlation with the candidates organization skills, attitude, learning ability etc. 

All invites where SOs are encouraged to come will specifically have that written. Imagine you were organizing the event/outing and you wanted the employees to bring their SOs would you leave this important information out of the invite ? My rule of thumb : If it is not there in the invite, don't bring the SO. 

No it is not. If it has been 3 business days, if I were you I would send an email now asking if there was anything she was waiting on me for. Assuming you spoke with an HR, it is not unusual for an HR to overlook/forget about candidates who are still in the initial phase. Similarly, it isn't unusual for the HR to receive reminder mails from candidates. Just a pleasant 'Hey, Regarding our conversation and email exchange the other day - I was wondering if you need any more documents/information from my side' should do. Good luck.