It's along the lines of @stijn's comment but worse: if the nose digs in, not only do you lose speed, but your control suffers (and not just because many steering strokes require water speed). In even slightly choppy water the bow tends to dig in just when you don't want it to - when you want control. Partly because of this, the front seat tends to be quite small, so you may not be able to put a tall person in there. A bigger person can also apply more steering force - they're likely to be stronger as well as having more leverage. This makes stern rudders more effective, among other strokes. These are long boats and take some steering. A further factor is that experienced or supervising paddlers are often larger and stronger with better technique, because novices are often children and even adults new to kayaking won't have trained their kayaking muscles. The occupant of the rear seat can keep an eye on the occupant of the front seat. It's also possible to roll a whitewater tandem kayak from the back alone - I've done that in a topo duo after the front paddler bailed, and also with a passive front paddler (as a training exercise or challenge). Look at open canoes with one paddler. The paddler is either central or well back. Last time I was in a canoe I was in the middle with my young daughter at the front. For control and trim I'd have been better further back (especially as it was a very wide boat) but I wanted to be closer to her as it was her first time in a boat. It turned out she was too small to paddle so didn't need any coaching, and I could have sat/knelt at the back. 

The first thing is to pick them carefully in the first place, discarding any stems and most bugs. The more exposed berries are easier to pick cleanly, as of course are the largest ones. Then with blackberries (for example) putting them in a large container of clean water can get rid of leaves and other bits of plant, which will float. I go for fairly high up berries in hedgerows along roads or even paths because they should be cleaner to start with and I don't want to strip the bush bare anyway. Another method I use is freezing them (in a plastic box) until I'm going to use them. They're much more robust that way, and the bits tend to stay behind in the box, or you can shake the berries in a colander and rinse to defrost. Again make sure you don't put any stems in the box. This works in my case even for using a lot at a time (such as for jam or wine), because you don't have to gather them all at once. But berries that have been frozen are less good for eating raw than freshly picked. So if you find ones that are small and tasty but not juicy, freeze them for cooking; big juicy ones: eat straight away. If you're camping or picnicking, you don't really even need to rinse them, just pick and eat, but look at what you're eating. 

To address the follow-up, Sweden has four species of large carnivore: wolf, wolverine, brown bear and lynx. The first three are all willing to scavenge, as are some birds, and of course humans (plenty of people eat fresh roadkill). In other countries large roadkill is used as food for bears and zoo animals, though I can't find a solid source for Sweden. Obviously much of it on well-travelled roads near urban areas will end up being disposed of, presumably in landfill. Interesting reading from an international perspective with an emphasis on Sweden (a doctoral thesis). 

A further reason is to use the space in the bag for buoyancy and to squeeze the bag into a space securely, by adding air to the bag after it's in place. This generally means a valve on a tube. 

There are two ways stuff can get into the wilds. People and nature. Nature is simpler so I'll get that out of the way first. Once heavy debris ends up in the woods it's likely to stay there if it doesn't degrade. The only natural processes that can shift big things are wind and water. Your examples are too heavy to blow (though this explains things like fertiliser sacks). Flooding can carry things that float quite a long way from water sources if the land is flat. Empty barrels really fall into this category. Wheels might but probably not tyres on their own. People do strange things. Some people's idea of enjoying the outdoors is noisy and petrol-powered, even if the trail isn't really wide enough and even if it's illegal. Sometimes they crash or get stuck, and if the car is stolen they'll flee. I've seen whole cars abandoned in or near footpaths. The spare wheel could also come off if the car hits the ground in the right place. Oil barrels are unlikely to be carried in by joyriders but forestry contractors refill their vehicles' tanks from them and I've never seen a major contractor be diligent about clearing up unless they were forced. After a few years of rust it would be hard to tell unless you could see an end cut off, but old metal oil drums are used as fire containers. If someone had lived rough in the woods they could have brought it in. Other signs of their presence could be more subtle - they'd degrade, get overgrown, or be more portable. I've certainly seen signs of people living rough on public land in the UK, US, France and Canada. 

Whether you regard the decreased range of movement as a good thing or a bad thing depends on what you're doing and how confident you are in your footing. For example if you can't see the ground clearly (dark, undergrowth) but need a decent pace rather than placing every step gently, you may choose boots; if you're trying to be silent you may well want shoes, even with fairly thin soles.