That has a link to download it as a GPX file, so you could load that onto a GPS device, or other mapping software as required. 

A cyclocross bike is designed for cyclocross racing. This typically involves riding as quickly as possible around a muddy field. So for a cyclocross bike: 

The PD-T780 is an discontinued model. For 2016, they have been replaced by the PD-T8000. It seems the main difference is the PD-T8000 has metal pins on the flat side, so they should give better grip for your shoes. Plus it is a slightly different shaped platform. 

For a ready made part, see Fly Pedals. This is essentially just a metal platform, which you bolt cleats onto, then clip them into your pedals. They are threaded with holes for 2-bolt or 3-bolt cleats, so should work with most mountain bike or road bike clipless pedals (including SPD-SL). Note these are not yet available, but you can pre-order them from the Fly Pedals website. Some more details on Fly Pedals on Kickstarter - that page says delivery from end of July 2014. 

With the few problem tires that I've dealt with, I find that they always get easier to mount after successive changes due to the beads stretching. I haven't tried stretching a bead in advance before, but you might be able to do it by hooking the tire under your foot, pull upward, rotate tire, repeat. It only needs to stretch a bit before it will mount, so don't kill yourself. 

Has anyone had experience with using an ABP bike on a trainer, specifically with long-term regular use? I have a blackburn fluid trainer. 

For the tires with a foldable kevlar bead, I loosely fold them 'in four' similar to how they're packaged at the store. I haven't noticed any damage to the casings after a number of years storage in the garage. I do not think that this is something that you need worry about for recent name brand tires that you plan to use within ~5 years. If in doubt, store in a dark location at room temperature. 

It is possible to buy a basic new fork for about £20 to £30. eg Raleigh 700C 1 1/8" Threaded Fork from Evans. Or there's a variety of options on Ebay, either new or used. Or some cycling forums have classified sections, so you could post a wanted advert. Though there are several things to check to ensure a replacement fork is compatible: 

'Bulk' is mostly about whether all of your luggage will fit in your bags. ie is the volume of your luggage less than the capacity of your bags. So it depends on how much stuff you want to take, and how big your panniers are. Aerodynamics doesn't really matter for touring. Unless you are cycling rather fast, or it is very windy. Usually the weight of your bike and luggage will make more difference to your speed and effort required. For reducing bulk, the main thing is taking less stuff. It also depends on how you pack it. eg if clothes are folded properly, they will be less bulky. Some things can be squashed smaller, eg sleeping bags. Compression bags can help with this. It is worth leaving some spare space in your bags. You may want to buy things along the way. eg food supplies can be surprisingly bulky. Or any essential gear you find is missing, or any souvenirs you want to take home. Also after packing and unpacking a few times, you will probably find things don't fit as neatly, so end up taking more space. Its up to you how you much you want to carry. Carrying lots of stuff will slow you down a bit while cycling, so you won't cover as much distance. And it may affect the handling of the bike, so its not as fun to ride. On the other hand, it is nice to be comfortable while camping, and have all of the kit you might want. 

I would stop and dismount, or at least slow down to walking pace. What I see too often are cyclists riding on sidewalks heading against traffic at crossings. It is difficult for drivers travelling the same direction and making left turns to see them, as they are in the driver's far right blindspot. Since you're off the road, it's a good idea to give drivers more opportunity to see you before you enter the crossing. Also, the more direct reason is that if you've been merged with the sidewalk crossing, then the rule to dismount takes precedent (if this rule exists in your jurisdiction). 

Although I'm sure you could find a chrome-specific polish, you could try using polish for steel cookware (from the hardware store), baking soda and a damp cloth, or even tooth paste. If there are more stubborn specs of rust, try a mild solvent and something more abrasive. In this case, try to stay away from the clearer areas because you'll leave a lot of small scratches that would need to be polished out later. 

You could find a bike shop to fit the replacement fork. It may cost anything between £20 and £50, depends on the shop and just what needs done. Or if you want to replace the fork yourself, you will need several tools. Probably including several spanners, and possibly also headset tools. If you don't have these, you may be able to borrow them from someone. The best option could be a DIY bike workshop, eg the one suggested by Booker. They will have tools you can use, plus they may be able to advise on what you need to do. Depending on how your fork was damaged, its possible that other parts of the bike are broken. So it is worth checking it all carefully. The worst would be if the frame is bent or broken, that would be a lot of cost and work to replace. If the frame is damaged, you may be better off just replacing the whole bike. 

I think that this is a function of every cyclist being slightly different. It's not a bad idea to have your bike fit checked by a knowledgeable professional though. Just keep in mind that this isn't an exact science, and comfort may override some recommendations. Something that you can evaluate yourself is the smoothness of your cadence. Are you applying even force throughout the pedal stroke, with both legs? Do your hips stay level while pedalling, even at high cadences. Answering no to one of these questions may indicate a seat height issue. 

Make sure that the object that you're locking to is actually firmly attached to the ground. I've seen enough poorly maintained bike racks where it's possible to lift up one end and work the chain or lock around. Also, locking up to a pole, parking meter or sign? are you sure that no one is going to lift your bike over the top? As long as you can find one, I suggest always locking up to a well maintained public fixture meant for locking bikes to. 

Shimano make several models of pedals with SPD one side, and flat on the other. So they can be used with SPD shoes or normal shoes. Options include: PD-A530 

For attaching the mudguards to the fork crown and top of the seat stay, use zip ties (cable ties). ie drill or melt four holes in the mudguard, then put the zip ties through these and around the fork/stays. In my experience, this makes a big difference to stopping the mudguards rattling. The riveted brackets on SKS mudguards soon become loose and start wobbling, zip ties are much more solid. Plus it can give a bit more tyre clearance, which is helpful if you want to use bigger tyres on a frame without much space.