Not much would change. Without the instinct to reproduce, humanity would not exist. Both the sperm-producing (let's call them "men") and womb-equipped ("women") humans would be looking for a successful mating, so they would: 

It sounds like they need everything except calories for their normal diet. That implies their body chemistry would lack processes for absorbing and storing carbohydrates and to some degree fats (fat is essential to human brains, would likely hold up). It's up to you whether that means: 

Huge territorial creature (a new kind of whale, most likely). It will challenge and ram anything that it perceives as threatening its dominance. A mass of something that breaks down wood. Something like Sargasso sea weeds, except that it has roots digging into the wood as if it were ocean floor. Ships would get stuck in it and while they could cuts the roots attached to the sides of the hull, they cannot reach under the ship to free the keel. After some weeks, the hull is Swiss cheese and the ship sinks. Malicious intelligent creatures. These could be mermaids or anything really. They don't attack the ships for food, but because humans are enemies to them for some philosophical, religious or other reason. It's hard to give a specific design for these. 

In addition construction material prices skyrocket because everything that's repaired breaks again in a week or two and shortages are all around. Insurance companies withdraw from the area, businesses relocate and the people go after them. 

Bring the house down on them. Literally. This is a long-term plan, but should have a chance to succeed. 

The tides are part of a balancing system If your flying island is actually continent-sized, the moon's gravity would affect parts of it at different times, causing it to rock or sway just a little, but enough to put serious stresses on the internal structure, reducing its lifetime. Whether by design or natural selection (all the other continents crashed long ago), your continent has long underground water channels running in the direction of the moon's orbit. The water moves back and forth with the moons, balancing the moon's upward pull with extra mass and keeping the continent still. Some or all seas are in contact with the channels, giving them tides much stronger than their own size would suggest. Alternatively, the water is moved around by magic. Nobody knows how, but smart people theorize it keeps the continent from tipping over somehow. This scenario would not even need a moon or predictable tides. Seas could experience ebb and flood at seemingly random times and ranges. (old answer below, invalidated since the continent floats in the air, not on the water). The inland sea is connected to the ocean (underground) You say that your continent is floating and for this answer I'll assume it's on the ocean, not on the rocky mantle deep under any ocean. To have high tides, you need a large mass of water (larger than just a lake or sea) and a favorable coastline that compresses the water flow in the direction of the tidal flow. On Earth, those happen mostly around Alaska and Canada as explained here, while in the southern hemisphere, there is no similar effect. Your continent is probably looks something like a giant island (say Australia) on a map and is surrounded by open ocean, so it might not experience very large tides on its outside coast, but it still gets them. While there is no narrowing coastline, there is still a compressing of the flow happening as it goes under your continent, increasing the pressure. If your inland seas are connected to the ocean through holes in the bottom of the continent, there might be water flowing in and out with the tides, causing the sea to have ebb and flood, although it will happen nearly simultaneously around its coast. Of course, this would probably be accompanied by extreme currents and a maelstrom here and there, depending on how deep they are. If that is not the environment you want you seas to have, you could instead make the thin bottom of the sea somewhat flexible, to the point that the entire sea bottom rises and sinks a meter or two from the pressure changes in the ocean under it. Whatever material or magic (or turtle) is holding your continent together (and floating) can include the flexible aspect. 

An arid planet without surface water would likely have very little plant and animal life. That in itself is no problem, but it makes the ecological balance extremely fragile. Humans themselves could do fine on a very arid world without any surface water. Check this anecdote for the effects of working in very low humidity (<1%). With their water sources and by using specially designed clothing (like Dune Stillsuits) to conserve most water, it would not be too hard to maintain a steady supply. Food crops would have to be grown in greenhouses, either special strains of the local flora, bred over thousands of years to grow faster than the native desert plants or imported species if there is contact with other worlds). I imagine that if underground water sources are not a problem, greenhouses wouldn't be either. Trouble would rear its ugly head if the humans ever reached the industrial age and started burning fossil fuels. (There could be some if the planet used to have more water and plant life in its early life). The carbon dioxide emitted would not be absorbed by plants or dissolved in ocean water, leading to global warming and eventually a toxic atmosphere. Growing irrigated crops in the open would quickly drain underground water reserves, and it is doubtful that reclaiming water from the atmosphere would be productive enough to maintain the outdoor crops. 

From what is currently happening, it seems a plutocracy (disguised as a democracy or something else) is the most likely next form of government. Advancing technology has freed most people in modern countries from the constant threats of starvation, violence and sickness. They are mostly content with their safe and predictable lives, plenty of freedoms and even more entertainment options. On top of that, people are constantly overloaded with information. These two factors cause many to disregard politics that don't negatively affect their lives, opening the way for a wealthy elite to arrange the government as they see fit. The US is a good example of this, but China is another: The rising middle class there couldn't care less about democracy or communism, as long as their lives and purchasing power keep improving. Edit: at some point, disinterest in politics could reach a point where the plutocracy is formalized, becoming the legal form of government, as officials are no longer elected but appointed by the various boards and committees that only the plutocrats have influence on. The EU has some good examples of this, with myriad ways to go around the European Parliament, which is the only elected part of the whole setup. The plutocracy can last until there is a sharp downturn in people's lives (i.e. global warming threatening food supplies), at which point the unwritten social contract will be broken, the people will wake up and try to vote the current government out of power. Then it will either revert to a democracy or other form imposed by the "will of the people" or turn into a dictatorship as the plutocrats use deadly force to stay in power. Russia may experience this if their economy worsens even more, though it's more often called an Oligarchy than Plutocracy/Plutarchy. 

The same works for science fiction, only it's more like "Ever since X invented Y ..." or "The model IV was revolutionary, it was the first to overcome Z limitation". If you want to go for more classical science fiction where the imagined future science is at the heart of the story, then yes, you will need to learn a great deal about it. This is considered to be real science fiction and it attracts a more serious and technically inclined audience who will balk at gross inaccuracies or nonsensical science. Appreciation for how well you've developed the science and its influence on the world of your story plays a big role for this audience's enjoyment of the book, so only go there if you are willing to do the homework. 

The teleportation spell converts "mana" energy into the potential, kinetic and compression energy needed for the teleported mass to achieve equilibrium with the target destination. If the target requires LESS energy, the remainder is converted to wild mana, heat or radiation that is released at either or both ends. In this scenario, mana is some kind of low-entropy energy that allows mages to manipulate other systems. The entropy is what makes the spell irreversible. Mages can't recharge their powers by teleporting down a few floors, as the energy returned is more chaotic (or in scientific terms: KABOOM!). Teleportation to unknown or far away destinations would be quite hazardous in this system, as it might take all of your mana (and leave you stranded halfway) or cause a giant explosion. For short range travel, mages would likely establish a list of favorite destinations and memorize the energy requirements from a range of altitudes and distances. Included in those budgets would be the mana cost of protection against the waste heat. For longer range travel, specially prepared teleport rooms would be necessary, equipped with either a mana focus or energy dissipation mechanisms, depending on the destination. Personal protection for the travelers is also recommended. A downside of this would be the potential for destruction by suicide attack. To avoid infinite-range-catapult magic, add the condition that momentum changes cost energy too. Unlike energy, changing it is always a cost. On an earth-like world (i.e. a spinning globe) that means momentum differences increase with distance because the angle changes. Teleporting to the opposite side of the planet would mean reversing the momentum completely, costing a prohibitive amount of mana. And no, you don't get hypersonic rocks that way, as the teleport won't work unless the object ends up "at rest" relative to the destination. Something about reintegration failing when moving too fast. 

Ironically, all this positive attention is the one thing the elite can't produce with all their robots, and jealousy will burn in their hearts, so they will either try to put a stop to it or compete with the initial chosen. Both will cause angry reactions from the chosen (and their new followers). In all this chaos, the instigators need to identify the person most likely to turn the robots on anyone trying to stop him and then try to lift him above all the rest in the devotion of the crowd. The rest will try to take him or her down and hopefully, they'll start a bloody conflict. If the exalted one wins, he will likely trust his devoted more than any reluctantly turned officers, and that will be his doom, eventually. If he loses, the devoted have to shift their attention to the next contender after declaring the previous one a false prophet. And on it goes... 

Among the menu items prey animals, ground-nesting birds will be in the most trouble. After a disastrous breeding season or two, they'll be nearing extinction. In fact, many animals rely on camouflage for protecting their young and will have to find safer places for to keep their young until they can outrun/fly/fight predators. In summary: diversity will go down a bit, some predators will have a short peak in numbers while they hunt the easy prey to (local) extinction, then fall back from starvation. I don't know of any ecosystems where hiding is the primary strategy for the bulk of the animals, so it's unlikely that there are any total collapses. 

Generational ships and non-interference laws for colonies At the start of the space colonization age, the people decide they like freedom and also don't want to compete for resources. They pass a law stating that each generational ship can claim a destination solar system or cluster and no other ship is allowed to enter that system unbidden. Over hundreds of years technology at the origin planet(s) advances much faster than inside the generational ships. Every few years, faster ships are launched, containing more advanced tech. They have to travel farther, but will arrive roughly at the same time due to increased speed. This provides a tech gradient where the closer colonies are actually lower-tech and the farther colonies higher tech. To add more mixing, let's assume ships are only launched at destination considered viable (not too much of a stretch). Advancing astronomy tech at the origin will discover that some closer systems previously skipped because they were deemed nonviable may have become viable with the new tech level. Those colonies will actually be established the earliest, starting at a higher tech level and allowing more development compared to neighbors who launched earlier but will arrive later. Finally, Murphy's Law applies to space colonization, so not all destinations will actually be viable and not all ships will arrive unscathed. Conditions might be only barely survivable or a large part of the resources needed for colonization may be missing. 

Almost all of the air would escape the column on the way up. As your gravity beam lifts denser/higher pressure air up, it will expand to match the pressure outside the column, so the rising air molecules move out of the column, where they will disperse their upward speed. The molecules in the very top layer of the atmosphere might experience enough upward acceleration in the beam to escape the earth entirely, but since the density is so low, there just won't be a significant number of them in your ship-sized column, compared to the usual number that escape over the entire atmosphere's upper edge. 

How active is your creature during that submerged migration? If it's safe during that time, it might hibernate while floating with the currents, only waking up a little when its feels its time to find the next current to continue its journey. Weeks without breathing still seems improbable, but a very low metabolism combined with some oxygen absorption through the skin and some oxygen storage like sperm whales have should work. If the creature needs to hunt food and/or escape predators or otherwise be active, it will need to store oxygen in its tissue and slowly release it. The time spent on the land will let the creature recharge its reserves of oxygen. Humans have hemoglobin to bind oxygen, but unless your creature has giant blood bladders throughout its body, it will need some more efficient chemical process to store the oxygen safely and release it as needed. 

Shades of Green and Pink If you think the black and white good races vs. evil races thing is boring, you are in luck. It's your world and you can paint it in any shade you want. If one society has no laws against killing greenskins at will, create others with a different set of rules to show your players another way. Create many different tribes or societies of the formerly evil races, from noble nomad types to baby-eating cannibals. Do the same for the "good" races. Have some murderous xenophobic elves and some seedy mercantile ones that will deal with any race. Have some dwarves who do not hate goblins and create harmless ogre (swamp) farmers among the more stereotypical ones. Throw them together in interesting combinations ...and ask yourself how each of the groups would act if they were just more (human) people trying to make a life according to their needs and beliefs. Then apply their (racial) nature to the answer.