Don't decide your bike based on the stock tires. Tires are consumable components, and will not last like the rest of the components will. Tires are cheap, changing the frame or drivetrain is expensive. Just ride the stock tires until they are worn out, then replace them with the puncture resistant tires, if by that point they are still important to you. Many shops will swap out various components as part of a purchase anyway, so you can have your cake and eat it too. 

There's not much too it. Reach down, move the lever until it's in the gear you want and adjust so there is no chain rattle. You'll get the hang of it quick. 

If you are riding on the road, you don't need treads. Even with mud. Even with sand, or gravel. Unless you are riding on the street in the middle of a volcanic mudslide or torrential rain washing out the road, it won't matter. The curved cross section of your tires coupled with your mass will instantly cut right through any patches of water or mud as you ride through. A bicycle under human power won't "rarely" hydroplane, it will never hydroplane. You can slide if you ride over sand or fine gravel. The gravel can get between the rubber and road, and cause you to lose traction. However, having treaded tires will not save you. The layer of sand or gravel will be just as slippery to the treads. The treads can't cut through the sand or gravel, because the underlying road cannot deform. The treaded tires will just slide along the pavement, lubricated by the sand or gravel, just like a slick. A behavior you didn't ask about, but you can encounter, is a squirming feeling, that you get if you ride an aggressively treaded tire on the road. This won't happen riding on dirt or sand, because the ground can deform. This squirming and deformation becomes especially troubling when cornering. The sudden transition from smooth to treaded in those silly combination tires, right during a hard corner, is especially nasty. The reason companies make treads on pure road tires, like Blam suspects, is simply because the majority of bicycling customers don't think about these things in great detail, and think that their bike is just like a car with 2 wheels, and since their car tires have tread, so should their bike tires. The takeaway principle is that conditions that will result in a loss of traction on the road, will do so regardless whether you have treads or not. Treads reduce the consistency of your tires surface, and in doing so, makes for a worse road tire. 

The rear wheel doesn't see more abuse solely due to forces from pedaling. It also supports much more weight, and they are dished (except single-speed wheels), so spokes on one side bear significantly more load than the other. As Sheldon Brown says: "If you have the same number of spokes front and rear, either the front wheel is heavier than it needs to be, or the rear wheel is weaker than it should be. " Surprisingly, a disc wheel can actually be stronger than a non-disc wheel, because it will have less dish. Disc braking does create some forces that require some consideration when building a wheel, but that is solved by proper selection of spoke gauges. Disc brakes can offer a significant advantage over rim brakes for touring, as you can have a pretty badly damaged, out of true wheel, but still be able to brake reasonably well, as the wobbly wheel won't affect your braking, which can be the difference between riding vs walking to the next town. There are many ways wheels can fail in the wild, but spokes pulling through the rim on high-quality rims should not be one of them. What kind of rim does your touring bike have? So ultimately the answer is no, not necessarily. Like all bike part selections, they have upsides and downsides, and whether it's a net positive or negative depends on application. Lastly, spoke holders on bikes have been around for far longer than disc brakes. 

With common square taper BBs, you are pretty much looking entirely at problem 2. With a cartridge bearing square taper BB, it's not absolutely necessary that the bottom bracket is perfectly faced. Most decent quality frames, even unfaced, have a shell that is consistent enough for cartridge bottom brackets though. Still, having the shell faced is a good thing to do, and if you are using other bottom brackets styles, such as a hollowtech type, then it is absolutely necessary. However, if the shop said they were going to face it, you paid for them to face it, but they didn't, then they obviously need to do what they said they were going to do. Putting the wrong sized seatpost in is also a seriously bad move. So really, your problem isn't one of whether to strip the paint or not, but is one of you need to find a better shop with better worksmanship. 

Sweep up your garage floor already and keep your tires at maximum pressure. I live in Minneapolis, ride a surly cross-check, and rarely have flats. 

Apart from looks no, but the pie plate won't necessarily protect against what likely happened. Pie plates are to keep badly adjusted derailleurs out of the spokes. Obviously, maintaining your bike and keeping the limit screws in place will prevent that from happening. A stick or squirrel or something caught in your drive train won't necessarily be prevented by the pie plate, because that's not what they are there for. Unless you regularly smash into things. I remove the pie plates from all my wheels. 

Jerry Coffin has correctly displayed it. You can also see it in the context of a bare frame. In the pictured Salsa Fargo, with a black removable derailleur hanger at the rear dropouts, you can see the projection that hangs down with a hole in it. That's what the hanger bolt screws into. 

It doesn't matter. The difference in weight is practically non-existent, and puncture resistance is a property of the tire. You may be able to pack an 18/25 in your spare parts kit a little easier than the 25/32, but that still isn't much of a big difference. Just get whichever is cheaper. 

The first map the OP linked to plus a little bit of colloborating at google maps is the best source of info. As the other poster said, there is pretty good signage, and for the majority of it, you are on a seperate bike path. There are however, a couple unusual apsects: 

When you have a multi-speed setup, the derailleur handles all responsibility of maintaining chain tension. The Cross-check frame has the semi-horizontal dropouts so it can be utilized for single speed applications, and it's only for those applications that you control chain tension by wheel spacing. Where the wheel goes in the dropouts for a multi-speed setup is not super important, so as long as it is completely "in" them, and there is plenty of surface on the dropouts your axel nuts/QR cams ares secured to, you should be fine. Having the wheel nearer the end does make it easier to pull the wheel out without getting too much grease on your hands. 

Don't forget to make certain the reaction arm is properly and securely fixed to the frame. During mad skidzzzz there will be serious force put on it, so don't take the matter likely. If it comes loose while stopping, not only might it make stopping a challenge, it can destroy the hub bearings. 

This is an XY problem. Seatposts should be lubed. While removing all lube may solve your slipping problem, it will likely do so by making the seatpost corrode into place, which isn't something you want. Instead, fix or replace your seatpost clamp, and/or make sure your seatpost isn't undersized. 

After thinking about this for awhile, I think this would work, albeit somewhat clumsily. It would operate similar to a retro-direct, except with no reversing for the second freewheel. You would have to use good quality freewheels to avoid having both of them engaging together and binding. To answer a commenter Blam: 

The work around is to practice. It takes practice to be able to turn around and look behind you while still biking straight. It sounds really simple and easy, but it's not. Signaling while slowing is the same way. 

I live in Minneapolis and ride around in the city regularly. I have a planet bike superflash tail light. I haven't had any issues (relative to biking in the daytime). Reflectors alone are nearly as bad as nothing. Blinky lights are good though because very few things fiercely blink, in the city or in the country. Also, drivers in the city typically are more accustomed to the presence of cyclists. I feel far more comfortable between lanes of cars in the city than out in the suburbs where people only encounter "one of those people" every few months. 

Using gasoline as a solvent won't harm your bearings. It may dissolve some plastic components though. The drawbacks of using gasoline are mainly due to its properties other than as a solvent: it's volatility, flammability, and that it is toxic, as it will harm your skin if exposed to it for long periods of time, and that it requires careful disposal. Diesel is a bit better in those regards. I would recommend trying to source a lubricant that is not as toxic, but if gasoline or diesel is all you've got, it will do the job. 

When answering this question, we all need to keep in mind how hot it is, and how hard you're riding. Unless it is both very hot, and you are riding very hard, then you will be just fine with only water. And you'll only need to drink when you're thirsty. The stuff other than water your body needs you will get through food soon enough. The answers and comments in that other answer mostly all assume you are riding in extreme heat or racing. Considering that only a small segment of people are doing either of those, much less both, it makes no sense to follow those pieces of advice all the time for all conditions. 

Your crank arm is trashed. With the crank bolt removed, gently ride around a few miles, it should work itself loose enough that you can yank it off. Otherwise many shops have basically a slightly larger crank puller for addressing this issue, where they chase out a larger set of threads, then use the larger puller to get it off. The crank arm typically goes into the garbage at that point however. 

The 'best' way is by measuring your bodies response to whatever you are doing. The best method by todays understanding is while using a heart-rate monitor. As Unsliced mentioned, riding just below the anaerobic threshold. You achieve that by monitoring your heart rate as you exercise, and holding it in that zone as long as possible. That allows you to continuously work very hard, but not so hard that you deplete your bodies ability to deliver oxygen and get tired.