I am not perfectly informed on how Chalmers understands the “philisophic zombie’, but so far as I can surmise, at first blush, it is roughly the same as what Descartes called automita. Descartes would deny that that you write. To use a word that Descartes didn’t, but I think it is perfectly fitting, one anthropomorphizes the ant, on his claim. The ant is a universal, it has no substance, ergo: there is no ant. It is as though you said of a teddy bear, it is bob. There is a mechanism, a clockworks, that simulates intelligence in its responses, which react to external stimuli, which is received by internal centers such as the brain. So the same applies to the “ant” as to the university in the example one will have heard concerning the problem of universals. One walks about, sees everything, but were is the university? Nothing is there that remains, independent of the parts. The parts are bound together through the human wit, but there is no essence or inner thing, an ant. So when we say, Descartes says the ant is an automaton, we risk confusion, there is no ant. I think I shall ask about the Chalmer’s issue in another question. I must admit, I just, not five minutes ago, saw one of the great experts on this sort of question, getting into his car, but failed to ask him. 

One might try to think it over next to the way he handles the "empirical" argument about the absolute reliability of the other chief "condition for the possibility," space. It strikes me that the argument that we know we have passed through space, even if all the time we have been rolling, while asleep, in our carriage, unconscious, is empirical in the sense of common-sense experiencing. You get out of the carriage, you are no longer in the far-North, but over by Berlin, OK, you can be sure space was always "there". That makes "empirical", a common sense, rather than a theoretical measure. I think the point is that empirical originally meant rough experiential evidence, more like "brute fact" evidence. Likely the connotation we have of empirical, i.e., scientific, both misleads us and is correct. It's correct because after Kant science is always relative to space time in this kind of brute fashion, but it wasn't that before, or, as it were, during Kant's time. 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

Mathematics is the study of common properties of things that have different physical content. That is study of properties which are common to physically unrelated things. All triangles have common properties, be it triangle of atoms or triangle of the roof or triangle of stars. All sets of 6 items have common properties be it 6 apples, 6 cars or 6 galaxies. People have noticed this and decided to study these properties separated from the physical things. 

Yes, you correctly pointed to the research by Breuer. In short, his result shows that it is mathematically impossible to predict own future, even if otherwise the universe is deterministic. Whatever you do to predict the future of a system where you are contained, your calculations will give a wrong result. 

You are right. There is a part of universe which cannot be measured. The impossibility to measure this "last particle's" properties is known as subjuctive (de)coherence. In simple words, the observer can measure everything except himself. In each system that includes the observer there are states which the observer cannot distinguish however means he employs. You can see it as if the states were functions of themselves. This fact holds for any physical theory, but in quantum theory it is stronger than in classical. For more detailed information, refer to this paper: $URL$ 

The religious person might argue that "what your mama told you" might be morally incorrect, and therefore is not a moral center. For example, for all we know maybe she approved of stealing. But functionally as long as it's consistent it will serve as a source of moral imperatives, and so if the religious person argues this then they have been disingenuous. They are not really arguing that ethics is impossible without a religious text, they're arguing that true ethics is impossible without their religious text, the one they hold to be correct. Simply put two such religious people, of different religions or different doctrinal inclinations, in a room together, and leave them to rebut each others' arguments. The former claim, "morality requires a fixed moral center" might ultimately boil down to a particular definition of morality. It does seem reasonable that ethics must progress from some set of imperatives, but it might be that the words "fixed" and "center" are being imbued by the religious person with some sacred aura that a non-religious imperative can't, in their mind, compete with. If the religious person ultimately is defining morality to mean, "following the commandments of a religion" then logically speaking they're absolutely correct, atheists aren't moral, but you can get into their axioms with them in order to establish that they're begging the question. None of this is deep philosophy, but when the argument we're supposed to be rebutting contains the statement, "[atheists could] justify killing other humans on the basis of their actions or beliefs", as if this is something only enabled by their atheism, when in fact we observe many religious people who support war and/or the death penalty, then I don't think the philosophical big guns are really required. The argument you're presenting to be rebutted is pretty weak, and an expert could present a stronger version :-) 

-- Caveat emptor I am not sure one can get away with saying that the Triangle refers only to the abstraction, or the idea of the triangle. I would think Thomists might argue that, but I wonder if that would be false, since the reason for not developing non-euclidean geometries was not lack of skill or imagination, but because of the belief that one should stay with the visible world, Aristotle, the great influence of Thomas, holds sight to be the most valuble and pleasurable of the senses. -- Let those who answer answer in their own fashion, according to the way they understand the question. In the interest of pouring some light on the general subject. 

How is one supposed to address simple factual and conceptual issues of incompetence? Such as one sees all the time on this platform. Incompetence is, generally speaking, not a fuzzy or arbitrary issue. For instance, if someone doesn't know the distinction between proximate and legal cause, or that that distinction plays a certain role in the American legal sphere, in arguments in legal cases, and they claim to comment about an argument involving that concept, note, a concept anyone without physiological defects of the intellect, anyone in the normal range of intelligence could understand (provided they were sufficiently docile to listen and learn at some point in their life), then, whether or not people applaud the answer, it is incompetent. An issue concerning the ad hominiem, the principle as held by some individual, within themselves, so to say, can thereby be distinguished from the general fact that a concept exists, is used in a certain field, or has been in effect historically, and, secondly the simple understanding, the finding intelligible of what the concept says, and thirdly, the matter of accepting it, ad homniem, i.e., of thinking it makes sense. Only the last issue is an issue of any special conflict, it is the ground of Dogma, as such. But 1, and 2, I call issues of simple obvious competence or incompetence. I would say this issue comes in largely when one deals with uneducated persons who take the current Anglo-American text-book, as dispensed to undergrads, to be a knowledge of philosophy as such. Anyone with any serious philosophic training knows that this is quite inadequate, and that therefore to avoid censorship one should make oneself aware of the kinds of foolish things that go on in the current university. Such that if, in any department, a fool gets in charge, each one who earns a degree under them, and is so approved, is another fool in the professoriate as such. Ergo, anyone who is at all inclined to serious discussion must not simply check what is said against the current textbook. One must be somewhat more judicious. 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

You can conceive a universe where usual logic would not work, for instance, a universe where everything you believe or want or fear is true, or a universe where there is no logic, only some constant permanent sensation, but it will not be universe in the usual sense (it would not be possible to describe it in formal language). But if you take the level of the most abstract qualia, you can conceive a qualia flow that would break usual laws of logic. In a sense it would be somewhat similar to a sleeping dream or being under drugs. So, if you consider such deep modification of reality as modifying the basic qualia (and not just changing the physical laws), as a different “universe”, yes, it is possible. In sort, if we consider the universe as some kind of qualia flow, we can construe another flow with different logic. Yet we cannot construe a universe with different logic by just modifying the laws of physics. You should also note that this will require changing not only sensory qualia such as vision, but more subtle ones, involving thinking and memory. 

It should be noted that there is a chance that can save the free will. A research by Thomas Breuser concluded that neither deterministic, nor indeterministic universally-valid theories are possible. That means that no theory can predict (even probabilistically) the future of a system which contains the observer himself due to self-reference problem. As such it seems that the free will of at least the observer can be saved while all other people will appear to him as following the laws of deterministic or random theory and as such, not possessing free will. Particularly, regarding quantum mechanics Breuer proves that a system which includes the observer has states in phase space which are in principle cannot be distinguished by observer himself however good measurement devices he would employ. Yes these states affect the future evolution of the system. This can be understood as that there is hidden information which real but unreadable by any physical device which affects the future behavior of the observer. 

To add more context, this quotation is his response to the situation he's chosen to consider in this section of his essay. "Whenever I go into a foreign country or a prison or any similar place they always ask me what is my religion". The difficulty here is not about his beliefs, it's about how he can accurately answer that question when posed by some official or other. So, he's not changing his beliefs, he's changing the label he uses when describing his beliefs to different audiences. Russell assumes that to a philosophical audience the word "atheist" means "a person whose beliefs entail the non-existence of God", whereas "agnostic" means "a person who thinks there is no conclusive argument for or against the existence of God" (he explicitly states here that he thinks there is no conclusive argument against God. He has let it go without saying that he thinks there's no conclusive argument for God either). Therefore, to a philosophical audience he uses the word "agnostic" to describe his beliefs. He can't present a proof of God's non-existence from his own priors, which is what a "pure philosophical audience" would understand by the word "atheist". Then, Russell assumes that to the ordinary man in the street, "atheist" means "a person who does not believe in God". By this definition, Russell is an atheist, since "God exists" is not among his beliefs. Basically he's advocating talking to people in their own language rather than getting too hung up on the proper philosophical definitions at all times. Therefore that there's no contradiction in describing himself as an agnostic in one context and an atheist in another. In particular he sees no contradiction in publicly describing himself as an atheist and nevertheless believing that one cannot prove the non-existence of God. By raising the Olympian Gods as an example I think he is also teasing those who want to draw what he believes to be an overly-pedantic distinction between agnosticism and atheism. He asserts (rightly or wrongly) that there are many things other than the Christian God in which we don't believe, and which if absolutely pressed we would acknowledge can't be disproved either, but we don't go around in everyday life saying that we're agnostic on the subject. 

We know that we can see distant galaxies only billions years before now. We can observe the nearest stars just several years before the present. Something on the Moon can be observed only some seconds in the past. Continuing this scale, is there an object in the universe that can be observed just now, at present, or at least closer to the present than any other object? I suppose such object should be located in the brain of the observer, but where in the brain exactly, given that brain has finite dementions. The question can be formulated differently: where exactly is located the center of the sphere of the cosmological event horizon for a given observer? 

In Russia there is a term "destructive sect" or "destructive cult". While many new religions often get labeled as such, there are people who are trying to give a strict definition of a "destructive sect". Particularly, some of the following criteria were suggested: 

It should be noted that there is a chance that can save the free will. A research by Thomas Breuser concluded that neither deterministic, nor indeterministic universally-valid theories are possible. That means that no theory can predict (even probabilistically) the future of a system which contains the observer himself due to self-reference problem. As such it seems that the free will of at least the observer can be saved while all other people will appear to him as following the laws of deterministic or random theory and as such, not possessing free will. Particularly, regarding quantum mechanics Breuer proves that a system which includes the observer has states in phase space which are in principle cannot be distinguished by observer himself however good measurement devices he would employ. Yes these states affect the future evolution of the system. This can be understood as that there is hidden information which real but unreadable by any physical device which affects the future behavior of the observer.