Need more information The information you've provided is insufficient to provide a quantitative answer (laser aperture size, laser frequency, quality of the atmosphere, sweep speed, distance, beam shape, etc. all go into the calculations). Rough estimate However, you will need something in the multi-megaWatt or larger size range (larger than the largest currently existing on Earth). In principal, there is nothing to prevent our current era (CE) technologies from building one of these now. Candidate laser The largest chemical laser I know of is the Deuterium Flouride ($D_2 + F_2 \rightarrow 2\cdot DF$) Mid-infrared Advanced Chemical Laser (aka MIRACL) found at White Sands New Mexico. This (very large and immobile) One MegaWatt Class chemical laser does not have enough power to do what you want. More detailed estimate Assume: 

The Way Back Machine (or WABAC machine named for the time machine in the cartoon "Peabody's Improbable History" from the Rocky and Bullwinkle Show) In addition to collecting all of this information digitally, the internet archive has a web crawler that captures and archives snapshots of the internet over time. Websites can opt out, however, the Internet Archive archives all websites that have not opted out. With the Wayback machine, you can specify a site (e.g. Google) and time (e.g. 2/29/2000) and see exactly what that website looked like at that time. BTW, this is the link to the archive of Google from 2/29/2000 Size The Internet Archive statistics looks like this (PetaByte: $PB = 1024 TB = 2^{20} GB$): 

I'm posing it as more of a philosophical question. Assume our Universe is a simulated one. What features would I put in a Universe simulation (e.g. to reduce computational requirements) and how could we people living in the simulation detect these computational artifacts? To keep this from being a duplicate of other similar questions I wanted to drill down and see if I could get some specific questions answered. Assume we find discrepancies between observed and calculated values for things like the Pioneer anomaly (I am aware that current thinking attributes this to thermal effects of the RTG but thought something like this would be a great example). If we made the discrepancy (between calculated and observed behavior) disappear by increasing our variable precision to some level but increasing our precision beyond that level reintroduces a discrepancy, would we consider this evidence that we're in simulated reality or am I barking up the wrong tree? If this would not indicate we live in a simulation (even weakly), then what other evidence might we find that we could use to figure this out? 

Of all the laws in science, this set of laws is probably the most inviolate of them all. If we ever find that these laws can be broken, then most of our understanding of how the Universe works is very broken. Basically you must throw out almost all theories and engineering design. A humorous lay persons version of these laws is: 

Human's primary sense is sight. Therefore our maps include icons designed to represent various sights. Scale maps include reference scales and accurately represent to the distance between the visual icons. Scale / literal map 

Ever since I was a 10 year old making (Basic) Dungeons & Dragons maps of the world, I used hex graph paper. Scale the map with hexes by latitude and your map will always approximate a round world (think of a Buckyball). Using 2-D hexagon map to portray a globe 

Based upon a study of evolutionary biology, the plan form would be likely to possess bilateral symmetry (human like), radial symmetry, or segmented (worm / insect like) as these allows the same genes to be used repeatedly to make larger body size. Viva la Difference! 

The answer: I don't know of any chemical system that can maintain the complexity necessary for life at the temperatures you cited (~1,600 C). Alternatives: However, a variety of scientists have considered what other chemical systems life might use to cope with different temperature regimes. This reference provides a list of those thoughts along with relevant temperature ranges and other notes of interest: I reproduced a table from that site here: $$\begin{array}{c|c|} \text{Temp Range} & \text{Macromolecule in Solvent} \\ \hline \text{400° C to 500°? C} & \text{Fluorosilicones in Fluorosilicones} \\ \hline \text{113° C to 445° C } & \text{Fluorocarbons in molten Sulfur} \\ \hline \text{0° C to 100° C} & \text{Proteins in Water} \\ \hline \text{-77.7° C to -33.4° C} & \text{Proteins in Liquid Ammonia} \\ \hline \text{-183.6° C to -161.6° C} & \text{Lipids in Liquid Methane} \\ \hline \text{-253° C to -240° C} & \text{Lipids in Liquid Hydrogen} \\ \hline \end{array}$$ A matter of perspective: To life evolved on a Methane world and using the lipid - liquid methane system, our (Earthly) life would look like a world of "molten rock" (aka water) and we would look like beings made of liquid rock. To us, beings using the fluorosilicones in fluorosilicone chemical system would look like beings of molten rock too. 

From University of Washington ram accelerator lab website. Conclusion You either get a small facility with thousands of g's of acceleration, only suitable for bulk materials OR you need a gargantuan facility able to launch humans without killing them. You can't get both characteristics in the same facility. 

From the answers and comments to my original questions, I can see a sort of legal framework forming. When the capability is first introduced; law, economics, politics, "mental health", etc. will all be caught without a framework to deal with the situation. This will resolve slowly over time to a workable & stable system. The period before this workable system is developed could be pretty chaotic. In the stable system I envision: The entity intending to make a copy has obligations similar to that of parenthood (a responsibility for providing support to the new copy for a reasonable period of time - amount tbd). The new copy has a term of "childhood" in which its rights are protected by its guardian (the entity which decided to have the copy made). When an upload is diagnosed with a problem, in most cases that upload will want to get the problem fixed (like with organics). In some cases, the upload will not want the problem fixed. In the US most (all?) states have provisions for administering medical care against the wishes of the person needing that care. This mostly happens for mental health problems. Some states require two psychologists to agree that the mental health patient is a danger to themselves or others AND a court order to get the patient admitted to the hospital and treated against their will. I imagine some similar digital equivalent to force treatment of the upload against its will. 

If you don't, then you will not go to space today. The Tyranny of the Rocket Equation These difficulties with building spacecraft are sometimes called (both jokingly and not jokingly) the Tyranny of the Rocket Equation. For another take on this Tyranny, you might just read the story "The Cold Equations". These equations are unfeeling and don't care about intentions, feelings, or most other "warm" sentiments. The following is excerpted (with editing) from Atomic Rockets: 

YES To elaborate on @Samuel 's very fine answer, stars of all but the smallest constant luminosities will have inhabitable zones. What will the Sun's Luminosity be? Our Sun's luminosity is expected to increase up to around 5000x current levels. Where will the new inhabitable zone be? Since solar irradiation depends linearly upon luminosity and by the $ \frac {1}{r^2} $ of the orbit, that means the inhabitable zone of Red Giant Sun will be: $$ r = \sqrt {5000} = 70 AU $$ and if you assume the inhabitable zone is +/- 20% of the median distance, this gives you a range of 56 - 84 AU for habitable bodies. What sort of bodies orbit are out there? This is beyond the orbital radius of any planet and is in fact beyond the 50 AU limit of the Kuiper Belt. There are probably some stray planetoids out there and perhaps there is something as large as Earth but we've not detected anything like that yet. Other issues: As @Samuel pointed out, a billion years simply isn't enough time for evolution to develop anything interesting from scratch. But if we looked at this as a colony world of Earth settled by post-Earth humans, we could definitely have transplanted a biosphere there. If we did that, there would be enough time for interesting things to happen from our starter culture. 

How it might appear Camouflage / Chameleon suit It uses sensors on one side of the suit to detect the the background appearance and make the suite take on that appearance in a given direction. Useful for the military and other very special situations. 

Tim B had an excellent answer (take a second to up vote that now). There's also the mechanical limitation of the exoskeletal structure. Using chitin as the structural material and exoskeletan as the structural technique, Terrestrial insects are limited to about a 3 ft diameter size. Any larger and they couldn't move because they'd weigh too much for their structure. The largest size an insect could be is the smallest of all the limiting factors. So it's important to know that even insects breathing pure oxygen could never grow to a size much larger than the stated 3 feet. 

This complicated chart shows decreased engine thrust as altitude increases. Because the relative engine performance changes with altitude, aircraft with different engine types must be designed to different specifications. For aircraft with turbojets (no fan, only compressor), the design constraint is the engine thrust needed during take-off. A turbojet engine designed to be sufficient for the aircraft take-off has excess thrust available when flying at cruising altitude. For aircraft with high bypass turbofan engines (most of the air is not combusted), the design constraint is the engine thrust needed at high altitude cruise. A turbofan engine designed for this design constraint has plenty of excess power at low altitudes and take-off. Almost all current airline aircraft now use high bypass ratio turbofan engines. Pilots very often use much more power from these engines than is strictly required for takeoff so they can clear the crowded and dangerous airspace around the airport. So I suspect that using assisted take off system would not improve efficiency by very much. Assisted Takeoff However, you didn't ask whether the idea was better than the current system, you asked whether it was realistic. Yes, it is realistic. The USAF experimented with JATO (Jet Assisted Take Off) & RATO (Rocket Assisted Take Off) for aircraft for many years. The original idea was to get US bombers away from their airbases before Soviet Nuclear weapons destroyed the base and the slow bombers. The USAF also experimented with them for other uses too but they were never widely used. This is an example of this technology in current use to aid cargo craft trying to take off from Antarctica. 

Under the right set of circumstances, shipping "lanes" in interplanetary space might develop. Other than those specific circumstances, each trajectory will be fairly unique and stuff won't ever share trajectories unless one of the parties wants a close encounter. Interplanetary Transportation Network So what are the special circumstances? Consider a very massive payload (say moving an entire asteroid). Reducing the energy it takes to move this object by even a little reduces the over all energy requirements by a tremendous amount. The trajectory that requires the lowest amount of energy involves the use of the Interplanetary Transportation Network. 

1. Interference of Sunlight reaching the Moon I really can't think of much that could do this. It'd have to be huge to affect the brightness of the Moon such that we could see it. The Earth's atmosphere isn't in the way so that wouldn't do it either. Under the realm of SF, you might see something like this if you had something like a planet size solar reflector (e.g. to cool Venus or warm Mars) and it accidentally reflected light onto the Moon. That might be spectacular but I'm not going to do the math for you :P 2. Interference of light reflected from Moon -> Earth This is by far most plausible since the Earth's atmosphere regularly causes flickering in the light coming from smaller astronomical bodies. To affect the overall brightness of the Moon, the turbulence would have to be much larger than normal (more energy in the atmosphere). Alternatively something large would have to pass between the Earth and Moon to dim the Moon significantly. The closer the object is to the observer, the smaller it could be to have the desired effect. That object would probably possess low reflectivity (perhaps an undiscovered Near Earth Asteroid?) or the observer might notice the occultation. 3. Something changes the brightness of the Moon This image of Inconstant Moon from Deviant Art 

The Sci Fi RPG, Traveller utilized a concept that would make a lot of sense in this situation. They called the concept Battleriders. The carrier / battlerider concept uses a large mothership / carrier but they carry full sized combat warships instead of fighters. For your use, the mothership / carrier would possess the FTL drive and do its damnedest to stay far away from battle. Heck, in your universe you could have both sides purposely leave their mothership / carrier weaponless so that the other side won't be tempted to fire upon it. All combat is conducted by the battleriders (who do not possess FTL) far away from the mothership / carrier. The losing side warps / jumps / scoots their mothership away, perhaps leaving any surviving battleriders behind. 

I use a combination of different formats to record my world information. Notebooks I keep notebooks (actually composition books) that I can bring with me when I'm feeling productive/creative in which I can record my thoughts. Later when I'm sitting at my computer I can transcribe my thoughts into my computer. Spreadsheets My current world building activities revolve around Fantasy role playing and constructing an SF game (explore, combat, construction, economics, etc. - think Civ in space). Especially for my SF game, the SF aspects follow known and extrapolated laws of physics except for a few minor tweaks. So I create giant spreadsheets of information about what different items in the game can do and also how to construct new solar systems on the fly. All of that is store in spreadsheets and its why I can often answer questions about atmospheres, moons, etc. quickly. I just put in the parameters for the question and it spits out the answers I want. Word Docs I do put narrative into both worlds and typically use MS Word to store that information. Visio I put together flow diagrams for research and production. It shows the inputs and outputs and how you get from raw resources to finished products. Wiki I do not currently use any wiki to organize my data and I think this is a major shortcoming of my current approach. When I get some free time I need to explore these two possibilities and consider gathering all of my information together and organizing it. Maps I do not currently have a mapping program although I think this is another major shortcoming of my current system. I'll need three different kinds of mapping systems: