It being acceptable in gers is also supported here. Lonely Planet’s online guide to etiquette doesn’t mention shoes being a problem. The most recent edition of their English guidebook (written largely in Australian English) to Mongolia mentions a few different pages about etiquette. One of them is etiquette at gers, and shoes are not mentioned there, nor is it mentioned on the other pages listed. Wikivoyage is a wiki, so I wouldn’t rely solely on that as a source for anything that’s likely to be disputed, but for the sake of completeness, as of now, it doesn’t mention footwear being an issue in gers. 

The first image can be seen at the Hiroshima Peace Media Center, in an article titled "Hiroshima: 70 Years After the A-bombing: Students study in open-air classrooms in “A-bomb desert”". If you click on the first image, you get the following caption: 

There are many cases of the quote being used before the world wide web became a major thing. Public Papers of the Presidents of the United States: Ronald Reagan, 1988-1989 has the following: 

The article Tell Eurovision in 1944 Stalin deported Crimean Tatars to protect them from punishment for Nazi war crimes, by Scott (13672 views, 64 comments) claims that Crimean Tatars collaborated with Nazi Germany's crimes against humanity. 

This was noted by Masamune Wada, a Japanese politician belonging to the centre-right Your Party. A tweet about the photo, and mentioning Masamune Wada, can be seen here The Japanese language Wikipedia article about him, translated via Google Translate, says 

Is the term "Al Qaeda" made up by the CIA or the FBI? (Tweet of a colleague, citing Adam Curtis' documentary "The Power of Nightmares") 

To summarise, both images are genuine, and depict the aftermath of the two disasters mentioned in the tweet. The first photo was several months, rather than one month after the atomic bombing, but is still a remarkable photo. 

In What the NAACP can learn from George Zimmerman, George Zimmerman's brother Robert Zimmerman Jr. claimed that the organization was slow to act on the beating of homeless African-American Sherman Ware by Justin Collison, the son of a policeman: 

However, Meat is right, for these Ganesha worshippers features some individuals making meat offerings to Ganesha, and does not explicitly say that this is unusual or that Ganesha is vegetarian. Is Ganesha considered vegetarian by Hindus? 

Note: I'm not referring to the work of modern-day artist Faig Ahmed, who does glitch art with his carpets. 

I'm not that skeptical that some people allege a false-flag attack: for example, this tweet and this one are non-parodic tweets (favorited and retweeted by antisemites) claiming that Jews masterminded this attack by asylum seekers. 

From The Express: Safe shorts to STOP women joggers suffering SEX ATTACKS in Germany are sold out, January 1 2017: 

Did Crimean Tatars collaborate with Nazi Germany's crimes against humanity (as opposed to merely supporting them militarily - the article specifically claims they did the former in the sentence starting "They much preferred to deal with the civilian population and POWs"), and did they do so willingly (as opposed to being kapos)? 

It also mentions that there is little treatment once rabies develops. From "Q10: Is there any specific treatment for a rabies patient?": 

The Guardian has a 2013 article about anti-rape clothing, but it seems to be a different "product". The problem with anti-rape underwear Are Germans buying anti-rape "safety pants" or "safe shorts" in any meaningful numbers? 

The second photo in the question was being sold as a metal sign, so it's quite possibly referring to that photo. 

However, some renaming did go on. Kintetsu Corporation used to be called Kinki Nippon Railway Co., Ltd. Apparently, you can't ride the Kinki Nippon Railway any more. Also, a renaming with a stated motivation to avoid "Kinki" in English has since happened in an unrelated organisation. Kinki University has announced it'll change its official English name to "Kindai University" in April 2016. "Kindai" is a contraction of "Kinki", a region of Japan, and "Daigaku", the Japanese word for university. There was some information in Japanese that I'm not certain about its reliability, or what it means. I'm just leaving it here as a potential lead for more information. The Japanese language article on the Kinki Nippon Tourist Co., Ltd 

It cites an article by TheLocal.de "Germany tightens rape law in wake of Cologne assaults". Wikipedia's article Rape in Germany talks about the history of rape laws in Germany, with the latest legal update being from 1997, and has no mention of victims having to physically resist their attackers. Did German law, until recently, require rape victims to physically resist their attackers? Update: The laws were changed in July 2016. From the BBC: Germany rape law: 'No means No' law passed 

Did ESPN remove Robert Lee from announcing a game (moving him to announcing a different game), and have they cited the similarity between his name and that of a confederate general? 

From The Independent: Swedish police banned from describing criminals anymore in case they sound racist 

And Planned Parenthood “Hacking” Sure Looks Like An Orchestrated PR Stunt says that the Planned Parenthood Action Fund site $URL$ redirects to a page saying the site has been hacked, but the domain houses a perfectly functional URL. 

Google translation: Female genital longitudinal sectional view of the position that is marked "vagina" vagina. [Quotation marks added by me.] 

It has also tweeted the following, which would suggest it wouldn't want to deny the story if it were true. 

I'm not aware of entire movies being rejected, but scenes can get deleted. This happened with "Rain Man". From Uneasy Airlines Get Final Cut on 'Rain Man' 

Denmark says the sale of Marmite or Vegemite haven't been banned. It states that foods fortified with vitamins, minerals or other substances, such as the abovementioned foods, can't be marketed unless Denmark's food authorities approve the products. The products in question haven't had marketing approval requested. 

I haven't got an exact match of the picture with any videos, but there is video evidence of him asking people to swear to vote for him. 

The original author said "I mourn the loss of thousands of precious lives, but I will not rejoice in the death of one, not even an enemy", and then quoted Martin Luther King jr. 

Wikiquote currently lacks a source for it, and Quote Investigator hasn't investigated that quote. Did Jobs compare Apple's market share with these car companies? 

Google translation: Organs, the central part of the female reproductive system, vaginal. It also has two photos of actual vaginas. One of them is $URL$ , which is also used on the English edition of Wiktionary along with other Wikimedia sites. The other is $URL$ , which has English-language labels. From the Japanese edition of Wikipedia about vaginas: 

A Japanese person wrote in her diary today that her English tutor told her that a lot of people in Japan have got cancer due to the Fukushima daiichi nuclear accident, and were already dead last year (2012) because of it. Is this the case? 

"Comfort women" is a commonly used euphemism for sex slaves used by the Japanese army during World War II. Negationists argue that "Comfort women" were not sex slaves, and make the specific claim that they were well paid, which would be inconsistent with the women being sex slaves. Examples of claims that they were well paid: Comfort Women were not sex slaves, but very well-paid prostitutes: 

The wolffish is also mentioned in The Sun as Fisherman catches giant mutant sea monster near nuclear site: 

The meme was shared on Facebook in Muslimahs for Sunna and Muslimahs for Female Circumcision according to Twitter screenshots. According to this website, a facebook group called "Islamic Female Circumcision" also had this meme, and it was deleted by Facebook. I tried searching, and mainly found pages discussing whether male circumcision affects HPV. Related question, about claimed benefits of FGM for the woman herself: Does Female Circumcision reduce urinary tract infections? 

The paragraph in question mentions Kakazu (嘉数) and that poison gas 毒ガス (Japanese language Wiktionary entry, jisho.org translation - neither entry mentions flamethrowers) was used. Did Allied forces use chemical weapons in Okinawa during World War II? I'm skeptical because I hadn't heard about Allied forces (especially non Soviet Union Allied forces) using chemical warfare in World War II, and because denial of Japanese atrocities, and false claims of Allied atrocities, is fairly mainstream in Japan. While searching for information on this, I came across pages stating that after the war, the United States stored chemical weapons in Okinawa. I am not asking about this in this question.