I was told of an incident where a French general in 1920 after having put down an anti-colonial uprising, supposedly went on to insult the grave of Saladin. I attempted to find a source for that belief but the nearest I come is an article that doesn't state sources which has the following claim: 

which would make it the week prior to November 26, 2011 where as the image in the article that is turning up on a tineye search as early as 2009 ($URL$ 

There was a huge controversy towards sweden in 2009 when Aftonbladet one of our newspapers published that the israeli military had at some point been harvesting organs of dead palestinians. At the time I personally didn't believe Aftonbladets claims as virtually all Swedish newspapers are about as good as tabloids, and it sounded like something out of the Daily Mail. 21th of August 2009 the Local reports in Israel blasts Sweden over organ harvesting report calling for the Swedish government to condemn one of it's newspapers reports. Something which is nearly unthinkable in Sweden as the newspapers are completely separate entities: 

The other part of the claim that electric heaters dry the air is partially true depending on the definition of humidity. The humidity you experience is the relative humidity defined by Wikipedia as: 

The caveat at the end of the quote reflects the difficulty of using simple summary statistics for rare events as any average is highly skewed by single large events. It is also worth noting that Islamic attacks get a lot more news coverage than others according to this study: 

Ames and Gold summarised the evidence about pesticide residues in food (a highly controversisal area but one where the results have much broader implications for artificial chemicals in other contexts) in a chapter of the Handbook of Pesticide Toxicology (pdf available online here): 

It looks like modern cars really are better when you adjust for survival bias My subjective impression is that modern cars are much more reliable than older cars. But I can see one reason why fans of classic cars might disagree with this impression and it is one of those factors that can seriously bias someone's' perception. It is simply that any old car that is still on the road today is, by a process of natural selection alone, likely to have been on the reliable end of the reliability spectrum when new. The owner of a classic car doesn't see an unbiased sample of all the cars that were produced: she just sees her own car which has survived well (or perhaps the other cars owned by other enthusiasts). The only way to make a sound judgement is to ask the question in a way that eliminates that survival bias. For example, "how many breakdowns occurred in the first 3 years". With this question you could compare, for example, the original Mini to the current Mini in an unbiased way. There don't seem to be very obvious places where this history is accessible (but let's see what car-loving skeptics can find: perhaps someone can find the J D Power raw stats on reliability from 10 or 20 years ago). But there is some accessible evidence that points to the conclusion that modern cars are more reliable. How Stuff Works has a summary which concludes: 

Is it true that research has shown that an increase in the availability of pornography leads to an increase in prostitution and sex trafficking? 

For those interested in reading the actual study it's titled Time Trends in Brain Tumor Incidence Rates in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden, 1974–2003 published in Journal of the national cancer institute. This issue was also brought up at the end of an interview between Richard Dawkins and Niel deGrasse Tyson from 2010 (according to YouTube) when one of the audience members asked this question (I've cut down the "uhms.." and so to make it more readable). 

So there's no shortcut to figuring this one out. It's also incredibly hard to research, because there's a ton of noise (vampire bats have rabies, fan fiction and all kinds of stuff) and a lot of the papers are paywalled without conclusions in their abstracts. In a book titled The monster with a thousand faces: guises of the vampire in myth and literature the origins of the vampire myth is discussed. 

They further report a statement from the American Academy of Neurology on the research (my emphasis): 

Not only do they exist, but they make a really easy experiment that can illustrate the speed of light Microwaves ovens really do create hotspots and it is an issue if it matters to have evenly cooked food. That's why many have turntables. But the really cool thing about hotspots is that they can be used in a simple science experiment to get a good approximation of the speed of light. The experiment involves measuring the distance between the hotspots which are caused by standing waves in the microwave field that occur a half-wavelength apart. So knowing the frequency of the microwave (usually something like 2450MHz) allows a simple calculation of the speed of light since c=wavelength*frequency. Links to the description of this experiment can be found here, here, here, and even illustrated on youtube (a google search for "speed of light microwave" with throw up a load more.) 

Even if that's true, this is not case anymore the suicide act of 1961 decriminalizes suicide. However, did there use to be such a law? 

However you shouldn't assume that people who work in prisons are abusive, even going by accusation it's a low number of the total. A DOJ report from September 2009 reports that 4.7% of all staff members under the BOP (Federal Bureau of Prisons) has been accused of sexual assault, it doesn't however seem to break it down into categories containing the nature of the abuse. On the bright side I did find out that congress has attempted to do something about prison rape back in 2003: 

The report raises 3 main issues with the research showing that agression is linked to violent video games: 

So there seem to be a strong correlation that it does not cause cancer as well as at least one high profile physicist claiming that the experimental results are showing that there is no effect on brain cancer from cell phones. 

But a new book argues that this is just wrong empirically. Here are a some of the claims as summarised in an Australian news article (I'm sure some will say they would say that): 

But the core argument is deeply flawed when compared to actual mechanism proposed for evolution (as told in the model of how eyes might evolve). The creationist argument assumes that evolution has to randomly create a fully-functional modern structure and derived probabilities based on that assumption. But what the eye model demonstrates is that evolution can advance perfectly well by accumulating small changes that just add one small improvement at a time. It doesn't have to randomly create by shuffling a fully-functional modern structure. Modern computers have made it much easier to see that this mechanism can be remarkably efficient. Algorithms for deriving good solutions to hard combinatorial problems by processes involving randomness and selection are remarkably efficient compared to alternatives (simulated annealing and genetic algorithms for example). The other assumption that the creationist argument makes is that there are only a small number of 'viable' products (insulins in this case). They don't know this is true for two reasons. One is that modern technology has allowed the creation of a variety of non-natural insulins that work well in people (they are common in the treatment of diabetes); the other is that the original insulins may have had different functions or existed in different environments where they didn't have to be perfect, just better at whatever they did than their evolutionary predecessors. Again, comparison with the possible evolution of the eye suggests the creationist argument is simplistic. Summary Creationist arguments against the possibility of evolution make simplistic assumptions and are rebutted by a proper understanding of the proposed mechanism of evolution. Modelling shows that evolution can occur quickly even when generating complex modern structures. There has been plenty of time for evolution to happen. 

The book the continues on to talk about occurances in the Hebrew Bible of Nergal a vampire, Nordic mythology and Greek history, but I'll spare you more block quotes. Further there was a conference in 2004 on named Vampires: Myths and Metaphors of Enduring Evil that digested some of the littrature. One of the papers presented in the conference titled Vampire Dogs and Marsupial Hyenas: Fear, Myth and the Tasmanian Tiger’s Extinction talks about how there used to be a myth in Australia that the Tasmanian tiger is a vampire, it also offers a helpful quotation of a book titled The Vampire in Europe: True Tales of the Undead: 

I've found one post that uses that image from as early as 2009-12-16 (not that it shows much of anything, but might be helpful) $URL$ the image is also all over image blogspam since that date. 

Rick Santorum one of the Republicans seeking the presidential candidate nomination in America posted a piece on how and why he opposes pornography with some claims that he suggests is backed up by research (of which none is cited): 

But in this recent video Matt Ridley makes the claim that fossil fuel use has had great positive environmental impact including preventing deforestation and making the world greener. Specifically, about 1:30 into the video he claims the following: 

Other papers from the same team concluded that efficiency also improves. Meanwhile Propper's team had independently reached a similar result (working paper here). Propper summarises: 

His basic idea is that tools like the Camera Obscura and the emerging science of optics created technological methods that allowed artists to create effects like realistic perspective. But his views have offended some in the mainstream art world. As an Amazon review of the book reports: 

In summary, a market with poor information and weak purchasers led to some gains in costs, but compromised clinical quality. This is not regarded by many as a good tradeoff. More recently, evidence has started to emerge about the second NHS experiment. A review by the Centre for Economic Performance (at the London School of Economics) and McKinsey summarised the evidence linking good management practices to both hospital outcomes and costs. And it also concluded that hospital competition improved the quality of management. In 2011 two groups independently reached the conclusion that more competition both improved mortality by significant amounts and improved efficiency. Zack Cooper's team published in The Economic Journal (paywalled but their discussion paper is here). They conclude: 

The studies measure agression by judging it on a persons agressive feelings, thoughts, associations and attitudes. But the report stat that the link between those things and a manifestation of agression is lacking empirical support. It's not clear from the research if the people would react in the same way when they are outside of a laboratory setting. The research fails to take in relevant background information and the studies show that the inclination to play violent video games and agressive behavior both depend on things like a bad family situation. 

I'm watching a documentary on National Geographic on a case where they were tracking down a gang trading in tigers in Thailand. It was claimed that tiger farms, who has the purpose of breeding tigers for trade drive up demand and further hurt the wild tiger population. Is there any basis for that? 

This is a common argument against the legalization of prostitution, and I'm curious if there's any truth to the claim that human trafficking actually increase when prostitution is made legal.