Now pick-up the longest path. Hold it up so that the two safety pins on each end are level. Shake out the mesh then take the lowest hanging loop and pick it up and hold it up so the pins on both ends are level with the pins from the first loop. Repeat this operation until you have the minimum number of strings left. Unhook the strings you are holding above the line from the mesh. This was a bit tricky keeping them all untangled. You should now be left with a single line of safety pins linking each town. 

The downsides to this method: It takes quite a while to set up. You need to steal a map. It is very easy to end up with the mesh in a complete knot. I am not convinced it will always give you the correct answer. (But it seems close) 

Given the chance to bring back from the jurassic any plant, which one would be the most adapted to survive and spread in our actual environment? 

If a tribe of homo evolves into a wild animal that doesn't resemble at all a hominid, is there any chance for this animal to evolve back to the original humanoid shape through atavism/other means? Like homo>large herbivore quadruped>homo. Is it possible for this to happen in less than 1 billion of years?and what would make it happen? And in case the ''large herbivore quadruped'' splits in 700 subspecies how likely is for at least 4 of them to become again something that resembles the appearance of a hominid? 

In the lord of rings the elves invented an incredibly nutritious bread/biscuit, as Legolas clearly says only a small bite is just enough to satisfy the needs of an adult man for 1 day. An adult person needs about 2000 calories per day... maybe 1600-1700 for extremely skinnny and underweight people or those who have jobs that require no physical skills. But I'm going with the 2000 calories one... obviously I mean kilocalories. Each bite of lembas needs to sustain a person so it might give 50 grams of protein, 250 grams of carbs and enough fats to avoid protein toxicity... maybe 80-85 grams of fat can make it. So how would a medieval society create Lembas without magic? Putting and compacting extreme loads of nutrients together is easy, the hard part is to make it edible and most importantly not deadly. Feel free to adjust the fat-carbs-protein ratio as you prefer but please keep it healthy and close to 2000 calories per bite. What it tastes like doesn't matter, after all is just a bite. 

Fire Accelerates the Zombie Mutation In the movie Evolution, alien microbes from a meteor quickly evolve into threatening creatures. The scientists later discover that fire dramatically increases the growth of the creatures rather than killing them. I doubt there could be a hard science explanation for this; but if you don't mind, your zombies could be like the aliens, using the fire's energy to become stronger. If you want a slightly more plausible explanation, the zombies have fire-retardant skin. The government doesn't want civilians using flamethrowers for the same reason they tell people not to use hand sanitizer all the time. Each time a group of zombies gets torched, there's a chance that some of the zombie virus will survive and infect more humans to make an even thicker-skinned generation of zombies. It's kinda hard to chop their heads off when their necks are made of alligator hide. 

Consciousness is the result of the brain, a mixture of senses,memories and a complex communication between the neurons. To make an example see neurons as people, having 10 people there doesn't do anything. But if you give those 10 people something to talk about they will create a conversation, this conversation is the consciousness of the group. If one of the ten people dies and gets replaced the conversation and so the consciousness will change and lose or gain new qualities. Over time these 10 people will die and be replaced causing the conversation to deviate completely from the original group. In short, we all die slowly over time until there's nothing left of what we used to be. Replacing the neurons of a person with nanobots would be exactly like killing that person and having someone replace them that thinks to be them. another Example: 1-Jimmy is alive and knows it. 2-Every single cell in jimmy's body gets replaced by nanobots. 3-Jimmy is killed by the nanobots. 4-The nanobots give life to Jimmy-bot. 5-Jimmy-bot is alive and knows it. 6-Jimmy-bot doesn't remember about the existence of the original Jimmy therefore now Jimmy-bot became the true original Jimmy leaving the old one in the oblivion. 

I was going to post this as a comment on @Zibbobz's answer, however it kind of grew to being its own answer. If there was some local fauna which was kind of like kelp. With pockets of hydrogen gas to help hold it's self up. The plant would have evolved this to help them scatter their seeds or pollen over a very large area. When the dragon wants to go hunting it grabs hold of lots of these. Cuts them free of the ground and floats up, up and away. These plants will have evolved to have very stretchy gas sacks so they can reach higher altitudes. (a normal weather balloon can stretch four times its size during flight1) During the early phase of the flight the dragon takes many deep breaths to oxygenate its blood and then holds its breath once it passes out of the range where it can breath. Whales can hold their breath for up to 90 minutes. Once the dragon is high enough or the balloon/kelp pops it drops down in a very stream lined shape with its wings folded back. It is still holding its breath. Here it will break the sound barrier. The pray it is falling on will not see or hear it coming. The pray is going to have to give it a huge amount of energy. This has to feed a dragon after all. As the dragon needs to slow down it first goes from noes down to nose level then slowly expands its wings. Hopefully managing to glide out of the fall before it splatters its self into the ground. The highly flammable plants may be a problem with this plan. Maybe need to explain that the plants seeds can be activated by fire and thus why they are around fire breathing dragons. We are trying to deal with big dragons, some amount of hand waving is required to deal with the square/cubed law. 

Make the connection get stronger over time At first, the connection is just a deep bonding with no other clear advantages, but with time, the creatures become gradually accustomed to each other's pheromones, subtle body language, ect. These things are unique for each member of the species and are able to quickly convey complex ideas. The bonding attunes the partners to learning to communicate with each other non-verbally, but the learning takes long enough that it's prohibitively expensive to start over with another partner. Their minds are only complex enough to extensively catalog one other person's idiosyncrasies, so polygamy is out of the question. Partners who have been together long enough might be indistinguishable from mind-readers. This amounts to huge productivity gains. Partners often have the same job and go to work together. Losing your teammate confers a feeling of nakedness/emptiness and makes you much less productive. Societies evolve to have disdain for people not in an effective partnership. External pressure for this evolutionary path might be that the species engages in a lot of activities where verbal communication isn't possible. If the species spends a lot of effort hunting highly-intelligent prey, having a mind-reader to flank with would be very valuable. Diving would be another example (are they amphibious?). 

The trouble here would be dealing with more complex components. There are two main types of electrical components. Active and Passive components. Passive components tend to be simpler, your resisters, capacitors, transformers and so forth. These it should be possible for our engineer to work out given his multi-meter and some basic knowledge. Does it measure as having any resistance? (Resistor) Does it allow an AC current to pass? (Capacitor) Is it made of a lump of ferrous metal wrapped in two sets of wires? (Transformer) Though our engineer will probably still destroy quite a few components working this out. Active components on the other hand are an entirely different kettle of fish. Most active components look like a blob of plastic with some metal sticking out and some markings to tell what they are. Think every thing from the classic transistor to the CPU inside your computer. Almost every engineer when faced with a component he doesn't know will stick the code printed on it into Google to find the datasheet. Our poor engineer doesn't have this option. (Language being the big barrier here) Many many human components are encased in very similar packages, this makes standardisation of machines to produce things easier so I would expect the aliens have probably done some thing similar. 

Suppose you have a race of early people similar to humans, except that they have fish eyes to help with peripheral vision. Would this adversely affect their spacial reasoning skills? It seems that AS A HUMAN, my eyes are able to perceive Euclidean space in its "true" form and that this is a pretty big advantage. Is this assumption correct? Would fish-eyed people evolve the ability to intuit the shape of objects in their environment, or would they be at a disadvantage? For example, would they have a harder time discovering the wheel or fabricating smooth surfaces? Would their artists have a harder time understanding perspective or other aspects of technical drawing? 

Freelance Design/Development/Translation/Law/Ect With superhuman intelligence and speed, the robot could juggle dozens of freelance contracts simultaneously and complete in a single day jobs that would normally take weeks. He could crawl freelancer contracting sites like a spider and automatically apply for jobs. He might need fake credentials to get the first few jobs, but he'll quickly gain reputation as the guy who always does perfect work. If he wants to conceal the fact that he is a single agent who can work impossibly fast, he could open his own freelancing or contracting company. This company would state or imply that it has lots of contractor employees or freelancer users (or possibly both). In the case of a freelancing website, most of the accounts would actually belong to the robot. To avoid being too unethical, the robot would charge competitive flat rates for jobs rather than an hourly rate. This way, he could finish a large project in an hour, then wait a week before turning it in. The nice thing about this is that all he needs is an internet connection. This solution can be paired any other answer that would leave the robot with some down time. 

How strong can the bones/plates and muscles of a humanoid be when pushing biology to its absolutely maximum limit to allow the fighter to deal the most powerful jumping knee strike physically possible without injuring itself by breaking it's own bones or plates,muscles and tendons or whatever anatomy it has. and I'm Talking about a mid range straight strike without grabs and no rotations as in the picture 

What can people with the technology of 9th-10th century use to produce efficient and complex contact lenses with colored symbols on them like the use of machines is obviously excluded, I've seen glass workers that can do some incredibly awesome things by hand like this sculpture but I'm not sure if they could make something like safe and comfortable lenses or how they would color them... Or probably could they use some more comfortable materials at that time instead of glass? cause I imagine glass contact lenses could be bad for health and maybe heavy and painful. 

Use naturally occurring gun chambers Your planet is sparse with metals suitable for forging swords, and, as other answers have pointed out, wood and bone may also need to be made rare, but it would be OK for guns to occur in nature, so long as engineers are unable to work the material. Other answers say to use ceramics. Your planet could be home to a crustacean with a ceramic shell that's conveniently shaped like a gun chamber. Your people are unaware that they can craft ceramics, so they can't make other ceramic weapons. As indicated in the comments below, an animal that needs to evolve a shell capable of withstanding explosions probably lives in a high pressure environment such as at the bottom of the Mariana Trench. This leaves the problem of retrieving it using Medieval technology. Perhaps the animal floats to the surface when it dies. If it's possible for a creature to have metallic organs, then you could have naturally occurring metal guns without ever discovering metallurgy. (I have no idea how feasible this is. Maybe they build up mineral deposits on the outside of their livers rather than excreting them?) Numerous problems have been pointed out with the above approach, so this answer probably isn't good for a hard-science setting.