Well this answer admittedly doesn't answer the question as is because it doesn't fit many of the requirements. But I think it is a bit more realistic so could be of use for ideas. Frozen RAM bypasses all disk encryption methods Encrypting a hard drive can be a great way to ensure data stored on a computer is safe. To access this data you type in a password and it is stored in RAM so that the computer can continue to read/write to memory. This is considered safe because RAM is volatile so no one can come in and read that password out of memory. However, it has been shown that if you greatly reduce the temperature (freeze) RAM it drains its memory much much slower, thus giving an attacker time to plug the memory into their own machine and read the encryption key. So, if you want to work this into a story, you can detail a room with top secret encrypted computers. The hacker has devised a way to gain access to the room but as soon as he does an alarm will trigger locking down everything and shutting down the computer. To combat this, before entering the hacker shoots an arrow into the computer which then delivers a payload of liquid nitrogen. He then enters the room, grabs the frozen RAM and encrypted hard drive, and makes off with all the tools needed to get to the secrets. Not as flashy as remote downloading arrows like in the avengers but real life never is. 

In an effort to reduce the murder rate I want to greatly increase the chances of getting caught. To do so I invented a device that will record your last words (and potential the murderer's and your surroundings) that could provide key insights into your death. This device would be a small chip inserted into the body. The chip would have a built in microphone measuring vibrations through your body produced by sound waves. The sound waves would be recorded into internal memory, small enough to hold just a ten minute loop (constantly overwritten). The device is powered by the circulatory system. When the person who has the chip implanted dies the chip is no longer provided power and thus the last 10 minutes are not overwritten. In the event of your death the chip could be pulled and listened too to give insight into your last moments, if no foul play is suspected the recording can be given to the family as a keepsake. Is this invention technologically feasible? Can you power such a device using just the electricity produced by the body? Where in the body should it be to get the best recordings and power while being the least invasive? How big would the device be, classic CIA-eqse implant or more like a pacemaker? Finally, what kind of recordings could it get, would it only record your own voice as vibrations from your voice box would be strongest or could it pick up others talking to you? Would it sound like real voices? 

I think it's entirely possible... Once a creature is at the peak of the food chain its only competitors are its fellows. As in your creature could evolve to be intelligent simply by competing with others of its own species for mates and resources. Given a significant population this sort of competition becomes inevitable. 

I think the "Implications of a world where mercenaries are more capable than most militaries" would cover a lot of ground, but lets start with why governments might prefer to hire a mercenary group rather than maintain a standing army. A few of the other answers mentioned that small nation states may favor mercenaries, but I can definitely picture large powerful nations employing mercenaries... After all, The US has the largest military in the world, but they still hire out. So, in your scenario why might even large wealthy countries prefer to contract this kind of work rather than handling it themselves? Plausible Deniability Large powerful nations may not want to be seen doing ethically questionable things. Say nation X wants to attack and weaken nation Y, but doesn't want to deal with the scorn of the international community, (you know... sanctions, broken alliances, and so on...), they could hire out their dirty work to a private firm under an obligatory non-disclosure agreement. Nation Y would strongly suspect that nation X was responsible for the attacks and in turn would hire another contractor to retaliate. You end up with proxy wars between somewhat nation-less mercenary groups, while both nations X and Y claim to have no direct control or involvement in the conflict. Of course the above only works if the mercenaries don't expose who they've been hired by, but that could very easily be handled by a chain of command. Ground forces probably wouldn't be privy to that information. The details of contracts would simply be way above their pay grade. One way you could explain how these mercenary groups grow to rival and overpower national militaries could be the scope and profitability of private industry. Lets say that rather than hundreds of small mercenary groups you just had a handful. It would be a bit like pitting a company like Apple against a company like Microsoft in an armed conflict. Or worse still, if you wanted an interesting plot twist, you could have one global mercenary conglomerate which maintained a monopoly on the market. When wars broke out it could be, lets say the Northwest Division VS the Southeast Division in a proxy war, none of the troops on the ground would be aware that they're employed by the same firm, nor would the nations hiring them. The conglomerate controls the outcome of all armed conflict in a way that maximizes long term profiteering. Picture a company a bit like the Umbrella Corporation, from the Resident Evil series. 

This question could be far more loaded in response than it is currently. Currently we have a society that is starting to be afraid to offend or talk about, let alone think about taboo topics. By then, things may be different. But the question is being asked now with our current societal partiality. The vote system here is a prime example of crowd think in our current society. We each have a voice with our own personal beliefs based on how we were raised and the influences of our lives. I am not trying to downplay anyone's opinions, it is just a factor in the answer I am giving. We all sit in relative comfort and are able to think it through without worrying about the next major "storm", where our next meal comes from, so on and so on. Some may be able to think outside the box here, and that is awesome. But here I go, a not very currently socially acceptable example/scenario. Take into account that it is post-apocalyptic. The nature of what caused it I think would have a very substantial outcome of society's values at this point. If it was man made and the people that survived were the lower class. This would be the class that struggled the hardest in pre times, they could have learned and become very intolerant of repeated trends. Now with that in mind, how do we treat animals we breed for food currently? For example, the chicken. If a rooster is aggressive they are killed and not allowed to breed for fear of passing along aggressive traits. If a chicken is sick and takes too many resources to "cure" or maintain a happy life, it is also killed. I could easily see a post society that has knowledge of the screwups of our modern age, and maybe some resentment towards it getting that far adopting this method to humans in crime and medical care. Survive or die is the motto in expanding from ruins. Criminals could be culled and their offspring along with them to preserve the type of society that they want to rebuild. The sick could be as well to promote the strong genes. After all, the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Our modern knowledge of the past would logically lead a post society to learn from mistakes if not bound by political correctness. Next scenario, the "elite" of our modern times survives. I have no doubt that they will adopt a cull the sick program. But I am unsure of how to approach the criminal side. It could very likely be similar to the above scenario, but under different reasons. I have no experience living in the mind of someone who has power over a mass of people. So I can't objectively fill out this scenario. Lastly, regardless of what social class survives, if it was nature caused destruction. I see man kind repeating the same mistakes of our time. As we will have nothing to reflect on thinking it was us that caused it. It would likely be something of a rebuild as was. They might start off just like our age did and was pointed out in other answers. But I am afraid nature would remove an important lesson for man kind to learn from to change anything. 

To more directly address the question... After taking the time to adjust​, people can become pretty flexible. At a point, you sleep when you're tired and eat when hungry. Artificial light control can help with adjustment. 

This was touched on in your horse question, but with infinite vegetation you could have near infinite livestock. Goats may provide a good solution for both keeping some land clear of grasstatoe and providing your people with a source of protein and surplus goats, cheese, and hides for trade. This may sound like a joke but in some places you can rent goats for land clearing. 

I may be missing something here, but don't all world leaders, past and modern, have a reasonable expectation of assassination? Why would they bother with all that security if they didn't expect that at some point in their reign/political career to have someone try to kill them? I guess what I'm saying is that all powerful people have a reasonable expectation of assassination, it's one of the costs of power. That doesn't make it "ok", it just is what it is. I suspect that what makes the difference is how the event is recorded historically... When Lincoln was shot many people mourned the loss of a great leader, but I'm sure there were those in the former Confederacy who celebrated. But remember the Confederacy lost the war, and history being written by the victors, Lincoln being assassinated went down as a bad thing. Had the Confederacy won the war and executed Lincoln, it would have been recorded as a victory. As far as succession goes, that too is often a matter of perspective. Many leaders rose to power under clouds of suspicion that they may have assassinated their predecessor. It seems that history decides later if this was a good thing or a bad thing. If the successor was "better" then the people rejoice and the suspicion fades or goes away completely, if the successor was worse the people hold the grudge and question the new leader's legitimacy. See Regicide for a pretty good list of historical references. 

After failed SWAT team intervention and more than a few failed sniper attempts, air support is requested. The National Guard responds to the call by deploying a small formation of Apache Helicopters. Using herding/suppression fire they drive the dragon to a less populated area, where they then strike it with a few sidewinder missiles. Problem solved. Reference: $URL$ 

What I'm trying to say is... On a long enough timeline, no matter how many intermediaries you have, those people will be tortured into giving up the goods, you need a mechanism to prevent it from coming to that point. 

Any well organized force could easily defeat a mass of mindless drones, even if the odds are two to one and they have to resort to hobbling them because they can't exactly be killed. Half a zombie is still a unit with no legs and not a credible threat. The Romans proved this over and over again in antiquity. Military history and tactics matter considerably. If your individual units aren't capable of basic decision making they're pitiful cannon fodder and will be quickly mowed down by any half capable, organized force. "Alright boys, take them out at the knees, we don't have time for this!"