Perhaps you may look to the Hegelian Lectures on Aesthetics. As Hegel's philosophy is regarded Objective Idealism his analysis of the beautiful or of art includes an objective element. 

I think that the alienation of man by man is the result of the capability of individualization within the modern urbanized societies, due to the development of means of production and communication and as opposed to the traditional forms of society's existence. I have found the notion in the book of Jean-François Lyotard The Postmodern Condition (as contradiction between the individual and society) The notion of alienation is particularly important in the dialectical thought and philosophy and Marx uses the notion to that effect. Economical and Philosophical manuscripts. In dialectics the being is constantly alienated through the becoming. The collective and individual existences are in constant change passing through the stages of Βeing, to the Being-for-itself, to the Being-in-itself, and ultimately leads to the for-itself- and in-itself-Being, the absolute -a new stage of dialectical movement (in Hegel's dialectics). Alienation has numerous meanings and functionalities, positive, negative and neutral. Marx points (in the manuscripts) that a dialectical movement seems to have evolved in the proletariat as it becomes the negation of its own self (the laborer alienated from its product) and this would lead to a further dialectical movement in the economical structure of the society. An analogy can be found between the idea of the alienation of the laborer and this of the alienation of man by man in contemporary societies, as each individual is stood on its own opposing and alienated to the means of production and economy. The vital connection between people, that emanates from his equal contribution and his equal status seems to have degraded. From another side it is always more complicated as it may appear, because people are divided in economical classes so the "individual" is not generally a "revolutionary subject of the history". This contrast is reflected in politics and the two perspectives are kind of divided with Marxists taking the side of "community" and opposing the "individual" which is the subject of "capitalism". By a dialectic perspective both stances can be considered "essentialisms" as the individual is the other of the society so you can't really separate them for long and at the same time they can not be joined completely. 

There are some misconceptions here. First, we do not know whether quantum computers are better at some stuff than classical computers. There are problems where we know quantum algorithms that are faster than all known classical algorithms, but so far noone has been able to prove that are no equally fast classical algorithms. Second, there are many computational tasks humans are very bad at, despite the tasks being very easy. A core aspect here is that for something like combinatorics calculations, we are using concious, higher level style reasoning. A "hardware" implementation in our brains might have been much better, but just never evolved (being good at combinatorics is probably not strongly selected for). So from us not being good at something we cannot conclude that the basic computational machinery of our brains is not suited for that task. 

What is going on here is the implicit use of a criterion like Popper's falsifiability to assign the burden of proof; and a helping of Laplace' "I have no need of such assumption". If a sufficiently specified God is discussed, then it becomes reasonable to ask for evidence for either existence or non-existence. We have climbed Mount Olympos, and found no sign of Zeus, etc. However, typically such debates are about very unspecific notions of God. The believer could still offer evidence, by specifying God however he wants, and then suggesting matching evidence. The New Atheist argues that until that happens, the default position should be to assume non-existence - just as we do with many other hypothetical constructs. 

If a sensuous mental process were to contain sensuous contents, then they would have to be distinct. The sensuous contents would have to be a separate experience which preceded the sensuous mental process, which means that the sensuous mental process would not be a sensuous mental process, but a reflective intentional mental process. This is clearly a contradiction, so it must not be the case that sensuous mental processes contain sensuous contents. This stuff can get confusing and just to make sure that this is not misunderstood... According to Husserl's phenomenology as expressed in Ideas, sensuous mental processes ≡ sensuous contents 

This is a heavily debated issue and you are not likely to receive a conclusive answer. The question as phrased amounts to "Which view is correct?", but there are strong arguments from either side. I think you will benefit from doing a little research on the topics of Paternalism and Consequentialist Libertarianism, which are the general terms used in philosophy to refer to either standpoint. I have included descriptions of these views and links to places to start below: 

An approach to make sense of the necessary vs contingent truth distinction is by considering a theory $T$ and a model $M$ of that theory. Theorems of $T$ are the necessary truths in $T$. Statements that hold in $M$ but are not theories of $T$ are the contingent truths. If we follow this approach, then the question of whether AC (if true) is a necessary or contingent truth essentially depends on the question what our chosen foundational theory is. We could consider all models of ZF as potential mathematical worlds, and just explore one where AC is true right now. But we could just as well start with ZFC as theory, and thus deem AC to be necessary. Ultimately, this question does not really lead us anywhere, I believe. 

Fundamentally, category theory does not seek to model "having a structure". It rather starts from the realization that the way how we use the structure is typically via the structure-preserving or reflecting maps; and that it is only the maps that really matter. For example, in topology the topology is just to define what continuous functions are. Everything else can be expressed in terms of continuous functions (not at least because we can recover the topology on X by looking at the continuous functions from X to Sierpisnki space). Sticking with topology, one can then see that for many results in topology, the precise nature of the continuous functions is irrelevant. Most theorems have natural counterparts in the setting of computable functions. This is because the relevant categories have very similar properties. 

οὐ ξυνιᾶσιν ὅκως διαφερόμενον ἑωυτῷ ὁμολογέει· παλίντονος ἁρμονίη ὅκωσπερ τόξου καὶ λύρης Men do not know how what is at variance agrees with itself. It is an attunement of opposite tension, like that of the bow and the lyre. $URL$ 

"One"" Ένα" does not mean "everything that is". One means one, "everything that is" is "all, whole" Όλο". The one representing the whole is "everything that is". Written as One, "Εν". If one does not include itself, then there must be something else i.e. a secondary one, that is also a one but not the one that represents the whole. So one as a whole includes itself. This is the identity principle. a. One is not an object. It is an idea. b. Dialectics, everything derived from dialectics. c. Every object, is contained in itself. This is the reason it can be described and distinguished as an object. i.e. This is an object. This "an" really means "ένα", one. Included in itself. 

So the question is what is the consensus about this argument regarding secure knowledge? As i know all major philosophical doctrines espouse it (including idealism of all forms, materialism) and only radical skepticism and poor empiricism tries to attack it. 

I read your question as Is computationalism falsifiable? In the comments, Not_Here argues that it is, because we would just need to demonstrate that minds can solve non-computable problems, e.g. the halting problem. However, to experimentally demonstrate that a mind solves the halting problem, we need to show that it correctly determines halting for all possible inputs. We immediately run into two problems: First, we have no general way of checking the answers - after all, the halting problem is non-computable. Second, any experiment can only deal with a finite number of inputs, and we would need to test them all. Essentially, the claim that a device (which always answers) solves the Halting problem is itself only falsifiable, but not decidable. We could find out that a given model of minds is able to solve the Halting problem, but that only tells us that this model and computationalism are inconsistent. It is not helpful in determining which one to let go. If you wish to avoid using theory for non-falsifiable stuff, I would recommend the word paradigm. 

In the specific context it means "actors", persons that display actions. "δρώντων καὶ οὐ δι' ἀπαγγελίας" by actions and not via reciting I translate from wiki dictionary (Greek) (modern meaning) drama < from the ancient Greek word drama < act 

A concrete universal is an object. For an example the notion of "people" is an abstract universal if one considers that people are the "summation" of individual persons, and it only exists as an abstract idea. But if one considers people is something beyond an abstract collection of several individuals and it is something on its own, something concrete and clear, that is a concrete universal. 

I cite here a number of philosophers mentioned in Hegelian Science of Logic. It would be useful to have (more or less) an overall view of the issues these philosophers deal with and their role in the development of philosophical thought so to follow the text more closely About an analysis I would recommend Herbert Marcuse's Hegel's Ontology and Theory of Historicity Presocratics, Plato Philebus, Phaedo and more, Aristotle Metaphysics, Thomas Aquinas On Being and Essence, Karl_Leonhard_Reinhold, Spinoza Ethics, Immanuel Kant Critique of the Pure Reason, Descartes's Meditations on First Philosophy, Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi, Leibniz, Fichte, David Hume. 

Your argument shows that a naive implementation of utilitarianism that defines global utility as the sum of personal utilities would not work if utilities are allowed to include both positive and negative infinity. For this argument to have any bearing on utlitarianism at all, you would need to argue that both positive and negative infinity are indispensable as potential values of individual utilities, and you will find this to be very difficult. Note that we already run into big problems here simply by considering probabilitistic events: What would be the expected utility of tossing a coin to either receive $+\infty$ or $-\infty$? All formal approaches I am familiar with tend to demand that utility values are real numbers, and hence disallow infinite utility values. In particular in a context where we are going to aggregate different utility values, it may even be prudent to demand that utility values come from a bounded interval, to avoid running into this situation: SMBC comic 

The point raised in the quote is not the same as the question that you are asking. In the quote: It is a difference whether we define what one is, and then we define what two is, and so on, or whether we define the abstract concept of (natural) number (as pointed out by Mauro Allegranza in the comments). Of course we can say that natural number refers to the totality of the numbers we have defined, and that is a separate definition, and we may or may not be happy with it. (If you want to learn more about problems with this, look for non-standard models of Peano arithmetic). Your question: There are many concepts of numbers of some kind that differ from the natural numbers. Examples are integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers, real numbers, complex numbers, (transfinite) ordinal numbers, (transfinite) cardinal numbers, surreal numbers. They have all nothing to do with the point raised in that quote, though. 

So this argument stresses a relation with other situations (like Galileo persecution of the Holy Inquisition and the following justification of Galileo views) to appeal to pity ("pity me my proposition is erroneously unjustified") and justify fallaciously its proposition. It is not referring to something Galileo said, it just took its name from his case. $URL$ 

The "best" according to me... Aristotle Poetics Longinus On the Sublime Immanuel Kant Critique_of_Judgment Hegel Lectures_on_Aesthetics Schiller On the Aesthetic Education of Man $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

This interview is made just to create some magazine articles. $URL$ “Even today it might ‘feel like something’ to be the Internet,” Koch says. Each computer feels nothing, of course, but the totality of the Internet may be more than the sum of its parts. “That’s true for my brain, too. One of my nerve cells feels nothing—but put it together with 100 billion other nerve cells, and suddenly it can feel pain and pleasure and experience the color blue.” 

Before resolving a new problem we can not be sure about the amount of time and the strength it may require to be spent in its resolution. Even if the new problem is related to other problems that we have solved with success until the time of resolving we can not know if the difficulty of the new problem is comparable to the others. We have in our memory a whole series of differences that appeared when solving similar problems. Some of them were resolved in a relatively satisfactory time but other after disproportionate effort and trouble. Just before solving the new problem we do not have all the elements so to classify the new problem between the compatible or among the most difficult and demanding. For me it is a common feeling in programming. This when combined with the concept of protection of the ego from the expenditure of strength, of toil to be spent comes to mind as insecurity. 

My answer is a bit long, so I'm going give you the short answer first. Virtue is a necessary condition of achieving eudaimonia. However, this is different than the answer to the question as it was formulated at the end of your post, "Is there an argument that a good life can be lived without being good?". One could easily argue that a person can live a good life, independently of virtue, simply by providing examples of individuals who have a "good life" but who are not virtuous. However, if you are using the phrase "living a good life" to explicitly mean "achieve eudaimonia", then an individual cannot achieve eudaimonia without virtue. As you seem to be aware, there are multiple conceptions of eudaimonia. The three best documented views are those of the Stoics, Artistole and Epicurus. I will quickly summarize their views as relevant to your question: 

The answer is (B) all sensuous mental processes are sensuous contents. At this point in Ideas, Husserl has qualified his expression as phenomenological description. In the context of apprehending a phenomenon, the content of consciousness is equivalent to act of consciousness. This is because: 

In a), you essentially want all pairs $(n,m)$ with $n < m$ in your relation. For b), consider the following process: Start with some element $a_0$. Then pick some $a_1$ such that $R(a_0,a_1)$ - you can do this by Sentence 2. Then pick $a_2$ such that $R(a_1,a_2)$, etc. In a finite structure, there would need to be a repetition at some point, meaning that there are $i < j$ with $a_i = a_j$ (Pidgeon hole principle). Then you use Sentence 3 (possibly very often) to obtain a contradiction to Sentence 1. 

There are different kinds of mathematical truth, and depending on what you would want in a notion of absolute truth, some of these may fit - or not. My personal stance would be that absolute truth is not a fruitful concept, and probably not worth thinking about too much. The agreement about truth amongst mathematicians A defining feature of mathematics as a field is that mathematicians can generally reach consensus about the truth of a particular mathematical statement, by providing a purtative proof, critizing its weak points, shoring them up, etc. This process can require clarification/abstraction: If the a priori assumed axiom systems of the involved mathematicians differ, they may have to move from "X is true" to "Axiom system Y proves X". If a statement written by a mathematician using classical logic is read literally by a constructivist, it will often be false - but constructivists know how to read classical mathematics in a way that retains truth. Even on the "fringes" of mathematical foundations, say the ultrafinitists would typically attack results as being meaningless, rather than being false. We thus see evidence of a notion of truth that trancends individual view points or perspectives, in manner that most fields of philosophy are not privy to. This also differs from the one in the natural sciences, where experiments can provide an arbiter of truth. On ontology The notion of truth described above is - on purpose - divorced from any assumptions about the ontological status of mathematical objects. One can refuse to entertain this question at all (which essentially leads to formalism, and the unresolved questions of why we are playing this game, and why math works so well to describe nature). The stance that most readily leads to a notion of absolute truth would be platonism in the strict, "one mathematical universal", form. This does not mean that any mathematics not done in the "one and only correct system" is invalid - since we can translate between the various systems, we can recover (almost) all other systems as a fragment of the chosen true reality. A stance that seems widespread amongst mathematicians working on foundations is that of mathematical relativism (described very nicely by Andrej Bauer here). We just accept a plethora of mathematical universes, and study those we find most fascinating. Depending on what is meant by absolute truth, this might be incompatible with such things. Conclusion Mathematics offers far more absolute truth than other areas, but asking for perfectly absolute truth probably doesnt make much sense.