I'm a beginner lifter (female) doing Starting Strength. I'm having a problem with my deadlift form that I think might be partly related to individual morphometry. So, what happens is this: I set up as described in Rippetoe's SS with the bar at midfoot. I take my grip. I bend my knees until my shins touch the bar. Because I have (very) disproportionately long thighbones compared to the length of my torso and shin bones, this puts my hips quite low, my back at about a 45-degree angle to the floor, and my knees jutting pretty far out over the bar. It's a very awkward arrangement. When I start to pull, inevitably my knee angle "wants" to open first to the point that my back is horizontal before the bar actually leaves the ground (just like in Fig 4-35 in Rippetoe's SS). With this kind of form, I was deadlifting 1.28X my bodyweight. If I force myself to maintain the same back angle through the pull, I could probably deadlift more like 1X my bodyweight, if that. Even if I deload to just 65 lbs, it stills feels really awkward that my knees are in the way of the bar as I start to pull. I noticed that Rippetoe does allow for substantial differences in deadlift back angle due to individual morphometry – e.g., in Fig 4-31, the leftmost stick figure's back is almost horizontal. However, like I said, when I set up according to his instructions, my back angle is actually more like 45 degrees. So my questions are: what kind of form, especially back angle, is correct for someone with my morphometry (long thighbones)? An additional complication is that my squat is embarrassingly weak, so is it a problem of weak quads? And what should I do about it? EDIT: Indeed, my hips are rising to near-horizontal before the bar leaves the ground. 

Anatomy drawings are a little funny this way. Look at them enough, and you'll see inconsistencies in attachment points. To be fair to the artists, anatomy isn't all that consistent itself! Point being, if you look at the red circle insertion point of the lower trap above, we can see with its medial (inside) attachment, when it pulls down the lateral side will go up. Ala: upward rotation. We can also see pure scapular depression isn't going to be a big job of the lower trap. Because again, if it pulls down by itself, part of the scapula will actually move up. Long story short- we don't really want to isolate a muscle in a vacuum of one action. We want to use the full breadth of its potential work. So, when you mention doing dips and pull-ups, sure, there can be scapular depression at the top of those movements. However, there doesn't have to be. For instance, in pull-ups, at the bottom we start with the shoulders shrugged into the ears. Who says we can't be at the top of the rep that way?             A lot of people end their pull / chin-ups like above. Next, even if we are hitting scapular depression in dips / pull-ups, we're not maximizing how much we can work the lower trap. There's no (active) upward rotation, and retraction is similar to depression- it may or may not happen. (Downward rotation will happen.) To get all three actions, we should 

Anterior glide is more likely when attempting to bring the elbows back in 90 degrees abduction At 90 degrees abduction the shoulder blades should be starting to engage in upward rotation, yet in a dip we are doing the opposite, making impingement between the humeral head and the AC joint more likely Superior glide is more likely in a position of abduction than not, further increasing the odds of impingement 

I doubt if isometric exercises could improve punching speed – maybe you meant bodyweight exercises? Isometric exercises are ones where the muscle that's working is being held in a constant state of contraction, as in a plank. Here are some exercises to improve punching speed and power that we use in my boxing class: 

I recently started powerlifting (Starting Strength), and I have a rather frivolous concern. What if I drop a weight plate on my feet? Between warming up and work sets, there is a lot of loading/unloading and carrying weight plates around. I've been lifting barefoot and am willing to invest in shoes, but in a battle between a 25-lb plate and a pair of Chuck Taylors, I'm sure the plate would still win hands-down. Am I being a total wuss? Do people actually drop plates on their feet? Would weightlifting shoes provide any real protection? 

Here are some hypotheses I have considered and ultimately dismissed (but correct me if I should reconsider): Hypothesis #1: I should do Starting Strength. Counter-evidence: I did SS assiduously(*) for 9 months before starting Crossfit. It worked moderately well for most of my lifts except my squat, which plateaued extremely fast. Now that I'm doing Crossfit, my other lifts are again improving, while my squat rarely budges. Hypothesis #2: I should eat more. Counter-evidence: I eat around 2400 calories/day with a lot of protein, and my squat is the only lift that's so stubborn, so I assume this isn't the problem. Hypothesis #3: I have a mobility problem. Counter-evidence: If anything, the coaches at my gym comment that my mobility is unusually good. I can sit in an ass-to-grass squat with my knees touching my chest and my butt touching the ground, for example. Hypothesis #4: I have a squatting form problem. Counter-evidence: I'm lucky that my Crossfit gym has a strong emphasis on lifting technique, and the coaches think my squat form is reasonable. Their main comment is that I have a hard time keeping my torso upright (especially in back squats, but also front squats). I've tried to work on this, but it seems partly like a necessarily evil given the extreme length of my femurs compared to my upper body. So what should I do to suck less at squatting? Are there diagnostics I can use to figure out what the problem is? (*) Pun intended. Not going to lie. 

Source: Can foot and hip pain be related? Think of the plate as a curb, lifted shoes, whatever. You can imagine if that foot is only on the ground, it's harder for the ankle to sprain. Another aspect to consider is how you hold that ankle throughout the day. After a sprain, it's common for the ankle to become lax / hypermobile. For instance, you're laying down. Rather than the foot be held straight,                It lays like this:                 One of the main ideas of strengthening the ankle is to tighten up what was stretched out in the sprain. We can do that throughout the day too though. For instance:                 Images from b-reddy.org If you're Steph Curry, who has a history of nasty ankle sprains:                 Then you don't want to be sitting like this: 

Image found here. Unsure of original source. Upward rotation tends to be hard for people to visualize:           GIF made from this video. Lower trap: 

While the above is a discussion on hip flexibility -because that's what I've seen to be the most common limitation- the ability of the ankles to plantarflex (toes point down) has to be considered as well. Knee wise, the range of motion is usually there. Unless the person has awfully tight quads, or has an injury history where they never regained their flexion range of motion. Not common issues. Finally, not being able to get all the way is no big deal. Much like not everyone can do a split, not everyone can squat the same either. You want to be careful about forcing range of motion though. You end up jamming bones together, which can cause issues over the longterm. If you feel some tightness while stretching, that's a sign improvement can be made. If you feel a blocking, like you just can't move further, that's likely bone in the way. Pushing that will only make the matter worse. (Bone gets bigger when it gets pushed or banged on sufficiently.) 

The link you included showed armrests, which would probably help reduce shoulder and even neck strain, as ergonomically speaking, you'd want your arms supported if you're typing. The wobble chairs I have experience with have some ways to adjust them, which means you can fit them to your stature. This is a good thing - an exercise ball might not put you at the right height for reaching your desk or viewing a computer monitor. Disadvantage of a wobble chair would be price - they're definitely spendier than a simple Swiss ball. And because they offer more support, you don't engage as much muscle to maintain good posture. But since most people have horrible posture, they need the extra help, so while it may seem like a con, frankly I think this is a pro. In the end, I'd say a wobble chair is a better bet. 

Everybody's different is, unfortunately, the answer. And as you probably know, adding muscle and not fat is easiest in untrained folks, so it's not a sure thing. But that said, I can tell you what's worked for me. During a gain, I'll eat 35% carbs, 40% pro, 25% fat, at about 200 cal over my maintenance number after adding exercise calories back in. Maintenance for me is around 2200, and say I burn about 300 during my workouts. I'd shoot for about 2700 cal with the split mentioned above. It's a slower gain than eating over 3000 calories, but you didn't say anything about needing it to be fast, so maybe it'll help. 

Boxing is great for conditioning, and is probably even better than steady-state cardio (running at the same pace for a set period of time). If you don't like running for duration, try intervals. Run hard for 60 seconds, walk for 60 second, repeat 10 times (or more, depending on your ability). Interval training has been shown to be more productive at burning fat, and you can get a killer workout in less time than if you went out to run for miles/hours. I'd also recommend switching up your core training to include more anti-rotational exercises. Crunches reinforce bad posture, can lead to back injury, and are less effective at building core strength than things like planks and rollouts that force you to hold your core tight and in line. The best exercise for burning belly fat, though, is the push-away. As in "push away from the table." Strong abs are pretty easy to get. Visible abs are a different story, and they're all about nutrition.