Don't invite the person, but do it in a way that doesn't promote inequality between him and your coworkers. Creating inequality is likely to cause the feelings of injustice that will lead to drama you really don't need. So, yes, an "all female" baby shower. Or a "close friends" baby shower. But not a "most of the office, except you" baby shower is in order. Keep in mind that once you establish the rules to exclude this person, the rules are your defense. You need to advertise them, "I'm having an all-female baby shower!" and you need to follow them. Breaking the rules will just enforce feelings of inequality which will cause future workplace issues. 

While I agree that indicating you stutter is a good idea before the interview, you never know who's going to be on the call; so, don't indicate before the call. 

It gives them the right impression, that you care about communication. It gives them the formula for telling you when communication is suffering. It lowers the barrier of their speaking up, so they don't hide if they'll deem the communication issues too severe. 

I would start the phone interview by indicating that you have a stutter, and you've worked hard to minimize it. Tell the interviewers that if it becomes a barrier in communication, please be vocal about it, because the important part is that they understand you well. Typically it will take a second or two to compose yourself, and then the interview will press on. This does a few important things: 

You need to have worked the period the bonus is "for" You need to be employed when they decide your bonus amount. You need to be employed when the bonus is paid. 

If you are very forgiving, keep in mind that they've been too busy to give you your review, so you can expect your request to be handled in the same manner as everything else. You can ask, but it is highly unlikely you will receive back pay. You will need to decide if you damage your position with your manager by asking. Odds are you won't even get the pay raise until January. While we all want our bosses to be 100% ready to do things like pay raises, the truth is that pay raises are rarely done by the boss alone. It can take time to coordinate with the accounting department, and it seems that your company is a bit under coordinated, or your boss is afraid to tell you that the money will take longer than you expect; because the boss is afraid of losing you. 

Honestly, a function that is only used once can easily be inlined. Perhaps there is a good reason not to inline it. If there is, then leverage that reason. I don't know what that reason might be, but I do know that if the function is really only used once, then it's not used by testing. That means you don't have a unit test on the function. Write one, and then you have better code quality (not necessarily a better solution, but at least proof that the solution does what was intended). You also have two places that use the function. Trying to find ways where both sides can get a bit of what they want can feel like a chore; but, in the long run you will be more effective. 

If you don't feel like you "developed" websites, then you already know that putting it on your resume is overselling the work you did. So, instead of exposing an opportunity for a future interviewer to discover a weakness, find a way to put the work you did (which is very important!) in the best possible light without misrepresenting it into something that might harm your prospects. How about, "improved websites by modifying existing work to meet new customer needs"? I'm sure your can improve upon that sentence, and if you have some way of quantifying it in numbers, even better, like so "Added five new features to an existing website, improving traffic 20%". But again, if you didn't collect the numbers, don't make them up. Someone will ask, "What were these features?" Or, "how do you know your features improved the traffic?" After all, the interviewer's job is to ask questions about you so they can decide if you are a good fit, and they mostly know you by the resume you gave them. You should be prepared to answer any obvious question on any point you put on the resume. 

You are 23. Whatever you do, you will not be doing it for the rest of your life. Odds are you won't even be doing it for the next two years. With that in mind, remember that as each year passes, the learning opportunities that come with employment pass too. It may sound silly, but some of the most successful people I know love to talk about how they learned key skills working in fast food, or otherwise "dead end" jobs. You can read a few books that might help out. I found parts of "What color is your Parachute" to be helpful in improving my job landing skills. "Seven Habits of Highly Effective People" can also be motivating. Don't delay. Your first job isn't going to be your dream job. Without some experience, you wouldn't even recognize your dream job if someone offered it to you, and honestly, most jobs are what you make out of them. Dreams are not handed to people on a platter. 

Right or wrong, he gave you the formula for a better working relationship with him. Don't go to him for learning, or structure. Try something on your own. Find the best AS/400 book you can, pay the awful price for it, and then log into the system and start doing everything you can short of taking the system down. Then find a way to get access to a "development" system and take that one down. Do keep your boss involved, but at a slight distance. Wait until you have a rather good question (one that shows you tried a few things) and then ask him. If he can answer, some light acknowledgement of his skill and expertise is in order. If he cannot, bow out with something neutral, like "maybe I'm approaching it the wrong way." In any event, engage him with problems that seem to have a solution, using him as a mentor. He doesn't want to be a teacher, so expect no lesson plan; but, he just might make a good mentor. Basically pop in, tell him what you've tried, what worked and what didn't, and then ask if he has any advice. Then disappear for at least a week or two, popping in to tell him your new status update. His gruff attitude is a request for you to become self-sufficient. His not teaching you plays into that. Don't work against that grain, unless you really want to try at forcing his hand. Even the attempt of forcing a person's hand comes at a very high cost, you'll lose any chance of a good working relationship. If you really need the guidance, find a newsgroup or mailing list for AS/400 users. Subscribe and then politely ask for help. The well is dry with you boss, at least until you can prove a bit of what he wants.