Many athletes want to get stronger without getting bigger. It is common in weight-class sports like Olympic weightlifting, judo, mixed martial arts, boxing and wrestling, since the athlete wants to remain the same weight while being as strong and athletic as possible. It's also common in field sports and other competitions such as rowing, where extra weight is expensive to carry around. These athletes use weight training to get stronger, but not much bigger. Diet is a huge part of this, as is maintaining a high amount of endurance and sport training. In the weight room, they will focus on only a few repetitions of high weight. Singles, doubles, and triples (less than four reps), with a low total volume, will train maximal strength while avoiding a significant degree of muscle gain. 

Notice that in this context, Rippetoe is using a narrow definition of strength that does not include power, hypertrophy or endurance. Doing fewer reps and only one or two sets makes for a drastically lower volume and average load at the limit of your ability (I'm paraphrasing from the second paragraph on page 82 there). For these reasons (and the increased danger of injury), I would recommend against using 1RM or 2RM as regular training stimulus. Though the original on page 60 of PP is better (the gradations from range to range are less stark) this chart from reddit does an excellent job explaining the effects of different rep schemes: 

Dismantle the Smith machine Look for another gym, three sets of five every workout In the meantime, hoist the weight to your shoulders with a straight-backed power clean: ...and then front squat the barbell for five reps. When you're done, lower the bar to the ground as carefully as possible. This way you can squat with the bar in front of your neck so you don't have to get it past your head. 

Stay the course. Your deadlifts are not heavy enough to worry. Add however much weight is called for by the program and do deadlifts 1x5 as scheduled. 

You squat, deadlift, and press. While these each stress specific muscles more than others (presses working more shoulder strength, deadlifting working more legs and back, et cetera), they are all whole-body exercises that work the core. If done heavy, these exercises demand and develop a significant amount of core strength, including the abdominals, as stabilizers. Along with your lower back, they isometrically hold your trunk in place for heavy lifting. 

Lifting to failure means different things to different people at different times. Bodybuilders and scientists use the phrase to mean "momentary muscle failure", that is, you have to actually try and fail, because that's what's maximally useful for stimulating growth. Powerlifters and other physical culturists often use "to failure" to mean "as many as you can with good form" or "as many as you can, but leave one 'in the tank'". This is sometimes rephrased as "failure minus one", because it isn't true failure. When I make a lifting program and tell myself, "three sets of pull-ups to failure", this is what I mean. In each set I stop when the next one would be iffy, or would require form breakdown. Good form means lots of things too. If you're shaking all over the place, that's not good form, but it's also not necessarily problematic form. Sometimes "good form" means shaking is OK, and only excludes breaches of form that affect safety. You have to decide yourself what you mean with these phrases. If someone else is using them with you, you have to guess or ask which version they mean. 

The method I use to maximize strength and power in the posterior chain is below. I was not, however, concerned with calorie burn. 

The point of muscular development is not just for bone strength, but for muscle strength. Muscles are useful in and of themselves, not just for their many benefits to other bodily functions. 

"I'd rather fail a rep than have a rep be half-me, half-you, so please only help me with racking and unracking. Give me a sec if I have a hard time with a rep--I'll shout for help if I need it. Thanks, chap." Big friendly grin. If they screw it up by "helping" with a rep anyway, and I think I'm going to need their assistance again in the future, I'm the type who'll find a way to mention my preferences obliquely. "Yeah, that last rep was tough. Too bad you jumped in--I wanted to see if I could grind it out. Anyway, cheers, mate. You need a spot for anything, just let me know." Part of this may be the clash of cultures: the bodybuilding tradition doesn't mind forced reps, because it's the muscular fatigue they're after. In contrast, weightlifters generally regard The Lift as sacred, probably because the Olympic lifts require so much mental focus and physical precision. In Olympic lifting, it's common to regard even walking or making noise too near someone setting up for a lift as a significant faux pas. 

You should get the dumbbells in place by using a dumbbell hang power clean, described here on exrx.net. The back remains locked in a neutral, naturally arched or flat position during the movement. In the meantime, you should figure out a way to squat with a barbell. One's squat is naturally greater than one's clean, and a dumbbell squat doesn't take long to become challenging in ways that are not useful in the ways that squatting is supposed to be. 

Exercises at the end of the workout improve the least. That doesn't mean they don't improve, they just improve more slowly than things put earlier in the workout. If a muscle-up is your goal then I'd find a way to do bar pull-ups, bar dips, ring dips, and false grip ring pull-ups as close to the beginning of the workout as you're willing. Doing those instead of or before the BBB assistance is my first thought. However, be very wary of "goal accretion". There is a good way and a bad way to add more goals to your accomplishments. It's good to set new goals after achieving a milestone, and then put your old work into "maintenance mode" while doing the new work. But simply adding goals without removing any previous work can lead to distraction and lack of focus. 

Many fruits are high in carbohydrate, specifically fructose, which is not "slow" and has a number of effects that may be considered deleterious to one's metabolism. 

The term you're looking for is "strength training." Success in sports, when excluding skill and strategy in the sport itself, is heavily dependent on your strength and power. Lifting weights is the primary method of strength training for sport. Ask your coaches to help you with a lifting program. If they don't know how or say it's not important, then find one yourself. Make sure to avoid programs that focus on conditioning or bodybuilding, because those are not applicable to your situation. 

(page 207, 2nd edition) A strong grip is paramount to lifting heavy things off the ground. If your 1RM deadlift is failing due to grip, then I'd recommend using a lot of chalk (which takes some practice to apply correctly) and a hook grip (the thumb inside the fingers). If this doesn't help after a few sessions of practicing, then consider adding grip-specific work like static top-of-the-deadlift holds or farmer's walks. 

No workout schedule is intrinsically too much. This schedule might be too much for you, just as it may be entirely doable for an elite-level heavyweight kickboxer. If you've been kickboxing three times a week for several months and you're feeling great, then adding one to three lifting workouts might be fine. If you just started kickboxing, or if you already feel exhausted from the current workload, then adding three lifting workouts to your existing three kickboxing workouts will probably end in overtraining, injury, or noncompliance. I'd stick with one or two lifting sessions per week at first, and only ramp up to three once you're sure that it's been working for a while. 

You're spending too much time benching light and doing heavily-counterweighted "pull-ups". Instead of doing 36 light bench press reps and 3 or 4 heavy reps, do 15 to 25 heavy reps. Three to five sets of 5 at 175 sounds about right. Every week add a pound or three or five. Doing that a few times a week, plus eating and sleeping well, should have you benching around 200 for a set of 5, giving you a higher max. Similarly, skip the two dozen "pull-ups" that are basically just floating bouncing on a see-saw. Do five sets of 3 unassisted pull-ups, then a half-dozen sets of negatives, then a half-dozen sets of static holds at the top. After a week or two of that you should be able to switch to three sets of 5 unassisted pull-ups, then four sets, then five sets. Then you should be ready to pick a target number of total reps--say, 40 or 50 or 75--and do as many sets as necessary (using negatives if you have to) to get there. If you're only lifting once per week, then the progression will be half as fast or even slower. One lifting workout per week is not a lot for most people. 

Counteract The Hunch Your shoulders, hips, and back are all negatively affected by copious desk work. Develop and maintain good mobility with a combination of stretching and strength work. Do yoga or a similar extended stretching-and-mobility routine at least twice a week and (ideally five or more times). Make sure you can touch your toes, fully and properly reach overhead, and do a third world squat. A strong back is better able to hold good posture. Start strength training with basic movements like squats, lunges, deadlifts, rows, bench and overhead presses, farmer's walks, push-ups, dips, and pull-ups. Add resistance using barbells, kettlebells, or dumbbells when you are ready. Pulling exercises like rows and pull-ups will help your upper back stay in a good shoulders-back, chest-up position during the day. Heavy lifting done properly is also good practice for correct posture. 

I've never done them, but I hear that sitting on the box allows (produces? demands?) a greater hip drive than a boxless squat. My current understanding is that hip-drive-powered squats have more overlap with the deadlift (specifically in the posterior chain) than, say, a front squat or a high-bar back squat. But again, I've never box squatted, and have never used squats to help my deadlift. Squats are for squats in my programming. So, your mileage may vary. 

Strength exercises to pull the shoulders backwards have helped me with programmer's hunch. Pull-ups and deadlifts are particularly useful, as well as back squats. Strength training is OK almost no matter what: it's making sure that the strength training is working to solve your problems rather than exacerbate them. For instance, I would go easy with push-ups, dips, and bench press for the moment, and focus on mobility exercises (such as wall slides) until you feel more comfortable with those pushing movements. 

Food plus lifting equals get bigger It seems like you're saying that when you walk a lot, eat moderately, and do nothing else that you lose a little bit of weight--likely fat, but perhaps also muscle. It also seems like you're saying that when you add heavy lifting and a lot of eating that you gain weight. Nothing about that is surprising: 

Complexes Make a pair or set of upper-body exercises you can do, and do those with no rest between them and little or no rest between rounds. Use bodyweight exercises as well as resistance tools like dumbbells, barbells, and kettlebells. For example: 

Once a week is not very much squatting, and fifty pounds is not a very heavy squat. If you squat more, and more often, your legs will get stronger and stop getting sore from normal workouts like what you describe. 

It is common for muscles to be more sore two days after a workout, rather than the next day. The phenomenon is called DOMS: Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness. Sometimes it manifests the next day after working out; sometimes it crops up after a day's delay. As Mark Sisson notes, we don't really know what causes DOMS physiologically: 

Bottom line: you will lose substantial progress. You will get weaker. You will lose hard-earned strength. When you get back to the program, take 10 to 20% off your numbers. 

Don't Drop Your Deadlift! Don't listen to StrongLifts' recommendation of dropping your deadlift weight by more than 50%. It's a 5x5 program with deadlifts at 1x5, so you should be dropping the weight a little bit, perhaps 20 or 25%, but definitely not from 425 to 190. You would lose strength or at least leave strength gains on the table. With your numbers, it looks like your deadlift is great, your squat lags a little behind your bench press, and your press needs to catch up with your bench. That's fine. What I'd do is start the 5x5 progression at something like 75 or 85% of your 5RM numbers across the board. For your deadlift, that might be around 300 pounds (you don't mention your 5RM for that lift, so I'm guessing). That leaves plenty of room to improve while still challenging yourself. The same goes for your bench--it would be absurd to drop a 275 5RM bench press to 150 5x5. Keep in mind that while you may still be a novice in the sense that you have potential to improve on a linear progression, it's necessary to modify novice programs when you have existing strength. 

All in all, it is a balanced discussion with tons of studies to curl up and read. As to your specific questions, I do not see how the fact that most middle-class Westerners sit a lot and are weak has anything to do with how we evolved. I would venture to say that we know with fair certainty that our ancestors mostly got strong by lifting things, carrying things, and running. I fail to see the relevance of this point to whether machines are empirically superior to free weights, except to point you to the inherent joy of training and playing outside. (Erwan le Corre has more to say on this topic.) To address your point about cables and machines being different enough to produce different stresses: most machines, though less so with cables, dramatically reduce the number of muscles involved in a motion. They are designed to isolate muscles instead of allow the body the act as a whole. So, yes, the leg curl machine might provide a different stressor to more strongly incite growth in the hamstring, but as noted in the references above, that stressor is highly specific and has less carryover to everyday life and sport.