I believe that the first "smear campaign" in U.S. Presidential politics was against Andrew Jackson in 1824. $URL$ George Washington, John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe were all "Founding Fathers" of the United States. No one of any note had any real quibbles about any of them being President. The only question among this select group of people was "whose turn was it?" Beginning in `1824, the two main candidates, John Q. Adams and Andrew Jackson were "post" Founding Fathers. John Q. Adams was, in fact, the son of a founding father, but Jackson was the first major candidate from west of the Appalachians, born into a poor family (though made rich by his own efforts), and generally considered a "parvenu." Hence he would be the target of ad hominem attacks that we might call a "smear campaign." 

Apparently, Arthur Schlesinger wrote a memo against the "upcoming" Bay of Pigs idea. But he didn't push it very hard. $URL$ 

Toward the end of World War II, Germany had to utilize non-German soldiers, some of them from occupied countries like Poland and the Ukraine. At places like Omaha Beach, Normandy, individual Poles spontaneously defected, particularly when spoken to by Polish-Americans. On the eastern front, the Germans managed to "turn" a whole division or more of captured Soviet soldiers under General Vlasov into fighting for the Germans against the Soviet Union. Were there cases of the Allies seeking and receiving the defection of groups of soldiers recruited by the Germans (or Japanese)? I'm excluding Italians (except when in German, not Italian uniform), since Italy itself was successfully "turned" by the Allies. Ditto for Vichy French soldiers in North Africa (unless in German uniform). 

Jefferson and Madison were the "centrists" in the Federalist vs. anti-Federalist divide. This is true even though Madison, a Federalist, was one of the co-authors of the Federalist papers (along with John Jay and Alexander Hamilton), while Jefferson was an "anti-Federalist" who helped form the "Republican" party that Madison later joined. If you imagine the divide as a football field, Jefferson was on one side of the "50 yard line" and Madison was on the other side. In this regard, they were closer to each other than either with the fellows on the same side of the divide. For instance, Madison was the author of the Bill of Rights to the Constitution that substantially limited federal government powers (even to this day), while leaving some rights to states and individuals, thereby winning important anti-Federalist support for the Constitution in the large holdout states of Virginia and New York. On the other hand, Jefferson later proved to be enough of a "Federalist" to conduct the Louisiana Purchase without specific authorization from the individual states (which would have taken too much time). Together, Jefferson and Madison formed what later became "Jeffersonian Democracy," even though they came at it from opposite sides. Although a Virginian, Jefferson feared the division of the United States more than anything else (unlike Robert E. Lee). Both he and Madison wanted a Federal government of "medium" power, neither overweening nor hobbled. Even so, Madison seemed like a strange choice of Jefferson's successor to early Republican "purists." The irony is that the later Republican party (of Lincoln) took on the Federalist (strong central government) mantle, while what was initially the Republican party was retroactively renamed the Democratic-Republican party, because most of its adherents later became "Democrats." 

Up to the time of Catherine the Great of Russia, most high officers in the Russian army were German (or French), because of the greater educational levels of the Western Europeans. This effect started to decline in the 18th century, but persisted through the 19th century, and into the early 20th. It was more pronounced in Poland, which was nearer the German (or Austrian) border, than in Russia proper. 

Germany wanted Russia for its resources: Caucasian oil, Donets basin minerals, Kazakh chrome, and Ukrainian wheat, among others. In 1940, German occupied Europe had twice the population of the United States, with its combined GDP not far behind America's. It had, however, about 15% of the world's industrial capacity, or less than half of the U.S. total. The Soviet Union had about half of the population of German-occupied Europe, a fraction of its GDP, but about the same industrial capacity. If Germany could take over the Soviet Union, it could have three times the population as the U.S., about the same GDP, with industrial capacity approaching that of the U.S.Germany would then have power to rival that of the U.S. This would especially be true if Japan could be raised to act as a counterweight to Britain, America's other major ally, e.g. by taking India away from Britain and giving it to Japan. Source For Industrial Production: The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers, Paul Kennedy. Source For GDP: Contours of the World Economy, 1–2030 AD by the British economist Angus Maddison. 

America and Nazi Germany represented existential threats to each other. And even though "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal" was often "more honored in the breach than the observance," it went directly against Nazi ideology. Hitler considered America a "mongrel nation run by Jews," that could never coexist peacefully with a "pure," Aryan Germany. Then there was the quote attributed to Bismarck: "The most important fact of the 20th century will be that North Americans speak English." Hitler knew that there were Americans that were pro-German, but felt that they did not speak for the rest of America, because they were, in fact, a minority. He still hoped that they would support Germany, or weaken the American war effort when the conflict came, but that's a different story. And even though there were real isolationist or anti-war elements in the U.S., this fact was less important that what Hitler believed; he declared war on America without being forced to, thereby making it a self-fulfilling prophecy. 

There were several reasons, many of which you listed. First, Bali was a relatively isolated part of the country, after Sumatra, Java, and Borneo, far from the main trade routes (near today's Malaysia). That meant that it was less susceptible to Muslim influences. (It's true that Bali is only a few miles from "Java," but that's east Java, the less accessible part of the island.) Bali was historically a more "traditional" part of the country, a more resistant one to change. After Indonesia had adopted Hinduism, Bali, unlike the rest of Indonesia, had resisted conversion to Confuciansism. Because of the factors outlined in the previous two paragraphs, Bali became the refuge of choice for Hindus elsewhere in Indonesia, who wanted to flee the conversion to e.g. the Muslim religion. Finally, during the European colonial era (after the 16th century), Bali was at the geographical (as opposed to population weighted) center of the country*, and benefited from the balance of power politics involving various European and indigenous forces. *As an example, St. Louis it at the geographical center of the U.S., but the population weighted center is further east, because of the heavy concentration on the east coast. 

Halder was a natural historian, as well as a working general. After World War II, he worked for the U.S. Army Historical Division. So he was a well-regarded historian, and his accounts (at least of facts) are more reliable than those of other German officers. He was also imprisoned, but fortunately not killed, by Hitler, so he is also less suspect than the "Nazi" generals. 

In the early 1900s, most household work (other than the man's profession) was done at home. That is, nearly all meals were prepared at home (instead of going to restaurants. Clothes were cleaned (and made) at home, instead of being cleaned at a drycleaners or being purchased from a department store. Children played at home (instead of going to soccer, or music lessons). Most of these "home" tasks were performed by the wife and mother. In the second half of the twentieth century, women found that they could have fulfilling careers. To do so, they needed to "farm out" the above-mentioned tasks, which cost money. But many women felt they came out ahead. That was true even if they had to work at one of the main tasks, (e.g. waitressing, laundering, or teaching), because they could "specialize." 

I appended the clause "but to a different degree" to your statement "The Ottomans' also had politics mixed with religion." And therein lies the heart of the issue. The Ottomans were "somewhat," although not totally tolerant of other religions. That is to say that the degree of religious intolerance, and its related drag on progress was "much less" in the Ottoman Empire. For instance, "forced conversions" were frowned upon, at least officially (although they may have occurred unofficially). On the other hand, parts of Europe were very intolerant. For instance, the Spanish Inquisition was mainly about forced conversions, and controlling the resulting "conversos." Not surprisingly, Spain suffered more than most European countries (after the end of the 16th century) from "lack of progress," even though she had been in the forefront earlier. So to the extent that religious intolerance is a hindrance to progress, the effects of one on the other were far milder in the Ottoman Empire than in Europe. 

Prussia as been described as "an army with a piece of land attached." That said, some of the things implied by the book are not correct. First, men were conscripted around age 20, but that doesn't mean that they were kept in the army until age 60. They were typically released when they exited "military age" (late twenties) and another batch of men were recruited (except for officers). In terms of finding wives, the men that had successfully completed military service were the more desirable ones (just ask the Israelis), as opposed to deserters. Second, Prussia typically had 4% of its population in the army (e.g. 80,000 men vs. 2 million), that is 8% of its male population, and 12% of its adult male population. That's a high proportion, but not out of line with other highly militaristic states (e.g. Sweden, or the France of Louis XIV). Third, morale was kept "relatively" high by good rations, a pound of beef per week that allowed men to eat meat twice a week. That forced civilian employers (e.g. Silesian coal mines) to provide similar rations; otherwise the men could "opt" to return to the army. It was a hardship on farmers (that is, landowners as opposed to farm workers), but those were the breaks. Many of those landowners had officered the same, or similar men in the army, so there was a certain amount of empathy. Finally, the military system of Prussia, like later military system of Germany, fed on itself. Silesia, captured in the 1740s, was the ultimate prize, but through the 17th century, Brandenburg-Prussia kept gobbling up pieces of the northern part of the former East Germany, and (Polish) Pomerania. Each new acquisition added to the wealth of the Prussian empire, and made the burden easier to bear for the earlier members. Regarding "philosophy," the greatest militarist, Frederick the Great, was also among the greatest philosophers, who invited France's Voltaire, to his court at Sans Souci (sic!). To a lesser degree, this was true of other Prussian kings. 

Orestes Brownson, The Laboring Classes: An Article from the Boston Quarterly Review, Boston: Benjamin H. Greene, 1840. America is was a Puritanical society that was more concerned with such issues than England or European countries. 

There are two types of Empresses. The first type is an Empress Consort, who is the wife of an Emperor. The second is a ruling Empress, basically a female Emperor, who inherited the crown from her father, or in this case, her husband. Catherine started as Peter's Empress Consort, that is, Empress by marriage. But when Peter crowned Catherine Empress, he had something different in mind, that she would be the heiress apparent, and inherit the throne from him, over say, his children (by either his first wife or Catherine herself). Normally, it's the children, and not the spouse, of a ruler, that inherits the throne, because the children have the blood lines. By crowning Catherine Empress, Peter gave Catherine the so-called "crown matrimonial," that is the crown through her marriage (more often given by women to their husbands). In so doing, Peter broke with Russian tradition that said only boys could inherit the throne. (Peter was the third, but only surviving, son of his father, so he felt the value of doubling the number of potential inheritors. By making it possible for women to inherit the throne, Peter gave Russia several Empresses; his wife Catherine, his niece Anna, his daughter Elizabeth, and above all, Catherine the Great who married his grandson, Peter III. 

There are basically two reasons: climate, and accessibility. The first reason relates to the fact that Siberia (northern Asia) is the coldest part of the inhabited world. The only other part of the world that is "almost" as cold is European Russia. Basically, the Russians were the only people that could "stand" to live in most of northern Asia. The second factor is "accessibility." Russia is adjacent to northern Asia from the west. China is adjacent to northern Asia to the south. There was a third "country," Mongolia, that actually started in north Asia. And here's where the climate factor comes into play: The Chinese weren't nearly as eager to colonize North Asia, even though it's much "closer" (on longitude) because it's much colder. The Mongolians started there and left for warmer climes in the south: China, Persia, the Ukraine. (Today's Mongolia is southeast of the original homeland around Lake Baikal.) It was the Russians, on the same "latitude" as north Asia, that found it worth colonizing. 

Genghis Khan's empire had at least four main parts: (modern) Russia, the Middle East (mainlhy Persia), Central Asia (Kazakhstan), and China-Mongolia. The soldiers who occupied the first three parts (mostly) intermarried with local women. In China-Mongolia (under Kublai Khan), many Mongolians intermarried with Chinese. Only a few Mongolians (between modern Mongolia and Lake Baikal) remained relatively "pure," which is why there are so few of them today. The genes of the others ended up elsewhere. 

Zimmerman's actions reflected the style of his boss, Kaiser Wilhelm II. This was a blunt, heavy-handed "take no prisoners, make no apologies approach" that the Kaiser displayed in crisis after crisis; the Kruger Telegram congratulating the Boers on their suppression of the "Jameson Raid" that led to the Boer War; the "Hun statement" urging German soldiers to be merciless as Huns against Chinese "Boxers;" the Moroccan Crisis, that saw Germany trying to deprive France of Morocco; and the Daily Telegram affair that had Wilhelm listing France, Russia and Japan as his antagonists, (but excluding Britain). You can characterize Zimmerman's actions as unwise, but no one can claim that he didn't speak for his government.