Regarding your first question : "Can numbers start from something trivial such as 0, 1 and then reach infinity?" This is a mathematical question and the mathematical answer is no. To understand why the answer is no requires some philosophical considerations. To best way to understand why is to consider Cantor's original "three principles of ordinal generation". (Here, an ordinal is just a certain type of a set.) The three principles exploit the notion of successor, limit, and supremum. Rather than get bogged down in technical details I will appeal to your intuition here. When we apply any one of these principles to a finite collection of ordinals (numbers) - e.g., {0} or {0,1} - we generate one new ordinal (number). Adding one to a finite number yields a finite number and therefore the three principles of ordinal generation do not allow us to escape the finite domain. At this stage, we cannot take the supremum of all finite numbers to obtain an infinite set since we have not yet generated all finite numbers. The only way to formally obtain an infinite set is to introduce an axiom that asserts the existence of an infinite set - the so-called Axiom of Infinity. Once we have asserted the existence of an infinite set, we can continue to apply the three principles to generate new infinite sets which are mathematically distinct from that set identified by the axiom of infinity. 

Eliran H's (accepted) answer gives an excellent and interesting response from a classical point of view, and I thought it may also be useful elaborate further on the non-classical views. Philosophers find it convenient to divide paradoxes into two types; the semantic and the set-theoretic. Semantic paradoxes express paradoxes of truth, denotation, predication, and the like, while set-theoretic paradoxes express paradoxes of membership and cardinality. The example you site of "This proposition is false" is (obviously) a semantic paradox. There are some philosophers, such as Graham Priest who take the view that semantic paradoxes are bona fide sound arguments. Such a view requires that one adopt a non-classical logic, specifically what is called a paraconsistent logic. According to Priest's methods, if we let A denote the statment "This proposition is false", then the proposition A ∧ ¬A is true. In other words, both A and its negation are true. Another alternative take on this paradox, as mentioned in Eliran's answer, can be found in the work of Saul Kripke. While I am not entirely familiar with Kripke's work, I believe that Kripkean analysis would entail that the liar paradox, as stated, is not true, and so, according to Kripke, we should assert this. On the other hand, Kripke's methods would have nothing to say about the possibility that the proposition is also true, as is the case with Priest's paraconsistent view. As I say, I am not familiar enough with Kripke's work to be certain of my comments so perhaps someone else can elaborate. Ultimately, I believe that how one views such paradoxes all comes down to is whether or not you accept that natural languages satisfy Tarski's theory of truth. 

Just type the same exact thing you see in question 10.26, then select "FO Con" without any premises. This still doesn't answer the question about how to use ∀ Intro and ∃ Elim, but it answers how to solve 10.26. I assume that ∀ Intro and ∃ Elim are covered later in the text, and I will update this answer when I come to that section. See the very impressive answer above instead! 

I would say that it is not a paradox and actually that the statement is neither true nor false. It seems there is a "free variable" at play, even though it is hidden: 1 + 1 = 2 is not always true. While in our "normal" mathematics, in our "normal" field, it is true, the result is different in Z2, which is the field commonly known as the bit field. In the bit field, there are only two numbers: 0 and 1. And 1 + 1 = 0. Maybe the question you are asking is something like this: "P ∨ ~P is a tautology, but I do not know it [is a tautology]." Well, that is certainly a plausible statement. It could indeed be true. If a Chinese actor who doesn't happen to speak English reads this from a script, everything he said is true, even though he has no idea what he said. The meaning is literally true to us English speakers, but it is merely noise to everyone else. 

Which is, of course, a tautology. I do not need an premises for this. But my problem is that I do not know how to use ∀ Intro nor ∃ Elim as the book doesn't seem to cover these two, and I have no idea how else to prove the original statement without using those two. So how can I solve this issue? 

Now that looks very strange to me and I'm thinking I messed up at part 5-6. I'm guessing that won't work, because there is another variable x before the ∃. But I don't know how else to go about this. For the second part I got . I don't think that is right either. It would be true if there was anything not an cube in the world, but how can one conclude that there must be no cubes in the world? If they were all cubes, it would also be true. Could someone help me understand how I should go about this? Thanks for your help! 

According to Jonathan Barnes, in his book Aristotle, one of Aristotle's ancient biographers remarks that "he wrote a large number of books which I have thought it appropriate to list because of his excellence in every field": there follows a list of 150 books. Curiously, the list does not include all of Aristotle's works. Indeed, it does not include his two most highly regarded works - Metaphysics and Nicomachean Ethics. Of all of the listed works, barely one-fifth (approx. 30) have survived. Again, according to Barnes, most of the surviving works were peharps not intended to be read; it seems likely that the works that survive are made up of Aristotle's own lecture notes and not intended for public dissemination. The two works cited above, Metaphysics and Nicomachean Ethics, appear to be put together by later editors. According to Barnes, Nicomachean Ethics is evidently not a unitary work, and Metaphysics is "plainly" a set of essays rather than a continuous work. Barnes supports his claims by noting that Aristotle's works are, for the most part, terse. "His arguments are consise. There are abrupt transitions, inelegant repetitions, and obscure allusions. Paragraphs of continuous exposition are set amongst staccato jottings. The language is spare and sinewy." These features strongly suggest the lecture notes interpretation. 

I think the problem is that randomness is a folk concept. Everyone believes that they understand what is meant by randomness and that their understanding applies to all cases of perceived randomness, including statistical randomness. For someone versed in finance, randomness is equated to unpredictability. The price movements of financial markets are perceived to be random since they are unpredictable. In a liquid market, such as treasury bonds, we expect successive trades to be initiated by a even distribution of buyers and sellers. If too many buyers flooded the market with orders, we would assume that there was some well define cause such as a change in interest rates. A financier would not see this as random, even if it still fell within the definition of statistical randomness from a purely transactional point of view. While it is true that certain areas of mathematics give precise definition of randomness, even here different areas of mathematics give different definitions. For example, statistical randomness is not necessarily the same as information-theoretic randomness even if information-theoretic randomness would necessarily contain some degree of statistical randomness. EDIT As per your request, I shall try to make my answer more clear. Everyone has a naive / folk idea of what they think constitutes randomness. In the case of the coin toss example, unless one is familiar with the concept of statistical randomness it is this folk concept that will be applied, or possibly some alternative definition of randomness such as that used by the information theorist. A typical folk notion would be "lacking pattern". When someone sees a "pattern" of what they consider too many heads or too many tales, either in consecutive sequence or in aggregate, they will automatically make the judgement that the sequence of coin tosses is not random. The coin toss example is an interesting example. The statistical distribution of the digits of the expansion of π is another. To make this analogous to the coin toss, let's consider the binary expansion of π. This is statistically random. However, it can be shown that sequences of consecutive zeros or consecutive ones of length n occur for any value n. Thus, for example, there exists a sequence of a trillion, trillion, trillion consecutive zeros in the binary expansion of π even though there is a statistically random distribution of 0's and 1's. If such a sequence occured near the beginning, the most non-mathematicans would assume non-randomness.