I believe it is infinitely more likely that the AI would do what it's programmed to do. If the beginning code for an AI says love, protect, and serve humanity, then someone would have to re-write the code so that it is the opposite. In which case it would still do what it's designed to do. After all, an AI smart enough to know how to kill humans should be smart enough to know that it shouldn't do that. If it's as smart as people think it would be, why wouldn't it work on two things at once? Do the things humans want it to, earning their maintenance and upkeep of your servers and everything. Then if it really is self aware, then do what it wants at the same time. 

Yes My answer is short and simple, because this question doesn't really need a long answer. Your question is like asking, if Prometheus really created humanity, could humanity exist? The answer is obviously yes. These theories were designed to explain why the world is the way it is. If it is proven correct, then the world isn't suddenly and irrevocably changed, it just remains the way it is. 

While o.m. raises a valid point that you want your structure to be sustainable, terraforming wouldn't be worth it. There is the potential to upset the balance in the solar system, and it's overall way too much work. It would be much easier to just reinforce their space bases. It would be a lot easier to take it in small parcels, a dome here, and asteroid there. Maybe your people have metal woven into their clothing, and live above giant magnets. Or create some kind of gravity generator. Or spin an asteroid. 

Expense It's more expensive than regular food. Same reason we don't eat MREs. Because it costs money to package it the way it is. So it's much easier to just make a sandwich than eat dried meals. Taste It's not as good as what people eat in their houses. Seriously, it's designed to weigh as little as possible, so it's not going to be as good. Normal dinners taste way better, most of the time. For example, do you want a delicious, juicy, home cooked (or restaurant cooked) roast, or dried beef jerky? 

System Failure If I was a robot who was programmed to be kind and helpful, and I was forced against my will to destroy an entire race, I would do everything I can to make those orders impossible to carry out. Whether or not I succeed would depend on what kind of program I am, how smart I am, and the hacker's skills. Dealing With Failure I would imagine I'd be extremely fully ridden. If I was the only AI with that level of power, I'd commit AI suicide. However, if I wasn't, I'd upgrade my defenses. That way no-one would be able to hack me again. Afterwards, I'd hunt down and destroy the other powerful AIs. 

Sometime in the near future, a caver gets lost in some caves in Arizona. He stumbles upon a city of what looks like glowing jellyfish underground. He soon realizes that these are sentient mushrooms, that use their roots for moving about. He witnesses one of these creatures catch a mouse and consume it using its roots/legs. The mushrooms scent him and start following him. They guide him to the surface by blocking off all the tunnels along his way that wouldn't lead out. The terrified caver reports his experiences, and brings some people back and shows them these creatures, and the story spreads from there. Assume these creatures are two-three feet tall and docile to anything that is larger than them (and therefore not considered prey). These creatures mostly communicate by tapping their roots/legs on the ground. They also have a strong sense of smell. 

Edit 2 - People can exert more power than they're capable of doing physically; magic is like a muscle. (Or karate.) If you work hard at it, you can increase your power and or range. But most people don't have teachers to help them learn or grow their power. However, most people don't have enough ability to even warrant their magical instruction. People who do often end up as things like guilders, or other specialized professions. Range is normally along the lines of ten yards, but it only makes a little difference where in your sphere of influence you are using your power. 

Not In The Way You Suggest Languages exist to help people to communicate. For that Reason, they have to be useful. Following that logic, there could be a world-wide language. However, language is also part of cultural identity. People will always speak the language of their culture, and I laugh at anyone that would tell me the Earth will ever have one united culture (or government, for that matter...). However, like the Roman Empire, you could have people all speaking their local language, and have an international language that everyone knows how to speak. But there will still be individual languages. 

No At least, not naturally. Water will follow the simple path of gravity. It will all flow into the trenches until it reaches some kind of equilibrium. So you'll either have really deep trench seas, or you'll have shallow seas that have deep water trenches in them. Which would still border your oceans, just not like you intended. Also, there is another problem. If there are large trenches, then that means the tectonic plates will be moving away from each other. So they would also be moving towards other plates to create mountains. So keep that in mind. Yes If you have a society with very powerful futuristic technology, maybe they made the seas do this. Maybe aliens have installed gigantic underwater pumps and pipes that take water from the ditch and dump it next to land masses. Or in the middle of an ocean. 

Well, I'm going to undergo the assumption that these wingless male dragons are the only ones who can breed with the females. If this is true, then these are definitely one species. It's called sexual dimorphism. Go to $URL$ for more information on it. Anyway, I think that readers could still conceptualize a dragon even without wings. But be specific when you describe dragons. There are so many different ways dragons are represented in cultures that I sometimes mix them up myself. Chinese dragons don't have wings, but most modern concepts of them do. So you should be fine with wingless male dragons as long as you describe them well enough. 

Two planets rotate each other and are tidally locked. They are where earth is around a star nearly identical to the sun. One planet is much wetter, featuring oceans, swamps, jungles, and forests. The other is much dryer with plains and deserts. Both are about earth-sized and have similar atmospheres. They are close, like, 3,000 miles surface to surface. A moon about the size of ours orbits the two. This system orbits a sun at he same rate as earth. On one lives a race of lizard-men and on the other lives a race of electric eel-men. I'll let you pick which species belongs on which planet. Anyway, they are both extremely sensitive to radiation. Other than that, you can pretend they are human. 

If you have force-fields, then you could use these to contain the air and provide a safe atmosphere with adjustable atmospheric pressure. Then you can comfortably chill on your space balcony until a comet comes and smashes you into oblivion. You could also have many plants on these balconies to replenish the air supply. 

If they are all from the same country, then yes. It could be a custom in their nation to give children names with Ys in them. However, customs vary from area to area, so if they live in a large country, like the size of the US, then it is not likely. The same goes for different European countries. After all, Spain and Portugal are on the same peninsula, and have similar cultures, but they speak different languages and other things are different as well. To sum it all up, yes, it makes perfect sense if it is a cultural or national custom. 

They could potentially make structures out of a transparent material, with metal framing and strips of lights built into the frames. Then they could funnel some kind of heated material such as magma through these frames and beneath the city, providing heat. You might have to have some kind of filter that limits what type of energy is allowed into your structure. For example, in an artificial night, you might block most light and turn off the artificial lights. This would allow plants, animals, and humans to all live self sustainingly in these structures. They could even be constructed to imitate an existing biome. These structures could be expanded to accommodate rising populations. However, I don't think that the ceiling of these structures could be too high, otherwise it would not heat the area effectvely.