I second @KitsuneCavalry, and add that Harvey damaged a lot of capital stock i.e. dwelling and non-dwelling, infrastructure etc. Well, that's a bad news, but also a good news as investors expect big spending by the government to rebuild the lost or damaged capital stock. As expected, Trump has requested billions (from the congress) for regeneration and rebuilding of the affected areas. These billions are going to have miltiplier effects in the wider economy as almost all listed firms set to benefit from this spending. Government will pay for reconstruction of the roads, electricity grid, bridges, etc. Simlarly, insurance firms pay for the construction of private and commerical properties. They will have to borrow, issue shares or liquidate investments, and investment banks benefit from these activities. Many listed firms could receive a share of the spending. Dividend increases could be on the way, and given the EMH, rising share prices already reflect these changes. 

Book value of an asset is the carrying value of an asset in the books i.e. balance sheet of the company. I think you are confusing the definitions of net asset value and book value. Equity and shareholders' equity are referring to the same thing. Shares are recorded in balance sheet at book value, any additional payments are recorded as paid in capital to account for the difference between market and book value. So you have a book value for shares and a market value. 

This is from Wikipedia. The US H1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise in specialized fields such as in architecture, engineering, mathematics, science, and medicine. Assuming the hiring process is competitive, the wages must as well be competitive. But data may say the opposite in a well rounded econometric model. 

I want to estimate the parameters of $a_t = a_{t-1}+\theta+\epsilon_t$ using MLE. Assume errors $\epsilon_t$ are serially correlated, then how would I choose the likelihood function? 

I am experimenting with time series data to gauge the importance of factors of production i.e. labour force, capital stock, energy, land, etc. in output growth. One venue I am looking into is the estimation of co-integration model within production function framework. 

The approach developed by Barro and Lee has been used in many empirical analysis. They provide a detailed discussion of how to construct an aggregate human capital measure. 

The answer is simple and it is due to the conduct of business and conditions relating to the early days of exchanges and banks. Then, there was no interest in trading or providing liquidity to companies 24 hours a day and there was no coordination with the other parts of the world. Today, it is more like preserving the tradition, and just look at how NYSE opens at every morning, the good old bell is there to kick start the business. Today, it may make sense to have 24/7 financial services provision as we are living in the age of internet. OTC FOREX trading is thriving 24/7. As long as there are willing traders/market makers to remain on the floor on different shifts during working hours. 

Can anyone please help with taking the derivative of the following equation with respect to time? $ln(\frac{\gamma_t+(n+\delta)}{sA}) = (\beta - 1)ln{k_t}+(\alpha+\beta-1)ln{N_t}$ This is not a homework question, just reading a text on economic growth and not sure how the author arrived at the final expression. Thanks 

Trying to avoid posting further comments above. Ok, as you suggest, let's assume that demand curve does not shift, because P=ATC condition moves the price along the deman curve. The only situation where surplus is higher under monopoly is when ATC curve shifts downward so that at the new scale of operations where P=ATC, ATC is lower than that observed in perfect competition and this point is not in the diseconomies of scale region or is the minimum efficient scale. This may happen under strict regluatory environment whereby monopoly exists through nationalisation. 

I've read a number of papers on factor - augmenting technical progress and directed technical change. Authors do not note about the implications of factor - augmentation in sufficient details. Assume production technology is of CES type where inputs are Labour, Capital stock and Energy. If technological progress is induced, then it is possible that endogenous changes in innovations lead to capital - saving, labour - saving and energy - saving technical progress. While it is easy to see what labour - saving innovations could be, I wonder what the differences in capital - saving and energy - saving innovations could be. Is not energy - saving innovation a capital - saving innovation? In other words, efficiency of capital is analogous to energy efficiency, is not it? 

This is something Alwyn Young of LSE said may be good for development. However, the question he asked is different from that of yours. Find out what he said reading The Gift of the Dying: The Tragedy of AIDS and the Welfare of Future African Generations.” Quarterly Journal of Economics 120 (May 2005): 423-466. 

There is no simple answer to this question. She is just giving her opinion on the topic. However, so long as USD is the main reserve currency for other governments and oil is mainly traded in USD, Americans can keep buying their guns at low cost. Gun laws are more detrimental to Americans' lives and hence the economy than anything else in the foreseeable future. This is my view, there is more... 

I don't know how CIA gets its information from other countries on their economic performance, but I can tell you that IMF and WB have residence representative offices in member countries. Central Banks, various ministries and other government agencies supply periodic performance records to these offices. 

I think You will have to account for various factors other than price. What is your purpose in estimating the demand curve? This link will give you a good explanation on how to estimate demand curves if you are looking for simple exposition - assuming that sales and other factors have linear relationship. If you are good at econometrics, you may want to consider simultaneous equations models. It is likely that your single equation model will suffer from simultaneity and omitted variable bias along with identification problems. 

Ordinary shares that do not pay cash dividends offer more to the shareholders. If listed firms do not pay dividend, they must have investment opportunities which offer high rates of returns. The shareholders may want to receive dividends and prefer reinvesting the proceeds elsewhere, but the boards might have different plan. The board compares the rates of return from reinvesting in new projects and paying dividends to the shareholders. If the return from projects is higher than the return investors are expected to earn by reinvesting the dividends, the board keeps retaining the profits until the opportunity cost of doing so is lower than not doing so. Many newly listed companies do not pay dividends until much later when they exhaust most high return investment opportunities. Investors usually incorporate the future incremental cash flows from investment projects (of the company) in share prices. So share prices rise by the present value per share of the future cash flows from the investments. Hence, non-dividend paying shares have as much value as those that pay dividend or have voting rights. Other ways of earning through investing in non voting non divided shares are: 

Do the last one, the first one is just the same thing but you will not be using the in-built adf function. The second one does it better and you have a choice of including lagged differences to control for possible autocorrelation. If your data is monthly, give it a lag order of 12. 

If yuan becomes a reserve currency, can we expect the petrodollars to be swapped with petroyuans given china's ever increasing mammoth demand for energy resources? 

Figures for GDP are obtained from final accounts of companies. It is not simple as Hector suggested to obtain the final figure. You will have aggregate values of production and sales. See the this link and browse through for more info. This link gives you output measures. 

Use log price indices to test for their degree of integration, should be I(1) - try ADF unit root test. Once you determine the cointegration rank among log price indices, proceed with VECM model where you data will autamatically be differenced. Log difference is an approximation of growth rate, here stock returns. What software package are you using? 

Yes, this is very counter-intuitive and confusing. However, there is an interesting explanation involving graphical analysis of demand and supply i.e. why swap axes? . I think, the explanation in that link may offer you some elements of answer. 

I am trying to work out the depreciation rate using the following information, it is an extract from a longer data set on capital stock: 

I think the answer to your question does not require reference to economic theory as you are trying to understand why Russians cannot borrow at low rates. The prevailing high rates are not there for suppressing business activity, etc. This is something to do with the risk appetite of Russian commercial banks when dealing with domestic businesses. Why are Russians facing rates as high as 25% when the base rate is 9%? Central Bank's current base rate is 9%, also called repo rate. This rate is the main monetary tool used by CB to influence the interbank interest rates and the interest rates for loans, mortgages and savings. As you can see, the CB rate is low, but the commercial banks are adding huge premium (here it is 16%) to the base rate when lending to domestic businesses. Perhaps, they may face high default risks, political risk, high inflation, exchange rate risk, etc. As a side note, this is a typical characteristic of a transition economy, that's said, Russians will face relatively high interest rates till they gain 'developed' status. 

Yes it is possible, I worked for a big bank subsidiary in a different country. We had a nostro account with the parent bank, and with its other subsidiaries. I cannot comment on the benefits/limitations of this though. EDIT: I remember we did not pay fee for the nostro accounts held with the parent and subsidiary banks. Moreover, these accounts were necessary as we had to deal with transactions involving various currencies. If let's say a client wanted to deposit in EUR, the bank should have a EUR nostro otherwise, the bank would not accept euro deposits. 

GE models usually assume a representative household inherits wealth and this could further be passed along the generations to come. However, this representative household is not really a representative in real world. Majority of people do not inherit more than on average $300,000 i.e. house, business, cash, other property. From growth theory perspective, the second factor is important to drive growth in advanced economies. Advanced countries, once reach steady state growth level, need technological shock to increase growth on a new steady state level. For the people to innovate (come up with new ideas) there needs to be proper institutions conducive to growth in the economy. Protection of private property, (property rights/patents) is an example - inventors have better protection in the West than in Africa/East, and hence they tend to invent better technologies which would ultimately stimulate growth. High wages are another factor, better paid employees are expected to be highly skilled. Firms pay skill-premium to attract talent in the West, this drives up average wage rate. 

I would suggest that you practice macro or micro models in excel first, and then you will be able to figure out where the integrals etc. come from in abstract/theoretical models. You can find some useful books here 

Either way, output per unit of labour input increases. You could explain or define this process in any way you could - there is no clear difference between them. 

Changing the base year of index numbers shifts the level only, it does not alter the rates of growth. So, not true. If the rates of growth changed, this must have been due to revisions of the historical estimates of GDP. Can also stem from changes in the national accounting standards. 

The cost of painting is 1000. The opportunity cost of doing the job himself is 1600(=4*400) It is cheaper to hire a painter :) 

If it is a small project, you may benefit from reading this At most, you can estimate price elasticity of demand using your survey data to make predictions/forecasts. For this you need to estimate a demand function as @EconJohn suggested, but you need to include additional variables such as income, price of a substitute or complement etc. to hold them constant (i.e. ceteris paribus). Note that the demand function does not allow you to draw the downward sloping demand curve (like the one in textbooks). It is very hard, in practice, to draw actual demand curves using survey data. Even when you have the most complete data, without including the suply function in your estimation, you face so called identification problem. In short, econometric estimation of demand curve does not allow you to draw a downward sloping curve of the type you see in textbooks. The link above has a good explanation about this point, and it can be used as a guide for your project. 

Yes, there is a rule: the growth rate of the ratio of two variables is equal to the difference between the two growth rates. To show this, assume, $PCI=\frac{Y}{P}=y$, take logs of both sides $log(y)=log(Y)-log(P)$. Now take time deriveative$$\frac{dlog(y)}{dt}=\frac{dlog(Y)}{dt}-\frac{dlog(P)}{dt}$$ and note that the growth rate of variable $x$ is $g_x=\frac{dlog(x)}{dt}$ hence, we have $$g_y=g_Y-g_P$$