I understand by the term Gestell in Heidegger the framing of our world. I take it to be a protean reference to hermeneutics as the idea that we have "horizons." To word it another, Gestell is Heidegger's way of saying the Kantian point that we have no epistemic access to the thing in itself. One thing that is confusing is that in the "question concerning technology," Heidegger mentions Gestell in a negative light as the thing that frames our experience and orients it towards the technological. But it's important to see it as doing more. I would say technology is one Gestell, but there can be others. For Heidegger any framing that is different from our authentic frame (being towards our own death, i.e. the question of being) is going to prove negative. But in the later Heidegger, we might say it is necessary. The fourfold is also a (en)framing for him and thus a Gestell. The nature of our beings is that we need something to organize experience. 

First, I think Mozibur is on the right track here, but I'm a little hesitant to work with the example as supplied ("a gold ring"). Second, I'm going to use the word "substance" instead of thing to be consistent with Aristotle and the context where he speaks of essential and accidental properties. Essential properties are those properties that follow necessarily for substances (formed matter) to be and have the form it is. Accidental properties are those things that are incidentally true. For example, long hair is an accidental property vis-a-vis the human essence. You can take it away and what remains is human. Being alive on the other hand is an essential property of the human essence. If you take it away, what remains is no longer human. So far, I think Mozibur and I are in full agreement. Where I hesitate and this relates specifically to the example is that a gold ring is an artifact. And artifacts are difficult on the Aristotelian model. They don't necessarily have forms in the same way that (see the top of here: $URL$ Thus, at least for Aristotle, it's not clear that artifacts have essential properties. But if they do, then I think it's precisely those properties necessary for it to be what it is. So a gold ring would a gold ring insofar as it is gold and a ring. Specific ornamentation would be accidental. I'm a little confused by your suggestion regarding taking away gold's yellowness and specific weight. Gold is a natural kind regardless of how it is shaped. If you take away the gold, you take away the thing and are left with nothing.... The yellowish color is what gold is or rather is an essential property of being gold (with two caveats: (1) modern inventions like "rose gold" and "white gold" are actually alloys -- the gold part is still yellowy and (2) Aristotle's theory is not ideally suited to molecular-level chemistry). A gold ring on the other hand is an artifactual arrangement of gold. So you can change the shape without changing the gold essence. 

Yes, it is possible and reason for it depends on the temporal nature of existence and "why". To empirically find that something exist would require a less temporal scale as compared to find why that something exist. The question of why can go on way too far in the past or way too far in the future. So basically you can find the existence in very small time scale whereas "why" would require much larger time scale to get answered. For example: You could come to know the existence of something on your table as soon as you look but to reason why it exist would require you to spend more time as compared to "just looking at it". For some moments you will know the existence of the object on the table without knowing why. 

You may or you may not reach to the eventual point. We just don't know yet. We are severely limited in our abilities to figure this out. Science says if you observe something, try to find what caused it and what caused that cause and so on. If at the first cause itself you start to believe that there is no cause of it then you have basically blocked yourself at that point for further exploration and experimentation. Look at the history and you will find people whole believed that they know the "starting point" (i.e some form of the word God) were the one who were against the scientific approach. Science never says that there is or there is no "eventual starting point". It only says "We don't know, so lets just keep exploring, keep theorizing and keep proving" 

Ergo, since the gods are in discord, they must substantive disagreements about justice, truth, piety, etc. (7e-8a) Finally, 6 & 1 are contradictory so something must be wrong in the argument (8a) 

This paragraph has several interesting features. First, there's a misunderstanding of how the categorical imperative works. Second, there is an important slippage in the language between the two universalizations. On the first point, I will limit my remarks to the universalization model of the Categorical Imperative. The question is not "what if everyone did it?" but rather what if it was always to happen or in a possibly more loose way "what if it became a law of nature?" Moreover, the problem that is supposed to raise is not necessarily about societal collapse but about contradictions in implementation (I will always tell lies is a system that no longer works when every rational creature is always telling lies -- regardless of social consequences it eliminates the meaning of its own criterion.) Second, the characterization of telling the man at the door about the people you are hiding is problematic. Specifically, when it is described as "cooperat[ing] in killing the innocent." This cannot possibly be an expression of the categorical imperative. But this is also not what Kant expects of the agent. Instead, Kant expects the agent to cooperate with the request of a seemingly rational agent (this distinction is crucial to Korsgaard's modification of Kant's answer). On Kant's account, we must assume the requests we receive from other humans no matter how unreasonable are founded on reason. In other words, despite the blood on the axe, we have to assume they are asking -- not to engage in the immoral act of killing the innocent but for some other reason. Thus, for Kant, there's no conflict between these two ideas. In some ways, this makes things worse -- because it undermines one of the better outs we have on the picture where we cannot lie. To some extent, Kant gives us a positive duty to tell the truth to other rational beings -- not merely a negative duty not to lie. If we look in the Metaphysics of Morals, Kant does seem to have little leeway in suggesting we needn't purposelessly express the truth. 

Something can exist but never be created, until we know what lead to its creation. We humans have this notion that if there exist something than someone or some phenomena must have created that thing. When you see something you will always wonder what created this thing? In that case you can choose any of the below path: 

Check out Appeal to emotion. This seems to best describe the conversation, where the use of word friendship is to focus on emotion than facts. 

For me, the term free is not some absolute on/off value, it is not either you have it or you don't. Freedom is about the number of choices you have at a point in time, you may have few choices so less freedom or more choices hence more freedom comparatively. Now let's say you have 3 choices at a point in time and you have choose one of them to move forward, then what should be procedure to determine what choice to make? There could be many ways to do that, for example: A lazy person may choose the one which would need less effort to carry out, a greedy person may choose the one which has most benefits in terms monitory gains and so on. Once you have made a choice and move forward you are presented again with a set of choices depending on what you choose at earlier point. This new set of choices may be large or small as compared to the previous one. The equation in the question says that the procedure that so called intelligent agent will use to decide the choice will be based on which choice right now will allow me with larger number of choices in future set of choices. Obviously the future should be some sensible threshold otherwise the agent will never be able to make the current choice. So, yes, you can be free and intelligent at the same time. 

Can we fully grasp the effects of our time travel? (Here, I mean specifically can we know what this will do in terms of pleasure in our present and in our past / future). Do we weight future happiness as equivalent to present happiness? 

One place to start would actually be Aristotle. Aristotle discusses fear and bravery in Nicomachean Ethics BKs I, II, and III. The main gist is that bravery is an appropriate response to feelings of fear that stands between rashness and cowardice and applies specifically in two contexts: 

In your second paragraph, you are exactly right when you suggest Kant thinks our moral actions are different than ends-means action. When you state the following: 

From the literature, regarding 14.16, Slingerland comments (Analects, Hackett Press: Indianapolis, p. 160-161) that: 1. there's an issue with translation of Ruqiruen (如其仁) because it's curious to praise Guan Zhong's goodness, so Slingerland translates it as "As for his goodness!" 2. Zhu Xi and Kong Anguo see this as somewhat contradictory with Analects 3.22 and explain that while Guan Zhong himself was not good Ren that his goodness Ren extends to the people so we could call him good. For 15.7, Slingerland's sources are more sparse (p. 171) and basically only look at whether this is historically accurate for Qu Boyu. 

Through these three assumptions, he concludes that heterosexual marriage is okay if it procreative in intent. Is this fully compatible with the first formulation of the categorical imperative that you quote? That's a good question. It seems incompatible on a first reading, but it's important to realize that the CI is a test of moral action and it's not clear that Kant prohibits action that is not immoral. So it could be that this falls into a dead zone. You might also arguably be able to come up with a maxim that supports Kant's position and is universalizable. The challenge there is to define maxim of action, because there's very little clarity as to exactly what that is. Kant tells us it is a principle of will. 

When something (in this case maths) becomes part of our daily lives in terms of how easy it is to use in our day to day lives and how "obvious" it seems, along with the fact that we are able to describe many phenomena around us using maths (Example: physics), we tend to start believing that "whatever" created this world must be based on the same math that we are used to. IMHO this is just a cognitive bias of humans. The universe is not based on math, instead we developed a tool/language called math which fits our cognitive abilities and its limitations and allow us to understand and explore the world around us. 

We can carry on this process until there is no further substitutions to make. Well, that condition won't ever come in this case as this is plain old infinite recursion due to self reference. If you can't reach a condition where no further substitutions can't be made you simply cannot reach a conclusion. In this particular case you cannot say S is true or false. Similarly if you email a person about some information and he never replied (in terms of whether he knows about it or not) for whatever reason, would you say that the person knows the information or he doesn't. 

It has taken so many years for humans to develop math and it is still going on and will keep going on. It may feel very easy now to use math in our daily lives but we have reached that stage of easiness over a very long period of time due to some very deep thoughts of many people over this long period of time. So to answer your question, you should interpret the easiness as a result of enormous amount of effort over a long period of time. This reminds me of a quote - "Standing on the shoulders of giants". 

The answer to this question depends in part of the symbolization resources you have available to you. If we translate as follows: 

After that it gets a little cloudy mostly because the philosophical pieces break down. For an absolute positive 2nd order right, it seem possible that some conflict could prevent its execution without being immoral. imagine for instance, a right to paper and printing to build on a right to free expression. Conceivably if the government has no paper, it has lost its ability to perform this right and therewith failed in this right -- but not necessarily morally. (or to put it another way, is it possible for a right to be 2nd order and absolute? Also can there be absolute 2nd order rights? i.e. rights where the government's duty of non-interference is not immediate but is absolute? ) For an absolute positive 1st order right, it would be immoral for the government not to supply but it's difficult to understand what would qualify as such a right. 

This is a weird way to put it. We are for Kant as rational beings bound first to our rationality. Our very distinction from animals (on his view) is that we have pure reason. But our weakness is that unlike angels or God we also experience subjective desires that incompatible with reason that lead us to act from impure motives. We are always bound to rationality whether in ourselves or others but this is not "obedience", it is rational choice. (3) You further state: 

I wouldn't call infinite recursion an error, it is more about practical purpose and infinite recursion is of no practical use to us mortals as we cannot use it to reach any conclusion. But in terms of computation an infinite recursion/loop is a bug :) 

A lot of people in science talks about science as a discipline to find the fundamental laws or rules of the nature. They consider these laws to be the underlying mechanism that is making the nature as it is. Usually they will use mathematics equations to describe these so called fundamental laws. Now if you say that a particular mathematical equation describe the trajectory of a ball and this law is the underlying mechanism then who in the nature is actually computing the equation? Is it the ball, the particles, the earth, the air? Well the answer is nobody and that's what makes the whole argument of "underlying laws" or "how nature works" wrong. I guess the proper way to address all the scientific knowledge (or any knowledge for that matter) about nature would be that it is about coming up with "generalized representations" of the observations i.e it just "describe" the observations and it doesn't mean to find how nature actually works. 

The explanation of something should have one important property - inference i.e given some facts what other facts I can infer about the thing using the explanation. That's the sole reason for the explanation/theory to exist. The thing itself that we are trying to explain is a bunch of facts that we can observe or observed but facts themselves are doesn't have inference ability until used along with some explanation. Now, what if the explanation is complex? What can we say about the inference ability of a complex explanation? The complexity will lead to the increase in the number of inferences the explanation could potentially produce BUT what if the explanation is more complex then the thing (or the collections of facts) themselves? In this case the explanation will infer facts that you can't even observe in the thing itself and that obviously is very weird.