The only way I would see this as legitimate is if this particular personal project would be in direct competion with what they are building and you could take what you learned working for them and apply it to a project that is directly competing with them. For instance if they are in the business of building an application for realtors to do a better job of helping prospective customers find what they are looking for. Then if you are also building a real estate app, they have a legitimate concern that you will take their proprietary knowdlege and use it to dsteal their customers with your personal project. If however, you are building a fancy new game, well that's a different story. 

Most companies only follow up with successful candidates no matter what they told you in the interview. Do not expect a response ever. In over 30 years in the workplace, I have only ever gotten a call from a job that I didn't get one time. Companies don't generally have any vested interest in spending time calling people they chose not to hire. Even if you are in second place, they may not want to tell you that in case the first place guy doesn't accept the offer or changes his mind before showing up. If you call unsuccesful candidates, some of them will want to argue with you about it. There is no advantage for a company to call you to tell you that you didn't get a job. However, if you are interested in the job or if you want to let them know you have another possibility on the line but would prefer them, you can followup once or twice. Do not however become a pest who calls daily. I will point out to you that great interviews do not mean you will get the offer; you don't know how well the other people they interviewed did. 

First, I have worked with (and even been) the person who was new to the workplace who thought she was smarter than everyone else and I learned differently. I have also worked with several of these people and with others who at first glance might have seemed arrogant but were not. The first thing though that I have to say is that based on your responses for legitimate requests for more information, you come across in writing as the arrogant one. You need to look out for how you personally communicate with people if you are to successfully solve your problem. Often the problem is that the person new to the workplace has no idea of the type of experience anyone else has. They don't know this is not new information to you, they don't know that their attitude is annoying to more senior people. So the first thing to do is assume that the person meant well. Don't get angry about this at first, but take the person aside and explain privately why their behavior is not appropriate. For most people this will solve the problem. The genuinely arrogant though might need a stronger approach. Some people are hard to reach without a 2 by 4. With those people you need to make sue they understand that you are senior to them and that in the case of a technical disagreement, your opinion is going to carry more weight than their shiny new degree. Tell them extensively why that is so and what accomplishments you have. If you are their boss, then you can tell them outright that their behavior is unacceptable in the workplace. If you aren't their boss, then you may need to discuss the attitude adjustment with their boss and let him or her handle it. You can also shut people down through peer pressure and ridicule. This is not a the best option, but sometimes it i the only thing that works. This is a drastic thing to do and can backfire, so don't do it unless the entire team is frustrated with the person and nothing else has worked. The person may back off or he may quit which is a win if the behavior is truly obnoxious. However, what you described seemed to be more of a problem in general communication that true arrogance, so don't start out with this. The other thing you need to look at is why is this behavior upsetting you so much. What you described seemed very mild to me and apparently to several other posters. Sometimes, this might be a symptom that you are having difficulty dealing with a new employee who seems like a rising star to senior management. I know I felt this way when we hired a new guy once to do a task I would have loved to be assigned to but they hired this wonder boy before announcing the project. This become especially true when you start to hit the age when age discrimination happens. Its hard to no longer be the wonder girl of your early 20s and then see others take over that role. But you have to realize that it isn't this person's fault that he got what you wanted. The best way to deal with a situation like this is to treat this person very well and to compliment him when he does something good so that criticism doesn't make you seem like a person with a grudge. If you start to give people the benefit of the doubt and treat them with the same respect you want, then they tend to be more likely to treat you with respect. Often when you release your initial annoyance that this person exists, you may find someone who you can mentor and who has something to teach you. In my case, the person they hired as the Wonder Kid eventually became my boss. He turned out to be one of the two best bosses I ever had in 40 years of working even though he was half my age. Sometimes our initial impression is wrong. Always keep that in mind. Another issue that comes up is that there is a generational difference and Millennials often communicate differently than Boomers or Gen Xers. It could be worth your while to look up some of the training offered in this area to understand how to communicate across generations. It could also be a personality type conflict. You came across as a person who tends to hold to strict rules of behavior and this person may be more freewheeling than that. Again, if this is the case, do some reading on personality types, It helps to understand how different personality types communicate. 

I would treat the possibility of a bonus as irrelevant to the salary I want to negotiate. I have seen too many cases where the promised bonuses were cut out completely or reduced significantly at the end of the year due to factors outside the employee's control. It's an easy line item to cut if the company needs to free up some money (except somehow for senior management bonuses). I would under no circumstances take a cut in basic pay for the possibility of a large bonus. And most especially not if the company was a start-up (the majority of those fail). 

OK first we can't help you with the medication, but truly get to a doctor however you can and try a different med. If you have a doctor and you call his office and tell them the meds are making you unable to work, they might find a way to slot you in earlier. What concerns me, as a severe allergy suffer myself, is that what you describe seems way beyond any effect allergies have ever had on me; you truly need to get to a doctor ASAP as it could be something else causing the lack of focus (it sounds like you didn't have this problem so severely in past years?) Now managing work performance when an illness is making you temporarily not do as well. First and formost, talk to your supervisor. Tell hom why you haven't been at your best and acknowledge that something needs to change to put you back on track. Tell him what steps you are taking to resolve the problem medically and, since this is seasonal, how long you expect it to last. Then give him a plan for how you are going to mitigate the effect this is having on your work. It could include such things as: