Sounds like your manager wants to be "consulted" for every decision. Frankly, if in one sprint he wanted to review everything, then did you not follow it as a guideline and get it reviewed in the subsequent sprints? If you did and he refused to review, then you should document it in a email and go ahead. If he did not ask and you did not go to him, he has got a reason to go bananas if things don't go as planned. The right way to handle such things is documentation. The processes have to be documented. In between, you will get challenges, like new processes being put in. Then the manager not following the processes. I think you should ask for his review / approval over an email. One of my projects used to assume deemed approved if no one replies within 48 hours. You could follow the same strategy. Of course things will still not be perfect, but your manager will get the hint and be more careful in communication. Regarding conflicting answers, again, create minutes of meeting and publish. If the manager goes back on his word, show him the Minutes. Politely tell him that you documented your understanding, if it was incorrect, it would be really helpful if he could correct them so that mistakes don't happen. 

Yes it should. While doing an evaluation, 2 things are looked at, what has been done, and how it has been done. Both what and how are equally important. Some organizations have this build in their appraisal system. Hard part is justifying it. At some places, you have to give a proper justification and create a document trial. Talk to your HR to see what those guidelines are and complete the requirements for that. If a person is not fit due to traits you have mentioned (blaming others), it is never healthy. People should take accountability for what they do. There is no harm in letting the person go if this happens every time. One more point of view to consider , it could also be that the person is just taking time to settle down and is afraid of loosing his job. Discuss with him to assure that the team is there to help. Try to give him more of something he has done earlier to make a fair assessment.Give proper feedback ( in writing if needed). New hiring has its own cost. Anyone new coming in might need a similar time span to settle down. Some people are slow starters, but once they are comfortable, they catch up with the team. If that assessment has been done and you have realized he is a bad hire, by all means, follow your HR guideline and let the person go. 

I get this request a lot of times. Most organizations are flexible and will accommodate you. Some will look at this with suspicion that you are fishing for a better offer. So the question is, why do you need to extend? If you have a valid reason, there should not be a problem. Another thing you can try is to join on the offered date and ask for a short vacation. Although most people are likely to deny such a request, if you can provide a good reason, you are likely to be told what's feasible. e.g. the HR may say you need to discuss with your manager, and they can connect you to him/her. As long as you can convince the manager with a reason, this may get approved. That being said, there are times when this request may be declined. Some organizations have a pre-defined training plan for new grads which is quite expensive. Like you, there could be more hires and it may not be possible to move around those training's just to accommodate your late joining. Another possibility is that you are identified for a particular project / work. In that case, your boss may have to make a call. HR wont override business decision on the same. If you are prepared for both scenario's, well there is no harm in asking. At most, someone is going to say no, you have to join on assigned date. Ask nicely, its worth a try :). 

Reference check if for 2 purpose First is to ensure that you have as much experience as you claim. That part can be handled by anyone in the company. Since yours was a small company, the founder/CEO may be able to provide a reference for your employment history. If that is not possible due to any reason, and you feel comfortable, you could also share your tax returns and salary slips (if you have them) from those years. It will show a salary being credited and hence show a employment history. Next thing to be covered is a skill set and conduct. Then as mentioned in the other answer, clients may be a good option in case no one is left in your last organization who could vouch for you. You can also add links to the works you have done ( being in web development, I guess some of your work will be on internet ). Lastly, most organizations will have an interview process where they will assess your skill set. Experience is hard to fake, if some technical expert will take your evaluation, they will figure out that you have really worked. Also, feel free to share if you have stack exchange profile or any other blog/ site where you are active. I have found its good to maintain an account and participate in the community. As long as you don't lie, most companies will accept the explanation and the one of the alternatives you offer. I think you should be good. 

In my opinion, yes you are still a junior developer. There are 2 ways of looking at it. One is in terms of purely technical approach. Typically you will find people in development who have been coding for 20-40 years. In terms of overall experience, the range of projects executed, seeing full life-cycle, working on diverse technologies, you are still a junior developer and will remain so for quite a few years. Second is with respect to your current role. So in smaller organizations, the situation you are in might happen quite regularly. What you have is the role, it may be temporary. What is the org recruits someone will 10 years of coding experience in your team? You go back to being junior dev? Don't confuse role with your skill set. In my opinion, no offense intended, you are a junior dev who is playing a senior role due to circumstances in your project. There is still time before you should consider yourself a senior. If you get carried away by this, the result may not be good. You may stop learning thinking you are a senior dev, you may start throwing your weight around, without having the insight into the whole thing as your over all experience is less. People will eventually figure it out. Life is funny that ways, just when you think everything is going great, something will crash and you will be held accountable. Being a senior is not all the fun :).