The short answer to your question is that the ancient Seleucia and the Medieval Seleucia are in fact two different cities. The original Seleucia was built in 305 BC as the first capital of the Seleucid empire, as you found in your sources. This city was built on the western bank of the Tigris and was ultimately abandoned in 165 AD, when it was destroyed by the Roman general Avidius Cassius. That Seleucia was never rebuilt, and we have since uncovered a wealth of archaeological evidence from the site. A little over sixty years later, the Persian emperor Ardashir I sought to rebuild the city of Seleucia, as part of his own empire. However, he built it on the opposite side of the river from the original Seleucia. This city was originally referred to as Veh-Ardashir, but it appears that this name fell out of use over time and the city was eventually referred to as Seleucia, even though it was a different city from the original Seleucia. The city of Ctesiphon was yet another city, distinct from both Seleucias, built on the eastern bank of the Tigris river. In a religious context, however, these two cities together would have been known as Seleucia-Ctesiphon because they shared a single bishop. To put all of this together on a single map, the three cities are shown in the map below: 

I am aware that Noah Webster (1758--1843 AD) is responsible for the majority of the differences between British and American spelling (IE: "color" v "colour"). Over time, it seems, in his Speller textbook, he slowly phased out the British spellings for spellings he personally favored. According to the Wikipedia page about Noah Webster: 

I have been reading a bit recently about the Roman period between say around 100bc to 100ad and I have noticed that the Roman's cavalry was almost always a small portion of their total troops and it was usually entirely made of foreign units (Gauls, Germans, Sarmatians, etc...) From what I understand the equestrian branch (lower nobles) used to be the cavalry but by the time period I mentioned they no longer acted as cavalry but rather as military staff and civil administrators. Why did Rome move away from using their own citizens for cavalry? 

There are several instances of this mentioned in history books but as to their veracity one can never be certain. First of course was the 3 vs 3 battle of the Horatia and Curiatia brothers for Rome and Alba Longa (even though this wasnt single combat I think it meets the jest of what the OP wants and this is the most probable story of the lot) The second case was between Titus Manlius (yeah I know best name ever right!) who fought a Gaul leader on a bridge in single combat, after he won the Gauls retreated. Tacitus mentions that Germans would have their "hero" fight a captive of the army they were about to face, if their hero won then the battle would commence, if otherwise they would decline battle or seriously rethink their strategy. No names mentioned though. sources: Oakley, S. P. “Single Combat in the Roman Republic” The Classical Quarterly, New Series 35.2 (1985): 392-410. & Solodow, Joseph B. “Livy and the Story of Horatius, 1.24-26” Transactions of the American Philological Association 109 (1979-): 251-268. The historian Gregory of Tours mentions that the Germanic tribes in Spain (Vandals mainly) would often settle disputes between kingdoms with single combat between heros, again though he does not cite any specific examples. There is a legend that Canute and Edmund Ironsides battled in single combat to a draw and upon the draw they decided to rule their kingdoms together, though I think this one is highly unlikely. source: Ashdown, M. “The Single Combat in Certain Cycles of English and Scandinavian Tradition and Romance” The Modern Language Review 117.2 (Apr., 1922): 113-130. In more recent times there is a story about single combat between indian chiefs, in fact the city in Wyoming called Crowheart is named after one. The story told is, to quote wikipedia ... link 

Queen Hatshepsut ruled as pharaoh over ancient Egypt from 1479-1458 BC. From what I can tell, she was a highly successful pharaoh, both in wartime activities early on in her reign and later in peacetime governance. That being said, becoming pharaoh was an almost entirely unprecedented role for a woman in ancient Egypt, and even being in power at all was an extremely rare occurrence in of itself. Was there ever any significant public resistance to Hatshepsut's reign during her lifetime? (I am aware that after her death her successor, pharaoh Thutmose III, made an attempt to wipe her from the public records, but that was neither a popular movement, nor was it during her lifetime). 

According to Wikipedia, this is the naval flag of the Netherlands' Secretary of Defense. This flag would be flown on a ship that the Dutch Secretary of Defense is using as a headquarters (also referred to as a flagship). This type of flag is known as a rank flag. 

The oldest confirmed use of any version of this quote that I was able to find is from Ray Cummings' short story The Time Professor, published in the Jan. 8, 1921 issue of Argosy All-Story Weekly (thanks to mgkrebbs for pointing this one out): 

The history of Bayes' Theorem is long and fascinating. An longer and better history of Bayes' Theorem can be found here. 

Despite what you noted in your question, I would still argue that Leonardo Da Vinci meets the conditions you state for a scientist "ahead of his time." He made a number of inventions during his life, including the parachute, functional scuba gear, and a primitive tank/armored car. As for his flying machine designs, ornithopters very much like what Da Vinci designed are a real modern heavier-than-air flight technology. It is true that ornithopters are not the dominant mode of human flight today, so they are not very widely known, but they do work. The first successful manned ornithopter flight took place in 1942, and the first successful human-powered ornithopter flight took place in 2010. While Da Vinci did not invent the idea of an ornithopter, he was the first to recognize that humans were not strong or agile enough to fly by simply strapping wings onto their arms. He was also the first to put serious effort into trying to overcome this problem. It should also be noted that his ornithopter design is a perfectly functional glider. While I am not aware of any tests, with a few minor modifications, it should be able to fly unmanned using a modern engine. 

I was just reading The Tartar Khan's Englishman by Gabriel Ronay and in it he states how King Bela had lost his seal in the fleeing of a battle and this seal was used by the Mongols (through the Englishman who spoke Hungarian) to issue edicts ordering the militia not to muster and for peasants to return from hiding to the fields (where they could later be easier found and killed) 

To make the answer short not very well. Their treatment under the ranchos was pretty much the same as their treatment under the Missions. The articles mentioned they were paid in goods and alcohol, though some may have been paid in cash or script, I guess it would depend on the Ranchero. "A California rancho might employ as few as twenty or as many as several hundred Indian workers... Most of the former Mission Indians were taken over by the rancheros and continued work without interruption for their new masters. The important difference between the work at the rancho and at the mission was on the rancho the communal relationship was lacking: the profits of the Indian labor were appropriated almost entirely by the ranchero." - Indians of California: The Changing Image, James Rawls "The Indians did the most menial labor on ranchos and were often little more than slaves, paid in scanty clothing and alcohol. Some rancheros (rancho owners) treated Indians well but most did not." - $URL$ "After secularization, the economy of California was entirely based on the Mexican ranchos, which employed a system of peonage imported from Mexico. It was a particularly harsh form of feudalism, without the veneer of a righteous mission of Christian conversion and bordering on slavery. Indians living close to Mexican occupation found that their natural environment had been so far degraded that their only survival option was laboring in the ranchos. But their wages were carefully maintained at survival's minimum, only, and there was no prospect of bettering themselves. They were often paid much of their wage in alcohol, at week's end, which kept them immobilized until they had to return at the week's beginning." - $URL$ "By the time the last secularization decrees had been issued, California had begun to assume a feudal aspect. By the end of 1845, all the Southern California Missions had been sold or their properties leased, and extensive ranchos, with vast herds of cattle and horses, operated by thousands of Indian retainers, had replaced the Mission establishments." - $URL$ 

From a practicality perspective; Gold shared the same an early advantages that Copper did for developing societies. It can be worked by being beaten and by being cast, so the technology requirements to begin working with gold is lower than even bronze. In it's natural state gold is malleable and shiny, making it an obvious candidate for cultures and artists that are in early stages of developing trade-able goods. Even crude experiments in metallurgy would reveal gold's resistance to tarnish and the ease with which it can be reworked. It wouldn't have been until smelting and mining developed that gold would have been known to be scarce. (At one time gold would have been FAR more available than Iron). So scarcity is a secondary characteristic in terms of ancient value. In terms of extended value throughout history we can argue that the Cultural and Industrial values are extensions that emerge naturally from it's workability and the ease of reaching high degrees of purity. 

A factor to consider in this aspect is how widespread the Victorian Spiritualism fad was, and just how long it lasted. The time I associate specifically with the phrase "Fairy Craze" I immediately associated it with the early 1900's when several infamous hoaxes and scams were still able to take advantage of the strong spiritualism interests. Modern technology assisted the ease that these could spread, taking the "traveling show" on the rails to massive audiences, and providing new forms of fake evidence. (Based on your account picture you'll probably find this interesting: $URL$ Poor old chap...) Now let's consider the "modern" UFO craze, let's arbitrarily say that the early signs of it are Jules Verne's works, and that it's fully in place by the time H. G. Wells writes War of the Worlds. This marks the UFO craze as alive and well in the 1890's. So yes, the crazes overlap (in very public ways) by quite a chunk of time. Spiritualism may have taken a backseat in the more cynical world following WW2, but we could look at current cultural trends and find evidence that they still are overlapping. Starting in the 70's there has been a steady business to be done by fuzing the crazes and reinterpreting ancient myth and mystery as alien interactions. 

I was reading SPQR by Mary Beard and in the book (pg 200) she mentions the a Roman colony in Spain called Carteia, which was populated by legion veterans. They married local women and had children who were not Roman citizens (because there were no right of marriage for a Roman and non-Roman.) Their children petitioned the Senate for clarification of their (and their cities) legal status. The Senators decided to grant the colony status as 

Would the battle of the Alamo count. From wikipedia " Of the Texians who fought during the battle, only two survived: Travis's slave, Joe, was assumed by the Mexican soldiers to be a noncombatant,[9] and Brigido Guerrero, who had deserted from the Mexican Army several months before, convinced the Mexican soldiers that he had been taken prisoner by the Texians " Though this states 2 people survived, I dont think I would count Joe as a combatant because he was a Travis' slave and not really there by his own volition. 

I have heard of different colonies, each with differing rights, some had Latin rights, some had full Roman rights just like a citizen in Rome, some had full legal rights except for the right to vote, while some had extremely limited rights. And from the above quote it seems that the Senate would choose the type of colony depending on the rights they wanted to give the citizens, as obviously a colony of legion veteran's children was hardly a colony a ex-slaves. I am very curious what where the different types of colonies and what were the rights that went with them. And just for clarification we are talking in the time period before the edict of Caracalla. 

Sources: This University of Michigan page, and the Wikipedia pages for Seleucia, The Council of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, Al-Mada'in, and Ardashir I. The image was from the Seleucia Wikipedia page, with my own annotations. 

These national symbols are not quite as universal as you seem to imagine, though they are indeed widespread. And where these symbols do exist, they are given widely different degrees of importance by those countries. National holidays and national anthems are definitely not one-to-a-country as you claim, though for convenience they are often treated this way. For example, the United States has Independence Day, Thanksgiving, Memorial Day, Labor Day, and Veteran's Day, all of which can be considered major national holidays. The fact that one of them (Independence Day) is branded as "the national day" means very little in reality. Some countries similarly have more than one national anthem (e.g.: Scotland), or a national anthem that is distinct from their royal anthem (e.g.: Sweden). As for national flags and coats of arms, these do show something closer to a universal one-to-a-nation standard, though there are plenty of examples of nations with both lesser and greater forms of their coats of arms (e.g.: Sweden), and many nations fly different national flags on land and on ships. Furthermore, not every nation has a "coat of arms", though many nations have a "national seal", "national emblem", or similar device that performs a related function. Some nations have more than one of these. 

Any chance of surprise would totally be lost as the German's had spies in Spain and Gibraltar who would have noticed the thousands of ships sailing through the straits. Deception was a major component of the Normandy landings, and there would have been no chance for deception sending the ships from Britain to S. France. Also the Allies would not have been able to put as many troops on the ground. The main bases in Britain held the million troops that were on the beach in Normandy by the end of July. Take Sicily as a counter example, we were only able to get around 150,000 troops there in the same time. This was approximately the same amount of troops that later landed in S. France. This was the operational limit in that theature. There was just not the infrastructure required to increase this limit. The supplies, the bases, and most importantly the ships weren't in the Mediterranean and any movement of that amount of material to the staging zones would have most definitely been noticed by German spies. Also consider air power, it was much easier for the Allies to cover landings right next to our bases in the UK. It would have been much more difficult if the landings were in S. France. also as jamesqf pointed out, the exact reasons the defenses were light were because they were being pulled up to N. France to deal with Overlord. Specifically the 2nd SS Das Reich and the 1st SS Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler were pulled from S. France to Normandy. sources: troop numbers from Wikipedia (so take from it what you will) sources for troop movements: $URL$