There are many different kinds of theists, so it's doubtful a statement this broad could apply to all theists. However, it does (interpreted charitably) apply to some theists. One kind of theist to whom it applies is one who believes in absolute predestination --all things are arranged precisely according to a divine plan, there are no accidents, and no "brute facts." For a theist of this type, free will is an illusion. For the more interesting case, however, let us consider Karl Barth as an example of another kind of theist --one who believes that God's absolute power over the world is not incompatible with man's free will within the world because God's agency and man's agency are non-exclusive. To say "I did it" and "God did it" are not contradictory statements, although they say two very different things. (We might arguably extend this notion --I'm not aware whether Barth did so or not-- to claim we could also say "evolution created the blue jay" and "God created the blue jay," again without contradiction.) This is a theology with free will but without brute facts. 

It doesn't seem to me that this is being used correctly in the logical sense of a weak argument introduced for the purposes of seeming to strengthen the position of an argument supporting the opposite position. In context it seems more like they mean straw man as representing a invented version of what the "fan on the street" is supposed to be thinking. The example "Say it ain't so, Joe," is a reference to a famous, but probably invented story of a little boy pleading with Shoeless Joe Jackson to deny charges of having thrown the World Series. It's related to the logical meaning --in both cases, a statement is introduced as supposedly representing a point of view that it does not accurately represent --however, it doesn't have the same functionality vis a vis a line of argument. 

Like Socrates' dialogues and Zen koans, this passage presents a paradox as a way of guiding the reader away from superficial beliefs and easy conclusions, and towards a more profound mode of thought. The specific idea here is that we think of a pot as a valuable material object, made out of ceramics. But a pot-sized lump of solid ceramic material wouldn't be very valuable at all. It's actually the empty space inside the pot that makes it usable. Yet, the paradox is that there is empty space all around us. How is the same empty space made valuable by being inside the pot, and yet the pot is made valuable by enclosing the empty space? On one level, pondering this guides us towards viewing other places in life where similar counterintuitive principles might be at work (for one example, the concept of the "empty center" --meaning that the apparent center of power was actually powerless --was foundational to traditional Japanese politics). At a deeper level, however, the goal is to invert our entire conventional way of thinking. Philosophical aphorisms of this sort are always intended as gateways, not as destinations. 

Like Smolin, I'm a critic of the anthropic principle, but I don't find his attack on it (at least as so quoted) compelling. As I understand the principle, it's largely concerned with statistical illusions. If I flip a fair coin 50 times and get heads each time, it might seem like the chances of getting another head on the 51st flip are tiny, but in fact they are 50%, the same as any other flip. It seems unlikely that we would find ourselves on a planet compatible with life, but given that life exists, it is certain we would find our own planet compatible with it. The principle is compelling in (and I would argue, only in) the case where one can either presuppose a range of conditions that includes some compatible with life, or where we can assume that something like life can be compatible with any of a range of available conditions. We can restate Smolin's version of the principle as "given that X exists, conditions must be compatible with the creation of X." In his second version of the argument, we substitute "galaxies" for X instead of "life." He now considers this to no longer be anthropic, since life isn't a part of it at all. However, if the generic version of the principle is good, then it remains good whether we call it "anthropic" or not. It's not clear, at least from this brief excerpt, where he's taking the larger thrust of his argument --perhaps this is enough to serve his larger aims, perhaps it isn't. 

I'm not sure this is really a philosophical question, it's more a matter of scientific process. However, the issue Feynman is talking about is controlling the variables in an experiment. If you do X and the rats do A, and I do Y and the rats do B, we don't know that X to Y is the cause of the change, because there are different rats, a different lab, a different scientist in charge, and probably any number of other variables we haven't considered. We need to make sure that we can observe the rats displaying the different behaviors where X to Y is the only change --that's why you have the control group that also participates in the experiment. 

There's a natural relationship between the two: Poems operate outside the established structures of well-defined meanings in standard language, and philosophies operate outside standard and conventional modes of thought. In addition, every poem is an expression of an aesthetic, and every aesthetic is a precipitate of some philosophy, whether or not that philosophy has been codified, or the connection between the two made explicit. It's worth noting, however, that the vast majority of poetry is not explicitly philosophical, even if it is implicitly so (and quite a lot of philosophy is not even mildly poetic). A naive equation of the two, therefore, is probably an overreach. 

This question, on the surface, is more about language than philosophy, although I think it does have philosophical implications deeper down. I would say you are correct. Things must be linked in order to be opposed. When we characterize two things as opposites, we mean they are contrasting modes of a single phenomenon. There are some very significant philosophies based on the concept of opposition. The largely defunct, but still influential Zoroastrianism revolved around the opposition between "good" and "evil", while Taoism is all about the dynamic union between opposing qualities such as male and female, hot and cold, light and dark, and so forth. 

In Euclid's time, axioms were taken as basic, unquestionable truths about the world. In more modern times, however, we have less faith in the existence of such things, and axioms are defined less rigidly as the foundational building blocks of a particular system of thought. Thus, Euclidian axioms define Euclidian geometry, but there are also non-Euclidian geometries with different axioms. As it so happens, the axioms of formal logic are not dependent on the axioms of Euclidian geometry, so you could attempt to disprove an Euclidian axiom using logic without any fear of a paradox. In general, if you want to prove something to someone, the proper approach is to start from axioms that your target endorses. If you do your job correctly, you will demonstrate that the target cannot consistently hold the position you are trying to disprove and still endorse the axioms you started with. 

Mauro's answer is correct. In the case, however, that your main difficulty is conceptualizing the quantifiers, you might try translating into natural language: For the first, let's take x and y and people and F as "loves". (∀x)(∃y)Fxy For all people, there exists a person he or she loves or Everybody loves someone. (∃y)(∀x)Fxy There exists a person who is loved by all people. Clearly, those two are not the same, and neither follows from the other. For the second one, we can render F as "has an infinite amount of money" and G as "is happy". (∀x)(Fx → Gx) It is true for everyone that if you have an infinite amount of money, you are happy -(∃x)(Fx & Gx) It is not true that there is a person who has an infinite amount of money and is happy These can both be true just in the case that there is no person that has an infinite amount of money. (∀x)(-Fx) 

What you are describing is the Platonic view of good and evil, that no one does wrong willingly, but only out of ignorance. An unusually clear and explicit statement of this concept is found in Plato's dialogue The Meno, but it is implicit across his writing on morality, for instance in his discussion in the Republic of the tyrant as the most miserable of all men. It was later expanded upon by the Neoplatonists. Neoplatonic thinking was very influential in the development of both Islamic and Christian theology, and therefore on Western morality as a whole. However, there are other conceptualizations of good and evil that have arguably been even more influential. The religion of Zoroastrianism has all but vanished, but its conception of the world as an eternal battleground between forces intrinsically aligned with either good or evil is as strong as ever. Like Neoplatonism, Zorastrianism has likewise been absorbed into modern religious theologies, particularly in the idea of God versus the devil. It is arguably Zoroastrian dualism that most directly informs dominant modern Western ideas of good and evil, which explains the conflict with the Platonic vision you describe. The notion that morality is a function of rationality is far from universal. In the Zoroastrian view, there are spiritual forces at work in the world that are evil as part of their inherent nature --their rationality or irrationality has nothing to do with it. Once you get outside the West, you also encounter thinkers like the Chinese contrarian Zhuangzi, who famously argued that even bad people profit from wisdom. 

To directly address the headlining question: Why is it so hard to write a philosophy textbook. Philosophy is an ongoing argument, without a resolution, therefore it is not possible to teach it in a neutral and objective manner. Every course in philosophy unavoidably outlines some philosophical stance simply through the act of selecting certain readings and omitting others. This goes goes directly against the ideal of a textbook as a fair and unbiased survey of the territory. There is no one universally acclaimed best introduction to philosophy. I might start with Plato, you might start with Descartes, and a third person might start with Bertrand Russell (and another with Aquinas, and another with Lao Tzu, and so forth). Each of those starting points would give you a radically different portrait of the field of philosophy and its goals. Yet, starting with a deep read of any one among those is arguably a better way to enter the world of philosophy than would be a textbook featuring a pinch of one and a dash of the next. 

An argument is formally valid just in case it can never have true premises and a false conclusion. Validity certifies truth preservation. There are two trivial cases of validity --when the premises are necessarily false or when the conclusion is necessarily true. In this case, the conclusion cannot be true, but in the case the premises are necessarily false, the argument will be still be valid, because truth is "preserved" (there is no truth in the premises, so none is certified for the conclusion). 

I don't think you can discount the impact of size. The larger religions have had more (by orders of magnitude) world impact, have larger bodies of elaborated theology, and are taken more seriously outside of the academies. All of those factors together are more than enough to explain most of the gap in appeal to researchers. It seems to me that the implicit question here is really whether there is some objective, knowable measure of quality that makes some religions better than others. If there is one, I don't think you can take academic interest as a direct result of it, but only indirectly (in terms of the quality of the religion theoretically impacting the number of adherents). 

You might be looking for subjectivism, the doctrine that there is no objective truth, or relativism, the doctrine that all truth is relative. Interestingly enough, both of these are more typically associated politically with liberalism than conservatism. Relativism, in particular, is often introduced in the context that different cultures have their own "truths"; and that much of what was promoted as objective truth in the past is in fact just the shared conclusions of one particular culture --as bound up with culture-specific assumptions and prejudices as anything else. Both are more often presented in a moral context. It's rare (but not unheard of) for them to be extended to cover the realms of material and historical facticity. In their stronger forms, they are arguably self-defeating, given that the statements "everything is subjective" and "everything is relative" are presented as objective, universal truths, even as they deny that such exist. In general, the idea of alternative facts is problematic for any larger entity such as a nation, because it denies the possibility of any common standpoint in shared beliefs about the world. If two sides cannot agree on statements of material fact, it's difficult to see how they could ever reach agreement on moral issues or issues of policy and governance.