To answer the question: How to find the offending query: Since the spikes in the graph you posted last for several minutes you have plenty of time to use the following method: Download sysinternals process explorer 

I would advice you to upgrade the package by following these steps If after your upgrade you still run in to problems, it could be that your package is using components/drivers that are not available on 64bit. In that case the "easiest" work around would be to have your package use a 32bit runtime. Open de Job properties and then edit the job step that is calling the SSIS package. Go to the Execution Options tab and check "use 32bit runtime" 

So the NETWORK_IO you were seeing in the extended events log, wasn't related to your insert loop. (If you wouldn't turn nocount on, you would have massive async network IO waits, +1 Martin) However I don't know why the NETWORK_IO show up in the extended event trace. Sure the writing out to a async file target of the events accumulates ASYNC_NETWORK_IO, but surely this is all done on a differenent SPID then the one we are filtering on. I might ask this as a new question myself) 

How big is the initial database size? What will be the daily, monthly growth rate? What will be the daily growth rate of the transaction log? is it possible to have both locations in the same domain? Is it possible to build a secure connection between the two locations? What is the bandwidth between the to locations? what is the latency? 

But you then need to work out how to manage your archives, and set the recovery area size to a sensible value for your backup and retention needs. This may be as simple as scheduling a job to remove obsolete backups, e.g. from the Enterprise Manager console's Availability tab, under Manage Current Backup; but you need to determine the best course for you (and not blindly follow advice from some random guy on the Internet who knows nothing about your requirements, and not that much about EM/RMAN either). 

Neither, it's a single instance (set of processes) with a single database. The definition you quoted refers to an aspect of non-Mulitenant architecture: 

You can use the same functions to get your table and view scripts if you prefer - I believe SQL Developer's export uses them under the hood anyway - and to get role definitions and grants. 

The default port used for is 1158. You may have changed the port though, of course. The control commands also display the 'about' URL which includes the port number. For example: 

I don't see any way to have intervals that are defined in a different calendar than your database-level NLS_CALENDAR. You could get the same effect by partitioning on a numeric representation of the (Persian) month each date falls in, using a virtual column: 

If your existing query is slow you may see a performance difference between the two options, otherwise it's a matter or preference. (Also you may be aware of this, but if your has a time component, having your clause end on means you'll only get data up to the start of that day, and not for example anything at .) 

You are granting access to a user from a host/ip_address () to the MySQL instance (). Then you have to ensure that you can TELNET into the MySQL server from the application server on port 3306 (default; or the port you have configured MySQL to listen on). On App Server: 

Reference: Bypass startup options when you open a database Last possibility Buy a repair software - Stellar Phoenix Access Database Repair 

Metadata Mismatch Added after further research Apparently there are cases when the metadata in the database does not reflect the actual location of the objects. Reference: - FIX: Metadata inconsistency error after you switch table partitions and drop corresponding files and filegroups (Microsoft Support) - FIX: Error occurs when you try to drop or delete filegroups or partition schemes and functions in SQL Server (Microsoft Support) These two cases seem to been resolved with Cumulative Update 3 for SQL Server 2014 SP1 and Cumulative Update 1 for SQL Server 2016 respectively. They don't apply to your situation, but they show that sometimes the metadata can be wrong. The item that seems to be blocking your filegroup deletion is the index, which might be stored with wrong meta-data. Possible Solution Consider rebuilding the index which is referenced in the error message. 

An easy workaround solution would be to nudge either of the jobs to start earlier/later and to not run together with the other job. E.g. 

Reference: CREATE LOGIN (Transact-SQL) (Microsoft) Explanation When you link a Windows login with SQL Server, the SQL Server will trust the Windows login which has already been validated by the account logging in to the Windows system. The chapter Connecting Through Windows Authentication in the article Choosing an Authentication Mode explains how Windows Accounts login to a SQL Server instance: 

If you don't want to do an installation directly on you PC, Oracle provide pre-built VM images which contain an 11g database, SQL Developer and other tools; more info here. They are very quick and easy to set up - no DBA knowledge required; can run on any machine and O/S that runs VirtualBox; and best of all, if (or when) you really mess something up you can trash it and start again. Incidentally, not sure why you are being introduced to 10g when it is already out of support. Don't think you'll notice much difference with 11g at this stage though, the basics don't change much. 

Unfortunately not, you cannot export from a 10g database with the 11g client. You can, though, use a dump file from a 10g database (exported with the 10g client) to import into an 11g database (with the 11g client). Alternatively you can use the newer datapump functionality, and if you create a database link from 11g to 10g you can even transfer the data directly between them without needing to create an intermediate dump file at all. 

The connection string you showed at the top of the question is commented out, so you're actually connecting with . That isn't supplying a service name; but your does have , so this should be the equivalent of . (I've tested this with 11gR2 EE and the parentheses around the in the don't seem to matter). But that doesn't quite seem to work as expected. When you changed that and set the user name explicitly: