It's "I'm a streetwalking cheetah", and "heart full of napalm", as per this interview with Iggy Pop from Please Kill Me: The Uncensored History of Punk. Iggy Pop says: "I used to walk around London, through the park and stuff, with this leopard jacket I had, a cheetah-skin jacket actually- it had a big cheetah on the back-and all the old men in London would drive by in their cars and they’d stop and try to cruise me. All I liked to do was walk around the streets with a heart full of napalm. I always thought Heart Full of Soul was a good song so I thought, What’s my heart full of? I decided it was basically full of napalm." So the Internet is correct in their listing of the lyrics. 

He also doesn't spin Amira's "ball so the men can find husbands" suggestion into a competition for her hand--in fact, Amira is the one who brings up the idea of her being a prize in a contest. So, what could he mean? My suggestion (though it's a guess only, of course): the king could marry Amira himself. This meets all his requirements, would almost certainly be considered "unspeakable" by Amira (and disgusting by Tabitha, when she reacts later), and is a motif found in several other fairy tales. Donkeyskin and The King Who Wished to Marry His Daughter are two of the most prominent, but there are a variety of stories that involve this--usually because the daughter is the only one beautiful enough to fulfill some sort of condition. However, as this story is pretty explicitly about the patriarchy and various people's roles in it, I think it makes sense that the king's reasoning would be changed a little here, especially as he's shown to take pity on and emphasize with the men re his daughter's "irresistibility," as well as to meld with the other tales more seamlessly. 

In Shira Glassman's Mangoverse novels, Rivka/Captain Riv is a woman pretending to be a man in order to work as a guard for the Queen (and later becomes Captain of the guards). It's noted that she wears a mask over the lower part of her face. There is a lot of mention of the reasons other people think she's wearing it (usually because they assume, due to the many tales of her exploits, that it is due to some great disfiguring injury or the like), but I can't really recall a mention explicitly in the books that states her actual reasoning. I assume it's to help hide her feminine features, but do any of the books (The Second Mango, Climbing the Date Palm, A Harvest of Ripe Figs, or The Olive Conspiracy) or the short story collection (Tales from Perach, which I have not read yet) actually state why she does this? 

(Cover image of Point Blanc taken from publisher's website. Note that the book has been republished under different covers.) 

Why do these two numbers differ? What am I misreading? (You can find the text of the novel online on Wikisource, and also on Project Gutenberg). I have originally noticed this contradiction in the Hungarian translation Sztrogof Mihály, Pesti Szalon Kvk. (1994), ISBN:963834024X, translated by Supka Géza, edited by Gerencsér Zsuzsa. This translation doesn't always stick to the meaning of the original text, but in this case it does have both numbers. I show the relevant quotes below. 

The English translation by Agnes Kinloch Kingston and the one found on Project Gutenberg does not mention a duration the second time in the text, so it does not have this contradiction. 

In Binti by Nnedi Okorafor, the main character Binti has an object she refers to as an "edan" - it's an object that allows her to communicate with another species she encounters, and seems to have other properties as well. She mentions that it's some sort of ancient technology that no one knows what it is anymore or what it was used for. There's not a lot of description in the book, just that it is metal and round (I think). It can also come apart into pieces, although I'm not sure if that's part of the design intentionally. Is there any real-world object that it is based on, or that it is intended to mimic? 

(Please note: I'm not a expert in Christian/Lewis in particular's theology; this is my impression primarily from the text of the book.) Peter, Edmund, Lucy and the rest don't know they're dead until the very end of The Last Battle. At the time the discussion of Susan occurs, everyone--including the reader--thinks they simply were pulled through another portal to Narnia, right before, during, or instead of the crash. Peter thinks that Susan didn't come with them because she's no longer a friend of Narnia and didn't come on the train + through the portal with them, not because she's still alive. (The real reason is both, of course.) 

Expanding from my comment. Warning for disturbing themes and also a lot of links to fairy tales. "Seasons of Glass and Iron" pulls from several fairy tales. It looks to me that variations on The Princess on the Glass Hill, The Enchanted Pig, and The Black Bull of Norroway are most prominent--however, there are references to many others scattered throughout. Tabitha thinks of her brother with winged sandals, and of women forced to wear "shoes of glass; ... shoes of iron heated red–hot." Amira references "words of desire [that] tumbled from men’s lips like diamonds and toads," and "a story about nettle shirts thrown up to swans." Therefore, I think it's reasonable to look at other fairy tales for inspiration as to what the king and Amira could have meant. Here's what we know his requirements are: 

This is one of the sections of the poem that starts to push this idea that the privileged voice is not the one that needs to be speaking, by getting right up in the listener's face and making them face their own privilege (whatever that might be). Basically, nothing can change if you're already dominant, there's no drive to change that, you've already won. Yet people act like they understand, like their struggles are equal, like they can offer solutions to problems they've never had to face. Basically, this poem is calling out the idea of allyship, when it is just empty gestures and this insistence that any voice is better than no voice, even though that declaration tends to just be a way of erasing any chance the marginalized have for actually being able to voice their own experiences, their own pain, and to push for things that will actually help and actually cause something to change in a way that will actually make a difference. The poem is a painful one to listen to, once you realize that. When you are forced to be shown how your own attempts at making things better for those who are less privileged than you actually cause more harm and heartache than you thought, because oh you were just trying to help, its a hard thing to face. It's hard to look at them, to realize that they are doing the very thing you yourself may have done and there's this instinctive revulsion, like "oh but I'm not like that", but if we all weren't like that there wouldn't be a poem. The last stanza kinda drives this point home: 

Is this trying to reference George Orwell's 1984? In that novel, too, every apartment has a television that cannot be silenced, so Smith is astonished that the inner party member O'Brien has a television that can be turned off completely. 

In Isaac Asimov's short story “Gold”, Laborian is clearly a self-insertion of Asimov himself, and the story in the story is Asimov's own book The Gods Themselves. I'm wondering though, what about the other major character in this short story? Is the film producer Jonas Willard invented completely from scratch? Or did Asimov get inspiration for that character from someone, such as a contemporary real world film producer or director? The character is described in a positive way in the end, so I'm wondering if Asimov is indirectly complimenting someone from the real world with this unusually self-reflecting story. 

As I interpret it, the pressure of the daily grind is literally tearing people apart. It breaks buildings, it breaks families (likely speaking of divorce, here - the pressure getting so great that it chips away at the family until they can't take it and they divorce, or otherwise become estranged from each other), and it breaks people. Basically, this song is speaking about the extreme pressures of modern life - the daily grind and this whole idea of having to have the most and be the best and richest and work the hardest, which can take a great toll on people, to the point where it can cause people to fall into poverty, and thus lose their homes and end up living on the streets. The chorus emphasizes this idea of the pressure of the world and of life, and how no one wants to be a part of it, but there is no escaping it: "It's the terror of knowing what the world is about Watching some good friends screaming 'Let me out'" Once people realize the stress that just trying to keep your ahead above water in modem society entails, it becomes this self serving endless circle, where you can't get ahead and the pressure of knowing that makes it harder to get ahead, so eventually you are so far behind that you can potentially end up on the streets in extreme poverty. 

So, it's reasonable for no one to say "here's how Susan is reacting to the death of her whole family", given that, well, her family doesn't know they all died. They expect to go back to our world. The last time they saw Susan, they were all alive and Susan was "silly." (Note: Lewis's opinion, not mine, etc.) The omnicient narrator doesn't bring it up at the time because at that point, the reader is also not supposed to know this. The revelation that they're in Heaven doesn't happen until the very, very end of the novel (literally the second to last paragraph), at which point there's enough grand-scale wrapping up to do, and enough on the characters' mind, that the narration doesn't return to Susan.