No, it's not a good idea If you said that you see many cyclists every time you drive there, then that would be a route to consider. But you see only a few cyclists. The Wikipedia page says 

This an old thread with an accepted answer; the consensus is against the idea. So here is a dissenting view. In my city (Melbourne, Australia), there are seven velodromes that are open to the public. Access is always with personal responsibility. These open (to the public and to the sky) facilities see fairly constant use, and regular club use. Most of them are listed on this incomplete wikipedia page. There are also 3 high quality covered velodromes with controlled access, and in the wider state (Victoria) we have 9 more velodromes, most of which are open. At the public velodromes, we do not see crashes, any more than crashes on bike paths, roads, and cycle lanes. Users self-select by experience how they ride. Beginners, with some "coaching" from more experienced users ride at the bottom. As they gain experience / skill / speed, they ride higher up. Most of the public velodromes have banking of only ~20°, but some have banking (at the ends) of up to ~40°. The outdoor velodromes are nearly all concrete; a few are asphalt. The indoor ones are all wood. I certainly agree that velodromes should not be the highest priority for cycling infrastructure. They should be part of an integrated cycling lifestyle culture. A velodrome is one place where a cyclist can ride as fast as possible, without endangering others, and minimal danger to themselves. They benefit their users, and non users. Velodromes are like any sporting infrastructure. The more you have, the more they are used, and the better the health and sporting outcomes are. @heltonbiker It would be interesting and helpful to others to hear (three years later) how that advocacy turned out. 

Some people never do. In races, people push to the limit, and sometimes past it. And people make mistakes. So there will always be crashes. It's part of race craft to learn to read the corners and your competitors, to know when to make sure you are ahead or inside the risky riders. At this early stage of your career many of the riders you are riding against are enthusiastic learners. Some strong athletes can't cope with the risks and drop out of Crit racing or ride at the back to build condition for other kinds of race. You don't say anything about how the crash happened. It might sound unkind, but you don't have to fall when someone bumps into you, or falls in front of you. Keep at it. Try riding at the back for a while to watch and learn. And watch other higher grade races. 

Since you say the bike has 21 gears, it must have 3 at the front and 7 at the back. So you need a 7 speed chain. Any bike shop would have one. I suggest you take your bike to a shop and ask them to fit a new chain. But I'm curious why you think you need a new chain. If it's due to rust then just oil it and ride it some. Other rust will probably be superficial, and can be cleaned with a plastic pot scrubber and a greasy cloth. A cheap bike can give no end of trouble, but they are also an opportunity to learn basic bike maintenance skills, if you're interested. Check out posts under the [maintenance] tag (added to your post). 

Wow This question has provoked some impassioned debate, all in the time it took for my morning ride. Take a step back for a moment. Let's say that you get what you pay for. While not always true, let's go with that for a moment. The guy charging 50 quid is saying a bike service from me is worth 50 quid. Is a bike service worth 50 quid to you? Apparently not (nor to me). But maybe it's his standard charge for the bikes he sells, or he is swamped with work, or just made a bad call. There can be valid reasons. But what have you got from the guy who did the work for free? Was he thorough? Will he fix something if he messed it up? Maybe he does good work and has just won a loyal customer. Or maybe not. At this point we don't know. But we do know that because you haven't paid for anything, your consumer rights will be difficult or impossible to enforce. We like things for free. But I would prefer to pay a fair price and get the job done properly, with some assurance that my consumer rights were covered. That way the situation is clear, and I like that. In such a situation, my customer loyalty is also clear. And just to address the question - yes, any new bike needs adjusting / service. 

Arrange to get a good night's sleep. Eat a normal healthy balanced meal, including a moderate amount of carbohydrates. Get your hydration level up to normal (since most people are under-hydrated). Plan or organize your day tomorrow, so that you don't spend a lot of time 

You can plug some numbers in $URL$ or $URL$ (thanks @Michael) and see what they say. Juggle the figures (your weight, bike weight, etc) a bit until what it says matches your results. Now guess the weight of a new bike. Not much speed difference huh? Now assume that the better position, transmission, wheels and tires add 10 watts to your effective power input. That will probably add about .5 to .6 mph (1kph) to your speed. Check how position changes the results! Now add the I got a fantastic new bike factor. Figure that at another 10 watts. Your guess is as good as mine. So you'll probably see 1 to 1.5mph (1.6 to 2.4kph) improvement for short rides such as you describe. Now you've scientifically demonstrated (with known assumptions) what you'll get for your money. It might be better to just train more. But if, as you say, pretend I have no budget limitation, then go for it. Follow the N+1 rule. 

I taught my daughter to use clipless pedals by putting her bike on a wind trainer while she watched television. I got her pedals that are flat on one side with SPD's on the other side. A random intervals I'd call "left foot down", or "right foot down", trying to time my call for the most inconvenient moment. And as I mentioned in comments, I never did tell her that everyone eventually falls. When she was comfortable with those exercises, she started riding on the road with her new pedals. Sometimes she would ride with the flat pedals, but she quickly came to like the feeling of confidence that comes from knowing one's feet wont slip off the pedals. After four years she still hasn't (yet) fallen because of the pedals. To answer your question - it doesn't really matter which leg they usually push off with. But it does matter that they learn to be able to start and stop on either leg. In my observation falls come when the rider "has the pedals wrong" when they make an emergency stop. They need to be confidently able to unclip and stop with either foot. Edit - re the additional points. To restate my previous paragraph in a different way: it matters for her safety that she be able to start and stop on either foot. Not all stops are preplanned. It's the sudden stops that lead to falls, where the rider gets themselves tangled up trying to get the wrong foot out of their pedal. For starting, it's a great help to be able to start from either foot also. It's normal to have a favoured foot, and it doesn't matter which one it is. And if most of the bunch uses one leg, would it be better to do the same so that you all lean toward the same direction when you stop at lights etc? No, IMHO you are over-thinking it at this point. I suspect you are thinking that because the bikes are leaning when they are stationary, that everyone will wobble or turn in that direction as they start off. If that is what happens, then I suggest that they are not ready to ride on the road. In practice, I just don't see experienced riders (including my own daughter) wobble that much. And the amount they do wobble seems random: members of the bunch push off at slightly different times, and make their first pedal stroke with different levels of effort. And when they stop, the bunch will generally stop in a random arrangement, depending on how hard they were concentrating, who they were taking to, what gear change they were trying to make, etc, etc. So the conclusion hasn't changed: no it doesn't matter which leg, but she should be able to use either. 

I cannot comment on derailleurs in general, just my own experience. My retro ride is 35 years old, and in that time I've ridden it about 150,000 km. It has Campagnolo Record derailleurs, and both are fine. Shifting is still good with the downtube shifters. The parallelogram is rock solid. I cannot claim to have maintained it especially well. It's only had about 10 chains and clusters in that time. Observing the milage of others, I think the main end of life event is a crash. Some people do seem to wear the jockey wheels, perhaps due to running lower quality chains. My conclusion is that it all depends on the initial quality. We get what we pay for.