The market demand function can be either concave or convex. I am looking for conditions under which a general market demand function can be considered convex. For example would convex preferences or a concave utility function imply a convex market demand curve? I am not asking about the demand set, but rather the function. I have a hard time imagining a concave market demand function, but the literature often takes this possibility into account, leading me to believe that it cannot be ruled out without imposing further conditions. The reason I'm having a hard time imagining concave functions is that when we maximize with a standard utility function, what will come out with typical functions is somthing like: 

Wage induced inflation can create inflation spirals, which can lead to hyperinflation. I think everyone agrees hyperinflation is a bad thing for everyone and not just the rich. Furthermore, inflation can be a significant problem for the poor as well. Such a case of inflation spirals was even threatening post WW2 Germany. The spiral happens because, if workers demand higher wages that firms cannot pay, then firms may increase prices in order to make up for those losses. This causes inflation, which reduces workers' real wages, so they ask for another wage increase. Firms not in a position to deny or to afford these wages will have to comply and increase prices again. This can go on and on and easily spiral out of control. In principle it is possible to have higher inflation and higher wage increases. This was the case in Italy before the introduction of the Euro. However this wage induced inflation also affects non-wage earners, such as those living on welfare benefits, the unemployed living on savings and retirees. As for whether fiscal stimulus is better put in the hands of the poor, this is a different topic related to fiscal policy and unrelated to inflation (i.e. monetary policy). 

Of course a lot happened during those years with house prices collapsing in the U.S. Faith in central banking is closely associated with the value of money and the belief of whether a central bank can keep the economy steady or not and in a situation where this belief is low, people gravitate towards widely accepted stores of wealth. 

If you're really serious about researching this data, I'd suggest contacting the Real Estate Institution of New Zealand: $URL$ As long as there are reasons to move to Auckland (more work etc.) and the supplied housing is not high enough to match the demand, the prices will continue to rise. This effect is visible in many major cities where the supply of housing is (for some reason like goverment rules or slow building) inelastic. 

Brazil raising interest rates probably refers to the central bank raising their interest rate which means that it is more costly for banks to loan money from the government and therefore the amount of money in circulation (as per quantity theory) should go down. It is a policy decision (possibly wrong depending on who you ask) in a difficult economic situation where a country faces both inflation and a downturn. Your logic about the economy becoming even weaker might very well be true (and I'd agree with lowering rates being a better option). The questions about effects to trade are slightly more complex and not necessarily as straightforward. 

This means that interest rates rose in India at the same time that they stayed relatively low in other areas of the world. The fact that investors could get a higher yield in India led to an increase in demand for their currency (if I can get a 5% yield on Indian bonds, why would I get a 2% yield on US bonds?) This led to an increase in demand for their currency so that investors could buy Indian bonds/Invest in India at higher yields. The appreciation of the rupee (increase in value) led to India’s goods costing more (it took more dollars to buy Indian goods for example due to the currencies rise in value). This led to fewer goods being demanded (higher prices decrease demand). So Indias exports declined. 

It’s a means to an end, and to the mandate that these institutions imposed on themselves. We could also call it an “unofficial” mandate since politicians would likely put pressure on them in indirect ways to uphold their primary mandate. That primary mandate is a 2% inflation target. QE of course expands the money supply which can expand the velocity of money and keep prices relatively stable, as we already know. So QE is a means to that mandate end so that prices don’t fall sharply as we were beginning to see following the financial crisis. QE in it of itself is not a mandate. 

Having your own currency means that you can conduct your own monetary policy. Adopting another country's currency means that you trade your ability to make decisions about your country's quantity of money, inflation target, etc. to a tested and solid mean of payment (the advantages you listed are good reasons). You might consider European countries adopting the euro as an example of countries adopting a single currency. Ecuador adopting the U.S. dollar in 2000 might be a good place to look if you want to see the effect in a specific country. There are quite a few countries in the world which use another country's currency as their official currency. This article lists them all (as of 2014): $URL$ 

Deaton's "Understanding Consumption" (1993) was one of the major sources I used when doing seminar work for my master's. In the end I decided to write my thesis about a different (somewhat related) subject after realising the empirical difficulties with what I planned on doing. I have since chosen a different research subject, but Understanding Consumption is a book I have spent many hours with. It's a bit dated now, but still a decent read if you want to know about consumption and saving. 

At first, U.S. exports increase because US exports become cheaper due to the low inflation rate. Inflation itself only influences the exchange rate indirectly through its effect on supply and demand for currency. That effect goes through trade. For that to happen, trade must first take place and so US exports must first increase. So at first the exchange rate doesn't adjust at all (no difference in supply/demand of the currencies just yet). US goods become cheaper so they're exported more. As US exports increase the demand for dollars by South Korea increases. This will later on lead to the south korean currency to depreciate and for US exporte to go down again (if the Marshall Lerner condition is fulfilled). 

Tax revenue at a tax rate of 0 s 0. At a tax rate of zero, tax revenue must be increasing with the tax. A small marginal tax increase does not encourage the worker from generating income, if we evaluate his first order conditon (optimization problem) at a tax of zero. Tax revenue at a tax of 100% or more is also zero. A household that dislikes labor and gets no net income from labor will not work. 

Is anyone aware of a study where health insurance rates would be dependent on body fat? It would, of course, be difficult to define when someone is overweight, but lets say being vastly overweight would increase the rates. After a short search I found this: $URL$ but it studies the effect of insurance on body weight and not the other way around. 

I think @DornerA gave a good answer for reasoning behind the mechanism. For a historical example, look no further than the fiscal crisis and the rapid increase in gold price from 2008-2011. 

I'm not really an expert on the subject, but for welfare reforms I've been suggested to read Grogger and Karoly: "Welfare Reform: Effects of a Decade of Change" (2009) in the past. I believe it tackles at least some of the subjects you're thinking about and might be a good place to start. 

The concept makes more sense when you consider taxation and how that plays into the national debt. For example, if the government intends to spend 100 dollars, and only collects 50 dollars in taxes, the government has a deficit of 50 dollars. If the government does the exact same thing the next year, it has another deficit of 50 dollars. That brings the total national debt to 100 dollars. It makes even more sense when you consider the fact that the government can issue bonds to fund whatever it did not collect in taxes. A central bank can also buy bonds from bond holders if it wants to expand the money supply (stimulus), and allow the government to potentially spend more money that it does not collect directly from taxation. I know that this is a simplified model, but it explains the broader concept, that whatever a government does not collect in taxes, it must borrow. When it borrows, it must repay. When it has liabilities to repay, we can call that debt. When it does not want to raise taxes to repay those liabilities, the federal reserve can step in and buy bonds which increases the money supply, and can create an inflationary scenario. 

Oil is found Oil (manufacturing) sector booms Currency value of the Dutch guilder increases as demand for Dutch guilder increases (to pay for Dutch oil. Can cause/be due to an inflow of foreign currencies) Exports from other sectors become more expensive (due to currency value increase) Other sectors become less competitive. 

Real GDP (or even nominal GDP) is probably the most often used measurement of growth. Can you give an example of a country where real GDP constantly grows, but real GDP per capita fluctuates between positive and negative growth? This seems, at first glance, like a very theoretical idea as it would require large fluctuations in population growth which is usually quite constant. The recent migrations might be a special case where you might find something like this happening in the short run, but the effect will probably vary by country with different statistical methods (for example, there are differences between countries about when an asylum seeker enters the population). 

The break even point that I remember from the Japanese debt crisis was at the point that the interest on debt surpassed tax receipts. If there is a point at which you can calculate expected tax receipts and yearly interest on debt, that would be a breaking point. I’d also note (less precisely) That when the inflation rates surpasses the interest on debt for a period, that will also lead to higher yields making the issue worse, so inflation has to be a consideration in this analysis of WHEN the breaking point will come. For example, if inflation is excepted to be 4% in an EU country with massive debt in 2030, and a 4% yield would be more of a debt payment than projected tax receipts, that is a breaking point. The only two options are an inflation crises, or missing a debt payment. 

If this was the case, you would expect countries geographically close to each other to have similar economic conditions. However, we can see large variation within, for example, continents. See, for example, this country map of nominal GDP per capita from Wikipedia: $URL$ What we currently observe as economic development is a result of past monetary/fiscal policy decisions, the reserve of natural resources a country has and a multitude of other factors which are (mostly) independent of geographical location. You might argue that neighbouring countries often have similar growth paths due to similar natural and political conditions, but this isn't always the case. 

I don't know if you're arguing a theoretical framework or whether saving is important for real economic growth. In theory a special case where all consumers would spend 100 % (MPC=1) of their income is possible to argue - the framework would be loaded with questions - it might, for example, make banks redundant. In basic economic models savings is often considered equal to investment (you see a variation of S=I in many macroeconomic models) which means that all saved income is used for investment and therefore expected to expand the economy for future periods. In real life the relationship isn't quite this straightforward, but the basic idea still holds.