Since this definition of ⇒ is unique, what would the other implication symbol mean as a truth-functional connective? Would it have a different truth table? And, when I translated the inference rule from sequent notation to tautological form, was it correct to replace all instances of ⊢ with ⇒? Finally, I'm curious why implication introduction isn't listed with the other rules of inference in the Wikipedia table. Is there something fundamentally different about this result, perhaps its use of the turnstile implication, that makes this theorem of a fundamentally different sort than the others? Thanks for your thoughts! 

Nearly every treatment of set theory, whether Paul Halmos' Naive Set Theory, Herbert Enderton's Elements of Set Theory, Patrick Suppes' Axiomatic Set Theory, etc. introduce a common set of logical connectives, namely "not" , "inclusive or" , "and" , "implies , and "if and only if" (as well as the existential and universal quantifiers and ). However, this set of connectives chosen: 

I noticed a pattern: for every introduction rule, there seems to be an elimination rule, and vice versa. For example, corresponding to conjunction introduction is conjunction elimination, and corresponding to disjunction introduction is disjunction elimination. I wondered if Modus Ponens, which asserts ((P⇒Q)∧P)⇒Q, followed this pattern. I noticed its Wikipedia article referred to Modus Ponens as "implication elimination", so I wondered if there existed another tautology or theorem known as implication introduction. Although no page exists on Wikipedia for "implication introduction", a Google search returned this statement, formulated in sequent notation as 

I know that the naturals are assumed by the axiom of infinity, but the relationship between them (eg 1+0=1), must be rule based or defined at the very least. Basically I want to know what makes 0 or 1 abstract. For me to figure that out, I must also have their precise definitions? I know that 0 is an abstract concept, but I want to know what or what not in its definition makes it so. Is abstraction another name for commonality? 

The reasoning breaks the definition. I made the blunder of assuming that doubt could be meaningfully defined in such a situation. 

But, in (2), (B) is true under doubt or statement (A), and since (B), is in doubt, it is not as True as (1). Again, the order of statements matter quite a lot. Consider the sentence, 

I understand the value of falsifiable beliefs. Often they make predictions, and are classified as scientific ideas, useful in churning out predictions. But do unfalsifiable beliefs have any value? Philosophically or mathematically or otherwise? I know value is a little vague, but consider for example the concept of eternal return. If true it would have a large impact. But, then it's unfalsifiable. Can't be verified at all. So a sentence A, if true would have a large impact, but it's unfalsifiable at the same moment, would you assume any importance to such sentences? 

It's a curious statement, as once written in tautological form, it seems to say that (P⇒Q)⇒(P⇒Q). Have I correctly translated the statement from sequent notation to tautological form? If so, the resulting theorem, (P⇒Q)⇒(P⇒Q), seems quite trivial to me. Certainly it is true; just like implication elimination can be proved using a truth table to show ((P⇒Q)∧P)⇒Q is a tautology, you can also verify using a truth table that (P⇒Q)⇒(P⇒Q) is a tautology. However I must be missing what makes this statement interesting, as it seems as trivial to me as saying A⇒A. Perhaps I've mistranslated the statement from sequent notation to tautological form. The webpage mixes two different symbols for implication. The definition of "implication" ⇒ which I learned is the unique truth-functional connective characterized by its Boolean (or truth table) values. That is, ⇒ is the unique function that maps P and Q to (1,0,1,1): 

Since it is neither minimal nor exhaustive, the set seems like an arbitrary choice. Is there another explanation? And since the set is already redundant (so there's no use in aiming to make it minimal), would it be acceptable to include the others that are missing, so we are at least making use of all 16 connectives (and have more at our disposal to work with)? 

There is a significant philosophical problem with the common viewpoint of many set theorists. Namely, the notion of "set" was supposed to capture the notion of "collection". If really there is some set-theoretic universe that satisfies ZFC, then that universe itself is a collection, and clearly the ZFC axioms do not correctly capture that. MK (Morse Kelley) set theory does not solve that, because again there is no class of all classes. In any case, there is no non-circular philosophical justification for ZFC, so ZFC is in fact a red-herring in discussing Russell's paradox. Discarding axioms on reaching contradiction Finally, I want to point out that it is not viable to simply discard axioms that lead to contradiction. For a simple example, if PA is consistent then PA+¬Con(PA) is also consistent, but proves a false sentence (under the standard interpretation of natural numbers in the real-world). This clearly shows that mere consistency is nowhere near enough to make a logic or formal system meaningful, and we must have some kind of soundness. At the least, we ought to have arithmetical soundness (at least at human scales). 

Why the so-called definition is circular It is circular because "repeatedly" cannot be defined without essentially knowing natural numbers. You cannot use the natural numbers to do counting because you have not defined them yet! You are stuck; you must already know what are natural numbers before you can talk about iteration. This is why in mathematical logic the meta-system must already have the collection of natural numbers to be able to define what it means for a formal system to be arithmetically sound (prove only arithmetical sentences that are true in the 'true natural numbers'). And for a slightly less brief account of various assumptions needed in the foundations of mathematics, see this post. Why there is no viable alternative The problem comes right at the beginning even before you can talk about arithmetic. Think about just pure propositional logic. What is a well-formed formula in propositional logic? To even define that, you necessarily must assume the existence of finite strings in the real world, otherwise you cannot even have a precise syntactic form for sentences, not to even say a full logic system. Furthermore, it is not enough to have a constructivistic view of finite strings in the sense that you can recognize them while not necessarily generating them. This is because propositional logic has deduction rules that permit deducing "A ⇒ A ∨ A" for any propositional formula "A", which clearly implies that one must be able to generate arbitrarily long strings. Effectively, to even describe the deductive system for propositional logic one already must accept the existence of the collection of finite strings. One might naively think that perhaps we do not need formal systems at all. But the only way we can precisely and objectively describe something to another person is by a finite sequence of symbols in a common language. Pictures do not work because they are subject to interpretation unless they are in an agreed fixed format, in which case they could easily be encoded by symbol strings anyway. And if we want to have logical reasoning, the mere notion of mathematical proof involves finite sequences of symbols, hence by accepting any formal system whatsoever as being meaningful, we already must accept the basic properties of string manipulation, which amount to accepting TC (the theory of concatenation). But TC (despite having just the concatenation operation and no arithmetic operations) is essentially incomplete, so we cannot pin down even the finite strings! So we do not even have hope of giving to anyone a description that uniquely identifies a collection of finite strings, which naturally precludes doing the same for natural numbers. This fact holds under very weak assumptions, such as those required to prove Godel's incompleteness theorems. If one rejects those... Well one reason to reject them is the following... Why there is no apparent physical model of PA As far as we know in modern physics, one cannot store finite strings in any physical medium with high fidelity beyond a certain length, for which I can safely give an upper bound of 2^10000 bits. This is not only because the observable universe is finite, but also because a physical storage device with extremely large capacity (on the order of the size of the observable universe) will degrade faster than you can use it. So description aside, we do not have any reason to even believe that finite strings have actual physical representation in the real world. This problem cannot be escaped by using conceptual strings, such as iterations of some particular process, because we have no basis to assume the existence of a process that can be iterated indefinitely, pretty much due to the finiteness of the observable universe, again. Therefore we are stuck with the physical inability to even generate all finite strings, or to generate all natural numbers in a physical representation, even if we define them using circular natural-language definitions! 

We know that a long time ago life emerged from a bunch of amino acids. When I look at the world around me, I notice that it is made up mostly of inanimate matter. Yet this same inanimate matter must have come together in various permutation and combinations to provide a subjective experience - me. How is it possible? What are the various theories for the same? My own thoughts: Matter might not be entirely inanimate. The world is an illusion and everything is made on patterns involving the consciousness which was ever present. 

The result of Godel's theorems was that we knew for sure that a formal axiomatic system wasn't capable to derive all of mathematics. The math derived under the system cannot be consistent and complete. Why isn't the onus of failure put on mathematics as well? Seems to me like if mathematics cannot be derived under any formal axiomatic system, then the problem is with mathematics as well, because you'd certainly need a formal axiomatic system to derive any complete sentence. How do we even know then for sure that mathematics is complete and consistent?(If these words still apply) 

This(C) is false, since we have already established in (A) that we are doubting, so it’s complement in a sense, that “I doubt, that I am doubting”, has to be True. Or, am I wrong somewhere in logic? ( I get my obvious current mistake, but trying to reword it meaningfully) 

Well many monotheistic philosophies regard both (the human) mind and matter as created entities, while God himself is uncreated and hence cannot be either mental or physical entities. Some of these philosophers attempt to go further and 'explain' God as having divine essence, while some others insist that we cannot know what God's nature is. Simply put, there are far more types of philosophies than just materialism or idealism or dualism. Even in ancient history some philosophers thought that everything was made of 4 elements, earth, air, water and fire. It may seem ridiculous in the light of modern knowledge, but some of them proposed that things that are composed of only a single element are divine, while those that are composed of more than one element are not divine. Others proposed that the 4 elements are not enough and there is a fifth called aether, sometimes even said to be the essence of the gods themselves (the Greeks had a pantheon). I feel like pointing out that such concepts and terminology arise naturally from humans' tendency to attempt to find patterns where there are none. That explains why people gravitate towards such philosophies that 'conveniently' categorize everything into a few types, the 'best' being two as in dualism. Observe that dualistic ideas do not just come up in philosophical opinions on the human mind, but also in opinions on the structure of the world. In Taosim there cannot be good without evil, light without darkness, heat without cold, life without death, divinity without humanity, ... From science we do know that these are wrong (except the first and last ones which are not scientific claims). For instance darkness is simply absence of light, not an opposing entity, and cold is the absence of heat. There are even certain species that are immortal, contradicting the popular notion that life cannot exist without an inevitable biologically natural death (not due to accident or injury). 

$URL$ Both these arguments look sound to me. You only have to argue that "nothingness", can exist. From there it's a short step to saying that it always exists. In the second case particularly, linking nothingness to the empty set, say that the empty set exists, then it is always a member of all sets that exist, due to it's simplicity. Of course, one would never be able to detect nothing, since one can only detect physical objects which exists, so actually proving the argument is impossible. 

Are there any current modern mathematical or scientific arguments in favor of eternal return? I have read several against it here on this site. One which I could think of is that the Universe might not be entirely governed by mathematical rules. There could be a different kind of logic at the base of it all, making time circular. Causality might not be an entirely correct assumption. But these are too presumptive and bold. Does QM suggest finite number of states for matter under causal laws? And if so, does it follow that these finite states can only have a finite configuration under infinite space and time? 

This does not contradict omnipotence of such a God, if we use the restricted definition of omnipotence. But it already tells us one logically irrefutable way in which God is necessarily restricted. However, consider the following: 

So your professor's answer is actually not precise enough to determine whether he is using the purely rigorous definition. There is a third possible definition, where a polynomial is a function of the form ( x ↦ a + b * x + c * x^2 + ... + d * x^n ), where "+" and "*" can be overloaded and "x^k" is just a short-form for the k-fold product of "x". Such a function will be undefined or crash if given an input x for which any of the multiplications or additions are not defined. In this sense "x" is not really meaningless but is in fact a parameter name. Of course, one can use a different parameter name (as long as it is not used elsewhere) without changing the meaning. The disadvantage of this approach is that it is very difficult to formalize with all the overloading, but it actually corresponds quite closely with how we informally reason. It is actually not too hard to use the formal definition to capture this notion, via the evaluation map on univariate polynomials over R (where R is a ring), that maps each such polynomial p and object x in R to the value ( a + b * x + c * x^2 + ... + d * x^n ). Similarly for multivariate polynomials. The only thing is that we always have to use this evaluation map to 'apply' a polynomial to some object. People naturally create the short-hand "p(x)" for the above value, despite this conflicting with the formal definition! (By the formal definition, p(1) would be the coefficient of the linear term, but by the convenient short-hand p(1) would be the sum of all the coefficients!) 

Everything in thought is a comparison. So, when you say "lying to yourself". There are two possibilities. 1) There is an objective truth of the matter. You tell yourself anything but the objective truth. In that case yes, you would be lying to yourself. Within this possibility again, you might or might not be aware of the objective truth. If you are aware of the objective truth, then there is no way you can lie to yourself and not know that you are lying. If you are not aware of the objective truth, and tell yourself otherwise, then you are lying to yourself without knowing that you are lying to yourself. (Like the example of the woman you gave above). 2) There is no objective truth of the matter. In this scenario, it is really hard to deduce if you are indeed lying to yourself. In fact, it might be impossible to do so. If the only truth is subjective, then from your point of view, the best subject is you, yourself. So whatever you tell yourself will happen to be true. 

Assume that doubt is meaningfully defined. Or let's say we define doubt as , both the statement under doubt, and it's complement can be true or false, we do not know, the uncertainty exists. Imagine an ultimate doubter. In this scenario, the doubter can doubt everything, including him being in doubt. The doubter can make the sentence “I doubt that I am doubting”. This sentence does not break reasoning. Let me explain how. I doubt (A), that I am doubting(B). These are two different levels of doubt. This is a self referential doubt. Doubting that “I am doubting”, does not mean that the doubter is not doubting. Doubting entails both the possibilities, “I am doubting”, can be true, or “I am doubting” can be false. So the chain of recursion goes something like this: 

"Only Xs are P" never means "All Xs are P", but rather "The only things that are P are Xs", which is equivalent to "All those that are P are Xs". However, "Only those Xs are P" does mean "All and only the Xs are P". This is because "those" somehow makes the phrase refer to the whole group of "Xs", and so none are left out when asserting that they are "P". In this case, therefore, "Only those who ignore the facts are likely to be mistaken." means "Those who ignore the facts, and no one else, are likely to be mistaken." This is of course false in the real world, since there are people who do not ignore the facts but are mistaken anyway because they are not aware of the facts. But it is exactly what is stated by the English sentence. You then see that the argument is valid, but unsound. So you can say that this question is just a matter of understanding English, not logic. Those who disbelieve my answer can check the Corpus of Historical American English for themselves. To prevent bias, I provide here the first 20 results for the search string ". Only those" in the past 50 years or so. Almost all of them provide unambiguous evidence for the semantics I claimed. The rest should also be interpreted in the same manner.