In short, don't. From your description it doesn't seem that your 'forced removal' from the group is relevant in this case. You've mentioned that the call was made to 'stand down' and then you ended up leaving after that; so the circumstances that came after that seem rather irrelevant unless there's further information that you believe changes the story here. The end of the project seems like a pretty reasonable reason to leave and a 4 month tenure seems to be fine if it's just a hacked together group in response to an emergency. Your first paragraph I believe explains your situation fine. 

To answer your question directly... Yes you should support him if that's part of your job. You should do this regardless of what you believe will be a good fit for this person given their current skills. The Why This person appears has the drive to get into development. Employees tend to work rather well if they enjoy what they're doing. Happy employees are productive employees and productive employees means FTE well spent. Now to address your concerns If you believe that this employee doesn't have the skills needed for development; then let them know. There's nothing wrong with this; give the employee tasks to do at home if it's something that's simple enough that they can google. Get them to learn the basics before you teach them how to code. If it turns out that it's something that they just aren't able to learn then you can raise it with your manager and let the manager know that you don't think that they'll be a good fit for the role. In short; start with the basics. If you're there to mentor this person, then tell them what they need to know prior to being shown how to code/develop. If they can't grasp the basics then so be it; but until you provide someone with the rope, they aren't going to trip themselves up and fall flat. (Who knows, they may even be a great fit) 

Similar to another answer here. State the facts. That is, your suspicion is just that, a suspicion and it doesn't appear to the reason why you'd choose not to hire this candidate. I think that the way you've summed it up already in this question provides valuable feedback to the candidate. Provide the factual feedback that you're not comfortable with the candidate's level of understanding of topics that they should know. Back this up with your observations during the interview. For example... Facts When I asked questions X, Y and Z whilst you were able to provide an indepth explanation but where unable to explain follow up questions that are designed to show a candidate's fundamental understanding of the question. Consequence Because of this I'm not comfortable that you have a sound understanding of topic A, B and C. Meaning that you have not been selected for the position at this time etc etc Resolution If you're looking to apply to a similar job in future. I would recommend you look into X, Y, Z so that you can answer questions more efficiently when probed for a deeper understanding. Note: Don't confuse your suspicion of this candidate googling answers to things as the reason why you've chosen not to proceed with them. Whilst it might be a byproduct of the candidate not understanding the topic you're asking about. Fundamentally it's the lack of knowledge that is the problem, not what they may or may not have been doing on the other end of the phone. 

Because of a specific bus Schedule, I can either arrive at work at 7h25 or 8h55. Leaving work is a bit more flexible. I do not want to work until 5pm on an average day, so I'm usually aiming for a 7h30-15h30 work day. Very few people actually show up that early, most people seem to like 9-5 more. I personally never call meetings before 9h30 in the morning, because some members of my team would not be there on time. That just seems logical. On the other hand, the "optional" hours at the end of the day (after 3h30pm) don't seem off limits. Many people call meetings during those hours. I guess it's easier to ask someone to stay a bit later today, than it is to figure out how to reach them before they come in to make them get to the office earlier. I'm pretty sure nobody is trying to be inconvenient here. There are meetings at almost any hour of the day. One specific person probably figures "well, 15h30-16h30 is the most convenient, and X won't mind staying a bit later today, he'll have less work to do the rest of the week!". That makes sense. I wouldn't mind every now and then. But in my position, I happen to have to attend meetings with many different groups of people, and of course different meeting organisers. The accumulation of those really screw up my Schedule. Of course, I could just invite some of those people to 7h30am meetings, in a passive-agressive way, but that's really not something I'd be comfortable with doing. There's also the same problem with people who seem to notice when I'm about to leave the office, and choose that specific time to come see me and ask questions about work (that could have been asked earlier or could wait until tomorrow without creating problems), or just to discuss work-related things, which also force me to stay later, while of course the same never happens to them in the morning. So the Question is: How can I politely make people understand that if they aren't willing or able to get to work earlier for some tasks, they shouldn't expect me to stay later for those same tasks? Of course, feel free to tell me if I'm the one being unreasonable. I don't think I am, but I could be wrong. 

In my field of work, for some reason, the hiring companies all put out their job offers at the same time (within a few days of each other), and do the hiring during the same period in the case of students fresh out of college applying for jobs. This might be because most companies offer to pay for Professional exams that we have to take in the first years of employement after we're done with University, so it might be some sort of agreement because of competition. I'm not familiar with the why. This phenomenon is happening across the country, but that specific time period differs depending on the location. In my case, I currently live with my parents in city A, where I have gone to university. City A has several companies that hire in my field, but not that many. I will be graduating in spring, and the offers in my city will be available in December. Since I was not 100% certain I'd be able to get a job on my first try, and I didn't want to live off my parents when I'm done with school, I also applied with several employers in city B, which is about 3 hours (car) from here, and a much bigger city. I am not a fan of big cities, so I would much rather work in city A, but I wouldn't mind moving to city B if the alternative is no work. The problem is that city B released all their offers recently. I applied, did a few interviews, and got one offer. I cannot reasonably wait until December to give them my answer. If I say no on the off-chance that I'll be hired in city A, then there was really no point in applying to city B. But if I say yes, can I still apply to the city A offers? Would it be professionally acceptable to do interviews with other employers after accepting an offer already, and would it be ethical, if I get hired in my prefered location, to change my mind and tell the other company I won't be working for them after accepting their offer, considering I haven't worked with them yet and they have months to find someone else anyway? I wouldn't have wasted their money on training, which will happen if I go work with them and find a job in city A two years from now. Furthermore, the current offer that I have to decide on are not hiring me for late-spring, as soon as I graduate, but for next September, because they said that they wouldn't have the resources to train me efficiently during the summer. Would getting a city A offer for May or June make a difference on the "is it acceptable" point? EDIT: The country is Canada, if that makes a difference. EDIT regarding the similar question. I am not asking whether I should keep looking, but whether I am allowed to without it looking bad. I want to apply to very specific jobs, and I had planned to before getting the offer. Furthermore, I wouldn't be looking "in case I get a better offer", but knowing fully well that any offer I would get would be better (because of the location), so I would want to take it. 

Give everyone who would be reporting an issue a form to fill out or a template to complete before they email through. The issue here from the sounds of it is that you're not being specific enough. Provide information on exactly what you're after. Telling someone to describe the problem will not give you the information you're after. The reason for this is that I can describe a problem in a single sentence and I've fulfilled your requirements of describing the problem. Then when I get a response back from you saying I haven't described it, I'll think you aren't reading my emails because I've already described my issue to you, what more do you want? For this reason you need to ask the user "What steps did you take before the problem occurred?" or "What were you doing immediately before the problem occurred?". This restricts the user in what they can answer and lets them know what information is meaningful to you. They're likely under the impression that you can gain everything you need from the program log and any information they give you isn't that helpful. Never assume that the person you're receiving your log from knows exactly what you mean. As was mentioned in another answer, you don't offer mind reading as a service. However, I'm sure that the people sending you the logs don't offer mind reading either, it works both ways! Narrow questions will provide you more meaningful information. 

I would put it in much the same way you've written it here. You mentioned that your job is stressful and demanding and you're not growing career wise. Make your direct report think about what's keeping you at the company and what reason you have to stay. Perhaps they think that you're comfortable with what you're doing and you don't really mind that you haven't been given anything extra, perhaps they're just thinking that you want what everyone else is getting? Below's a few talking points for you. Be extremely clear about what you want and where you want to end up. Most people don't want to stay in the same job for the rest of their lives, so let your manager know what you aspire to, what's driving you. Show that you're keen to learn. Don't forget to tie it into a benefit to the company, why should they put you through the training? How does that turn into a benefit for the business and how will they get a return on their investment? Will they end up losing the "invaluable person" they have in their current role? Talk about how you could up-skill/cross-skill someone else into your role. If you're determined to reach a goal and there's a roadblock in the way, ask "How can we overcome that?". If it's something that simply cannot be overcome, then you really don't have much option other than to look for another job that will provide what you're after. On a side note It's best not to let things slide for so long, if you're determined to get something, letting it go by for 7 years without having a path to your destination doesn't exactly scream determination. You have very little reason to show loyalty to a company that can't keep it's promises. At the end of the day you need to look out for yourself. "You're #1" as someone else here put it!