If your groups are finitely presented and you have no good starting permutation rep, then you may find that coset enumeration is faster for finitely presented groups than for millions-of-points permutation groups. In other words, typically speaking you start with some permutation representation, because it is going to be faster than any finite presentation. However, for really bad permutation representations (close to regular), you may find coset enumeration is much faster. In particular, finding the index or core of a subgroup might be faster to use ACE than to use permutation group code. 

If your groups are small and solvable with low sectional rank, just compute the subgroup lattice and sort. 

I'll assume the last is the main concern. The irreducible modules of ZS3 are all finite and have an elementary abelian p-group as their additive group. For p=2,3 there are 2 each, and for p>3, there are 3 each. The irreducible CS3 modules are all realizable over Q. Every such module may be realized over Z, but the two-dimensional representation has two distinct Z-forms, giving four total "irreducible" Z-free ZS3 modules, that is, four total Z-forms of irreducible QS3 modules. Indecomposable ZS3 modules up to isomorphism are more complicated than the human mind can possibly comprehend. Indeed, even those in which S_3 acts as the identity are much too complex. Luckily they divide up into several types: annihilated by a prime p (then classified by modular representation theory), torsion (more complicated, but basically now p-adic integral reps), Gorenstein projective (Z-free, so covered in the next bullet point), or madness (that is, the rest). The indecomposable ZS3 modules that are free as Z-modules are classified in: Lee, Myrna Pike. "Integral representations of dihedral groups of order 2p." Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 110 (1964) 213–231. MR 156896 doi:10.2307/1993702 There are 10 of them, and the Krull-Schmidt theorem fails for them. Not only are indecomposables not completely reducible, the decomposition of a finitely generated Z-free module into indecomposable summands is not unique. In other words, integral representations of even very small groups are quite complicated. 

Now each of these results required faithful characters. If you are OK with that, then Berkovich (MR1189113) has a Thompson like hypothesis and an Ito like conclusion (normal Hall π-subgroup containing the nilpotent residual), but it looks at π(G/Z(χ)) too. The Ito–Michler result is also valid in some sense over finite fields: 

You asked about the center of a group with an efficient presentation: the relation of "central" to "efficient presentation" is probably strongest in the Schur multiplier. In particular, a perfect group can only have an efficient presentation if its Schur multiplier is trivial (so it is the universal perfect central extension of its inner automorphism group). If the inner automorphism group has a non-trivial Schur multiplier, then the perfect group with an efficient presentation must have a non-trivial center. However, many perfect groups have trivial Schur multipliers and centers. For instance, the Mathieu group M11 has an efficient presentation on two generators with two relations, and of course has a trivial center. Efficient presentations are somewhat poorly named (balanced might be better) since they are typically awful for computational group theory. However, people have taken them as a challenge, and so you can find scores of papers dealing with efficient presentations of (covering groups of) finite simple groups. One paper with nice tables is: 

The quotients of a finite group, G/N have minimal normal subgroups K/N. These are called chief factors. Chief factors are divided into two kinds, central chief factors and eccentric chief factors. The central ones are precisely those such that K/N ≤ Z(G/N). You are therefore asking for a classification of groups all of whose chief factors are eccentric. Another way to say this that sounds clever is that G has no chief factor of prime order. Such a group cannot have any central "top" factors, and in particular G must be a perfect group. Perfect groups are not entirely easy to classify, but one standard view of them is to build them layer by layer, and under this view you simply never adjoin a central factor. However, such a classification may not be very useful in concrete circumstances. The things you can adjoin are any (fixed point free, that is, noncentral) G-module repeatedly to construct the solvable radical, and any wreath product of G with a non-abelian simple group. For every permutation representation of A5, you can take A5 wr A5 to get such examples. For any A5-module V (with no central A5-composition factors), you can take the semi-direct product of A5 with V. There are 26 such groups (not counting G=1) of order at most 10,000; most are just the simple groups of those orders. There are also 2^4:A5, 4^2:A5, 2^3:L3(2), 2^3.L3(2), A5 x A5, 3^4:A5, 3^4.A5, 2^4:A6, 5^3:A5, 5^3.A5. The first wreath product example is A5 wr A5 of order 60^6. 

The actual groups are available as , for instance the generator of the 3rd Z-class of dimension 4 and signature -1,-1,1,1 is: 

Berkovich and Zhmud have results for more general cases. See chapter 27 of their book on character theory (volume 2) which answers a broader question for n=2 and n=3: 

Suppose G=SL(2,C) and let H be the stabilizer of a line (so a Borel subgroup). The matrix $$\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\\\c&d\end{pmatrix}$$ in G acts on projective space by $$ z \mapsto \frac{az+b}{cz+d}$$ The stabilizer of ∞ is the matrices with c=0, a Borel subgroup. The stabilizer of both ∞ and 0 is the matrices with b=c=0, a maximal torus. In particular, a two point stabilizer is abelian (the intersection of two Borel subgroups), and a Borel subgroup is non-abelian. Hence they are not isomorphic. This is just a connected version of Giuseppe's answer. If you consider the Borel subgroup to be the Lie group itself, then you get an example where the intersection of the conjugates is trivial. If G is the group of 2×2 matrices with c=0 and d=1 acting on projective space, then the stabilizer of 0 has b=0, and the stabilizer of both 0 and 1 has a=1 and b=0. In particular, G=AGL(1) and H is a maximal torus, and the intersection of two conjugates of H is the identity. When the intersection is the identity, this is called being sharply two-transitive or having a regular stabilizer. 

Additionally if Aut(G) is simple, then G = H×T as above, except possibly H/Z(H) is on the following list: 

For instance, to show xxyz is in W, I imagine that we should apply Rz to xxxx to get (x+z)(x+z)(x+z)(x+z) − xxxx = 4xxxz + 6xxzz + 4xzzz + zzzz. But then, how does one isolate 4xxxz? Here is my current method, which seems overly complex compared to lowering: Applying Lz 3 times and subtract 60xxxx (already known to be in W) takes zzzz to a multiple of xxxz, but it does so by zero-ing out the other terms. Applying Ry to xxxz gives (x+y)(x+y)(x+y)z−xxxz = 3xxyz + 3xyyz + yyyz. Now apply Ly twice to zero out the first two terms and take yyyz to 12xxxz + 6xxyz. Since xxxz is known to be in W, we can remove it and rescale to get xxyz in W. This random sort of zig-zag makes it hard to keep track of which "roots" we've been applying (that is, which raising and lowering operators). In the Lie algebra case, I thought things were a bit cleaner. At any rate, successfully applying these operators should have the side-effect of detecting in a very concrete way the "highest weight", if I understand correctly. However, I cannot yet check, since I cannot yet successfully keep track of how I am applying these operators. 

Every (associative, unital) ring is a subring of the endomorphism ring of its underlying additive group. Rings act on abelian groups; groups act on sets. The universal action on an abelian group is its endomorphism ring; the universal action on a set is the symmetric group. Modules are rings that remember their action on an abelian group; permutation groups are groups that remember their action on a set. A set is determined by its cardinality, but for abelian groups cardinality is not a very useful invariant. Rather than "order" of a ring, consider the isomorphism class of its underlying additive group. This is even commonly done in the finite ring case, where the order still has some mild control, but not as much as the isomorphism type of the additive group.