There's a few possibilities, the first and most obvious is inertia. Let's take a look at metric vs imperial. By adoption, the overwhelming majority of the world and the scientific community uses metric. It is widely acknowledged that metric makes conversions and calculations much easier, and conversions have even taken out a NASA orbiter, costing the agency to the tune of $125 million However, Imperial is not dying out any time in the United States. Why is that? 

Sort of. Chinese Histories are not without records of generals who can really fight. For instance, in the Records of the Three Kingdoms (not romance), Chen Shou states "黃忠趙雲強摯壯猛 並作爪牙 其灌滕之徒歟". He notes specifically Huang Zhong and Zhao Yun's fighting prowess, and compares them to earlier examples such as Guan Ying and Xiahou Ying, who were said to be fierce fighters under Emperor Gao. At the same time, military treatises such as Wuzi specifically warns against the general depending on his fighting ability in his Chapter on Generals. "凡人論將 常觀於勇 勇之於將 乃數分之一爾" ("The ordinary man would think a general's value is in bravery, but bravery is only a minor portion of his skills.") He then goes on to talk about the importance of understanding the terrain, knowing the ability of his soldiers, the usage of spies, and the discipline of the army. He devotes no other words to the general being able to fight. However, as Wu Qi notes, this isn't what the common man sees as important in Generals, so in entertainment fiction like the Romance, what the common man sees ("bravery, fighting prowess") is artificially inflated to make for a more popular novel. You should also note that even MacArthur was a crack shot at the pistol. Commanders do need to be able to fight on par with a soldier to gain their respect (which is why modern officers also go through boot camp). This is why Wu Qi lists is as a part, but only a minor part, of the General's toolbox. 

Not exactly an affair, but Borte, Genghis Khan's first wife, was abducted by a rival tribe. Genghis Khan didn't care and took her back. Chagatai on the other hand kept accusing his elder brother Jochi of not being his father's son because of this, but nobody paid much heed to it. Why... I guess Mongols just didn't care all that much since their leader was decided by election anyway. 

The most base answer would be: Humans naturally like to conform. More specifically, if you want to participate in the current world order, it's in your interest to go with what's currently in vogue. One example is Russia. After the fall of communism, Russia adopted an anthem without lyrics, and it proved to be very problematic. Why? because during sporting events and the like, people sing their anthems. An unsingable anthem stands out as strange and it affected the athletes' morale. Another example is Imperial China. There was no flag for Qing China, but they were forced to make at least a naval flag, because according to maritime law, ships without an official naval flag were always under suspicion of piracy. Chinese ships thus had to resort to flying the naval flags of other countries, which, as you can imagine, is a pretty big loss of pride. The Arrow Incident also partially arose because the Chinese ship sent to arrest British Sailors accused of beating merchants had no standard, so Britain claimed they didn't know it was a military ship carrying out an official duty - (as opposed to say, a pirate raid). It's an excuse, but the Qing court realized that they couldn't do without a naval flag, which is why the Yellow Dragon Banner was made. As for national day, well, if you have a birthday, why shouldn't your country have a national day? It has to have started at some time. While Europe and the US originated most of these practices, it also bears to note that Europe and the US also had the lion's share of world power at that time, and it's in your interest to do as what they do. Now if you think about the full process of an awards ceremony at the Olympics - you wear a uniform, which probably means you'll need some kind of crest on it to identify that yes, this is your guy and not your mortal enemy neighbor's. You go up the podium and they raise your nation's flag and play your anthem. So what if you don't have one? Your country will probably break their work flow and look like an a**, and your athletes will probably be embarrassed that they had to stand out like this. Same with something like an international summit. They'll usually fly every country's flag there at prominent places, but you don't have one, so now nobody knows you're important enough to be there. Making a flag/crest and writing an anthem is, quite frankly, on the grand scheme of things too much trouble not to have for a country if it chooses to have any presence in the current world, so every country has one and they're all following about the same format. 

I will try to answer, even though this question probably won't have an objective answer. Can you keep a dictatorship indefinitely? My answer is "practically impossible." The reason is, in my opinion, that there is only one thing that will keep a government afloat, democracy or dictatorship, and that is legitimacy. If you cannot explain your legitimacy, why should I or anybody obey you? A democracy's legitimacy is self-evident - from the consent of the governed. The most representative is the gridlock in the US Congress - you cannot just go arrest and shoot these congressmen doing the obstructing, because their constituent electorate elected them to do precisely that. For a dictatorship, it's the same deal. let's take a look at the Soviet Union. There were only really two strongmen - Lenin and Stalin. Lenin won his legitimacy by right of conquest - he toppled Kerensky's government (not personally, but everyone who did it calls him leader). Stalin derived power ultimately from Lenin - going as far as doctoring a photo of him sitting next to Lenin, keeping his body on permanent display, and practically pushing that point in every piece propaganda during his day. Stalin's legitimacy was later buoyed by world war II - you might argue about his real contributions, but to the Soviet people at the time (and even much of Russians today), Stalin was the leader that defeated their greatest enemy Nazi Germany. This is why there were almost no credible challenges to their power. However, after Stalin, nobody in the Soviet Union had that kind of legitimacy. Beria, despite being Stalin's terror chief, was executed almost immediately. This is why terror is not effective without legitimacy - even if he was still Chief of the NKVD, still had the equivalent rank to a Marshal of the Soviet Union, none of that meant anything. He derived power from Stalin. Without Stalin, he has no legitimacy, and nobody, not even the NKVD, really has to obey him - especially if they could potentially replace him. Khruschev was ousted, because he didn't defeat Kerensky or Nazi Germany or was the ordained successor - Lenin was long dead by then, and he repudiated Stalin. After that the Soviet Union adopted a "collective leadership" scheme to share power - because Brezhnev was in an even weaker position - now it's proven that the leader could be ousted. Looking at China, it's practically the same thing. Mao's legitimacy was that he defeated the Nationalists, so he could assemble his cult of personality. During the height of his power it was a crime to think about his death - even though everybody knew he will die someday. Deng was a member of the Army that defeated the Nationalists - there's a rumor that he could have been Marshal if he stayed in the Military (his partner, Liu Bocheng, did in fact make Marshal). That's why he could control power from behind the scenes without an official title and well past his retirement in 1992. Hu Jintao? He passed on all his power to Xi and basically fell off the edge of the Earth, and there are rumors of the Jiang Clique trying to assassinate him during his reign. Under Mao, Air Force Chief of Operations Lu Min purposely made himself admitted to a hospital rather than participate in any assassination plot. Meanwhile the East German Stasi achieved the greatest amount of population surveillance ever known to man - but that didn't save East Germany once Gorbachev recalled Soviet troops. One should also remember that surveillance itself is only a tool of terror, and terror has always failed once legitimacy is removed. You cannot create a cult of personality or enforce terror without legitimacy, and that's why, invariably, dictatorships will fail and why in 1984 Oceania is in a state of perpetual war - the war refreshes Oceania's legitimacy. As for specifically why North Korea is holding on - the reason is the Kims have legitimacy - Kim Il Sung did fight the Japanese during World War II, you can't say the same for South Korea's leaders - Rhee Syngman spent the War in the United States and was for all intents and purposes para-dropped in and installed by the Americans. His successor, Park Chung-hee was a lieutenant in the Manchuko Army - the collaborationist government to Japan in Manchuria. This is why the Kims can hold onto North Korea and have sympathizers in the South - they have the legitimacy of having fought for their country instead of turning tail or collaborating. If you look at the Worker's Party of Korea emblem - there's the hammer and sickle, but in the middle there's also a calligraphy brush - because unlike the CPC of old, pushing old values especially Confuscianism was the original aim of the party. Confuscianism teaches, more than anything, the legitimacy of succession and knowing your place - rulers will always be rulers, slaves will always be slaves - thus refreshing Kim Il Sung's legitimacy in his grandson Kim Jong Un. And that's why despite his apparent youth and inexperience, Kim Jong Un was able to purge powerful people like Jang Sung-taek and Ri Ying-ho - the Lord giveths and the Lord taketh away. So how long will North Korea endure? Potentially for hundreds of years - Dynasties in the hundreds of years is not unusual in China or East Asia in General - but it won't be forever. Eventually either it will die out or encounter inner conflict between rival descendants of Kim and thus dividing and eroding the legitimacy. 

The simple answer is Pan-Arabism is not opposed to nationalism. It is opposed to national borders established by the West, but not the idea that they were one people and should have one united nation - the definition of nationalism. Communism is opposed to all division - class, national, ethnic, religious, the whole nine yards, and thus it would naturally be opposed to Pan-Arabism. Marx himself called religion "opium of the people". Islam was the driving force behind the Arabian conquests in the middle ages, and it would be impossible to fully sever pan-Arabism from Islam. Also, while Stalin coined the term "Socialism in one country", it is a strategic maneuver, not an end goal. The claimed ultimate goal of the Soviet Union's communist revolution was still that of Marx's - breaking down all division everywhere in the world, so on the surface at least, it couldn't support Pan-Arabism. 

Also, it helps that the United States is the world's foremost economic power, so most people are willing to accommodate the US than vice versa. The second is simply what you think is the superior standard may not be - all techs have drawbacks, and what you think might be a minor inconvenience might be a dealbreaker for most, or that something you find useless may be very important to others (Windows and Backwards Compatibility comes to mind for this one). 

There's a significant cost to switch. At the minimum, all 100,000 miles of highways in the US has to have all its signage replaced. Just like the NASA incident, the transition is all but guaranteed to cause a lot of damage due to human error. Old equipment cannot be magically recaliberated, so even if you accomplish the 1st two, you probably will still end up with the old units hiding in the new, which makes metric's "easy to convert" advantage useless. You can see this from gun calibers - 5.56mm, 7.62mm, 11.43mm, 12.7mm - these are .22, .30, .45 and .50 inches respectively. Just because you "converted it" to metric does mean the old chambers and barrels will magically give you nice round numbers (except maybe .40 and 10mm), and small arms will keep those relics up for a long time and you'll still have to do awkward math - now with 4 digits!