In the 1960’s, the linguist William Stokoe showed that the American Sign Language is a full fledged language, and subsequent linguistic studies confirmed that sign languages share all the characteristics of oral languages (expect the obvious sign/sound difference), and there is no reason to consider them differently. So ASL is “langue”, and the concrete signs used fore example in this video are “parole”, in a way similar to the analogue situations in English or any other language. By sign languages, I mean of course the languages used by deaf communities. The common misunderstanding that they’re not true language, might come from the fact that it is common for people to express simple notions by gestures (finger-pointing, expressing you’re tired, etc.), but this kind of signs are not a sign language, they are at best the equivalents of utterance like “Oh !” and “Yummy !” in English ! By contrast, sign languages can really express any notion an oral language can. I can’t personally speak any sign language, but, to give an example which impressed me, I have seen a live translation in French Sign Language of a PhD defence on biophotonics, where notions ranging from axon anatomy to optical interfermometry were discussed. 

It's even worse: Even though Dutch and German separated only a few centuries ago, as a southern German I wouldn't have understood much of your Dutch example before I started to learn Dutch recently. The same problem exists with Yiddish, the other language that is similarly close to German. And as if that were not enough, the same problem exists with dialects of one's native language. I mostly know this from German, but it's true for English as well. Most native English speakers will have quite a bit of trouble understanding even standard Scots, which is somewhere on the boundary between a dialect of English and a separate language. But thick dialects of English proper such as Yorkshire English can be even harder to understand. (Shakespeare's original pronunciation is relatively easy in comparison, but it's still relevant because it demonstrates how pronunciation changes over time. Compare Richard III's pronunciation just a little further back, or even Chaucer. As you can see, pronunciation has changed much more than spelling, which is one reason why modern English spelling is so chaotic.) As the examples show, the problem is in the different pronunciation. But once you get immersed into the culture surrounding a dialect of your native language, or a foreign language close to your own, there are two things that make it very easy to pick it up: 

This document also contains many other examples. You also have some examples on the corresponding Wikipedia page. N’Ko N’Ko is a modern (20th century) RTL script used in western Africa for Manding languages. I happen to have an introductory book on N’Ko at home, and it ends with some example of elementary arithmetic operations, which are written right to left, as expected. Furthermore, the numbers in N’Ko (contrary to Arabic) are written right-to-left: The current year (2017) is written ߂߀߁߇, with (߂=2 ;߀=0 ;߁=1 ;߇=7). Remark on historical texts And if you look at historical texts, then you have lots of different conventions to adapt maths to different typographical traditions, including vertical writing in East Asia. (See e.g. this Unicode proposal pdf about notations used to translate Western mathematical texts in Ming and Qing China). 

is contingently ungrammatical if X is animate and specific. English relatives are another much studied case. 

I have troubles parsing the question unambiguously. My answer assumes the question means "Why are symmetrical c-commanding nodes not barriers to government whereas asymmetrically c-commanding nodes are (potentially) barriers to government?" but I encourage you to rewrite the question with more details in case I misunderstood. Under this assumption, the historically accurate answer was that this was a pure stipulation based on the fact that such an ad hoc fix gets the case assignment and binding properties right. The main problem with allowing symmetrical c-commanding nodes as barriers is the inherent ambiguity this involves: since binary trees have no ordering (so that their common drawing is deceptive), it would be impossible to define which node is a barrier for the other in the generic situation were symmetric c-commanding nodes to be allowed. However, such stipulations should always be regarded with great skepticism and accordingly a good deal of works in that branch of syntax in the last 30 years has been devoted to eliminate them (the impetus behind the so-called minimalist program). Within the framework of minimalist syntax, the answer to your question follows from the data structure of the syntactic objects constructed by Merge, as I encourage you to work out for yourself (or ask about). 

I'm sure I've read the following idea written by a linguist somewhere. I didn't manage to find the reference and I'd love to have serious references for that. The following is mainly a first person description of my native language's grammar, on an aspect which is not taught at school, but seems obvious in retrospect. Such an indigenous language is my native modern French ! The tense corresponding to mythological/ancestral past is passé simple (French Wikipedia link, with more details, but in French). Basically, this past tense was used for distant past event (older than 24h) in the 18th century but totally disappeared from oral speech by the beginning og the 20th century. It stayed in formal writing, and by now only appears in old text and fairy tales. For example, when my 8 years old niece invents a fairy tale, it is at the passé simple tense, and it is the only occasion she ever uses this tense. 

My personal experience has been that as a native German speaker, through very little effort and in just a few months, I passed from understanding hardly any Dutch at all (written or spoken) to understanding it pretty well though still basically unable to speak or write it. The key to this was: 

It seems obvious to me that this style of negation is related to one used by Arabs but also by many other people living around the Mediterranean. It's the same sound, not necessarily repeated, but accompanied by a characteristic head movement. You can see it here as the first example. 

In some cases (not this one - yet), the normal person pronoun is contracted with the berb. At this point in the development of French, ignoring the spelling and history but only focusing on oral French as it is used today, we could say that French verbs are inflexted on both sides and that the empathic pronouns moi, toi etc. are the real pronouns of French. The suffixes will disappear more and more, until French verbs are marked for person and number by a prefix rather than a suffix. For example like this. (The example is not phonetically plausible.) 

Jacob often thinks about him (him≠Jacob). Nathan pense souvent à lui (lui=Nathan or lui≠Nathan). Sources: Successive Cyclicity, Anti-Locality, and Adposition Stranding The Syntax of Silence: Sluicing, Islands, and the Theory of Ellipsis 

is not a violation of Principle A. Further enquiries (within that framework) would entail investigating the syntactic properties of the functional head Den Dikken calls a Relator; an interesting syntactic question, in fact. 

What I'm asking is whether there is any concept or project of a decidedly linguistic nature that would make you think, "Hey, that reminds me of the P versus NP conjecture in computer science," supposing that you are already familiar with said conjecture. Sure. Take a look at essentially any article by Thomas Graf for instance. Research page of Thomas Graf 

The verb has the first person singular ending. If you absolutely want to stress it's the first person singular, you can use a personal pronoun. In the course of the centuries, with increasing frequency people did that even when there wasn't a strong reason to stress anything. Ultimately it became normal to say: Later Latin: ego canto. This is redundant. We have a pronoun and a suffix, which both give the same information about person and number. As everyone already knew the person and number before the verb suffix was even pronounced, people pronounced it more and more sloppily. At the same time, the personal pronoun ego, being used so much, gradually acquired a simpler pronundation je. 

Compared with the original, I was surprised that none mentioned either God or angels in their summary and interested by the fact that they, like me, find it especially hard to identify mood and modality (about half thought the son wanted to go in the forest see the beautiful things and the other half thought, correctly, that he had already seen them in the forest). 

It has been famously shown (by Emmanuel Dupoux, among others) that the ability to differentiate phonemes markedly decreases after the age of 2. Consequently, you presumably have less ability to distinguish the phonemes of English which are absent in Hungarian that someone who was born and raised in an English-speaking family. In that sense, you might not be a native speaker of English (and you wouldn't be even if you had stayed in the US). The experimental protocol is as follows: subjects listen to increasingly rapid random series of two phonemes X and Y which are distinct in language A but not in language B and are asked to distinguish them. At first the error rate is identical for both native speakers of language A and speakers who are native speakers of language B but grew up in a language A environment since the age of 2, namely linear with respect to the speed of the series . But after a certain threshold, which is independent of the languages A and B of the phonemes X and Y, non-native speakers lose the ability to distinguish X and Y and their answers become no more correct than random ones whereas the error rate of native speakers keeps following the linear rate for a much longer time.