Umm, yes? That is to say, it takes relatively little difference to call someone an alien - plenty of earthlings are called that now (often with a prefix of legal or illegal, to be sure). The word itself pretty much just means "foreigner". Of course, the term is also used to refer to space aliens, which is a very different thing with all sorts of other assumptions included. It's still possible for someone to be considered alien with relatively small differences - look at the rubber forehead aliens that weave through our stories, it doesn't take much to give an alien feel. It would be pretty easy for any visually exotic people to be considered "alien from outer space" if combined with a few cultural differences. If the world in question split even just as recently as when homo sapiens first evolved, they might look like rubber forehead aliens to our eyes - an exotic change might be roughly equivalent to racial differences if it's visible enough, and the human race evolved those in the in that time (blue, or furred, or tailed are even genes present in our population, and they might have succeeded in the alternates). Split a little further back, and they would be genuinely alien, a sapient species that is not human - and depending on how far back you go, they might be really physically, chemically, evolutionarilly different. Of course, the other major factor in being considered "alien" is the act of labeling. If the rubber forehead alternates called themselves "human" or "earthling" from earth, or identified themselves as from an alternate timeline, they wouldn't be considered "space aliens", just the regular kind. If they used different linguistic terms or labels (after all there's no reason the language would be the same if the appearance isn't), they might easily be believed to be a different species. If no one knows they're from an alternate version of Earth, it would be easy to assume they're from a different planet, whether or not the planet is known to be in a different universe or not (and maybe no one notices it's actually an alternate timeline, how could we tell?). Maybe people will assume they're from a different planet, somehow handwavey-transported through space instead of dimensions. Maybe they'll think the planets are different in their respective dimensions. So, yeah. You can get aliens from other dimensions, and maybe never know they're from a version of earth. It just takes a few assumptions. 

Something like slightly lower gravity could make the body development tend towards noticeably tall and thin. Something like varying levels of sunlight or the radiation therein could encourage very pale, or very dark skin - since the basic mechanism for that selection is already evolved. Some quality of air composition or pressure might gently influence nose shapes (due to the benefits of altered nasal air passages), or lung development (possibly altering torso proportions slightly). These kinds of adaptions can be seen in populations adapted to high altitudes, for example. Nutrition or lifestyle-based physical demands might shape height, weight, or muscular development. Of course, any of these adaptions are likely to be slight - genetics play a pretty big role in development, so environmental adaptions that are not genetic would, I think, average over a population (especially a widely dispersed one across many different climates) as slight modifications or tendencies rather than extreme ones - not to mention ones that have a decent chance of being already seen in one population or another on earth at some point in history. But, stacking a few of them together might make or help make a striking overall appearance shift. 

How can you keep them from being overpowered, hmm - how about letting them control only one element at a time. Still pretty dangerous, especially if they've time to plan - but if they have to let go of whatever they're doing, to counter (or even sense) what's coming at them, they are less dangerous. If they're matched by more than one person, they can have their attention divided even if the sum of their talents matches the sum of their opponents' talents, because they can only do one thing at a time (even if it is a great and planned thing). One set of eyes, one mind, one thing at a time. What else... You can go the standard route of having the powers (physically) expensive, have them run out of energy after a while, and need food and water and rest. They will need to concentrate in order to do things - and having more power to keep track of, they might find it harder to concentrate than a single-element. Possibly, they might have more sensory input depending on how "connected" they are to each element - if they can sense the element, and/or tell if someone nearby is manipulating or attacking with it - they can sense ALL OF EVERYTHING and thus are easily distractable, even though that was originally a good skill. Or, if each elemental power has its upsides and downsides, strengths and weaknesses (as each power should, to be balanced) have him hit by all the downsides as well as the upsides. Even if only when they're using the element in question, it might help bring them down in power by enough. Or make using more than one element at a time make it possible for the elements and/or their limitations, or even their boosts, to clash with each other or possibly cancel each other out. If the power affects the person as much as the person wields the power (as some stories have it) then having different energies flow through at different times, or having them competing, might be very troublesome indeed. I can't tell you how they got the power, it is your world and story. But, it was probably really dangerous, if no one else has succeeded or even tried. Maybe he bargained with other powers or spirits, or risked his life, went on spiritual quests, or made sacrifices. He may have extra downsides attached to the method that let him get control, beyond the power limitations themselves - if he has bargained, he is limited by the agreement he made with whatever bargained with him (including limitations in power or behavior). If he risked his life doing something risky, (again, risky enough no one ever has done so) he may have physical damage, old wounds, psychological damage or power limitations from whatever it cost him to survive. Can the powers be taken back... yes. If he bargained with something, they can take it back (if properly appealed). Not the same thing as saying they must, though, it will take cause and depend on the bargain. If it was a spell, there's a counter-spell. If all else fails, try brain damage - that will stop just about anything. It might leave him unable to draw the power, or make him forget he has it, or not let him concentrate enough to use it. It can be targeted (spell of forgetting), it can be massive (hit him over the head till he stops moving, which can leave any damage), it can be clinical and targeted (brain surgery), it can be violent (spike through his skull, if he survives - not gonna be controlling anything). 

No and yes - it does not make one a cannibal (as other answers mentioned) but I think it does make one a monster. Technically cannibalism is, as other answers mentioned, about eating one's own species - other species, even sapient ones, likely doesn't fit the definition. But the taboo behind that is a little broader, I think, it has to do with not eating beings one perceives as people. One possible nod to this is the related taboo behind eating pets, or the species of animal routinely kept as pets - cats and dogs, for example, are rarely considered food (at least in the west) and cultures which would, are, well, kind of thought less of for that choice - and I'm not saying there's something intrinsic to those species for a reason why, just that people empathize with pets, and so don't think of them as food. Another possible related concept is that there were plenty of times, historically, that people of different races were considered "not quite human" - subhuman, or animalistic, or just generally not-people. I recall reading about laws that did not consider the killing of native individuals "murder" because they "weren't people" - not to mention various inequalities of legal protection in regards to rape, abuse, exploitation, and so on related to these racist ideas. But while a great many abuses were common while these legal ideas lasted, I do not recall hearing that cannibalism was one of them. This seems relevant because people at that time certainly believed, acted like they believed, the difference between different ethnicities or cultures was as great as the differences between species - perhaps as great as the differences actually are between these hominid races you mention - yet the cannibalism taboo held. So I think that the underlying taboo is a bit broader than its literal definition, and it would certainly cover even completely separate races that are known to be sapient. Probably a person in that situation would consider eating other species "cannibalistic" even if the term didn't quite apply logically, it would feel similar, I think. And they, or others, would feel that a person who did eat the flesh of other races is a bad person, monstrous, nasty, badwrongevil. To quote a webcomic "food that talks is not food", and I think people of your world would feel that way even if there are social, or even legal, definitions that hold that some races or species are "not-people" and can be abused or murdered without consequence - they would not likely be eaten, except under circumstances (and with such consequences) that a person might consider cannibalism - like extreme survival or certain kinds of cultural elements. To get back to your question, it may be that there's a separate term for those who eat other (sapient) species as opposed to their own, or it might be the same term (cannibal) would be more broadly applied in such a world to begin with. But probably the average person in such a situation would not consider eating the flesh of other sapient species unless they would consider eating the flesh of their own species under those circumstances, and generally, people would probably react about the same to someone who did... so any difference in term is probably not hugely relevant. 

Yes, it can be done - and if the answers to this question are any indication, there's lots of ways to do it! My favorite (and personal head-canon) of the ways magic and science can be both possible and incompatible comes from "Stranglehold" by Christopher Anvil - where the problem comes from fundamentally incompatible worldviews. So despite a setup where anyone from either city is the same species with the same capabilities, capable of creating generally the same kinds of effects, and so (technically) capable of using either approach - in practice each can't understand the other's worldview, and considers each other dangerously insane. Magic almost always requires some personal component, they have to want it, will it, to happen. What they can do with that depends on talent, strength, and various other limiting factors depending on how magic works and what it does in that universe... but they always have to want it, and can't do things they believe they cannot. Science depends on dispassionate observation, where doing the same thing always (or even nearly always) produces the same results. Without that assumption, there's no way for the scientific method to catch on. If currents can flow either way, or objects fall faster or slower based on what someone wants or believes, there's scientific experimentation that will work. If whether a spell works or not depends on the will or belief of the person casting it, an experiment can fool around with visible components and chants without ever realizing the missing factor. And as a bonus... each society would consider the consequences of each other's worldview to be immoral. Scientific society would consider the magic-users' backwards, superstitious, lazy, willing to accept all kinds of inequalities, since magic talent is unequal, access to magical training might be restricted, and the society is more hierarchical. Magical society would consider science-users crazy, superstitious, and cruel - they might consider scientific education responsible for the inability of science people to do magic (crippling their own children!) or maybe trying to rewrite reality (do they think if they can get enough people to believe these 'science laws', would that act like a spell to rewrite the universe?! Crazy science-people!) So science-users and magic-users are going to want to stay separate, once they find each other. The mountain ranges, or whatever physical barrier that lies between them only has to last long enough for each to get a head start on their respective worldviews - then the 'technological' incompatibility (that their respective strategies both didn't make sense to, and didn't work with the other's people) would keep the cultural incompatibility pretty high. The occasional traveler would have unbelievable stories, and depending on the history might have been considered insane, or to have visited a people who were all insane. And then both societies progress far enough (in their own ways) to transverse the mountains...and find each other on the other side. Probably with a "boom!". So if you set up something like this, you can have protagonist peoples who are really similar to each other, and even have the same theoretical capabilities, and still have that absolute social divide. As a bonus, you can have conflict on lots and lots of levels - even those trying to work with each other in good faith are going to find the cultural divide enormous and with all kinds of shocking surprises and moving goalposts. And if one side wants to find the unobtainium to harness both powers, there's lots of room for conflict, setbacks, or outright impossibility without losing authorial wiggleroom to make the powers work together in other ways.