I am a software developer at a big firm , since the past couple of months there hasn't been any project in the technology i specialize . But this wasn't always the case , i was assigned to two different projects when i had entered this organization and i owe a lot to this company for improving my overall skills . Lately , there has been no projects at all and i have seen some few other developers of other technologies facing the same thing in my organization . I did gave 3 interviews in the past week and got selected in all of them . There are still 3 months left for my bond to complete here (I don't have anything to lose if i break it too , as they just had my certificates from graduation which i received back last month) . The overall environment is pretty good in the organization , and everyone knows me around here quite well too as i am the sole developer in the technology i work in . My question is , what should i do in such a situation . Should i wait for 3 months , collect my raise (Which i am not sure as there haven't been any projects lately but company policy entitles everyone to an yearly raise) and then leave or leave now and join another company which is offering the same salary which i would had got here after a raise . PS - This is my first job change and i am looking for helpful answers that would help me in making the correct decision . 

I am a trainee developer at a large (~120 people) web agency, about 7 days from passing my probation. I was feeling unwell this morning (Thursday) but I went in anyway because I have a deadline for a substantial project to meet in 4 days time (Monday). I was only briefed on this project yesterday (Wednesday). Work days are only Monday - Friday so technically I only have Friday and Monday to do this. I am still quite ill and the fever and dizziness is only slightly better, so I most probably won't be able to go into work tomorrow. However, I don't think it is fair to just dump an entire project on me with a deadline I know I won't manage to make. I have voiced this out with the person in charge of this project and he just shrugged it off without offering to help. I have been criticised by my boss twice during probation because he feels I am not enthusiastic, that my technical skills are much lower than my colleagues (I am a biochemist by training) and that I do not study further outside of work to make up for it (which I do, I left a career in science because I am passionate about programming). So I am afraid that if I continue to be sick (which I can't really help), I might get fired because I was unable to meet this deadline, which is unreasonably set in the first place. I look after myself well but these past weeks have been suffering from sleeplessness (I won't be able to sleep until 2am and would wake up by myself at 6am, 7am), probably because of the stress. The only solution I can think of is to go in on the weekends (provided I have recovered), but then would it be rude of me to ask for time off in lieu at the later time? 

It depends on how close a bond you share with your colleagues , also on how long you have been there . If you have been since the company started , and if there are people you daily communicate with then yes ...do let them know . If there are a selected few , who do care about your presence then you can take them out to an outing on weekend and then break the news to them . Else there's always the old faithful email which can save you the trouble of saying it out loud . Choice is yours :) 

One thing that can be done is introduce a new system . Tell him , hey i just discovered a new application , say - Asana (Used it heavily in our previous organization , yet to come across something that's better then it) . It allows to assign tasks and set deadlines for each member involved in the project . As we are multiple developers , this would help in keeping track of all the tasks . This way , you will have your tasks listed and there's a proof that he indeed assigned you that task . Though it will take some time convincing him , but it will be a win-win situation at the end . Also make sure you let know the other developers of the same and they all agree with your idea . Verbal communication is the most hazardous thing you can come across as a developer , you will always be at fault until you think of stepping up and bring some change . 

So I’m in the middle of a bit of a recruiting mess-up: I was briefly in contact with company A about two years ago. Their HR person contacted me for a possible opportunity with them. I declined as I was not actively looking at that point. I since forgot about the conversation. Recruiter #1 approached me about ten days ago through LinkedIn. We had a Skype call. He seemed nice overall, however I noticed a strong interest to know about companies I applied to already (allegedly so he could better tailor the companies he offers to put me in contact with). I politely declined to disclose details about my other application processes. He then suggested company A (see above) and company B. I found both interesting, so I agreed he forward my CV to them. About a week later, Recruiter #2 contacted me. He suggested company A, C and D to me. I declined company A, citing I was already in touch with them (or so I thought) through another recruiter and agreed he forward my details to company C and D. Keep in mind that I had still not remembered that I had been in touch with company A two years ago. Yesterday, I received emails from company A’s HR person and Recruiter #2, almost in the same minute: The HR person just politely reminded me that we had been messaging briefly in 2016 and asked whether my situation had since changed and whether I was interested in a job with them now. I replied, asking whether they received my CV/profile from Recruiter #1. No response thus far. Recruiter #2 wrote that they inquired at company A about me being in contact through another recruiter. He further claimed that his agency is contracted by company A exclusively to recruit for them and that Recruiter #1 had not even forwarded my CV to company A. Also, I asked Recruiter #1 whether there has been any news from company A or B. He replied that there were no news, but asked whether he should forward my profile „to a lot of customers that we have“. I declined and said that I would be in touch shortly. Then, I also emailed company B whether they had received my profile from recruiter #1. Also, no response there. So it’s obvious that at least one of the recruiters is acting shady. It’s either Recruiter #1 basically soliciting to companies that he wrongfully described to me as his „customers“ or Recruiter #2 isn’t entirely truthful about being the exclusive recruiting partner of company A and tries to smear Recruiter #1. Out of my gut feeling, I tend to believe Recruiter #2, but I don’t have any evidence/word from the companies who is telling the truth here. So finally my questions: How do I find out which recruiter is telling the truth? I’d like to only continue working with those who are honest. Of course, calling company A and/or B’s HR department might clear things up, but I hesitate to inquire any further as I’m afraid this might impair the application process. Is it a common policy with companies to not respond when a candidate that has been introduced by a recruiter contacts them directly? Also, I obviously should have asked more questions on how the recruiters work and what their relationship with the companies are. Any killer question that I could have asked in order to find out about the recruiters intentions? I don’t know whether this is of any significance: The whole story is taking place in a European city. I’m a software engineer. Edit (8 days later): So meanwhile I've had a phone interview with company A's HR manager. He confirmed they hadn't received anything from recruiter #1. I then confronted recruiter #1 asking for clarification. He came up with some BS that they've not contacted HR, but instead hiring managers directly, bypassing HR. As this sounded even more fishy to me (and I was right in my assumption that they were soliciting my profile), I asked recruiter #1 to delete my details from their database. 

I am a trainee developer at a large (~120 people) web agency, about 7 days from passing my probation. During my interview and on the contract it says the work hours are from 9:30am to 6:30pm. I always work at least those hours, and often overtime. I studied biochemistry at university, but fell in love with web development. I don't have a CS degree or any qualifications as a developer; and my employers know this when he hired me. But he has criticized me twice since then for not being enthusiastic, and not using my time to make up for it. Both of which I find extremely untrue and unfair. I do a lot of relevant reading in my own time (for my own interests, not because he requested). Lately, I've been given projects with unreasonable deadlines, and they expect me to overtime without pay. I mean, I know I am not as skilled as my other colleagues, but it shouldn't mean I have to be a slave, giving all my time to do their projects. What's worse, they don't teach me anything, so I gain very little in these overtime. There's an overtime culture at the company; people there are happy to work, go home, sleep and work again the next day. I cannot do that. I am not as skilled as them, yes; that's why I need my own time to learn new things that they should be teaching me, but are not. How should I approach my boss to tell him that he is expecting too much? Without risk getting fired. UPDATE 7 NOV, 2014 Conditions did not get better, OT'd until 5am on many nights and also OT'd every weekend for the past month. After refusing to OT anymore, I was fired. In hindsight, sticking around wasn't such a bad idea, it really made me appreciate my own time more, and my work ethic is much better now. And now I have found work with a new company, who is smaller but have big clients too, and they've said "we work like a bank" - 0930 to 1830, you leave at 1830, no weekends - and they pay much better, which I didn't think was possible! I'll continue to give my best for this company!