The real question is how to get the interview, which is all that matters. A stack of rejections won't help. Network. Find someone you know working somewhere that is hiring. Go to meet-ups and professional events and other places where you can get face time with someone with a job. Find where your school friends are working. Ask a neighbor. Be relentless. Anyone who will say you're talented and professional is a good advocate. 

Document visibly. Keep a visible record of your time. There are great tools that are often used in agile development, that are free, and really not tied directly to software development or any particular task. You can use this to generate automated reports that show where you time goes by category. This will help you plan better, and will allow others to see what you've done. Agile is divided into different flavors, like scrum and kanban. Kanban is a simple list showing the tasks you have to do, what you're working on, and what you've done. It isn't a big planning exercise, just an effective to-do list that communicates how your time is spent to others and yourself. I would recommend that, and it is often used personally (as opposed to in a group). Scrum and other methods are more overhead than you need. 

Take a look at the perspective of the person who would be receiving this message. This wouldn't be the first time a set of consultants--who are paid well for being experts in an area--believe their skills exceed the local talent. It also sounds a bit self-serving for consultants, who either want more work or to get the perm position themselves. So with the best intentions, you may be summarily disregarded as self-serving. Perhaps another approach is to work with the perm person. Have you shown him the tweaks? Have you proposed better methods? As a consultant, you've been called in because things aren't going well and people are aware of that. By bringing best practices and solutions that exceed and extend the knowledge of the locals, you increase your value as a consultant. If the perm was already effective, there may have no need to hire you in the first place, or they may have hired someone. Sometimes consultants are a way of flexibly extending the workforce, but often there is more. This case sounds like the latter. There were certainly discussions in management before consultants were hired, and those discussions necessarily included what was not getting done. If, with the consultants, the work is getting done well, then the perm is being effective, just not optimally so. And future plans for his role may not include this type of work at all. It's hard to know. As a consultant, you're proposing to drop a problem on their desk ("he's not competent"), but your real value is in dropping a solution. Is there something you can do there? "Replace him" doesn't say much. Maybe outsource all the work? Maybe move project management to a specific consultant you know? If you can list benefits to other solutions, you'll increase your value to this client. 

The issue isn't ownership, it's accountability. The likely have a copyright on their name. So they can effectively shut you down. Demanding a password would be an exercise in futility for you--if threatened with termination, what would you do? If they decide to try the case in civil court, how much would you have to pay? Anything you post connected with their email address affects their brand and reputation, so they have a vested interest in that asset. Don't give it to them. You also never know when that email address will disappear--through termination, mergers, name change, etc. Email addresses are free and avoiding problems is priceless. 

Some people do fail coming back to work because they don't plan to re-arrange their personal lives to accommodate the new routine. "Winging-it" might work for some, but a decent plan shows you're not just qualified at the technical aspects of the job, but capable of putting in the time. The employer's initial investment in getting you up to speed is wasted if you decide in 2 months these other aspects of the job aren't good for you. 

It's not the crime, it's the cover-up. :-) Whenever there is a potential discrepancy between your statements and any likely interpretation of those statements, it's in your best interest to clarify your statements immediately. It lends credibility to your cause, and lets everyone know that you are carefully protecting your reputation as an honest person. You are not lying when you state that you have experience, simply because that experience didn't pay. By getting out in front of this you have the best chance of defeating it. Don't act guilty, or even casts shadows of guilt. You did nothing wrong, there's just a document that doesn't consider your case. Clarify everything in short, simple terms: "I notice that document such-and-such is looking for W-2s. You won't find them for my position in _, because it was a volunteer job. You can call _ for a reference, and she can answer any questions about the position and responsibilities." If there is any push-back, take the high ground. Certainly you shouldn't be penalized for volunteering! Certainly a job that doesn't pay shows real dedication and real commitment to cause. 

The recruiter is acting unprofessionally, and it's unlikely that someone with that character has the reputation to damage yours. He's likely just upset that he lost a commission, or is under pressure to meet a quota, and is acting out. I suspect he won't be a recruiter much longer. If the tables were reversed, that verbal commitment would be worthless, and you would still be looking for a job. In the future, you will want to tread carefully when making commitments. People act on your words, and your credibility--and therefore your character--will be judged on whether your word is reliable. Credibility is hard to earn and easy to lose, so don't squander it. Although the recruiter can't do much, you've done some damage yourself. 

You can admit you know the problem. It shows experience, confidence, and knowledge. Then nail the solution, correctly, with as little embellishment as possible, basically stating the answer. You'll look seasoned. 

What type of agreements have you signed, not just with your current employer, but with past employers? You may have signed away rights to any intellectual property you create during the time you are employed, not while you are on the clock. Your current employer didn't inherit this intellectual property when you joined, but someone else may own it (and not even know it). This is only likely to even be noticed if you are now working for a competitor. What is the nature of the material? Is this novel, inventive material, or stuff that you could find on the web and elsewhere, even if you've learned it from your own experiences?