I might add a (5) that some people will think you are a poser with more money than talent...but I personally think rolling around in some deep carbon is cool. The few wheels that have the low max weight could fall apart as they get beaten on the bumps and dips of daily riding, the vast majority are probably just about as strong as (or possibly stronger than) the wheels you are rolling right now. Happy Riding. 

If you haven't hit anything and you haven't parked your bike on a busy bike rack (other tires getting accidentally rammed into your spokes), the most likely culprit is a nipple vibrating loose. You can see if this is a likely possibility fairly easily...one, maybe two, of your spokes will be noticeably loose...less tension then the surrounding spokes (compare to spokes on same side if a rear tire...can be different tension to each side). If this is in fact the case, it's something to be a little bit worried about in that you shouldn't just true the wheel and go on. If a nipple is working itself loose you will need to do something to keep it from doing so again. Generally a nipple will only work loose if it's damaged or if there wasn't spoke prep (similar to loctite) on the spoke when it was built. For damage you'll notice a crack upon close inspection or it may be "squashed"...no longer square...this happens when someone bottoms out the nipple while building it or in some cases of too much tension...this out of square can quickly lead to the nipple cracking. If this is the case, remove the nipple and replace. Retrue, check round and dish and get back on the road. If it's just loose, you're (MOSTLY - see below) in luck as it's the easier fix. Loosen the spoke even more, add some STUFF (see below) to the spoke threads and then retrue, check round and dish and get back on the road. STUFF - You need to put something on your spoke's threads to keep the nipple from working loose under vibration. The purists will claim that only spoke prep should be used and that loctite will ruin your wheel. I disagree. I've built several sets of wheels when I didn't have spoke prep around and fixed many more and I'm happing using blue loctite (NOT RED). If you can find it green loctite is probably an even better choice. If you have money to burn, go ahead and pick up some spoke prep...it's good stuff, just pricey for someone who is not getting paid to build wheels. If you use blue loctite, just a tiny bit will do it. If you use spoke prep, make sure to let it dry a bit before tightening. MOSTLY - I said that you were mostly in luck. The downside is that if there was no spoke prep on this spoke, there may not be any on other spokes. You'll want to check it. Some spoke prep has a bit of color and you can back a nipple a couple of turns and see (barely) a bit of blue or orange. Loosing a spoke during a fast decent can be very dangerous so if in any doubt take the wheel to someone who builds them and have it checked. 

The exact food shouldn't matter much. What does matter is the composition. Typically, recovery food should be 4:1 carbs to protein. Depending on amount of exercise, 150 - 300 calories. This assumes that you've done proper nutrition during the exercise. During exercise you will want mostly carb calories. If under 90 minutes (which I assume yours is per the 10 mile comment) you don't need to load during. 90 minutes or more and you should do 100 - 150 every 40 minutes (a gel or something equivalent). If you find that you are still out of energy and/or still losing weight you don't want to lose, it wouldn't hurt to see a nutritionist. You can play with fat-carb-protein ratios and amounts, but having a nutritionist will likely get you to the solution quicker. PS: My goto when I'm feeling depleted due to exercise is avocado. It's mostly fat, but it's what works for me. Worth a try, it's yummy, and qualifies for a vegan diet. 

This sounds of cable stretch. For new bikes I like to completely retune the rear dérailleur after a couple of weeks of riding. For used bikes having this problem I also check that the hanger is straight. Checking the hanger requires a special tool, so a trip to your LBS is probably in order if tightening up the cable doesn't do it. Some folks will tell you to just turn the barrel adjuster for a stretched cable...my $0.02 is that the barrel adjuster is to allow you to make adjustments if needed during a ride. If you "use up" all the turns the adjuster has before your ride...well. Adjusting for tension is pretty easy. Shift all the way to the smallest/hardest gear. Look at how the cable is routed...you aren't going to take it off, but just in case it gets loose, you want to route it back the proper way. Now loosen the hex bolt holding the cable. It should be a 5mm hex, just a bit should do it. Pull the cable tight. You can use a pair of needle nose pliers to help, I prefer to use fingers. If I'm not getting it tight enough, you can push the derailleur in a gear (or two depending). Tighten bolt onto cable. If you pushed on the derailleur for extra tension, pedal a bit to make sure it drops back to smallest cog (if not, loosen cable and try again...this time pushing derailleur less or not at all). Make sure it shifts all the way through...you shouldn't have to change stops, but check them. Shift to center of cog and adjust (you can use barrel adjuster here) chain so it's centered on cog (moving chain is easiest to see). Shift up and down several times, everything should be smooth. If the cable tension doesn't work...it may be a bent hanger...stop by your LBS. The other possibilities are worn chain and/or worn cassette. Check the chain with a gauge. Cassette your LBS will be able to tell you...I'm guessing it's not this because it shifted good when you first got it. Happy Riding. 

Getting the right spoke length requires some fairly accurate measurements and is dependent on the pattern that you want to lace the wheels (radial, 2x, 3x, 4x) and is further complicated in the rear as you have drive-side and non-drive side (possibly not an issue with the single-speed/fixie hubs you have). Most bike shops are familiar with spoke length calculators and the measurements that need to be put in them (and may have access to calculators that allow them to enter the components instead of measurements). If you buy/order the spokes from the LBS, chances are they will help you determine the correct size. Happy Riding. 

I'd recommend not taking a chance you'll miss something and take it by your local bike shop. They have a tool that can correctly re-align a bent hanger...this is much more likely then the derailleur being bent. Also, the mechanics have looked at tons of bikes up close and will notice little things that you might miss. Many LBSs will do a post crash check for free (the one I hang out at will). That said, here's what I check when someone brings me a crash bike. Good look over of the bike in it's current state before I begin. I'm looking for signs of how the bike hit, scratches and the like. If I wasn't the rider, ask the rider how the accident happened. This will help me to focus more intently on some areas. Don't let this make you focus to the detriment of the rest of the bike. Before doing anything to a bike that may have legal/insurance claims make sure you document with photos...if appropriate get clearance from police/lawyer to start having the bike put back together. Frame soundness. With the wheels off, carefully go over the frame and fork for any cracks, dents, bends, or scratches. Scratches are okay, but they can help pinpoint impact areas. Wavy paint can show where a frame is subtly bent. A tiny crack on the surface may be deeper/bigger under the finish. Most of the time we think of cracks in conjunction with carbon, but a aluminum (or even CroMo) frame can get stress cracks as well due to a collision. With metal bikes, bends and dents can weaken the integrity of the frame as much as a crack does a carbon bike. The bigger the dent or the closer it is to a weld, the worse. On metal bikes, look at each weld carefully. A bad weld can hold for years and then separate due to stress. I haven't seen this on a bike frame, but I've seen it on other equipment. Steer tube/headset - is it still straight. Often the handlebars will be pushed off straight with the tire. This can be fixed quickly (loosen stem, realign, tighten stem), but is another indicator of stress. If not straight, spend some extra time here. Either way, check that everything moves as smoothly as it did before. The angle/alignment/tolerances within the headset are small and a little bit of being off can cause binding. Loosening the compression nut (top of steertube) and re-tightening can often realign. If you haven't worked on a headset before, get a hand from your LBS to show you torque and order. Brakes - quick and easy, are they damaged? Do they still work? Scratches are okay as long as the scratch isn't rubbing anything. Drive train - the hanger (as yours probably is) is often the first casualty. Remove rear derailleur and check (LBS has the special tool). Next look to see if there's any damage (other then cosmetic scratches) on the RD, especially where the shifting cable is routed and tightened. Move up to the front derailleur. This can be bent pretty easily. Usually it can be bent back, be careful though...easiest to have a bike mechanic bend it back into shape if needed. Check the chainrings for missing teeth (note that on some cranks, there are supposed to be missing teeth to aid in shifting) or bends. Check that the bottom bracket is still tight and that the cranks rotate smoothly with no binding. Check the chain, ideally remove it and let it hang - that's the easiest way to see single link bends, it should hang straight...if you leave it on the bike, slowly rotate the cranks while watching the middle of the chain from above, you are looking for any bend - it will present as an angle between two links. Seatpost and saddle. Saddle may have been turned, but even if not, I recommend completely removing the seatpost (mark the height for reassembly) so you can look for bends or cracks. If bent it won't come out/go in smoothly. If cracked, you need to get a new one and do a careful inspection of the seat tube. Wheels - check for cracks in the rim, cracked nipples, bent or loose spokes. Take off the rubber and put on a truing stand checking for true, dish, and roundness. Check the rubber for skid wear and/or gashes. Rider - keep aware of yourself for the next several days. You can miss that you also hurt something else because it doesn't start really bothering you for a bit. My last crash, my shoulder felt fine for a day then started bothering me...it was minor, but if I wasn't paying attention I wouldn't have connected where/how the injury occurred which can be important to the doc if you end up needing medical intervention. 

I'm guessing from the way you worded this "pressure on a group of spokes" that there is in fact pressure on spokes when you put your CX bike in this rack. Assuming that, then yes, this rack can cause damage to the wheel. The most likely issue you would have is that the wheel would go out of true and you'd have to true it up. My bigger concern would be your CX bike getting bumped when another bike is being put in/taken out. With the spokes already hitting, you could now bend one or more spokes and the truing process just got a lot harder. That said, I've racked my bikes in racks where there was a bit of pressure on the spokes for short periods without issue. Long term, you may want to find a better spot for the CX. Directly answering your question though, a stand that only holds one wheel can do so without damaging the bike...it just needs to be wide enough.