I think one reality is certain and indisputable: our own individual reality which is intuitively perceived without the need to any empirical data or substantiation. There can be no doubt that you are a self-conscious reality: a reality that realizes itself! Now on the analytical level, the statement "there is no reality" is itself an expression of a reality (the reality of no reality) and therefore a self-defeating statement, nevertheless it proves that we humans have a general sense of 'reality' (that there is something after all that is 'real'). This sense is rooted in our self-conscious being that, as I discussed earlier, is one indisputable supreme reality, if you will. But as for the reality of things that exist out there, we have no way but to employ our natural and artificial means of perception and observation to examine their reality. If our perception or scientific study of an external reality informs us that "there is an apple out there" and there's no other way to prove it otherwise, there seems to be no rational reason in assuming that the observed reality is something else. There's no question that all observed phenomena can be open to scientific reexamination and revision, but in absence of new information about the reality, as I said, there's no reason (as there's simply no evidence and even no practical consideration) to assume the observed reality is something else unless there are new revelations. 

While I'm more interested in the nihilism that's rooted in the second definition, I'd love to hears answers about them both. 

This is practically a climate of many of my questions, and it's a simple question with possibly many complex answers, so I'd like to know what you will answer. Please note this in your answers: A) I'm mainly focusing on 20th+ century science. B) This is highly related to scientism. I would like to say that I have heard that String Theory does make waves in the scientific community about this subject, so if you'd like to note this as well it'd be helpful. Edit: I have now discovered I completely misunderstood my own question, and should rephrase "materialism" to "mechanism". Should I ask that in a different question or rewrite the title of this one? 

Philosophers through history have done many researches on "a priori" concepts and ideas, the most influential one today might be Kant, but of course many influential philosophers have taken such approach to philosophizing about the nature of the world (mainly; it may be that philosophers has used such approach to other areas too, but I'm not sure I'm aware of any). The key limit that I seem to grasp from this approach is the intellectual imagination of the philosopher (and most of the times also logic, but, as many philosophers takes this approach to also explore the logic system itself I'm not sure if we should call it exactly a limit). A philosopher can go on with his research purely on his imagination (and of course the accepted philosophy will also most of the time require a big amount of rationality in it too; but that, as well as logic, isn't exactly a limit). My question is, are there any other limits to the a priori research "method" (probably calling it a method is a false assumption, as there isn't exactly a method, or at least not only one, to do such research, but I'll use it for the readability of the question) except the imagination of the philosopher? For contrast, a postriori research, will have at least the limits of the experience, of the evidence, of the "real" (in the philosophical use of the word) world. 

The answer seems so immediately evident to me that it makes me wonder what has made the OP to have doubt in the first place. Just how can there be any language capability without consciousness? One has to be first conscious to use anything and language is no exception! Just look at the newborn and how it learns to associate symbols only after he becomes adequately conscious of the environment and also conscious of primitive communication methods (gesture, voice, etc). 

There are logical arguments for proving the infinity of God. What you quoted from Anselm is, however, not an argument. The link you referenced does summarize his argument, but the validity and the actual implications of the argument are debatable. Firstly Anselm’s argument is an indirect argument proven through reductio ad absurdum. Such arguments often don’t illuminate the essence of the subject under examination beyond the presumed definition. As in this case the argument doesn’t directly prove and elucidate the infinity of God, it only disproves his finiteness by arguing that finiteness indicates defect which contradicts the presumed definition, and as such God’s infinity follows. However the actual meaning and implications of infinity itself remains to be elucidated. Also, Anselm’s argument suffers from a serious fundamental flaw. The problem is where Anselm confuses the concept of an infinite being with its actual external referent! Conceiving that which nothing greater than can be conceived, doesn’t imply the necessity of an actual infinite being in the outside world, because ‘infinite being’ when conceived in the mind (contrary to the external world) is just a concept and therefore limited and finite, whereas it is in reality that an infinite being is really infinite! This subtle and mind-boggling flaw was first pointed out by muslim philosophers. Therefore Anselm’s argument fails to prove both existence and infinity of God. There are however valid arguments for both premises proposed by muslim philosophers following the Mulla Sadra’s school of Transcendent Philosophy which I refuse to explain here as they go off topic. But assuming that an infinite God is indeed proven to exist we can deal with the rest of your question. 

I've just read about the distinction between instrumentalism and realism in philosophy of science, and would like to know, did instrumentalism gain popularity nowadays? 

This question might sound odd, maybe because of lack of better phrasing, maybe because it's simply odd thinking, but I think there's something really interesting here. The epistemological stages mostly contain as first step "belief" in the knowledge (e.g. in order to "know" a dog you first need to believe it exists, or if you think about a sentence - "the sun shines" - you first need to believe it to be true). That seems like a very "basic" level of "belief" (it might even need a different term). Would we consider a belief in God an epistemological belief (as in, that belief is the first part in a series of steps to epistemologically check such statement as "God exists"), or should it be considered a belief in some different system, one that would perhaps not consider "knowledge" of the object, one that does not require justification for it? Sorry for the convoluted question, I'm still wrapping it around my head and I'm not sure how exactly to ask it, putting it here so you can tackle me and help me to better phrase this question. 

Humans have the potential to generate infinite ideas. This for meta-physicians of my heritage is a corroboration of the thesis that mind is immaterial and in it is exercise of thinking it becomes illuminated by the universal intellect that embodies all ideas. The argument in short goes like this: 

Muslims don't even believe that modern canonical Christianity fully represents the original revelation to Jesus and His true life account. Same goes for Islam's view of Judaism. Muslims argue that only Quran has the authority to say what Jesus really taught by the virtue of its verifiable authenticity as verbatim words of God. Muslims believe that all Abrahamic Prophets were inspired by a same one God and originally taught the same message with no contradiction. 

Well, my understanding is that when defining different degrees of pleasure in amusement, he evidently doesn't make any reference to motive. But as for pleasure in relations, it seems that he had to bring in motive into equation in order to be able to differentiate between degrees of friendship as in friendly, ingratiating and flatterer. So motive as far as this excerpt alone indicates seems not to have been the central idea or implication meant by Aristotle, just an element to help him formulate the virtues and vice in respect to friendship. However, generally one can argue that what in essence dictates the virtue and vice of an action/pleasure is indeed the motive, that's what, for a random example, turns eating just enough to alleviate one's hunger to be a virtue (subsequently justifying/sanctifying the pleasure felt therefrom), but eating for the mere pleasure of appetite to be a vice. 

I would like to argue that the topic (especially the search for proof for it) is rather useless. With a search for evidence, this topic is very similar to the topic of the search for evidence that God exists - which is, naturally, an assumption that brings the term "God" into a field it simply cannot exist in. You can't search for an ontological evidence for something that by definition isn't in the ontological field (or, at least not in the human sense of ontology). If you want to talk in the logical field, then sure, you can present many arguments for and against the simulation argument, but from your description I see that you know at least some that's enough. So, my point is, the question is pretty much "worthless" (not really, or else I wouldn't want to answer it, so it is worth replying to at the very least), as a search for evidence in simply not realizing the difference between the fields in which evidence lies and the simulation argument exists. And for a final note, I think Kurzgesagt (a Youtube channel) presented some excellent points on the hard time it'll be for "aliens" to create a simulation in which we exists (although it does assume these "aliens" live in the same world we live in, with the same physical laws limitations we have, but it's still a nice video to watch - they have amazing animations skills ;). 

I advocate Mulla Sadra's definition of time. A Persian religious scholar of 17th century who was also a genius of the Islamic tradition of Peripatetic, Neo-platonic Philosophy. He introduced innovative theories of epistemology, ontology, theology, and human bodily and intellectual (spiritual) development. In short, Mulla Sadra defines time as an abstraction from instability and motion inherent to the material world, with no actual, independent existence. In other words, concept of time is a result of perception of change or motion in the world. Time has thus no actual existence. What actually exists is motion, and change/motion is an essential property of matter. Obviously concepts of time such as 'past', 'present' and 'future' don't have any actual referent in the external world. These concepts are rooted in our mind, i.e. how we mentally categorize and conceptually preserve the lasting impact of a constantly changing world on our memory. Hence, when we say a day passes, it actually means some realities no longer exist. They are "past" but the memory of that bygone reality enables us to recall it in our mind and categorize it as 'yesterday', 'past', or other adverbs or adjectives of time. One important implication of this theory for philosophy of mind is that it points to the extra-natural essence of human mind. If human mind was not immaterial and thus constantly had its substance changed through time (like material forms), then we could have never have a concept of time, because no perception of reality would be preserved to be recalled later, giving us the sense of time. This in turn reveals that mental entities unlike material entities are in essence static and immutable. Mulla Sadra therefore defines time as the fourth dimension of the material world. The material plane of existence is stretched in 3 dimensions of space and 1 dimension of time. Dimensions both suggest gradual, divisive and imperfect existence of the material beings as opposed to the static, inclusive and whole existence of supernatural beings that are never subject to change and thus time. Mulla Sadra's theory of time is a part of his greater theory of Substantial Motion which is the main cornerstone of his theory of human bodily and spiritual development among others. 

The widely used (especially by laymen atheists in theology debates) term of "God of gaps" (the idea that theists explain unexplained scientific phenomenons by invoking God as the reason, filling that unexplained [or, yet-to-be-explained] gap in science) is quite known to be used in science/religion debates. What happens more than often in those (mostly laymen) debates is that this argument is being invoked against a metaphysical argument for God. What I'd like to ask (I assume the answer is obvious, but I'm not exactly sure, maybe there was a discussion around this subject) is whether or not it's "correct" (logically) to invoke the "God of gaps" argument in a metaphysical debate? 

Are there any 20/21th century philosophers that talk about a different approach to the study of nature other than science? Are there any that criticize science? 

*ethics- meaning ethics in every relation, be that ethics of some scientific subject, or ethics of humanities in general. **majority- please note that by majority I definitely don't mean most important! 

(I know some will reject the idea of having a "line" between science and philosophy, but I don't want these answers, let's assume there is.) We often draw a line between science and philosophy that separates between the two fields. This line is always changing, we can see it over the course of history. My question is rather simple (or maybe not?) - where is the line between natural sciences and philosophy nowadays? Is it changing even today? If so, what's the direction it's going? I'm sorry, I know there's some clarifications needed here, I hope you can help me clarify in the comments. 

You're right. If everyone can create "meaning" based on personal preference not some philosophical idea it will amount to contradiction. Because the concept of purpose on itself (as far as the pure abstract meaning denotes) refers to whatever we pursue in our life. In this sense getting answers can be counted as the purpose of writing questions in Stack, just as making money is for seeking employment, or every other end we seek in our daily decisions no matter how important or intelligent. However when raised in a philosophical discussion, purpose denotes an overarching ultimate end that guides and shapes all of our life decisions towards itself. In this sense purpose doesn't refer to our particular daily life sough-after goals, neither our personal whims and preferences. It will only make sense when rooted in a philosophy that logically argues for some universal truth. Otherwise the term purpose wouldn't bear any philosophical sense and would inevitably reduce to more petty things such as our arbitrary whims that are unqualified for the kind of universal validity that is presumed in a philosophical definition of the term. 

[Note: If there was a tag for that, I'd tag this question as philosophy-of-history-of-philosophy (as convoluted as this term is, I think it fits the question the most).] This might be a bit too historicisty, but bear with me. First I'd like to ask for a particular view: was there any philosopher who presented the progression of philosophy* as such that over the course of it, we see many philosophical questions being taken in many different interpretations, in all sorts of contexts, and the questions (generally speaking), remain pretty much the same - only that in different contexts there are different answers. So, we can infer that the way philosophy works over the course of history is by answering the same questions, but in the way that fit to the culture at the time. This way we have a sort of predefined number of questions (the only things that can have new "progress"/ideas are sub-questions and interpretations). Note: this "predefined number" isn't a metaphysical statement on its own, but rather a sociological or epistemological one- those questions are simply what interest us as the human kind (similar in a way to the idea of "noosphere").