If you're talking about an old specialized bike with biopace chainrings it may well be that the chain set is worn. Take a look at the chainrings and cassette and see how worn they are. Measure the chain and see if its stretched. I'd imagine you're going to find that the whole lot is just worn out and needs replacing. Whether you can find spares on ebay or a local store I can't say. Generally, given that biopace chain sets stopped being made in 93 you (or you plus previous owners) have had over 20 years of riding out of it at least so it's pretty good value. 

Most helmets (certainly the last 6 or 7 I've owned) have the pads held in by velcro so can be removed and washed or replaced. A lot of people I know wear either a headband or a "buff" (google it, it's a brand name) to help a bit with the sweat. All that said, I'm surprised your helmet pads don't dry out. I also live in Luxembourg and I can ride morning, noon and evening and each time come back to a mostly dry set of helmet pads. 

It's part of the bottom bracket but it shouldn't be loose. I'd guess you have an older style cartridge BB but again, I don't think it should be loose. It could indicate that the bearings are going to be open to the elements. If you're concerned i would take it to a bike mechanic to have it looked at 

The main reason I don't use them is that they rattle when they come loose. If you're heavy handed when pumping though, the nut is useful. Just remembered one other reason to use them... removing them if you've got a tubeless setup is a recipe for disaster 

It looks like a tricky problem. When I am faced with such problems I try to exhaust options before altering original parts.. With that in mind, I would look for a button head (rounded top) screw to replace the hex-head that hold on the derailleur hanger to see if the lower profile of the button head gives you the needed room to mount the fender in its designed configuration. If that does not do the trick I would weigh my options between the fender angles you mention (hard to comment on effectiveness not seeing pictures) and perhaps countersinking the derailleur hanger so a flat head screw can be used to buy you the clearance you need. Final thoughts... the derailleur hanger hex head looks pretty beefy. I have seen them attached with a couple 2M screws which are quite small. Changing the screw to button or flat head will result in using a smaller hex wrench for tightening. If getting the required torque to tighten it securely is a concern you may want to consider using some medium strength lock-tite as a measure against potential loosening due to vibration. 

I actually don't have first hand experience with the Vuelta hub but based on this video Video of Removing a Vuelta Hub Cassette Body and your pictures I would predict that you need to use a cone wrench on the drive side and a 6mm hex inside the non-drive side axel to loosen the freehub body 

As far as materials go.. I always prefer wool but any moisture wicking material should do... Good Luck. 

I have to say I never consider which pads I'll be using with rotors when I buy either. I buy organic for best stopping power and metallic for longest life (kevlar somewhere in the middle). For mountain biking, the weather and type of mud/grit you're riding on is a FAR greater killer of pads than a rotor; you can easily get through a new set of pads in a few hours in sandy and wet conditions. 

Unless the pedals have bonded to the thread in the cranks, a longer lever is usually the way. As that seems to have failed, I'd get the cranks off, pop them in a vice and drill the cranks out. 

All the clamp needs to do is hold the bike securely. If it holds securely and doesn't wobble it will be fine. I use an Elite trainer and have never used the skewer that came with it as I haven't had a problem with the one I have on my trainer wheel. 

There's a few possible answers: 1, For racing yes but as Jahaziel says, you will reach a point where either the effort is too great to increase speed or actually you're just spinning out 2, On a ride for fun or fitness there's no NEED to pedal downhill but I find that if it's downhill followed by an uphill it launches you into the hill with more momentum which at least starts the climb better 3, Obviously you might be trying to better a descent time in which case treat it like racing. Obviously all this is dependent on the conditions, your skill and your experience. 

Former Alsop Suspension Stem rider here... as much as I respect everyone's answers above I can say that Alsop suspension stem advocates would disagree with some of the assertions. Alsop's motto was "suspend the rider not the bike". So as far as having to decouple light-weight moving parts from heavy stable parts for suspension to work... That is exactly what an Alsop does, decouples the rider from the frequency vibration of the bike. Alsop stems, at least the later models, were spring loaded not polymer loaded. They traveled as a parallelogram giving about an inch to an inch and a half of travel. The parallelogram motion of the Alsop is what set them apart from competing suspension stems. Other suspension stems (Girvin Flex Stem) used a swing/pivot point which limited the overall travel and rotated the handlebars along an arc during compression. Limited travel and rotating controls led to the demise of the competition long before Alsop succumbed to the suspension fork. At the time I loved my Alsop Frankenstem... the problem and what eventually caused me to walk away from the product was they tended to wear out fast. Bushings constantly needed to be serviced. Additionally, they were susceptible to catastrophic failure. Over the course of 3 years I had 2 stems fail... horrible crashes and stitches were the result so I spent the better part of the next 20 years riding rigid bikes. 

Lens coatings. There are coatings you can apply to your glasses lens' to minimize the fogging. Think rainX for your eyeware. I have not used these products so I dont know their effectiveness other than they exists Glasses themselves... are your glasses cycling specific? Cycling specific glasses are designed to airflow around the lens to mitigate fogging... you can get prescription based cycling frames and lenses but it may be a bit expensive compared to other options Balaclava... this is where fatbiking specific contributions are making headway in keeping your face warm... What I look for in a balaclava is the ability to raise and lower the face protection on-the-fly so I can regulate the heat/moisture that is generated. Rather than specify a brand or make a suggestion just perform online searches for cycling specific balaclavas. Helmets... Winter specific cycling helmets are starting to hit the market as a result of the increased fat-bike market. These helmets keep your head toasty and may reduce the need for a head/face wrapping that contributes to the fogging problem 

Three things to check: 1, Is the bead seated correctly. It's pretty common to get tyres blowing off the rim if they're not seated correctly. That said, this usually leads to an exploding tube rather than the tyre just coming off 2, As Daniel R Hicks said, are the rims so worn they're expanding? 3, Check the rim for dings and warping as Malarky sort of says, but not just the area for the bead. You may have a bent rim Chances are, though, that the tyres are done. The pictures would make me think they're on their last legs. I had a pair of 20+ year old ones recently that ended up in the bin as they just weren't reliable enough for me. Some things aren't worth saving a few euros/pounds/dollars over, and the contact points on a bike are some of those things for me. If the rims seem fine new tyres are where I'd go. 

Just get a small backpack and a drybag that fits inside it. Put clothes and electronics into the dry bag and put that into the backpack. As Batman says though, winter may need more than just the items you list. Here, I need a LOT more protection as it gets COLD. As for keeping a helmet secure, there are loads with a mesh or similar on the outside that you can put your helmet into or clip onto (I tend to just clip it around a strap and let it dangle though). I'd suggest going to a bike shop and looking at their stock. 

I think what you are looking for are a pair of "slicks" for your mountain bike. They come in a number of sizes for 26" wheels. Batman suggests looking for a set between 1.7 - 1.9" That is a good suggestion since you will be able to use the same tubes are are in your 1.95 mtb tires. If you are willing to get a new set of tubes with those tires, I would suggest looking for 26 x 1.25 - 1.5" slicks. It is a matter of preference, but I find them to be a bit quicker and responsive if you are willing to run the associated higher pressure. If you commute has lots of curb jumping, pot holes, or broke pavement 1.75s may be my choice... My experience is that 1.95 slicks really dont offer much over a fast rolling knobby tire. 

I agree with Mark W's answer above but as both a commuter and an off-road tourer I will give you another option/opinion as to what to look for in panniers if you want to have a setup that double duties for commuting and bikepacking. I have a pair of Specialized Ground Control Off-Road panniers circa 1993... they have a feature that is essential for off-road... the panniers attach to the rack via a compression straps. If looking to use the same setup for bike packing and commuting I would steer clear of pannier systems that use bungy cord attachments or engineered plastic attachments for quick connect-disconnect. The bungy cord systems tend to bounce off, the I would fear the quick connect systems may break or get compromised by dirt, mud, or grit. Downside to the pannier system: For off-road touring pannier systems do not distribute the weight as evenly as bike packing bag systems. Additionally, pannier systems are wider and can result in a clearance issues on narrow singletrack. For commuting the downside to bike packing setups is there is no large easy to disconnect storage. It would be nearly impossible to carry a computer (if that is your thing). For me, I would love to have both setups... however the downside to my off-road panniers for bike packing is less than the downside to bike packing gear for commuting. So if I was looking for one system to double duty for both applications it would be the correct set of panniers. I don't know of anyone making panniers like my Specialized off-road panniers so that option may be off out of reach for a new setup. 

Typically forks on a cheap bike will be undamped, heavy and in general not terribly efficient. All bike components can break so I wouldn't just assume because it's expensive it will last. For occasional offroad use, I'd get something with a rigid fork because (as arne mentioned), the other parts are likely to be better but also because the rigid fork will be lighter than the suspension fork. That said, they also won't be as easy to find as most shops will sell less of them therefore are less likely to stock them as most people assume suspension = better. However, that's just my opinion. If I were you I'd take a few test rides and see what feels right to you. This last sentence is my real answer ;) 

If you're really that concerned, get a roll of 3M "copter tape" and cut it to the same size as the cleat. Given the cleat should never move, the most you should get is a bit of marking where the cleat sits which you'll never see as the cleat should never move (and it's helpful when you're replacing cleats) 

One option you're not considering is that the freehub body on your wheelset maybe be upgradable. Given you don't say what wheels they are but I assume given they're almost certainly disc hubs to use cx1 you may find this is an option. If you update saying what wheels you have on the rear and what hub it is then it's a good start 

That screw seems the worst of all possible choices. I can't imagine a way that compromising either the waterproofing or the electronics doesn't seem likely. If it has to be permanently mounted, glue it into the out-front style mount and glue the tightening bolt into the mount. I have no idea how you'd charge it given it would make it hard to access the charging ports but there you go. That said, I've never had a Garmin fall off be it in a crash or just riding along with the out front mounts. Given it seems what your main problem is that you can't stop losing bike computers I'd recommend that you use a current generation 520 or higher and take advantage of the wireless sync (either wifi or over your phone data) then never take the Garmin off the bike except for charging.