You've mentioned both strength and LBM development, and these aren't all that related as you might think. An untrained individual will have greater muscle growth simply due to the fact that they are untrained. As in, their body has never been introduced to this external stress and stimulus caused by weight training and as a result, it adapts to these new conditions, and grows. This rate is of course higher for untrained lifters as opposed to trained ones. You can convince yourself of this by just thinking, don't even need any scientific studies, although I'll link one at the end. Just think, if the rate of LBM development WASN'T higher in less trained individuals than trained ones, then wouldn't it become easier for bigger people to get even bigger than they are? What I mean is this: Suppose that the rate of LBM development was the same or higher in trained individuals than untrained. Then, it follows that as you keep training and stepping more in the "trained" category, your LBM development would increase proportionally and you would keep gaining muscle indefinitely! I'm sure you now realize how absurd this would be... The world would be full of The Hulk. Look at professional bodybuilders or any strength/physique athlete, look at their development throughout the years...once they reach a certain size, they almost can never increase size. Or just reach your own conclusion through big data! Look around in the world, how many people do you see that are lightly muscular, medium, and heavily? $URL$ This article can maybe shed some light on your concerns, and also look up the protein myostatin to understand why the things I mentioned above seem to be so. Strength, however, is a different ball game. Yes, strength will somewhat be related to the cross-sectional area of your muscle fibres (basically, somewhat of your muscle size), but it is primarily CNS driven. This may be where your confusion is coming from. Strength gains are mostly CNS while muscle gains are mostly due to adaptation and new stimulus. I don't want to write you an essay but this is the main idea. Your body, invokes different systems based on the different stresses that it is put under. If you do 6-12 reps with moderate weights, your muscular systems with type 2 fibres will step in and do most of the work effectively working hypertrophy. If you do 1-3 reps with very heavy weights, your muscles won't even have the time to be simulated enough and your CNS will take over with very heavy weights. What I mean by CNS is, basically, when you lift heavy weights, your body says "wow that is some heavy weight, I must recruit more of my resources". Well, you recruit more "resources" by recruiting more motor units (part of your CNS). More motor units = more muscles and tendons recruited = a stronger you. In untrained individuals, your motor pathways are very "dusty" and inefficient, since they haven't had to do this job before. It's basically their first day on the job in a way. But once you start training (first few weeks/months), your motor pathways start becoming more efficient and your motor units become better at their jobs (like any human working at any job, they will get better over time, they will adapt), your motor units adapt, and as a result you get stronger. $URL$ So, just think in terms of strength (CNS) and muscle growth (hormones, stimulus, anabolic environment due to diet and etc.) They both use different muscular systems which is influenced by your rep and weight ranges, although there is some overlap obviously (2-6rep range is decent overlap). 

Not sure what you're confused about here. What they mean is, when you initially start a diet, don't all of a sudden cut out all carbs because your metabolism will slow down. This is because carbs are muscle sparing, and without carbs for energy, you will at some point lose muscle, if you lose muscle, your metabolism slows down and you don't burn nearly as many calories, hence why your weight loss came to a stop. When you DO eat carbs, make sure you eat them right around your workouts and or around the morning, since this is when you are most insulin sensitive and least likely to store carbs as fat. 

Basically, unless you know more or less exactly how many calories you're gonna burn daily, you will lose some muscle. Obviously, if you have a good estimate of how much you will burn, try to eat over this amount + your bodyweight in lbs x 15 (which is the amount of calories required for bodyweight maintenance for an average male) in calories. I will discuss, where these calories should come from. From a training perspective, if you do have the time left over, you should definitely do some form of weight training, focusing primarily on strength. Now since you only do bodyweight exercises, this is a bit tricky. I'd say the best you can do at this point is to just try to do weighted pushups and pullups. Dips, if possible. Don't kill yourself doing these, you just want to invoke protein synthesis to counteract the protein breakdown that will occur during extensive cardio. So don't rest only 10-30 seconds between sets and burn even MORE calories. Now, perhaps the most important factor for your goal, is your diet. To give you a high-level, overly simplified overview: when you do cardio (or any physical activity for that matter), your body will breakdown glucose for energy. If it doesn't have sufficient glucose, it will start breaking down proteins for energy (this is VERY overly simplified, but won't affect the arguement), and hence you will have more protein breakdown than protein syntheis, and therefore lose muscle. Given this, to minimize muscle loss, I would suggest very high amounts of low glycemic carbohydrates(oatmeal, brown rice, sweet potatoes, whole wheat stuff) throughout the day, and especially before you walk. This way your body will have some fuel to burn over a long period of time. Additionally I very strongly suggest supplementing with BCAAs (take during the walk and/or right after). These will supply your body with amino acids essential for protein synthesis. Furthermore, you will raise your insulin levels in order to counteract the elevated levels of cortisol (worst hormone for losing muscle) that's due to your "cardio". Moreover, I suggest you consume high-glycemic carbs right after your walks (white rice, some fruits such as grapes, even candy...etc) in order to replenish your glycogen stores. And last, try to get about a gram of protein per lbs of bodyweight you have at the VERY minimum, for optimal protein synthesis, and muscle retention. Worst comes to worst, after you lose some muscle, just go to the gym, start training with weights, and you'll make what we call "newbie" muscle gains in a very short amount of time, given that you eat sufficiently, since you're not used to weight training. 

Great question. Before you can understand the answer, you need to understand some of the principles involved in how "tempo" relates to performance. Performance relating to either hypertrophy and endurance or power/strength. It is generally well known and accepted that to invoke proper hypertrophy, you need to introduce enough stimulus to the muscle to break it down, so that it can rebuild itself via protein synthesis later. Now, how do we actually do this? Well, no one REALLY knows, but from various research papers, journals, studies, and just experience, it seems that time under tension (TUT) is a key factor in this, as it stimulates the mTOR pathways which are also key in building muscle (hypertrophy). Now that we know we need time under tension to invoke hypertrophy, we need to come up with a tempo to achieve this in a systematic matter. Now, it is VERY IMPORTANT that you understand there is no ONE right tempo. In fact, you should NOT use only one tempo for all your hypertrophy goals (or any goals) as your body will adapt and you will halt your progress. Moreover, you will miss out on the benefits of other tempos, miss out on different muscle stimuli, as well as cause muscle imbalances in the long run. That being said, there are definitely some tempos that are better suited for hypertrophy rather than power, since they are achieved differently. For example, since hypertrophy (and endurance) require greater time under tension, you will spend more time in the repetition than for power/strength movements. A very good tempo for this goal would be to explosively lift the weight up, so 0.5-1 second lift, 1-2 second hold, and 2-3 lowering the weight. It is important that you understand why I chose these numbers. First, throughout many studies it has been established that the concentric part of the movement (lifting it, i.e pressing, curling up, squatting up) stimulates the most muscle fibres through explosive movement, I can reference many articles for this but a quick google search will show the same answer. It is NOT true that you should lift the weight up slowly, DO NOT DO THIS, you want to lift the weight up as fast as possible, explosively, with proper form assuming you warmed up sufficiently. Now, the isometric part ( the static part in the middle of the lift), you should always hold for at least one second in order to invoke your stabilizer muscles and get a good blood flow for nitric oxide transportation to your muscles to deliver nutrients to them. However, this part shouldn't be too much longer than a second, since we are trying to maximize TUT and you will be resting your muscles in this position, taking away tension. Now, the part of the lift, that breaks down the most muscle fibres and therefore influences the greatest size gains, is the lowering portion (eccentric). This is the part where your muscle is lengthening itself, and therefore the more time you spend doing this, the greater this effect will be, and thus a minimum of 2 seconds and max of about 4 is ideal since this is very stressful on the muscles and you don't want to overdo it, or you won't recover well. So that's hypertrophy, right ? No...not really. Remember how I said time under tension is what matters? Well, the above portion takes care of the time part of the equation. But what about the actual tension, i.e the weight? Well you can also invoke a slightly different form of hypertrophy (there's two, one being volume based with high reps, and one density based with low reps heavier weights). To do this, you just lift heavier weights for lower reps (but not too low). So for example, if you do 3-4 sets of 8-12 reps for the first form of hypertrophy, you could do 5-10 sets of 3-6 reps with heavier weights for the second form. Tempo wise, you COULD apply the same tempo but it is not advisable, since with heavier weights, the eccentric part of the movement will be very hard on your muscles if you do it for longer than 2 seconds. So a good tempo for example could just be 1-1-1 or 1-2-1 etc... Now, for power and strength , you must first understand what they are. Strength is how much weight you can move and is mostly determined by your CNS, i.e your neural ability to lift weights, the density of your muscles, and form. I'm not an expert but I am a national level powerlifter for Canada so I can help out a bit with this. Power, on the other hand, is how fast you can apply that strength over time, think "move weight fast" as opposed to "move weight" for power vs strength. Now, from the way we constructed the above analogy, you might already know how to structure tempo for power... Yup, FAST. As a matter of fact, most explosive athletes like olympic powerlifters and football players will completely skip the eccentric part of the movement (the lowering) so they can spend more time on the other two parts which will maximize power, neural efficiency, and form. Since you're probably not either of these, it is sufficient to just minimize time in the last part of the lift so you can focus more on developing power, so don't spend more than a second lowering the weight. This means, if you are trying to improve your power, for the bench press let's say, you would pick a weight that you can move fast (50-60% of your 1 REP MAX), unrack the weight, lower it for no longer than a second until it touches your chest, pause at least a second or two at the bottom (isometric) in order to make sure you don't have any rebound, and PUSH up and explode as fast humanly possible with good form (should ideally take less than a second)...that is more or less how you improve power, and train for power. So the tempo would be around 0.5 seconds lift, 1-2 seconds hold, 1 second down. Strength isn't much different, but you must understand for strength, that the main factors are your form and your neural efficiency. Your neural efficiency is basically how well your CNS is able to recruit muscle fibres under heavy loads. The only way to improve this efficiency, is to do a lot work in the lifts you want to get stronger at. I.e if you want a stronger squat, you must squat A LOT, as in sets, reps, overall work over time. Generally, you would want anywhere from 5-10 sets of 1-6 reps for this purpose. The tempo, accordingly, will ALWAYS (specially for power and strength) be as fast as you can up, i.e max 1 second lift, I suggest 1-2 second isometric hold (middle of movement) to strengthen your connective tissues and tendons for more strength work, and no longer than 2 seconds eccentric (down) since heavy weights will take their toll on their body if you spend too much time under tension. So, assuming your form is good, what is the key to all of this? For hypertrophy and endurance, we want to break down as much muscle as possible, this means lowering the weight for a longer time (i.e 2-4 seconds) on the way down of a curl, or descending the bar into your chest in bench, or lowering yourself in the squat. The amount of reps you do will determine hypertrophy and endurance. 6-12 reps is generally better for hypertrophy, while anything plus 15 reps will always be endurance based. For strength and power, since you will be working with relatively heavier weights, the weight is what takes care of the tension and thus you won't need to (or should) lower the weight for longer than a second or two at most, as you'll get injured and it ll be hard to recover in general if you don't. What's common to all tempos? The beginning portion of the lift, the concentric phase. It is basically never beneficial to spend a long time, i.e longer than 2 seconds to lift the weight up, since lifting it faster breaks down more muscle, recruits more fibres, and also, training your muscle to move weight up slowly is generally a horrible idea. They will become adapted to that speed, and as a result, any relatively explosive movement will be more likely to cause injury. Please don't train your muscles to be slow. Hope that helps.