The answer to the question posed in your title is that there is not yet any standard way to measure 'influence.' The fact is that analyses of this type are a kind of wild, wild west where 'standard' methods have yet to develop. Studies of this kind are a variant of computational humanities where the focus is on algorithmic text mining of large, unstructured databases. In literary humanities, Franco Moretti pioneered the use of statistical tools for this purpose. Moretti's at Stanford and has a group focused on 'distant reading' or 'quantitative formalism'. These methods are spreading widely throughout the academic world with many 'classically' trained, close readers objecting to their dissemination. One quick way to get at least some insight into online usage of Atlas Shrugged is the Google Trends search tool. By querying the keyword 'Atlas Shrugged' for the US for the time span from 2004-2018, one can see that there was little interest in the book until April 2011, followed by a second spike in October 2012. 

In Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell, the magician Norrell has cornered the market on magical books, which must have been a considerable expense. He also seems to have a considerable estate. How did he become so wealthy? I believe that the character's motivation is driven by the British peerage, in which titles and wealth go to people who have done important things, but inherited without evincing such merit. Norrell isn't a peer of any kind, and is ridiculed when the idea of giving him a title comes up. Wealth and title don't always go together, but there often seems to be a tension between the titled class and those who earned their wealth. So where did Norrell's wealth come from? 

The song is comparing a failed relationship to the overall passage of time. The first verse describes an empty beach, as all of the beachgoers have left for the summer: 

Conclusion There is substantial evidence to think that by 1942 -- five years after escaping Spain -- Orwell had sufficient time to reflect on whether the leftist fight against Fascism was worth it. He knew that Fascism was evil, he felt that Socialism was not, and he knew that evil had to be confronted. He must have decided that the Spanish civil war was worth the fight for the left. 

With that in mind, Orwell's disdain for the left applies to its political strategies and not its desired ends. In Support of the Lost Cause Orwell states that evil must be fought and cannot be relied upon to collapse on its own. 

Orwell's disdain for the Fascists here is clear. Favoring Socialism In a number of passages, Orwell speaks highly of the Socialist cause: 

According to Wiktionary, the wife of an earl is indeed a countess, as is a woman who holds an earldom in her own right. We just never came up with "earless", which certainly doesn't look right on a page. So, for example, the wife of Edward Stanley, 19th Earl of Derby is Caroline Emma Stanley (Neville), Countess of Derby. If Phyllis marries an earl, her title would also be Countess. 

The novel Possession contains some spot-on mimicry of several different writing styles, including lengthy poems by two fictional Victorian poets. The character of RH Ash in particular feels as if there is some model, or models, for him. He has a very distinct style and a distinct set of interests (including naturalism and Greek and Norse myths). Is he similar to Tennyson, or Browning, or some other real poet, or an amalgam? Or is he purely Byatt's creation? 

Interesting question. Regarding your observation about the greater prevalence of concerns wrt homophobia in detective fiction vs other fiction genres, that seems like a bit of a stretch conclusion...maybe even premature. In other words, more cross-genre evidence is required in support of the claim. What's worth noting (as you've done) is that there has been a slow diffusion or evolution in US culture wrt dominant or majority attitudes towards homosexuality from 'the love that dare not speak its name' to its tolerance and acceptance in some segments of society. It may seem hard to understand today but when Chandler and Hammett were writing (the 30s) cultural prohibitions were such that it would have been considered avant garde just to broach the topic. One 'safe' way of doing this was to mention it while simultaneously expressing disgust or hatred for the preference. Tracking these attitudes back to 19th c England and Sherlock Holmes is more complicated but one good index of their times is the case of Oscar Wilde, the gay writer, playwright and Victorian contemporary of Conan Doyle, and his imprisonment for 'gross indecency with men' ($URL$ The thing to bear in mind is that such shifts in cultural attitudes are like pendulum swings. There may be tolerance wrt LBGT issues in the 'dominant' US culture today but that can change pretty quickly with a reimposition of repressive attitudes and hatred. 

Another example is the Nurse in Romeo and Juliet. There's great comic effect to be mined out of a large man playing the Nurse: just as the portrayal makes the man look un-masculine, the nurse looks un-feminine. And so when she makes coarse jokes ("Now, by my maidenhead -- at twelve years old."), the effect is enhanced. Falstaff, sneaking out dressed as a woman in Merry Wives is a similar gag. Now, this is a very careful comic balance for Shakespeare to walk, because he also played women in serious ways. He had not just great dramatic female roles like Cleopatra and Tamora, but great female comic characters for whom femininity is crucial. This is most visible in "cursed" characters like Beatrice in Much Ado or Kate in Shrew: the roles aren't funny if the audience doesn't fully accept them as attractively feminine. The audience would, of course, have been aware that these characters were portrayed by boys. Several of Shakespeare's greatest comic female characters dress as boys: Rosalind, Viola, Julia. Again, there's a delicate balance where the audience is being asked to accept that these are boys-playing-girls-dressed as boys. It worked only because the audience was fully imbued in the trope, and simply accepted it. I think of it as similar to the effect of intercutting in modern cinema: the world doesn't jump perspectives like that, but since you've been trained to accept that as the language of cinema, it doesn't give you even a moment's pause. It's not so much "suspension of disbelief" as genuine belief: that's the way this world works. Of course, they only believe it in the theater. They don't accept boys-dressed-as-girls in real life. Unless, of course, they're drunk. So the effect of using Bartholomew is to make the drunken guest seem more despicable, and thus funnier. It also helps that this keeps the prank as a "boy's club" moment. Women, especially young women, were usually portrayed as more refined in their sensibilities. Even low-born characters like Audrey in As You Like It (" I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul") have some touch of propriety. Women do participate in pranks (like Mistress Quickly in Henry IV, part 1), but are usually less coarse about it. I'm certain Shakespeare could have written a woman into the scene without breaking the drunken-fraternity nature of the the prank, but it was certainly in character to make it an all-male moment. 

The metric displayed in the chart is described by Google as 'interest' but it's more accurately described as the ratio of keyword search activity divided by total search activity on Google. The weekly values that result are rescaled by dividing the weekly values by the maximum value for the time series. This creates the spike in April 2011 equalling 100%. That said this little analysis isn't very satisfying in that it only goes back to 2004 and is quite narrow in its specification. GT offers little by way of an explanation for these spikes in 'interest.' A direct answer to your concern with the influence of Rand's book is a more complicated question that would have to include not just her book but the related influence of other libertarian or neo-liberal thinkers such as Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman, Alan Greenspan, and many more. In other words the answer to your second question is no, there are not yet any "high-quality studies on this topic," at least that I'm aware of. However, there are "high-quality" studies done on other areas and aspects of text mining that could be brought to bear in addressing your specific question. For instance, this paper by Rule, et al., Lexical shifts, substantive changes, and continuity in State of the Union discourse, 1790–2014 does a wonderful job of analyzing the themes of the Presidential State of the Union addresses going all the way back to George Washington. The graphics are beautiful. This is the kind of work that could be brought to bear in answering your query. $URL$ 

This quote sounds like Orwell eventually concluded that Spain would be better off under Franco. I'm no expert on Orwell, but I've recently re-read Homage to Catalonia, a chronicle of Orwell's experiences in the Spanish civil war and for some reason a conservative favorite. I've also read 1984 several times, I've read a variety of his other work, and I'm currently working on Christopher Hitchens' Why Orwell Matters. I've never come to the conclusion that Orwell felt Fascism would be acceptable under any circumstance. Rather, I've understood Orwell to be against totalitarianism in all its forms and to be on the side of truth and human decency. I've also understood his conclusion after his experiences fighting alongside the left in the Spanish civil war was that the Soviets were also totalitarian, but I never understood him to have come to the conclusion that the Fascists were to be preferred to the Communists. Is there any evidence to support the assertion that I've quoted? 

He's referring to Bilbo's retirement to Rivendell. Bilbo's plan was to relax, listen to the songs, translate some books, and work on his memoirs. As Gandalf put it in the next line: ‘He felt better at once'. I don't think Frodo had Bilbo's longer-term prospects in mind. He didn't know that a journey across the Sea was in the cards. All the rest Bilbo was expected to get was at the Last Homely House. Frodo (and Hobbits in general) don't seem to think much about the Afterlife, and the uncertainty of what happens when you go The Elves Know Not Whither. "Rest" doesn't seem to figure into it: maybe for Elves, in Mandos, but not for Men. It is a bit of an oddity for Tolkien to have used a phrase there with such clearly Catholic overtones. He generally tried to avoid evoking our religion(s) into Middle-earth. Tolkien's ear sometimes failed to notice when his turns of phrase had other meanings. (Every time he mentions "Tirion upon Túna" I still mentally add "... upon Rye"). So I think here he's referring simply to the straightforward event: Bilbo went to Imladris, to rest, peacefully. 

In each passage, Orwell's clear support of Socialism is stated in the context of how its purpose is to provide the masses with a decent standard of living. Though Orwell supports Socialism in principle, he does not spare criticism for the confounding behavior of Russia, which worked to suppress a revolution in Spain while also doing little to support those fighting the Fascists. 

The Reds and Whites of course refer to the left (Communists) and the right (Fascists), respectively. Orwell goes on to describe those who support Fascism (emphasis added throughout): 

Against Fascism Orwell in his essay specifically calls out the evil of Fascism numerous times, e.g., 

Having read George Orwell's 1942 essay Looking Back on the Spanish War (tip of the hat to @Randal'Thor), it's quite difficult to imagine that Orwell ever came to the conclusion that Spain would be better off under Franco. This is because: