As an aside, RI Swamp Yankee’s comment is probably correct, although the use of “Spanish” as a category may be regionally specific. Mora notes that "Hispanic" had some rival terms--Raza, Spanish Surname, Spanish, Latino, and Spanish-Speaking--"but none was as popular as Hispanic was between 1960 and 1990.” New Englanders may have gravitated toward “Spanish” as a general term because New England's large Portuguese and Brazilian communities make the Spanish/Portuguese more salient there. 

The end result? "By the eve of the First World War very few were still alive who could recall the days when cricket had a chance to become America’s national pastime.” 

PS - @KennyLJ's answer relies on the highly respected data series put together by Angus Maddison. Maddison's statistics post-independence are probably derived from official statistics (which begun in 1960, a year after Singapore achieved self-governance). So I think KennyLJ's answer more than qualifies for the bounty. The above is just for context. 

So "Cromwell" is a term of abuse equivalent to "Caesar" for both sides. The answer to your question may be different if you asked if early New England colonists saw Cromwell as a role model. But keep in mind that the southern gentry saw themselves as cavaliers--they would have detested Cromwell. And Americans in this period venerated Cincinnatus, who is effectively the anti-Cromwell. 

There are numerous references to Christian martyrs having been killed by scaphism. As best as I can tell, these are referring to reports of an execution in A.D. 363 during the reign of Julian. As it was retold in the The History of Christian Martyrdom: 

Both Federalists and Republicans were very aware of the novelty of the American experiment, and both feared that history taught that republics often collapsed into tyranny. The major ideological battles of the day were over what conditions could best preserve republican government. The Federalists believed in a hierarchical, ordered society led by a natural elite; they saw the Alien and Sedition acts as propping up that ordered society. The Republicans saw the acts as destroying liberty. In the end, the Republicans won, and they established the basic political philosophical framework within which all subsequent political debates would occur. 

The young woman quoted likely misunderstood the real reason the windows were kept shut: to keep the mills humid. This was explained to me on a recent visit to Lowell, but I found a few published sources that match what the tour guides told me. Here's one: 

Unsurprisingly, many people who do not want a legal prohibition against interracial marriage are nonetheless "uneasy" with a relative entering into an interracial marriage. Still, the general trend of greatest tolerance in New England and least tolerance in the South holds. The Mid-Atlantic and the West are in between the two extremes. 

And of course, how could we talk about social control and domesticity without bringing in gender? In Lippincott's Monthly Magazine, Volume 84, and republished elsewhere, Minna Thomas Antrim published an essay entitled "The Outrages of the Telephone." 

The Jahangiris (1190-1520), a Tajik dynasty, were the original Sultans of Swat.* They ruled in parts of modern Afghanistan and Pakistan. From The Glossary of the Tribes and Castes of the Punjab: 

This was part of the focus of Piketty's Capital in the Twenty-First Century. He prefers to measure income inequality by looking at the share of the top decile/percentile/0.1% in the national income. In general, the story is that inequality decreased sharply throughout the Great Depression and WWII, and continued on a downward trend until the late 1970s-1980s. Now, inequality is back. Here is the income share of the top percentile in the Anglo-Saxon countries: 

The FRSC eventually branched out into school lunches, and by 1939 it was serving lunches to around 900,000 children daily. The FSRC was just one of the many alphabet agencies created during the New Deal. Other major agencies included the Works Progress Administration employed millions of men and the Civilian Conservation Corps employed 3,000,000 men in nine years, The basic effectiveness of these poverty relief programs is evident in the fact that historians and economists are consistently unable to find increases in American mortality attributable to the Great Depression (with the exception of suicide). 

Garnish: Exotic garnishes were not new to the Prohibition era. Late nineteenth-century barkeepers used citrus twists, berries, pickled French hazelnuts, pickled walnuts, olives, pimolas—and of course, the maraschino cherry (Wondrich, 53). Fancy Glassware: Definitely pre-Prohibition. There's a great picture of fancy stemware from 1905 in Wondrich's book (p. 55) but I'm unable to grab it from Google Books. The coupe, the punch glass, the sherry glass, the highball, the goblet: they're all there. Straws: Dentists thought that ice was very bad for your teeth, so the advent of ice in 1830 is also when straws were added to the cocktail repertoire (Wondrich, 40). Umbrellas and Tiki Drinks: Although drinks loaded with orgeat and exotic juices are able to mask indifferent liquor, these are post-Prohibition developments as well. They are associated with the experience of American servicemen in the South Pacific and were popularized by “Don the Beachcomber” in the 1940s. So What Effect Did Prohibition Have? It is definitely true that Prohibition increased the prevalence of bad liquor, and that bartenders had to adjust their techniques accordingly: 

* European sociology is quite different from American sociology, so I make no claims to represent non-American approaches to the discipline. 

The decline of wagons was very gradual. They were displaced for long-distance movement of bulk goods starting in the 1820s and 1830s by the canal building frenzy sparked by the success of the Erie Canal. Canals were the cheapest way to ship bulk goods for a long time. By the 1840s, ocean-faring steamboats provided direct competition to wagons for transcontinental passenger transportation. During the 1849 Gold Rush, the majority of migrants traveled to California by steamer, a trip which was made faster by the Panama railway in 1855. Cornelius Vanderbilt made a killing with his Accessory Transit Company, which carried some 2,000 passengers each month by steamboat from the East Coast, through the waters of Nicaragua, and finally on to California. It was among the cheapest ways to reach California. Wagons took a further hit with the extension of railroads into the West. Wagon traffic on the Oregon Trail began to decline after 1869, with the completion of the first transcontinental. The Santa Fe Trail hung on longer, until the railroad reached Santa Fe in 1880. In short, wagons were less efficient than other modes of transportation, and so they were used wherever canals, railroads, and steamboats didn't reach. Isolated farmers would still be using wagons to get their goods to market until motor trucks displaced them once and for all. 

This theory is neither "unified" or "non-controversial," but honestly, you're not going to find that in any study of a topic like gender inequality. 

Source: Fogleman 1992. "Migrations to the Thirteen British North American Colonies, 1700-1775: New Estimates." Journal of Interdisciplinary History. 

This wouldn't be so far from Republican preferences, except for the fact that in practice, commercial neutrality meant that the majority of American commerce would continue to be with Britain. Madison and other Republicans wanted to use "commercial coercion" (withholding American raw materials from Britain) as leverage in gaining further concessions (especially the opening of the lucrative West Indies market to American shipping). Still, Washington and Madison are both ultimately championing free trade. 

And they saw bestiality everywhere. In some New England towns, the birth of deformed piglets convinced the townsfolk that someone must have committed bestiality. They'd generally end up hanging a man of poor reputation. In short, Puritan sexuality needs to be understood in its own terms, as it can't be described by any modern attitudes to sexuality. 

One snapped thread could jam a spinning machine. If you take a look at how big these machines could be, you see why owners were afraid of snapped threads. Temporarily shutting down one of these machines could result in a significant loss of productivity: 

First, according to the 1860 Census, there were 3,526,195 free men, aged 20-39 in the states that would not secede. 3,475,987 of these men were white. Second, according to the National Parks Service, 2,672,341 men enlisted in the Union Army, 2,489,836 of which were white. Around 67.8% of enlisted soliders were between the ages of 20-39. To estimate soldiers' age distribution, I downloaded data from the study "Union Army Recruits in White Regiments in the United States, 1861-1865" by Robert Fogel, Stanley Engerman, Clayne Pope, and Larry Wimmer. So multiplying the number of white soldiers by the percentage within the target age, we get 2,489,836*.678 = 1,688,108 white soldiers age 20-39. Divide soldiers aged 20-39 by total male population aged 20-39: 1,688,108/3,475,987 = .486 Of course, this estimate is high, because of population growth from 1861-1865. But it usable as an upper bound: Somewhat less than 48.6% of white males, aged 20-39, enlisted in the Union Army. 

But Johnson turned out to have no political touch. Needless to say, history might have been pretty different if Lincoln had chosen someone else. 

Also note that the particular phrase "Egypt-land" has a longer history than just King. For example, a similar phrase can be found in the old Negro spiritual "Go Down Moses": 

* And in most cases, the pressure for sequels and series is more commercial than artistic. Publishing houses know that most novels lose money, so their revenues depend on funding as many surefire hits (i.e. sequels) as possible. Hollywood works the same way. 

There seem to be two major lines of reasoning here, both conjecture, because apparently Congress never explained itself. Arizona's state historian Thomas Edwin Farish wrote: 

The 4th-5th century A.D. "Bikini Girls" mosaic from the Villa del Casale of Piazza Armerina shows female athletes practicing or competing in athletic competition with dumbbells and a big ball that looks like a medicine ball (both in upper-left). 

* Okay, it was somewhat messier than this. I think you need to check state by state to see how Jim Crow laws applied to other minority groups. 

Let's talk about maps. They help us navigate the physical world. If I want to find my way from Pittsburgh to Cincinnati, a world map will not be of any use. Sure, the map tells me that Cincinnati is generally southwest of me, but I need to know relevant details like highways, bridges, and so forth. But maps can just as easily be too detailed. I could become overwhelmed with topographical information and names of irrelevant farmsteads along my journey. At some extreme, maps become worse guides to the physical world as they become more detailed. This is because a 1:1 mapping would just be an exact replica of the world. I'd need a map for my map. A good mapmaker doesn't just need accurate knowledge of the physical world: a mapmaker also needs to know what his users want to accomplish with that map so that he knows which details to include and which to omit. Anyone who wants to boil down history into easily digested lessons and rules of action faces the mapmaker's dilemma. Treat history too broadly (like a world map), and you'll only be able to come up with useless bromides. Get too far into the weeds, and the specificity of each historical moment will make any potential lesson inapplicable to other situations and contexts. So in order to write a "useful" history, you'd need to know exactly which details are going to be useful to your reader and exactly which details are going to be needless distractions. Unfortunately, this is a near impossible task. The problem isn't just that history is more complex than geography. More importantly, the needs of statesmen, generals, and entrepreneurs are less well-defined than the needs of a motorist. The problem is further compounded by the fact that political and economic landscapes shift faster than geographical ones. Taken together, this means that no one can write a definitive study that will unquestionably prepare a world leader for the next crisis. Nonetheless, I wish that all powerful people had a better grasp of history. Why? The serious study of history can make you a subtler, more nuanced thinker. A cursory study of history will only leave you with pat generalizations that might well lead to disaster if followed schematically. In no way can historical events be reduced to a list of if/then propositions that anyone can follow in order to achieve success and avoid catastrophe. Perhaps the most useful lesson to be drawn from history is epistemological humility: the longer you study a topic, the more complex and confusing you realize it actually is. 

Savvy marketers disparaged cricket as effeminate Spalding was pretty scathing in his depiction of cricketers. He wrote in 1911: 

It's not a complete role reversal, but the Vanatinai are much closer to gender egalitarianism than anthropologists generally find. 

You'll note that the map isn't great. (Look how squat western PA is, because Lake Erie looks too far to the south.) Poor mapping gave states with unlimited western territories room to maneuver in making claims on western territory. Land to the west of PA's western border thus had the potential to be claimed by Virginia. Indian fighting and the Revolutionary War prevented the settling of the boundary dispute. All of this geographical ambiguity meant that settlers in this disputed area were confronted with dual local governments, one loyal to Pennsylvania and the other to Virginia: 

The most notable non-Christian Roman critic of gladiatorial games was likely the Stoic philosopher Seneca. Of course Christians like Tertullian had good reason to speak out against bloody spectacles in general, and some of the conquered peoples living under Rome took less joy in the games than did the Romans. But for the most part, even enlightened Romans whom we might expect to criticize the games kept quiet, including Stoics like Epictetus and the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. Tacitus mildly disapproved of the games, writing: 

Allen notes that coffee was banned in Mecca in 1511 and 1525, Cairo in 1539, and of course in the Ottoman Empire in 1633 by Murad IV. However, the motivation for these bans is a combination of social control (as Yannis Rizos pointed out) and Islamic restrictions on intoxicating beverages. Allen discusses the 1511 and 1633 bans in some detail, and milk does not come up in anyone's reasoning. It therefore seems unlikely that the Ottomans ever specifically banned drinking coffee with milk. 

The answer, of course, is that no single country can be blamed for a catastrophe as large as World War I. This argument is made at length by Christopher Clark's The Sleepwalkers, which some in the international relations community consider to be the new standard account of the causes of WWI. Clark starts with a structural approach to WWI, and adds to it with (I think) an excellent understanding of how flawed and sometimes irrational leaders (Wilhelm and Nicholas don't come off well here) led to bureaucratic mis-function and bad organizational decision making: 

The linked study does not mention any abolitionists. It's hard to prove a negative, but unless someone can find an example of an abolitionist who was arrested, I think it is very unlikely. 

You may be mixing Murad IV's short-lived ban on coffee with a general distaste for coffee and milk in many late medieval/early modern cultures. The origins of this distaste for coffee and milk may have stemmed from Islamic alchemy. Taking from Stewart Lee Allen's The Devil's Cup: