What primitive religions such as Judaism call 'God', Buddhism calls 'ignorance'. For example, Genesis 6:5 describes how God regretted his creation, which shows how God has ignorance. Since 'regret/remorse' is one of the five hindrances, God also has hindrances. God also loves the smell of the the fatty parts of the meat (Genesis 8:21; Leviticus 3; etc), which shows God also has the hindrance of sensual desire. More modern religions, such as Christianity, teach 'God is love' (1 John 4:8). In Christianity, God has no hindrances because it is said: "God is light; in him there is no darkness at all" (1 John 1:5). If the old Jewish God is the same as the new Christian God, maybe this God learned how to be free from the five hindrances from the Buddha, who is the "Teacher of Gods & men" (sattha devamanussanam). 

This is a common idea in cultural Buddhism & Hinduism, which also probably explains why Buddhism became extinct in India (since both doctrines became essentially the same). 

The Buddha taught his Dhamma is visible here-&-now therefore science cannot contradict it. The Thai monk Ajahn Buddhadasa explained about the Pali word "jati" in Dependent Origination: 

The Pali suttas do not ascribe specific hells for specific unskilfull, heedless &/or evil deeds. For example, the Cula Kammavibhanga Sutta lists many types of unskilful actions & each action has the same potential general result of the 'unhappiness' of 'hell'. However, if we use our common sense, we can discern in life that, in general (but not always), certain actions bring greater hellish results than another actions. For example, murder brings a longer prison sentence in hell than rape or corporate dishonesty; or the post-traumatic-hell of soldiers who fight in war is a greater hell than the hell of stealing or sexual misconduct. Or the hell of drug addiction is a strong hell. 

The predominant description of Nirvana in the Pali scriptures is experienced in the here-&-now. For example: 

The main Buddhist holy book - The Sutta Pitaka - is many times larger than the Bible, consisting of more than 10,000 discourses. However, the essential teachings the Buddha compared to a 'handful of leaves'. The following teachings from the holy book cover the essentials: On Higher Truth Three Cardinal Discourses of the Buddha The Dhammapada For laypeople Maha-Mangala Sutta: Blessings Sigalovada Sutta: The Layperson's Code of Discipline 

That the Buddha returned home showed he cared about his family. The Buddha's son became an arahant and supposedly also Yashodhara, who is mentioned in the suttas with another name. Therefore, the Buddha gave them the greatest gift. 

Therefore, a 'sattā opapātikā' is merely a state of attachment or self-view that immediately arises as immediate results of acts of kamma. For example, as soon as a person performs an ethical action, they spontaneously arise as a 'human'; as soon as a person performs a compassionate action, they spontaneously arise as a 'god'; as soon as a person has strong craving or addiction, they spontaneously arise as a 'hungry ghost'; as soon as a person performs an unethical or unreflective action, they are spontaneously born as a 'animal'; as soon as a person is angry or sufffering, they are spontaneously born as a 'hell being'. 

Is the word 'self' used here in conventional language? Or does the word 'self' here actually represent a belief in self by those nihilist wanderers? If those nihilist wanderers did not believe in 'self' ( and thus used 'conventional language'), why were they not considered to be enlightened? 

There is some information about funerals at this link. When I lived in a forest monastery in Thailand, dead monks & residents were cremated on a pile of wood in the forest & we would practise meditation on the burning corpse. 

One major difference is the objects of faith. In Christianity, faith is in conditioned phenomena. In Buddhism, faith is in both conditioned & unconditioned phenomena, as follows: 

In MN 44 is found an explanation of the terms 'kaya, vaci & citta sankhara' (which are terms also found in Anapanasati steps 4, 7 & 8 and in the 2nd nidana of Dependent Origination). Bhikkhu Thanissaro's translation is: 

Thus, when the Buddha taught about the arising (samudhaya) of consciousness, he only taught how consciousness arises when internal defilements (asava) & thoughts (sankhara) that lead to suffering condition (paccaya) consciousness to arise, as follows: 

This sensation is being experience probably because you are deliberately focusing your intention on your forehead. Your post states: 

To reach jhana, the mind must not have any of the five hindrances. Then, if that is so, the mind must let go and give up these techniques. The only way to jhana the Buddha taught was 'letting go'. 

Every morning and every evening, the above verse is chanted by Theravada Buddhists as the recollection of refuge in the Dhamma. 

Therefore, if ignorance is ended by reflecting: "material & conditioned things are impermanent", the craving, attachment, becoming, birth & death that cause suffering will not arise. The mind will be free from suffering about motor cars. 

The Buddha's teachings are two-fold: (i) worldly; and (ii) supramundane (lokuttara). Therefore, there is no such thing as "secular Buddhism". The question should be: 

Our present 'existence' (state of mind) does not have to be related to a prior life. The scriptures explain having such a view results in having no hope & leaves one stuck in inaction. 

craving exists for a certain state of being; faith has not been placed in the Buddha, Dhamma, Sangha & Noble Eightfold Path to overcome the emotional pain & suffering, which can be overcome with right practise; and it can result in suffering arising in other people, such as mother, father, family & friends. 

The four key Pali words in this sutta are uppādo, ṭhiti, abhinibbatti and pātubhāvo. Pātubhāvo is used twice, namely, in respect to the object of the sutta (eg. earth element) and to the outcome, namely, jarāmaraṇassa pātubhāvo (manifestation of aging & death). Therefore, I think to understand SN 26.9, these four Pali words need to be understood; not necessarily according to their dictionary meanings; but according to how they are used in the Pali suttas. In the Pali suttas, pātubhāvo is used in the following contexts: 

Therefore, it appears 'delusion' (such as 'selfishness') is a form of craving & attachment that manifests abruptly and overtly & then calms down; where as 'ignorance' (lack of knowledge) is a more permanent underlying tendency (anusaya) in the unenlightened mind. 

It is doubtful, after nearly dying, that only one meal would sustain Gotama for another 49 days. The Udana states, for 7 days after enlightenment: "at the foot of the Bodhi Tree, having just realized full enlightenment, the Lord sat cross-legged for seven days experiencing the bliss of liberation". A 7 day single sitting of a fully enlightened Buddha may be possible & is not as unlikely as 49 day sitting of an unenlightened Bodhisatta (seeker of enlightenment). When considering for the rest of his life the Buddha generally ate one meal per day, the stories or fables about a 49 day single sitting appear exaggerated, similar the the 40 days & 40 nights of Jesus in the desert. 

All suffering is summarised as attachment to the five aggregates. This suffering arises when there is craving that leads to new self-becoming. This suffering ends when craving ends. The noble eightfold path is the way to end suffering, which is summarised as using mindfulness to bring wisdom (right view) to sense experience.