Motorcycles are mostly used for media (video and photos) and sometimes for support (they can have a limited number of wheels; I'm not certain if they are "neutral" or team specifics. The motorcycles will be mixed in with the cyclists; the drivers are highly skilled. The cars are for race support; there are team specific cars with spare parts and replacement bikes in case of breakage, and have team coaches and also used to transfer food and water bottles to the cyclists. I think there are neutral cars with spare wheels (maybe dependent on the particular races) There are also neutral cars with doctors and race officials and VIP. Most of the cars stay behind the cyclists; if there is a breakaway a car will (as safely as possible) stay with the breakaway. As for the fumes; at the speed they are going, it is not an issue; and since there are only a few motorcycles mixed in the cyclists, I don't think it is an issue in itself; and the majority of the cars are behind the cyclists. 

The main most important consequence is that you will eventually get hit by a car (or something heavier); and the way things are, if you survive, you will be charged with reckless "driving" (cops are good at detecting accident causes). People using road expect that everyone follow a certain "social contract" that we (driver, cyclist, pedestrians) should follow traffic regulation. If you come to an intersection with 4 stops, and all the cars in turn stop and wait for other cars to stop an go. If one of the car, or a cyclist or a pedestrian does not respect the regulations (social contract) then the risk of accident will increase. 

It's my favorite because of the color - "high visibility yellow". Most of my riding is on local streets, and it makes me feel better knowing I'm nice and bright-colored. I prefer this over a regular t-shirt because it lets more air through, doesn't get heavy as it absorbs my sweat, and it has handy-dandy pockets in the back (great for my work ID, so I don't have to dig through my bag to find it to swipe in the building). You can check with your local bike shop and see what you like - I'm not a very skinny guy, so the tight-fitting bike jerseys don't look good on me. There are a lot of biking shirts that are looser fitting, some being designed as "mountain biking" clothes. 

MapMyRide.com uses Google Maps in their web application, but I'm not sure if you can import an already-planned route from Google Maps: 

I noticed my crank making a noise when I would crank hard, and it ended up being the pedal. It was the cheap plastic pedals that came with the bike (before I switched to clipless), and the pedal itself was starting to break. It would bend when I was cranking hard, and it finally broke on me (thankfully, just down the street from my house). So, I would check the pedal, and check the bolts for the whole area to make sure everything's tightened down properly. 

These two books came highly recommended to me, and together they cover about every bike part your bike may have. (The road bike book doesn't cover "V" style brakes, since they're considered mountain bike parts). 

(I don`t have a definitive answer) . I would concentrate on what is most frustrating when it fails when riding a bike: Tire and wheels maintenance: Tire levers. Good air pump. Good tube patch kit. Replacement tubes and tires. A set of hex wrenches (check Imperial vs. Metric) After that, you can add whatever you feel will help you maintain your bike (specific wrenches, lubrication and grease,...) Insipired by: $URL$ $URL$ 

have a look at this : $URL$ and this : $URL$ It is all a matter of statistic and probability of failures in the lifetime of the component. This means that the component should have a normal life of about 1000 miles before a certain percentage of failure (can) start appearing on a number of components. Another example, my washing machine has a design life of about 14 years [1]; before that the number of failure should be minimal according to the manufacturer, after 14 years, the number of failures should start to statistically increase. It does not mean the component will fail after the design life, but that the probability of failure increase. [1] $URL$ 

What is the intended use of the bicycle ? Commuting? Racing? As far as I know, Indian weather can be very diverse from near desert areas to jungle and seasonal monsoons... with and without mountains. If it is mostly commuting, I'd get a "good" hybrid bicycle if you can store it safely, or a simple old road bike (well maintained) that you don't care that much if it gets stolen or damaged. If it is for racing or training, I'd get one of those new "gravel" bikes with the best tires you can get to limit the risk of punctures. As for which bike to get, it depends on your budget and availability near where you live. 

I think it depends on the type of bikes you'll be loading onto the rack. I have a 4-bike hitch-mounted rack (similar to this rack). My wife's cruiser is just large enough that it takes some attention to position when I load the next bike to get them all to fit. What I've run into is that the handlebars of smaller bikes tend to get in the way of the seatpost of the next bike (I load each bike facing the opposite way). In my case, her brake lever likes to get caught on my rack, so it takes some practice to get around these problems. If you can, I would try purchasing a 2-bike mount from a place that will let you return it, take it home and try it out. If it can hold both bikes, you're good to go, and if not, you can take it back and purchase a larger rack. 

If your car doesn't have a trailer hitch on it, you can have one installed and purchase a "trike and bike" rack that mounts in the trailer hitch receiver: 

I got the blue pinstripe set and I love it - a bright source of light, like a car headlight, hits your bike, and you light up like a christmas tree. It's especially pronounced at night, and as cool as this picture is, it doesn't do it justice. Check out the video on their website for a nighttime demonstration. Edit: I thought I would share my picture of my bike with the blue BrightBike pinstripes on it. This is taken in my dark garage with my flash covered (just enough light to make it glow without the picture being blurry). In daylight, the color is almost the same as my paint color, so they're hard to see.