The Wildwinds site has an extract with the relevant information from the 2000 Sear catalogue of Roman Coins and Their Values. 

If anyone feels inclined, most of the the figures required to generate a table - as requested in the later edit to the question - should be available in the sources listed below. 

EDIT It is worth noting the following observation in regard to Robert Allen's hypothesis, made by @FranzPlumpton in the comments below: But note that the so-called HWE-hypothesis as a cause for the BIR is slowly falling apart. People have been showing that his wages series were mismeasured (e.g. Judy Stephenson), furthermore his reference point of Italy was underestimated (e.g. Malanima shows that wages in Italy were higher than previously thought, as high as in ENG), wages in France were similarly high (e.g. Vincent Geloso for Straßburg). Then there is Humphries and her update on female wages. Plus she and Weisdorf have a new paper that also contradict Allen (more in support of an industrious revolution à la Jan de Vries) Sources 

You are right that William Marshal, 1st Earl of Pembroke, was an extremely important figure in English - and even in world - history. It can be argued that, as protector and regent for King Henry III, he was responsible for the re-issue of Magna Carta in 1217. Indeed, he is often referred to as "The Greatest Knight in Christendom", although - to be fair - there are other rivals for that title! He did, indeed, travel to the Holy Land, and you are right to say that this episode of his life is particularly poorly recorded. In fact,everything that we know about the episode is recorded in his 13th century biography, L'Histoire de Guillaume le Marechal. This was originally written in medieval French, but a translation into modern French is available on Archive.org. (I did find some English translations online, but the copyright status of these volumes appears questionable at best!). You should be able to find a copy of Nigel Bryant's English translation in a decent library near you. 

In 4th/5th century (BCE) Athens, documents would have been written on papyrus scrolls. We don't know exactly when the first "books" as we know them (i.e. a bound collection of sheets) were first produced in Europe, or what the first "book" was. It seems to have been at some point between the 2nd and 4th centuries CE. We do know that saint Isidore of Seville, writing in the late 6th or early 7th century, described the difference between a codex, a book and a scroll in his Etymologiae. He stated that: 

Post Medieval "Post medieval" is often defined as the period between the medieval and the industrial ages. In terms of dates, it might be defined as running from 1486 to 1901. Post-medieval archaeology even has its own society, the Society for Post-Medieval Archaeology. Their interests are: 

The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy contains an excellent article by Debra Nails on Socrates which includes an examination of the main sources for Socrates' life and also of his trial and execution. 

In Middle Egyptian, the word for "exalted" or "raised on high" would be or "qAi". Hopefully that is close enough for what you require. You may find this PDF Dictionary of Middle Egyptian a useful reference. 

Without seeing the article, it is difficult to be certain, but it was probably a reference to the comment that Nixon had made during his trip to Asia in 1964. He said that: 

I don't think that it is possible to generalise. I don't doubt that ancient pirates did re-purpose civilian ships in most cases. Indeed, it is said that even sailors on merchant ships which had been attacked by pirates would turn to piracy themselves when they were otherwise out of work. In fact, the number of vessels reportedly used for piracy by the Cilician pirates virtually guarantees that most were re-purposed civilian craft (Strabo writes that Pompey destroyed 1300 pirate vessels of all sizes). However, ancient writers also say explicitly that pirates possessed and used galleys. Cicero, for example makes several references to the pirates' use of galleys in his fifth book against Verrus. Although not cheap, Philip de Souza's book Piracy in the Graeco-Roman World is well worth reading if you can get hold of a copy. Alternatively, his 1992 PhD thesis on Piracy in the Ancient World is available free online. 

It must be remembered that the idea of death before defeat was firmly ingrained in the Japanese military culture of the time. This provided the catalyst that led to for Vice-Admiral Takijiro Onishi creating the first Kamikaze squadron. All 23 pilots in that squadron were volunteers. From that point, although it has been claimed that there were more volunteers than there were available planes, interviews with surviving pilots suggest that young pilots were actually forced to fly the suicide missions. Japanese fighter ace, Saburo Sakai, was one experience pilot who claimed that he was forced to fly a kamikaze mission, but failed to locate his target. The rewards for being a kamikaze pilot? Simply the honour of dying for the Emperor. But we should never underestimate just how ingrained and prevalent were the concepts of honour and dishonour in Japanese society at that time. This is an excellent article by James Burbeck on the Kamikaze phenomenon in World War 2 

A "Good" Book The problem with asking for a "good book" is that "good" is a highly subjective term. However, one text that is "good", in the sense that it was written while its subject was still alive, includes material gathered from interviews with people who knew him, and which actually lists the sources used, is Zaharoff the Armaments King by Robert Neumann. A further advantage of this text is that it has been made freely available online by archive.org. 

The Longer Version (although still very much a summary!) The first point to remember in all this is that while he was on crusade, all of Richard I's lands were supposed to be under the protection of the church (as, indeed, Philip's lands had also been, while he was on crusade). In theory, Philip II was unable to attack them until Richard returned to his own lands. 

As the empire grew, so did the status of the senators, who gained most from the profits of war and conquest. This exacerbated rivalries between individuals, who also had more resources available to them. Members of the senatorial class were generally arrogant and unaccountable for their actions. Eventually, this would lead to the First Triumvirate 59-53 BC. 

In context, rather than "Wards of Court", it might be better to think of them as being "Wards of the States of Holland". 

Clearly therefore, the implication is that the high wages were an important factor in triggering the Industrial Revolution in England, but not the only one. 

That is a really good question, and the answer is that nobody really knows for certain. The whole concept of duality was deeply ingrained into ancient Egyptian culture. The "Black Land", kmt or "Khemet", (a reference to the fertile strip along the Nile), and the "Red Land", dšrt or "deshret", (referring to the deserts beyond that fertile strip) is one example. The two kingdoms, Upper Egypt and Lower Egypt, united under a single pharaoh is another. As you say, the two crowns were associated with the two kingdoms. The Red, "Deshret", crown was associated with Lower Egypt, and the White, "Hedjet", crown with Upper Egypt. There was also the "Double Crown", or "Sekhemti", which represented the unified kingdom, and incorporated both the Red Crown of Lower Egypt and the White crown of Upper Egypt. (There were also other crowns with specific associations and meanings) Pharaohs are portrayed wearing all three of these crowns right up to the Graeco-Roman period in Egypt, although as far as we know, there is generally no obvious reason to show why any Pharaoh was portrayed wearing a particular crown in an inscription. We were taught that the crowns continued in use in royal portraiture to emphasise the dual nature of the two lands. (There are exceptions to this, however, as in the case of the Pharaoh Ahmose, who expelled the Hyksos from Lower Egypt, portrayed in the Hedjet Crown of Upper Egypt) It is by no means certain that any of the crowns were actually worn by any pharaoh of the later periods. None of them survive (even in the (relatively) untouched burial of the young Tutankhamen). It may be they were traditional symbols, preserved in the iconography in inscriptions at temples, but never actually worn. 

In recent years, the situation has improved considerably, which is why it was possible to grant William the title of Baron Carrickfergus in 2011. In fact, on 22 February 1957, the Queen granted Prince Philip the title of "Prince of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland". This was gazetted on 22 February 1957. 

Thus, the unskilled labourer earned about 7 times as much as the swineherd. And the King's income was just under 7,000 times that of the unskilled labourer, and 46,451 times that of the swineherd.