I think the first thing to realize is that all sciences do this. Consider the ideal gas law, PV=nRT. When was the last time you saw an ideal gas? Can you name an ideal gas? The answer, of course, is no you can't. Ideal gasses don't exist. They're just an approximation of reality which creates a simpler model of how gas molecules interact (in particular, no intermolecular forces, and negligible atomic volumes). Every science uses models to model things which aren't really perfect matches for the model. In the case of the ideal gas law, it tends to behave quite well until you go to extremes (such as supersonic flow). So likewise, the social sciences get to use simplified models. They even get to use models from other branches of science, such as thermodynamics. Why? Well the major models (like those for thermodynamics) tend to have a very small set of axioms describing the assumptions we make about the system. Thermodynamics makes very few assumptions, other than that entropy is always increasing. If you have a concept of energy and a system which exhibits entropy, you can typically apply thermodynamic models and get reasonable results. Now soft sciences tend to be less rigorous in their falsification of hypotheses. As you suggest in your question, it's harder to prove that thermodynamics doesn't actually model a social network. But that's a general state of being for soft sciences. It's not a special feature that comes into play when they borrow models from the hard sciences, it's the way they always operate. Hard sciences tend to be more rigorous. The most powerful model which comes to mind is modeling heat transfer as electric circuits. It seems preposterous that one could model the heat transfer from the cold outside into your house as a network of resistors, but that is indeed what they teach in school. If you look at the equations for the heat transfer, which are rigorously tested, you see that they are identical to the equations for current flow through a resistor network. So why not just use resistors? As it turns out, the way electrical engineers think about resistor networks is pretty much the simplest way of thinking about these sorts of problems, so we all pretend these thermal problems are actually electrical engineering problems! 

This is very much directed at the Liar paradox, basically stating that you can never prove your own provability (unless you target a weak system which cannot describe arithmetic). 

The first two possibilities suggest that if you know an action is good w.r.t the meaning of life which you make, and provides the potential to uncover an external meaning for life if one exists, then you can know that action is "good." The third possibility points out that maybe we need to question the word "know" in the previous sentence. My opinion is that studying philosophy tends to satisfy both of those scenarios. Of course, it's up to you to decide if you agree. 

That answer depends heavily on the philosophy you are using to approach it. Some conflicting answers might be: 

The first line of defense I would use in such situations is to look for win-win scenarios. While propositional logic and much of Western philosophy may love the Law of the Excluded Middle, I have found a surprisingly large number of debates admit some middle option, if you look for it. It is very rare that two individuals actually come into a debate with perfectly polar opposite viewpoints (unless this is an artificial debate, designed to promote the idea of a winner and a loser). If you win, who cares if they don't lose! Let them be happy too! Finding such a state isn't easy, of course. I have found a few approaches that I find work well for identifying such a state when I am short on information: 

First off, given how well accepted the laws of thermodynamics are, you should really rephrase the title from "is this valid" to "how is this not valid," because you should expect to get it crushed. Utterly crushed. You are literally trying to refute something which has been studied for millions upon millions of hours, and entire industries are built on it. Consider this very simple counter example, from the age of Zeno. I start with a universe with a finite amount of energy. Every operation halves the amount of energy in the system. Can I ever run out of energy? I certainly never had infinite energy, so your refutation does not apply there, and yet the second law of thermodynamics held. If you want more than just a refutation from 400BC, you may need to formalize your refutation into proper mathematical language. Zeno's paradox got handled nicely by the concept of limits when we began to accept calculus as valid. There's also a lot of set theory you may want to explore if you want to start doing infinite recursions that are not well defined in calculus terms. There's some interesting questions you may elect to ask as you start grasping the mathematics of the big bang. Some of the questions don't even have strong answers. However, "refuting" thermodynamics is not an easy task. As a freebie: the laws of thermodynamics only apply to thermodynamic systems. If you ever think you have refuted them, you'll find they simply don't apply to the system you describe. Granted there's a lot of belief that they do apply, and lots of mathematical modeling on that. But refuting their belief is not the same as refuting thermodynamics. 

I would argue, by this definition, "The indescribable is that which has no description" fails to be a description, because there are clearly characteristics or qualities of an indescribable thing for which the speaker feels they fail to fully capture. Your second description could be thought of as valid. In purely mathematical terms, you could define a predicate Describable(x) which returns true if "x" is describable, and then declare the set known as "The Indescribable" to be the set {x | x ϵ , ¬Describable(x)}. You could then go to show that it is not an empty set by one method or another. However, this would be a non-constructive proof, which limits the situations it can be applied. The English equivalent of this is exactly as you say, a "label." The label "indescribable" is sufficiently described as to not be indescribable, but the contents to which that label is applied are not sufficiently described. 

You can make any claim you want, since no particular ethical system is mentioned in the problem. I think one could at least have good fun arguing that the knowledge that one chose NOT to buy a ticket is a thing in and of itself, which can cause pain or pleasure. The raising of the prize increases the ability of that knowledge to hurt you. One could also argue that, if a particular government has sold itself as having certain properties such as fairness or equality, the raising of the lottery could be seen as eroding key "rights" guaranteed to individuals. Of course, we know nothing of why the government made their choice. It's entirely possible that, if you look at a bigger picture view, you get to see a way non-lottery-ticket-holders benefited from the decision which isn't immediately apparent with the ultra-narrow focus we are given in the problem statement. There's simply not enough information to make a definite answer one way or another, but it at least appears that there are points of view from which one could argue damages. Whether those positions are valid depends entirely on what system of ethics is actually in play. 

Obviously the former is recognized as a more likely reality. There are several caveats to this, however, that are interesting. The first is that there are cases where our perception is delayed many seconds for physical reasons. For example, if an event happens far away, and our perception of it arrives to us via sound, it takes time for the acoustic propagation. If our perception arrives to us by light, it takes less time. In fact, this can lead to peculiarly dissonant situations: