It's important to recognize that prayer, like other forms of communication, is embedded in an attitude of the speaker. Rarely is a communicative act ever a simple relaying of information. Instead, communicative acts serve implicit and more critical functions. For example, my relaying the information of my previous heart problems to my doctor serves not only as an act of literal communication but as an act of therapy. My plead to a doctor to assist me not only relays to her my current status but opens a door where I myself, through my communication, am welcoming her to help me. So while it is true that there is a certain redundancy in performing a communicative act with an all-knowing entity since said entity already knows what it is we are trying to communicate, the redundancy really only holds a significance considering the literal information being relayed. What saves most communication from being redundant is that it fosters community. Prayer is no different. The theist would say that prayer's main function is not to relay information to God, but to welcome God's intervening in our lives, specifically through the attitude of pleading (St. Augustine states "prayer is a petition" (De Uni., vi. 14)). It is also important to keep in mind that prayer isn't necessarily to God alone. As St. Aquinas states: 

What makes Peirce especially difficult to interpret in a linear way however is that he considered himself a scholastic realist: 

Aquinas is not only restating that prayer serves a petitionary purpose (which would exempt prayer from your charge of redundancy), but he is also presenting a more global perspective of prayer (i.e., as an essentially communal act that is performed in the presence and for the persuasion of both angels and saints who are not all-knowing). Another Objection to Prayer A more potent objection to prayer would be to question the logic behind suggesting that God can become 'closer' to a person through prayer. Isn't God omnipresent? But even here I think the theist has the resemblance of an answer. It is not God who needs to become closer to man but man that needs to become closer to God. This logic still might be questioned if we think of 'closer' in a distance sense, which presupposes that there is some single, absolute space between the two limited points. But for the theist, they normally adopt a distinction between God and man comparable to the difference between actuality and potentiality, or absolute and relative, in which case any 'distance' is not one between equals but one between a master and a servant. As such, the act of becoming 'closer' to God is similar to an effect becoming actualized, or darkness being lit. When thought about in this way, the act of becoming closer does not need to imply a limitation to God's power nor a redundancy in light of God's power. 

Or how about a different scenario... Susan continues not to particularly enjoy the concerts, but she gets a big kick out of seeing Samuel happy, so it's more than worth it to her. And Samuel, being happier and recognizing Susan's sacrifices starts making sacrifices of his own, and he too enjoys Susan's happiness so much that... etc. IOW, why not assume a virtuous cycle rather than a vicious one. It is possible to enjoy making another person happy -- it's called genuine altruism, vicarious pleasure, etc. So, bottom line, your scenario is based on a set of unspoken premises, that human nature is fundamentally selfish and self-centered, that true altruism does not exist and cannot even be cultivated, and so on. These are not only mere assumptions, there is a lot of evidence that they are false. Many couples are more like my scenario than yours, though I will admit that in modern western culture yours is statistically predominant. But so what -- truth is not a statistical phenomenon. At one point a majority of the American adult population smoked cigarettes, but what did that prove about human nature or philosophic questions? And, of course, we managed to change that for the better. For another example, recent studies of Tibetan Buddhist monks and lay practicioners have shown distinct neurological correlates of genuine altruism, apparently as a result of their intensive meditation practices focusing on love and compassion, not that we need brain scans to confirm what we can observe directly in their behavior. These are not born saints but ordinary people who commit to developing their best instincts -- and succeed. Those practices as well as the practices of Christianity and other traditions are quite accessible to ordinary people. So, I'm not sure what your point is, other than assumptions hostile to altruism lead to... guess what... negative conclusions about altruism. 

OK, we have a stop condition, it's even god itself. But is the argument valid? Is it reasonable? Now consider this argument: 

It's a bit unfair to take a word like god, the semantic of which is fairly understood, and demote it to something that only constitutes a first cause. What's the point doing this? The concept already has a title - first cause. Imagine I walk in the street and this girl walks to me and say: 

Hume has argued the paradox of miracles in his famous Of miracles. The short version goes like this: 

(The skeptics will surely have their say on this, but this is manageable alright.) The commutative low for addition is another axiom that serves us right. Anyhow, with circular reasoning being nonsense, and infinite regress out of the question, all you have shown is that arguments must stop at some stop condition. Let's put this to the test: 

Impossibility If it is impossibility we debate, then cause and effect couldn't serve as a better example - we have all the evidence in the world such principle is in effect. We haven't got a single evidence that there is an effect without a cause. In other words, infinite regress seems much more reasonable (possible) than any 'natural' stop condition. The same principle is in effect elsewhere (forgive a few leaps): 

Takeaway: for an argument to be reasonable, the premises have to be reasonable, and the argument valid. Infinite regression Let me give you an argument to tinker of: 

Now. Would going down the stairs be impossible or impractical? If the stairs are indeed infinite, would it be impossible for a thrown ball to fall down infinitely? 

It's 3AM, so I'm unsure how much sense this makes. Probably not much. But I hope this helps. Possibility vs practicality In light of your comments, I'd like emphasis a point that so far may have been implicit. I believe your line of reasoning is this: If we'd have to regress ad infinitum, we'd get nowhere. This is absolutely right. To make it as bold as I can, knowledge depends on stop-conditions. Euclid's proof of the infinitude of primes is a proof alright, but only for being based on some mathematical axioms, which are its stop condition. We must stop somewhere on our way in, in order to get results back out. But this doesn't make infinite regress impossible, it is simply impractical. Alice By way of analogy, consider you walk in the woods and suddenly see a door. You open it and see stairs. A white rabbit pops from the bushes and says: 

... he seems to be deriding and/or doubting the goal of liberation (nirvana, enlightenment) sought through meditation by spiritual traditions such as Buddhism. Would Derrida agree or disagree? How about other so-called postmodern philosophers? 

I would like to clarify what Foucault means by "regime of truth", "discursive formation" and possibly related terms such as "truth game", "enunciative system". Here is my guess from looking at some sources, but it still is a bit murky... Discursive formations are images, texts etc that support a regime of truth, which is a system that determines what is even accepted as a truth in a discourse such as modern medicine, penology or science. Some questions -- is a discursive formation a process of forming a discourse, or is it something already formed ("formation" being ambiguous in English). How do these relate to "truth game", "enunciative system", other terms? This prior post is helpful -- What does Foucault mean by discursive practices or discursive constitutions in definition of discourse? -- but not quite the same question, as it asks about discursive practices rather than formations, and does not mention "regime of truth" 

Freya Mathews (yes, spelled with one t) has been advocating a rather idealistic position as a "cosmological" version of panpsychism, but gaining little notice, certainly outside the limited panpsychic circle. Her most direct statement, I think, is ... Panpsychism as Paradigm, in Michael Blamauer (ed), The Mental as Fundamental, Ontos Verlag, Frankfurt Heusenstamm, 2011. ($URL$ Here is the introductory clip... 

My question -- Where does contemporary philosophy of science stand on this view -- that the business of science is modelling? Both personal opinions and references to supporting, opposing or other views are welcome. Note that the emphasis of my question is somewhat different than and narrower than these... Is Science about Truth or Adequate Models? Is the primary aim of science predicting outcomes of experiments or understanding the nature of our world? ... which are about the metaphysical status of science and scientific assertions and their relationship to reality and truth (at least that is how they got answered). My question here is more about what scientists are actually doing when they conduct science -- the "business" of science, as it were, how it is carried out rather than its ultimate aim or meaning. I realize those are not necessarily easy to disentangle, but I am seeking references that lean toward the business side rather than the meaning side. Maybe ignoring the world "real" in the cited paragraph will help.