I don't really see the words you mentioned as profane. Strong words, yes they express strong emotion but they are not actually a direct insult to anyone; unprofessional, maybe, if you're in front of a client or someone from a different department, but not necessarily when inside your own turf. If this is the extent to what your boss says, I'd say you probably should just ignore it. In a free country, you do NOT have a right to not be offended, sometimes you just had to take things in stride. With that said, the best way to go with this, IMO, is to talk with the people directly in private. Make it clear to them that you felt uncomfortable with such languages, that you are not used to vulgar languages, and you want them to avoid using them when in your presence; make it clear that the problem is not them but on you. Most reasonable people should understand. If this is also how your boss presents himself professionally with clients or to another department, then things might be different. This kind of behavior may affect the relationships with your clients or the other departments, so if this is the case, then you do have an objective ground to complain. Alternatively, if your company has a policy prohibiting the use of vulgar languages in the office, then you would also have an objective ground to object. Still, it is better to achieve mutually agreed consensus instead of forced compliance, so try to avoid escalating the situation more than is necessary. 

If someone has just got his diploma, usually his resume will contain very few actual work experience in his field. Most student jobs are not in your field of work, so they are barely relevant to a resume. The only purpose of putting them there is to show you do work, not to show off any relevant skills (except interpersonal skills or generic skills like being reliable). So when you leave university to look for your full-time job, your education on your resume is significant. How significant is the time you needed to complete your studies? For example, if you studied in a program that usually takes 6 semesters (3 years), and you failed a few classes, you might have taken 4 years instead of 3. If you were working part-time during school, you might have done fewer classes per semester, and thus needed 4 or 5 years to complete it. On the other hand, if you took extra classes and summer classes, and ended up doing it in only 2 years, this is also a big difference. I always put the dates (just the years) of everything I did on my resume. If I add the dates I was in university, will it be a red flag to have done it faster or slower than expected? I could imagine en employer being cautious of someone who needed 2 extra years to get his diploma, but I could also imagine an employer seeing this as proof that this person doesn't give up or something. The same goes for shorter duration, I could see it going both ways. So how significant is the duration on your resume, and specifically is shorter always good or bad? What about longer? Should you leave out the dates completely in some cases to avoid hurting your case? 

If you believe your departing will be in good terms, ask your HR. If not or if you are not sure how your departure will be received by the company, ask a lawyer. In most cases, "written communication" simply means they want clear communication in no uncertain terms, that you have communicated your intended date of departure at a certain date, so the various people that have to then do the various red tapes know when you will leave and can prepare accordingly (payslips, employment record, reassigning work, hiring for replacements, removing access privileges, etc). They don't want this to be mentioned on the passing to your manager, who might then forget to pass the info to HR or pass it late, that they have to rush the red tapes. Email may suffice for this requirement, and in this case, the HR might not necessarily appreciate a physical copy which can be easily misplaced or searched, especially if they have to scan or retype it to let other people know of the details of your departure. In other cases, "written communication" means they want to archive the physical copy with signature for legal/audit/archival/whatever purpose. In this case, you want to print this out and sign it with a pen and ask your HR what other details/attachments are necessary to be put into the physical copy and who has to countersign if any. This may be described in your employment contract or in employee handbook, but if not, the only way to find out is ask your HR. If you don't trust your employer though, if you think they might try make your departure difficult for whatever reasons, then you want to ask a lawyer how best to deliver your departure. Also, you want to ask for a receipt of any letters that you have delivered to them and anything they said. This kind of precaution may be necessary if you have reason to distrust your employer. 

In my field of work, for some reason, the hiring companies all put out their job offers at the same time (within a few days of each other), and do the hiring during the same period in the case of students fresh out of college applying for jobs. This might be because most companies offer to pay for Professional exams that we have to take in the first years of employement after we're done with University, so it might be some sort of agreement because of competition. I'm not familiar with the why. This phenomenon is happening across the country, but that specific time period differs depending on the location. In my case, I currently live with my parents in city A, where I have gone to university. City A has several companies that hire in my field, but not that many. I will be graduating in spring, and the offers in my city will be available in December. Since I was not 100% certain I'd be able to get a job on my first try, and I didn't want to live off my parents when I'm done with school, I also applied with several employers in city B, which is about 3 hours (car) from here, and a much bigger city. I am not a fan of big cities, so I would much rather work in city A, but I wouldn't mind moving to city B if the alternative is no work. The problem is that city B released all their offers recently. I applied, did a few interviews, and got one offer. I cannot reasonably wait until December to give them my answer. If I say no on the off-chance that I'll be hired in city A, then there was really no point in applying to city B. But if I say yes, can I still apply to the city A offers? Would it be professionally acceptable to do interviews with other employers after accepting an offer already, and would it be ethical, if I get hired in my prefered location, to change my mind and tell the other company I won't be working for them after accepting their offer, considering I haven't worked with them yet and they have months to find someone else anyway? I wouldn't have wasted their money on training, which will happen if I go work with them and find a job in city A two years from now. Furthermore, the current offer that I have to decide on are not hiring me for late-spring, as soon as I graduate, but for next September, because they said that they wouldn't have the resources to train me efficiently during the summer. Would getting a city A offer for May or June make a difference on the "is it acceptable" point? EDIT: The country is Canada, if that makes a difference. EDIT regarding the similar question. I am not asking whether I should keep looking, but whether I am allowed to without it looking bad. I want to apply to very specific jobs, and I had planned to before getting the offer. Furthermore, I wouldn't be looking "in case I get a better offer", but knowing fully well that any offer I would get would be better (because of the location), so I would want to take it. 

What is ethical? Since you're specifically asking whether or not it's ethical, it may help to frame the problem in terms of different ethical systems. This is a contentious subject and I am by no means an expert, just an opinionated man trying to help, (and one who happened to really enjoy his ethics class in college,) so keep that in mind. Also note that these different systems rarely agree on what you should do, it's up to you to decide which is most relevant. There are many, many that I'm not including here. Postmodern ethics hold that human affairs are a messy thing for which no single system provides a comprehensive answer. So we may work from a system as a base to address the majority of issues, and then incorporate others to deal with outlying issues. Business ethics It sounds to me like you are most concerned that your own code of ethics may conflict with the business ethics of your company. Different folks have different ideas on what the ethics of a business should be, but we don't need to go off on a tangent about that. Your company should have a written Code of Ethics, or Code of Conduct, or some-such. You can find it, read it, and see how your own ethical code resolves against it. But those documents are typically more high-level, upper-management directives which derive from their rights and responsibilities as a business and employer within the nation(s) they inhabit. Ideally it provides a Rule of Law on which to build policy, but it may also include day-to-day behavioral directives for employees. Take a look. Confucian Ethics Kong Fuzi's ideas seek to strengthen society by reinforcing harmonious interpersonal roles. It has done so successfully for many centuries by leveraging the power of human emotion and irrationality to positive effect. You yourself have said there will be no such interpersonal role of mentor-student. Therefore, Confucianism suggests that you must strengthen the harmony of your organization by building upon interpersonal roles you do have, such as coworker-coworker, employer-employee, supervisor-supervisee. How this is done, only you can know. Maybe it just means doing what you can to make the workplace a better place for everybody before you're gone. Perhaps it means talking to your supervisor about how their expectations and your expectations played out during your tenure, and what that means for the next guy. Perhaps something else. The key point here, though, is setting aside your own ego. Currently you are thinking of the problems you've encountered and how to mitigate them for your successor. Within the Confucian school of thought, however, this would be considered selfish. (Yes, even though you're concerned for another person.) Utilitarian Ethics This system is in the tradition of John Stuart Mill. It holds that the right action is the one that results in the most "utility" -- a measure of happiness that is not necessarily objective or empirical. The goal is to attain the most happiness for the most people. (Off-topic: Saturday Morning Breakfast Cereal has an amusing comic about this one.) Its application here isn't so bad. Utilitarianism suggests that you focus on providing comments and documentation that will most efficiently get your successor up to speed. They don't need full mastery, they just need a level of productivity that satisfies themselves and their supervisor. And your own utility is factored into the count -- if it starts making you miserable, move on to other things. Kantian Ethics Immanuel Kant. Big name in ethics, and his stuff quickly delves into the abstract. The quick-and-dirty summary of his ideas is that something is truly right and good only when it is not qualified. Thus the end does not justify the means, nor do the means justify the end -- each must stand on its own. In that sense, the only ethically relevant consideration when deciding on one's motives for doing so. The motive that Kant proposed was duty and obligation. There a lot to criticize in this system, but it's worth thinking about as one of many options. You have a duty and obligation towards your employer, but not to your successor. Some of that duty may entail preparing source code and documentation for your successor to carry on your duties. Whether those materials are what you want, or what your successor wants, is irrelevant. Even should the materials prove inadequate, you have fulfilled your duty, and at worst your successor simply has somewhat more onerous duties to fulfill. Pragmatic Ethics In the tradition of John Dewey. This system holds that ethics themselves are a scientific process of experimentation, iteration, and revision. Furthermore, it holds that ethical behavior is conducted not by individuals but by societies. It also proposes that ethics are context-sensitive, changing with time and place. The downside of this is that it's descriptive of how ethical decisions are made, and not very prescriptive of how to make ethical decisions. But it does suggest decisions on what is right and wrong (such as your comment, ) are no longer yours to make. The right-and-wrong of these decisions belong to society, on whose behalf your company makes the decision, on whose behalf you yourself make the decision. Once you are gone, you are no longer in a position to make these decisions on behalf of the company. Therefore, such decisions are only relevant insofar as they allow your successor to do the same. If they think your opinion is hogwash, then opinion comments have no ethical value. Therefore, in this system, the ethical action is to enable informed decision-making by your successor, with an emphasis on empirical information, so that they be better prepared to conduct the next iteration of decisions on what is right and wrong. Ethics of Care This is the tradition of thought that follows from Carol Gilligan's work on psychological development in women. Setting aside feminist issues, it holds that what is good and right depends on how one cares for others; nurtures development; and promotes well-being. From that stance, professionalism doesn't even matter in this scenario. You have someone who is going to inherit your position, and you're not going to be there to help them. Ethical care suggests that you should do whatever you can, now, to give them the mastery you now hold over the source code. That includes objective knowledge that can be used in analysis, as well as subjective knowledge that can be used in judgment. Conclusion Answer unclear. Read, think, mix-and-match, adjudicate. 

It's time for a show and tell. Show the management how much money they would have been able to save if they had just stopped the fire and invested in improving the processes in some point in the past. Tell them that this is not a futile situation and that your can improve the situation. Show then that you can do the improvements that you proposed. Tell them what you intend to do, what you needed from the company, and how long it would take for their investments to recover its initial costs. Show them the risks of not improving the situation. Tell them the risks of the investment and the exit strategy if the project doesn't work out. Talk in their own language, in a language they can understand, so they can evaluate the values, costs, and risks themselves. Do your research. Quantify these costs, risks, and returns. Managements usually don't like taking about things in terms of "better", they need real numbers to work with. If the management is still unwilling to buy in and assuming that you believe that you have made a reasonable and sensible proposal, then the biggest problem you have is that your priorities aren't aligned with the company's priorities. You are a poor fit with the job that your company is offering you. Find another job in which you can express your personality better. 

Because of a specific bus Schedule, I can either arrive at work at 7h25 or 8h55. Leaving work is a bit more flexible. I do not want to work until 5pm on an average day, so I'm usually aiming for a 7h30-15h30 work day. Very few people actually show up that early, most people seem to like 9-5 more. I personally never call meetings before 9h30 in the morning, because some members of my team would not be there on time. That just seems logical. On the other hand, the "optional" hours at the end of the day (after 3h30pm) don't seem off limits. Many people call meetings during those hours. I guess it's easier to ask someone to stay a bit later today, than it is to figure out how to reach them before they come in to make them get to the office earlier. I'm pretty sure nobody is trying to be inconvenient here. There are meetings at almost any hour of the day. One specific person probably figures "well, 15h30-16h30 is the most convenient, and X won't mind staying a bit later today, he'll have less work to do the rest of the week!". That makes sense. I wouldn't mind every now and then. But in my position, I happen to have to attend meetings with many different groups of people, and of course different meeting organisers. The accumulation of those really screw up my Schedule. Of course, I could just invite some of those people to 7h30am meetings, in a passive-agressive way, but that's really not something I'd be comfortable with doing. There's also the same problem with people who seem to notice when I'm about to leave the office, and choose that specific time to come see me and ask questions about work (that could have been asked earlier or could wait until tomorrow without creating problems), or just to discuss work-related things, which also force me to stay later, while of course the same never happens to them in the morning. So the Question is: How can I politely make people understand that if they aren't willing or able to get to work earlier for some tasks, they shouldn't expect me to stay later for those same tasks? Of course, feel free to tell me if I'm the one being unreasonable. I don't think I am, but I could be wrong.