We don't have a clue about how the brain fits together other than at the micro level (single neurons) and a touch at the macro level (eg MRI's), or if we do, I haven't heard about it (if you have, post links or edit this answer). As such, while we may be able to simulate networks of neurons, we (as far as I know) can't assemble them into a human brain. A neuron is not a single calculation. A GPU is a vector processor, and just like your CPU, it can do things like adding numbers, or multiplying them. What does a neuron do? You can find pages and pages of math representing the behaviour of a single neuron. Needless to say, you will need an order of magnitude or more excess computation power to simulate an equivalent number of neurons. I assumed 100 instructions per neuron 'trigger', but I suspect that is far to low. Memory lookups are really slow. If you have 100 billion neurons, you need 100 gigabytes of ram to store the system state (assuming a single byte per neuron - so you'll need more). While this is possible using caching to disk, access will be crazily slow. The slowest operation in most shaders in computer games is a texture lookup. I doubt this is any different for looking up neuron states. In a real brain each neuron stores it's own state, but we do not have 100 billion L1 caches (the really fast ones) on our GPU. We only have 2600 (one per core). The architecture is all wrong. Even on a highly parelleized GPU, things are still synchronous, and your brain will be simulated in individual steps. So far as I know, a brain does not have a clock [citation needed] and is thus an asynchronous machine. It will be hard to change this in the near future, and I suspect that proper neural simulations cannot be done with current machine architectures. Samwise points out in the comments that this ignores the role of synapses. These are likely to increase the required computation hugely. 

Or your box is a fission/fusion power plant You have need some form of nuclear reactor to rearrange things at the sub-atomic level. (Because it's re-arranging the nucleii of the atoms to turn them into something else). In this case, anything put into your box comes out "more like iron." Why is this? Turning hydrogen into helium releases energy. Turning boron into carbon releases energy. Light elements undergo nuclear fusion to become heavier elements. But on the other side, turning uranium into protactinium release energy because turning heavy elements into lighter ones releases energy in the process known as nuclear fission. At some point these cross over, which can be read off the following graph: (Source: wikipedia) Hence, assuming the creators of the box didn't want it to consume copious amounts of energy required to turn atoms into hydrogen, then your box will turn everything into iron. In doing so it will release enormous amounts of energy. If the creators of your box are slightly less advanced, it may stop at some of the "lumps" in the graph, producing helium, carbon and oxygen as well. So, if the box has unknown origins I would guess it is some far-future power plant that generates heat (that can then be used to create electricity) from any matter placed inside it. This device is far in advance of anything we can build. The ultimate power-consuming-device The third option does almost exactly as you said in your question: it turns things into hydrogen. What does it do? It splits up all the atoms into electron-proton-neutron triplets called hydrogen. In doings so it consumes enormous amounts of power. Did I mention that this box will consume enormous amounts of power? Because it is doing the opposite of our former-energy-producing-reactor, this is an energy-consuming-reactor. To power this device you will need something more powerful than our fission/fusion power plant from the previous suggestion. So unless someone has a power source us humans can't even comprehend (or a bizarre need for hydrogen and can't scoop it from stars or electrolyze it from water), then this machine is the ultimate power-wasting device. The strong-force dissasociator This also accomplishes your goal of hydrogen, and may consume less power than doing it through nuclear reactions. This device creates a localized distortion in space that vastly weakens the nuclear binding caused by strong-force. Inside this field, all matter flies apart into it's constituent protons, neutrons and electrons because the atom's nucleii can no longer hold together, so electromagnetic repulsion throws the nucleus apart. Chances are the protons and electrons will start orbiting each other, and after a while the neutrons will join back in and you'll end up with ... hydrogen. Just as you wanted. What is this machine? Why does it exist? I have no idea. 

In the book 'Stealing Light' by Gary Gibson, the main protagonist has alien tech implanted that caused a thin black film of handwavium to cover their entire body (including interior of mouth, throat and presumably lungs) that would auto-deploy on exposure to vacuum. (And it also auto-deployed to absorb large kinetic impacts). So I suppose the other option is to throw in nanobots, biotech, or some other handwave mechanism. 

Because it isn't hanging beneath one big gasbag (I envisage lots of small ones), each individual part of your station is effectively zero weight. This is why blimps can be bigger than aircraft. An aircrafts wings have to support it's fuselage, but most of an airships structure is self supporting. As a result, you could probably come up with some sort of farm/ecosystem on board, to make a truly self sustaining system. However, I doubt that a space elevator would be any more practical if anchored(?) to a flying platform. Space (near vacuum) is only 100km up. Geostationary is 40,000km, so you still need thousands of kilometres of cable (and cable length is the important factor in space elvators). 

Lets assume that the eclipse is formed by something else - say some shade squares an ancient civilization left over from when they were building a dyson ring - and for some reason it causes a (hopefully one off) planet wide eclipse for ten days. The most vital thing the sun gives out planet is heat. Enormous amounts of it. Up to 1kw/m^2 If you withdraw the heat, things start cooling. You know how much colder night is compared to day? Imagine if the earth kept cooling for more than the 12 hours the sun was hidden - and that it didn't get heat transferred from it's other side. Now the Earth does have a significant thermal mass, but over a week much of that heat will have gone (from the surface at least. Further down the core will be fine for a couple million years). Summer and winter are caused by Earths tilt reducing the amount of heat the sun gives a small part of Earth. We're going far worse than that. The poles are the only place that see extended darkness, and they change by about 20 degrees summer vs winter. Given that that is months of darkness, but is offset by the fact that other parts of Earth are still heated, it at least gives us an order of magnitude. So let's say that over a week of complete Earthwide darkness, the global temperature drops 20 degrees. What happens? The poles get down to -60 degrees, and in some places, CO2 may start condensing out of the atmosphere. Ice starts forming just about everywhere other than the equators - and even there I'd expect to have very low air temperatures. The seas probably don't freeze after only a week, but most overland transport will halt due to icy conditions. Thousands die as diesel solidifies inside generator tanks, hydrodams freeze, and gas in gas tanks refuses to de-liquify. Coal still burns, as does wood (probably). If the worldwide eclipse persists more than a month or two, the planets atmosphere is solid, and anything that doesn't live underground near a volcanic vent has died. Of course, if it's not planet-wide, then you won't get more than a few degrees temperature drop in a localised area - but that's far less entertaining.