The short answer is simply that each locality, on a day-to-day basis, managed its own local economy. In many cases (perhaps not all) the colonies' currencies were backed by pound-sterling reserves held in the name of the colony's own central bank, at the Bank of England in London. They did later become linked for exchange-control purposes in what was known as the Sterling Area. 

The RAF had the reputation of being the glamour service in WW2. Fighter pilots, especially, had the kudos, in some cases, of pop singers - popular with the women and a jaunty self-confident air about them. Their breezy air said a lot about how they wore their caps. RAF personnel generally were nicknamed The Brylcreem Boys - *Brylcreem being a popular brand of hair cream for men. The model in the advertisement is of course Denis Compton, the England and Middlesex cricketer - who had something of the breezy, sports-car driver air about him too. Wonderfully elegant stroke-playing batsman that he was, he must have made vastly more from Brylcreem than ever he did from cricket. (he also won a football FA Cup Winner's medal, playing for Arsenal.) The WAAF (Women's Auxiliary Air Force) also had a bit of the glamour attached to them too. they were known as Waffs. The word is usually spoken by old airmen with a twinkle in their eye. 

It is worth considering the etymology of the word magic, from 3rd century Latin magica. Now look at that of magus from the Classical Latin - meaning "wise man", and we see there is at least a linguistic connection from the magi to magic. There is an inevitable nexus between the origins of religion and those of the occult. As regards witches, in England the centuries of the female witch were the 16th and 17th. The historiographical reasons for this are embedded deep in social history. One of them has to do with it being an age when access to legal process was becoming more available to the public.. The sixteenth century was also a time when traditional village and family support for lone persons, particularly females was breaking down, as society became more mobile. Workhouses and the poor law were introduced. Lone people remaining outside of provision were isolated as traditional family support broke down - the theory goes. Such lone individuals could become figures of suspicion. There had been far fewer cases of witches before the sixteenth century. One of the leading historians in this field is Dr Clive Holmes, Emeritus Professor of Social History, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. Holmes explains why trials for witchcraft ceased in Britain after the seventeenth century - the last conviction was in 1712 - though there were trials well into the 19th century. See Holmes' Why did the prosecution of witches cease in England? Kindle edition. 

Perhaps the most important answer is that Vienna had been, until 1918, the capital of the highly cosmopolitan Austro-Hungarian Empire, consisting of a score of nationalities, and people of a myriad of backgrounds. It was also a city with a profound depth of history and culture - art, music, literature etc -, It had been the home of the Habsburg monarchy for centuries, with Austria the largest and most important state in the Holy Roman Empire. Over all the centuries of its being, I believe there was only one Emperor of the HRE who was not a Habsburg. In a slightly similar sense London is today a place where 300 different languages are spoken, a reflection of Britain's imperial past - and where a depth of history ensures the continuation of a vibrant intellectual and artistic culture. Paris has similar claims. 

Knelt warrior with decladded sword: Achilles waiting for Troilus? Tondo of an Attic black-figure kylix, ca. 560 BC. 

Washington, Georgia claims to be the "first city in the nation to be established in the name of George Washington, 1780". 

Lastly, Hitler was Time Magazine's Person of the Year (then Man of the Year) in 1938, a choice solely based on his influence on the events of the year and not really an honour or an indication of approval of his activities. References: 

The "wheat and chessboard" fable describes a geometric problem that is often quoted in stories about the invention of chess. According to Wikipedia, the main theme of the fable is: 

This is a common misconception, cremation was not universal in ancient Greece. The Greeks had various funerary customs, that depended not only on local practices and customs but also on the social status of the deceased. Cremation was fairly common, however that doesn't mean that burial wasn't. In fact the more common practice in post Mycenaean times was cremation and burial, the remains would be cremated prior to burial. Inhumation was also practiced with varying degrees of popularity, depending on the era and place. Cremation was known to the Greeks since at least the Homeric era. The Iliad has several mentions to the practice, every burial mentioned involves cremation with the more notable being the elaborate funeral games for Patroclus. A number of urns and jars containing burned bones and ashes have been discovered by Schliemann and others in Hisarlik, and seems to corroborate Homer's descriptions of the era's burial customs. However limited evidence of inhumation were also found by later excavations that show cremation, although popular, was not exclusive. The popularity of the Homeric epics lead to the association of cremation with the era of heroes, however the Mycenaeans didn't seem to favour the practice. Most remains found in tombs of the era were not cremated, and the limited traces of charcoal that have been found in Mycenaean tombs have been attributed to funeral rites or fumigation, rather than cremation. The only conclusive evidence of cremation during the era was a jar containing burned remains that was found in a tomb close to the Heraion at Olympia. Evidence of cremation are far more common in post-Mycenaean times, however it wasn't until the Archaic period that the practice became popular. It was practiced alongside inhumation, its popularity varied wildly from place to place and was almost always followed by burial of the remains, in group or single graves. The Phoinike necropolis gives us a unique opportunity to observe burial customs from the middle Classical period to the late Hellenistic era, and provides us with evidence for both practices, throughout Ancient Greek History. During the late Classical period cremation's popularity generally declined in comparison to the Archaic period. One theory for its declination is that it was considerably costlier. There is certainly a general tendency towards simpler burial customs during the Classical period, pottery grave goods became far more common than metallic ones, however the cost of cremation and the cost of inhumation at the time is unknown. During the Hellenistic period, cremation's popularity appears to have declined since the Archaic and early Classical period. As an example, of the 70 graves in the Hellenistic cemeteries in Thesprotia (Gitana, Elea, Doliani, Dimokastro) 42 were inhumations, 22 were cremation burials, 4 contained both cremated and inhumated remains and we aren't certain about the remaining 2. Similar patterns appear in other Hellenistic cemeteries, with some containing no cremated remains at all. On the other hand, most of the remains in the royal tombs in Vergina were cremated, and that is perhaps a hint that cremation was reserved for royalty and higher aristocracy during the early Hellenistic period. In Roman Greece, the popularity of cremation further declined. It was ultimately replaced with inhumation during the 2nd century A.D., both in Rome and in Greece, mostly because of the advent of Christianity and by the 5th century A.D. cremation was abandoned throughout Europe. References: 

There were two aircraft carriers used in the Falklands war, HMS Hermes, and HMS Invincible. Both continued in service, I think I am right in saying, for several years after the conflict. But the Argentine air force was defeated, not so much by the VTO Harriers as by the ship-based missile systems. Given that the Royal Navy was geared up for a potential conflict with the Soviet Union, and policed the entire eastern Atlantic from Greenland to the Cape, as it largely still does, with inter-alia, packs of nuclear-powered hunter-killer submarines, it would have been a remarkable thing if it had proven unable to knock over a 17-ship navy in the south Atlantic. The total number of ships used by Britain in the expedition was, I think, over 200. Indeed had an Argentine victory at any time have appeared remotely possible I believe the United States would have been obliged to become involved in support, as a British defeat in such circumstances would have represented an intolerable blow to NATO morale. 

It was not entirely the case that couples in Victorian times had more children than their ancestors a few generations earlier (although better general health and well being perhaps did improve fertility). However it was the case during the Victorian period that improvements in nutrition, health, sanitation etc ensured that far more children survived the critically dangerous years of infancy. My third-great grandparents Robert and Susan Mackender, of Lakenheath, Suffolk had ten children between 1822 and 1845. I do not know how many of them survived infancy. However my great-grandparents, John Benjamin and Mary Hunt of Swanton Abbott, Norfolk had fourteen children between 1868 and 1895 all of whom survived into adulthood. 

I recently saw the film Alone in Berlin starring Emma Thompson and Brendan Gleeson. It is a fictionalised account of the novel Every man dies alone by Hans Fallada, based on the true life story of Otto and Elise Hempel. The Hempels, having lost their only child, their son Hans, in combat, in grief and desperation conduct a hopeless personal campaign against the Nazi state. The film is an excellent period drama, and went to some length to provide authenticity of 1940s surroundings, in street, public environment, and domestic scenery. During the course of the film two different police forces are involved - regular plain clothes police, and the SS. (It did seem surprising that the SS would have been messing with such relatively small-time dissent. I would have expected investigations to have been overseen by the Gestapo.) However the SS officers were not wearing their characteristic black uniforms, but grey-blue tunics and darkish trousers. To me this seemed more to resemble the Wehrmacht uniform. Is there a historian of Nazi Germany who might be able to explain why the Gestapo would not have been involved, and why the SS were not wearing black tunics? 

Jung Chang -author of bestseller Wild Swans (Harper Collins, London 1992) together with her husband, British sinologist, Jon Halliday, in their biography, Mao,The Unknown Story (Cape, London 2005) assert that it happened. 

H. J. A. Sire argues in The Knights of Malta that the Spanish fleet would quickly move and retake the island, had the siege been succesful. The same claim is made - in passing - in Tim Willocks' historical novel, The Religion. If the siege had been successful, the Spaniards would appear as liberators, and if their counterattack succedeeded, the strategically positioned island would have been theirs (as the Knights Hospitaller would have been purged in the siege). The claim is supported by the fact that the bulk of Don Garcia's relief force only arrived in the island a day before the four month long siege ended, and only after it became obvious that the Turks wouldn't succeed in conquering the island. Do we know of a concrete plan for retaking the island? Were there any actual preparations? I'd appreciate answers supported by contemporary or near contemporary Spanish sources. 

It's the same statue, the armour is removable. The statue is today kept at the Museo Nacional Del Prado: 

Unfortunately only a few fragments of the Pinakes survive, but from those fragments we know they included biographical data, including the author's other works, and general notes for each work (e.g. its extend). Callimachus' Pinakes were the key to the vast collection of Library, and were constantly updated by subsequent librarians and grammarians, as the collection grew. Sources: 

In 1806 James Monroe, at the time serving as the US minister to Britain, tried to renew the Jay Treaty of 1795. However, both Thomas Jefferson and James Madison (then Secretary of State) rejected the treaty. Monroe's and Madison's differing opinions about foreign affairs came up again in 1808, when Monroe was considered by parts of the Democratic-Republican Party as a presidential candidate, instead of Madison. However, the two men's relations were amicable, to the point where Madison named Monroe his Secretary of State in 1811, and then Secretary of War in 1814. 

A distinction between deafness and muteness can be found in Theaetetus, where while discussing the capacity to learn, Socrates tells us that anyone can show what they think, except if they are speechless or deaf from birth (Plat. Theaet. 206d & Plat. Theaet. 206e): 

A far more likely story is that the Romans learned of Solon's laws and the various other Greek political systems through their contact with the Greek colonies in Magna Graecia. Greek presence in Italy predates Rome's founding and according to legend the fifth King of Rome, Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, was of Corinthian descent. According to Livy, Lucius Tarquinius Priscus significantly altered the senate, doubling its membership to include the "lesser families": 

Do the ancient Olympic Games count as international though? Participation was restricted to free born Greek males2, the judges were called "Ἑλλανοδίκαι"3 and Alexander I of Macedon had to prove his Hellenic ancestry before being allowed to compete as Herodotus reports in Τερψιχόρη (22): 

You probably confused Papua New Guinea with West New Papua, a region that is indeed under Indonesian administration. Papua New Guinea, on the other hand, was administrated by Australia from 1906 to 1975. It's north part was under control of the German Empire from 1884 to 1914, when it was surrendered to Australia. Papua New Guinea became self governing on December 1, 1973 and independent on September 16, 1975. If your bet was actually about the island of New Guinea, then it's a tie.