If the manager is too busy for an interview in a 3 month period then this is a low to no priority. They are not even sure about the profile they will recruit. Not likely this will close but no harm in continuing to ask monthly. You should actively look for other opportunities. 

Referring to it as that person and knifed is not going to help. It was group of several executives. More than one person was on board with it. Talk to your boss and ask if it was due to performance issues. If so tell him/her thanks for the feedback and work on those performance issues. Treat that person professionally and focus on your other projects. It is not common for a technical lead to be taken off a project. But take them at their word and don't take it personally. 

They are not willing to flexibilize or making exceptions of a social convention to them even for medical reason - not at least for the new guy, who is also new in the industry. They don't want to make you an example for your colleagues. Imagine that after you everyone could want a closed door for 'X' acceptable reasons and they don't wanna loose control. 

*For the sake of simplicity and clarity, I'm going to assume that every statement is true, e.g. your colleague said the truth regarding the reason you were relocated. For the same reason I'm going to suppress adverbs, creating some generalizations. 

Yes you could have done more but it is your boss that had responsibility to deliver a priority fix for a customer that you did not even have authority to push out. He did zero heads up to release and zero follow up. You can point the blame a lot of directions but the blame starts with your boss. Muiltiple down votes. Come on. Accept the post as stated and the order was "submit a hotfix to the guys in charge of release deployments". You have a release process or not. If the process is not sufficient that is a management problem. If a tech can bypass the process that is BIG problem. So let's just open stuff up to a single disgruntled tech can push out damaging software? Most contracts protect/limit from negligent damages but there is no protection from intentional damages (even if you put that in the contact). Even if you infer the manager really said "make it happen" that is not just lazy that is reckless. That is introducing an environment with single point of failure with very high damages. You can keep voting it down but you don't understand the risk profile here. 

Try a noise-cancelling headphone and do your best job while seeking for one place that matches with you. Everybody will be happy - if your current company won't, they'll have learned a lesson then. 

That sounds a disastrous way to solve your problem. But it seems also that they are being rebuked indirectly because you represent a problem that they don't know how (or don't want) to deal. 

There's nothing much to do about it. Keep your clear conscience that you've been fair, reasonable and you've tried to make it work. 

But they don't just have SSN and driver license. They have a resume where you claim work experience and you probably filled out other data to apply. Most companies will confirm or deny if you were employed. Say you really did work there you would want them to confirm. Lot of public data such as court records, lien, and bankruptcy. 

If you have a work history and that puts a hole in your work history then include it. If you used credits from Ohio State University towards either of the other degrees than you should include it. 

It is your right to have a positive environment for your productivity. They are sound pushy and unreasonable. 

I do feel your pain. I have Hyperacusia and Auditory Processing Disorder. It affects not just in the office, but all day long. Trying to sleep in noisy neighborhood seems impossible to most of people, but I soon realized that I really was under average. Even getting rid of noise, my brain was always in a loop trying to detect the next annoying sound in the new environment sound threshold, such as dog barking blocks away. The very same for car horns. I only feel comfortable with a background white/pink-noise sound-like. I recent went through the same issue in my work, a small company working in the same room, with often uneducated noises, topics and discussions about other projects reaching everyone in the office. I can't say just one attitude can solve your problem, but a mix of them. The solution goes to two different paths: Active and Passive attitudes. Active attitudes: 

I would not go about it as a I messed up and these people helped bail me out. I don't think you should buy gifts out of your pocket. I would couch it as a report: Over the holiday we experienced a critical bug X in production. The bug originated in Y. The fix was Z. Members that contributed include a,b,c, ... Sorry if I missed anyone Thank you all for your help 

For an exempt not fair. You are the one on the road, in front of the customer, pulling in the billable hours. Even if you work on the plane you still have check in, board, un-board, and travel to the site. As an exempt working for Shell Oil the expectation was travel on you own time. Monday meeting or class would start at 8 AM and end at 5 PM. But we would only train 1-2 weeks a year. And the only people going to a lot of meeting were senior level managers good money. As an exempt performing on site billable services I did not mind catching the 6 AM first flight out for a long day and only billing 8. There was not much of my work at the time that could be done on the plane. Or for a long flight leaving at lunch and getting home after dinner. As a contractor they could do that I just would not take any jobs that were more than a 2 hour flight. Which is 3-4 hours with check-in and getting to the work site. I would take a taxi to save car rental time. I would get a hotel next to the business so my week day commute was 10 minutes. So I would work 5, 10, 10, 10, 5 for 40. There is not that much to do when you are not at home anyway. 

You are backing off, proposing a solution, I have exposed your medical condition, you are suffering migraines, and they don't like it because it would "signal that I don't want to talk to anyone". Do you realize how disrespectful to your concerns it is? They know what's going on, what difference does it make what are you using in your ears? This is beyond ridiculous. This is again a clear signal that they are not willing backing off and expect you fit in what they consider acceptable, because they see you as a workforce, not as an individual. 

You can get killed by this. I recommend phases Functional requirements x weeks Proof of concept x - y weeks Final product x - y weeks Acceptance testing x week this is where they will kill you and try to sneak stuff in - do not let it be a dev cycle Roll out by the hour Support by the hour At the end of each phase they will get a hard number for the next phase 

You see, I'm not advising you to impose your needs over the team's, wanna everybody to be quiet because of you - for example. That would be unreasonable. You've showed us you were being reasonable. They just won't change any of their social conventions and rules for the new guy. They don't want the new guy as a "bad" example. Your situation is like this one in a job opportunity proposal: 

They are counting on that to expect you flexibilize more and adopt one solution acceptable for them.