In Popper's most widely read summary or introductory piece, “Conjectures and Refutations,” the position sounds like Lakatos's “dogmatic falsificationism.” However, the position Popper actually developed in Logic of Scientific Discovery is close to Lakatos's “methodological falsificationism,” as Lakatos describes it in “Falsification and the Methodology of Scientific Research Programmes.” Lakatos's “sophisticated falsificationism” incorporates his account of scientific progress. I understand Lakatos's account of theory choice as different from Popper's. Lakatos's emphasizes the rate of change of the ratio of successful predications to theory growth, while Popper basis his account of theory choice on an account of verisimilitude (see SEP discussion here). So, I would suggest there are significant differences between Popper's view and Lakatos's sophisticated falsificationism. Lakatos personally, e.g. in his published letters with Paul Feyerabend, adopted a stance of opposition to Popper, along with reverence. So, while the similarity is a matter of degree, I would suggest there are sufficient differences to understand them as different positions. 

This form of relativism, which we might call "general relativism" to separate it from "moral relativism," is generally considered self-refuting, and therefore untenable. It suggests that there are no truths that hold objectively, but it insists that the claims above are objective truths. Consider, that is, what a relativist would have to say about relativism: "Relativism is true for me but maybe not for you," in which case we have no reason to accept it. Indeed, if the relativist is right, relativism can have no sway over us, because a thing can be made true simply by being believed, and made false simply by not being believed. Or the relativist could say "Relativism is objectively true," in which case Relativism simply contradicts itself. 

There are three standard ways of describing the logical form of "A unless B" where A and B are sentences: 

This is a pretty general question which comes down to a question about the differences between philosophy and psychology more broadly. In general, psychology emphasizes questions that can be resolved empirically (i.e. by observation), while philosophy emphasizes questions which can't. That said, philosophy and psychology of art have influenced each other tremendously. Many early-modern and modern English-speaking philosophers of art made claims that might be considered psychological (Hume, Burke, Kant). You have already noticed some of the influence between the fields in both directions. It is significant, and characterizing all the kinds of influence would take a much longer answer. I would just keep an eye open for overlaps in the current work like Walton's you're reading now. 

Yes, some logic texts allow that an argument can have no premises, though as others have noted, it is a matter of convention whether we extend the definition of “argument” to include single sentences or not. Note that though logic teachers sometimes say that “logic is about arguments,” the word “argument” is dispensable in framing what the study of logic is about. Ted Sider in Logic for Philosophy (2010) defines logic as the study of “truth preservation by virtue of form.” Sider then explains the concepts of truth preservation and logical consequence without defining “argument.” If he even mentions the word “argument” in his presentation of logic, I don't see it. So, it's not the case that we need to understand what an argument is in order to do logic, or that the study of logic even depends on defining it one way or another. However, presentations of logic that do make the term central to their presentation need to define it, and they do it in very different ways. One example of a contemporary logic textbook which includes single sentences under its definition is Nicholas J. J. Smith's Logic: The Laws of Truth (2012): 

And there are some other views. But importantly, one can make good cases for progress on both of those dimensions by looking carefully at episodes in the history of science. The view that we are to some degree ignorant — maybe even very ignorant — about the universe is held by nearly all philosophers and scientists. How ignorant we are depends on what could possibly be known. And that itself is hard to know! Still, every degree of ignorance except 100% complete ignorance is consistent with science having made progress. There is a nice discussion of views about scientific progress here at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 

That is to say: while there can be no definitive counter-evidence, and while there are a number of ways the hypothesis can be fit with our knowledge, it can only be done quite awkwardly. We should take that awkwardness of fit as a strike against the hypothesis. This is how science works more generally: we don't arrive at complete certainties so much as deeply-corroborated sets of coherent beliefs. But also, we should not understand lack of evidence against something as evidence for it. I look outside, and I'm alarmed that I have no evidence that there's not a hobbit outside my window wearing an invisibility ring. I literally have no evidence that he is not there. But this is not positive motivation for believing that he is there. (If it were, it would also be positive motivation for believing that infinitely many other invisible things are outside my building: invisible orcs, invisible dragons, invisible ironing boards ...) Then, without some positive motivation for believing something, there is no reason to be agnostic about it. "Agnostic" is explicitly defined in various ways, but I take it you mean that the existence of a designer remains an open question. I would suggest that without positive motivation to believe something, we shouldn't treat them as open questions. They're not closed questions, either, but there we have literally no reason to continue to ask the question. This applies equally to the idea that a designer designed the universe then covered its tracks and to there being a dozen dancing invisible ironing boards outside my window. No evidence suggests they couldn't be there, but by the same token nothing raises the question of whether they are there. Nothing makes it a question worth spending time on any more than whether there are half a dozen invisible ears of corn. 

It is very rare for any philosopher's full set of views to be accepted by anyone else. But, that said, there is an ongoing discussion in metaphysics about “the problem of universals,” in which the problems are very much like ones Plato raised, and forms are probably one kind of universal. And, for an example of out-and-out Platonists, Platonism is probably the current majority view in Philosophy of Mathematics. See the Stanford Encyclopedia article Platonism in the Philosophy of Mathematics. 

Yes, philosophers have made some recent contributions to other fields. And just countering gross generalization with gross generalization, I believe it is generally far from true, as Aaronson suggests above, that philosophers working right now on applications to other fields are ignorant of those other fields. A few preliminaries: 

This question shifts topic from extrinsic value to extrinsic right and wrong. The need for discussing extrinsic value becomes much more obvious when we consider cases of goodness rather than rightness. Donuts and cars are good in certain situations. Hungry and in need of a ride, I value them enormously. But seen in a different light or in a different situation, they can look different in value. They pollute or can make me fat, and are worse things relative to bicycling or spinach. Such variability by context is the mark of the extrinsic. If we called these things intrinsically good, we wouldn’t acknowledge their badness in some contexts. Surely as part of basic human interaction we want and need to acknowledge that we value many such things, though we may not always value them in every way. 

There is a lot of room for flexibility in interpreting Nietzsche, and unfortunately I do not find him offering anywhere a single, positive characterization of truth and its status. However, I would not agree that, as the question puts it, “it is well known that Friedrich Nietzsche was very condemnatory of the objective truth.” Nietzsche certainly attacks views about truth and criticizes how the idea of truth is deployed, by both philosophers and laypeople. He offers sharp criticism of those who feel confident they have access to certain truths, and offers cutting analysis of how people use claims of access to important truths as part of claims to power. He especially criticizes claims to truths about value, about what is good and bad. These analyses are a big part of what why Nietzsche is so influential. Yet, it does not follow from those criticisms that Nietzsche rejects truth or objective truth. Even a criticism of the possibility of objectivity is not a criticism of objective truth. Indeed, when he criticizes positions, he is not shy on leaning on the idea that those positions are wrong—that they are not true. As the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy puts it: 

The first argument simply proves A from the assumption of A. It is not surprising that one can do that or that it is valid! Philosophers call it "begging the question." The second argument is not the same argument. It tries to employ not-A and B as a contradiction. But that is not a formal contradiction, as that must be some sentence and the negation of that same sentence. Neither can be used to prove any old sentence. The first argument proves any A, yes, but only given the assumption that A is true! It is not a restriction of standard first order logic that the sentences come from anywhere in particular. For example, if an argument has a contradiction in its premises, that contradiction can be employed in reasoning from them toward a conclusion. 

Most contemporary philosophers accept that relativism is self-refuting. By "relativism," in this sense, I mean what I take Plato to being arguing against in the dialogues Theaetetus and Sophist. It is committed to two views: 

Some preliminaries: In order for there to be a fallacy, one of these ideas should be intended to serve as support for the other. So, presumably the conclusion (or supported idea) has something to do with spending time and money on luxuries. And that idea isn't presumably about believing. I take it that the most plausible reading is that enjoying luxuries is wrong while bad things are happening. If your thought is that the two ideas don't have anything to do with one another, then offering the one as putative support for the other is a non sequitur (from Latin: "It does not follow."). The one does not support the other. I think that's the fallacy you're looking for. But as with most fallacies, there are times when it's wrong and times when it's right, and I think it is not completely obvious which situation we're in. Certainly, bad things happening can't itself make enjoying luxuries wrong without a further idea to connect them. But I think there are charitable and likely interpretations of the speaker's intent that fill in that link. The tacit (or unstated) premises might be (a) that the time and money spent on luxuries could be spent instead on stopping bad things, and (b) that it is important (or right, or our duty, or just good) to stop bad things that are happening. If that's plausible, you could insist that the argument is a non sequitur, but now to do so you would have to deny one of three claims: 

Non-technically: A probability distribution is an assignment of probabilities to each of a set of outcomes. So for rolling one fair six-sided die, we can describe six possible outcomes, each with one face up, and a flat probability distribution. It's flat because since each face has an equal chance of turning up, the bar chart of probable outcomes is the same height for each. To conditionalize something is to express what it's like when you make it depend on (or conditional on) something else. Think of it as preceding the description with "IF some condition holds, then ... " So for the six-sided die if you conditionalize it having already rolled a 4, you're expressing the probability of all the various rolls given that you've previously rolled a 4. For this die roll, this conditionalized probability distribution is the same. It isn't affected by what you've rolled before. If, however, you ask What's the probability distribution if you've glued a weight to one of the faces, well, that's going to look different! 

On one level, this question is overly difficult to answer, because professional philosophers (not sure why you've put “professional” in shudder-quotes?) are not a unified bunch, and worse, respect can mean a lot of different things. However, on another level, there is a way to answer this question that applies to any thinker. You can find a first kind answer by checking whether his work is well-cited in the professional philosophy literature. That is, do philosophers find his work worth engaging in their own work? Has his work been treated as part of the professional conversation among philosophers? And second, though it would take much more time, you could glance and see whether at least some those mentions are generally positive, and most say something other than “it's rubbish.” Philosophers routinely criticize philosophers they respect and declare them wrong, so only some kinds of criticism signal lack of respect, and the existence of citations is a good measure of respect. But philosophers also occasionally also cite publications as part of arguing that certain positions or arguments are rubbish and not respectable, so the existence of citations is not a perfect measure. Towards at least the first kind of answer, you could look at Alain de Botton's citations on Google Scholar. This search reveals that he is fairly well cited, with publications in the three digits. However, when you click on the citation links there, you should check whether they venues include philosophy journals or what are clearly philosophy books. I haven't done a more detailed search for you, but here's a suggestive starting point: At this point (February 2014), among the top 20 citations for his top 20 most-cited works, I don't find any philosophy publications listed as citing those works of his. However, you would need to dig deeper to get a fuller answer. 

David Hume wrote this line in his character Cleanthes's voice, in Part One of Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion: 

I think where you're getting mixed up is that there are different kinds of conditions. Normally, when philosophers discuss necessary and sufficient conditions, they mean for the application of a predicate to an individual. For example, What conditions are necessary and sufficient for X (some individual) to be bread (where "being bread" is a predicate). Equivalently: under what conditions, for any X, does X count as bread? Another kind of condition is causal or circumstantial. This is the kind of condition one means if one asks, what conditions are necessary for fire to start? What conditions are sufficient. When the original question (and Heinrich's answer and PeterJ's comment) discuss conditions, they mean what conditions are necessary for bread to come about, for bread to exist? That is different. The first (definitional) kind of condition concerns when a predicate can properly be applied to a thing. The second (causal) kind of condition concerns when something can exist. I am not a baking expert, but to give necessary and sufficient conditions for X being bread, we can say something like: For X to be bread, it is necessary that it: 

Other than possibly the last one, these are not topics in informal logic. #4 concerning sarcasm detection is probably not suitable for a philosophy journal at all. So I don't think answering the question you pose — to list informal logic journals — will serve your interests. For most of these topics, a general philosophy journal would probably be the best bet. If you use a search engine for "general philosophy journal," you will turn up many lists of them. However, that is also not the best way to find a place to publish. I would caution you about sending off a manuscript to a miscellaneous philosophy journal without spending some time reading published work on the same topic, and figuring out which of the articles you want to engage with. Use the PhilPapers database to identify publications on the topic which you will engage in your writing. To take your first example, which publications analyze Descartes's assumptions? Then, you might consider sending it to one of the journals in which you have found the work you are responding to published. That is, if you've engaged the work you must engage to be published in a philosophy journal, you already have some suggestions on hand about where the work could be considered for publication. If for any reason you haven't engaged the professional philosophy literature in your writing, if you haven't made an effort to demonstrate familiarity with the research and arguments made by others on the same topic, I would recommend not sending the work to a philosophy journal. (It would just waste your time and produce an unenjoyable, negative result for you.) Philosophy journals, pretty much as a rule, expect this sort of engagement and deep familiarity with the existing literature, and will typically return papers that do not do it without reviewing them. Occasionally non-professional philosophers think of this as unfair or elitist. The authors are very clever, and they have some ideas they are excited about, and they think the ideas deserve publication in a philosophy journal. However, this is a misunderstanding. Very clever ideas are not what philosophy journals are interested in publishing. Their lack of interest in a paper is not a reflection of whether or not it is brilliant. Rather, they seek ideas that contribute to the philosophical discussion. That requires engaging what others have said, every bit as much as entering a conversation in ordinary life requires listening a little to what others have said and acknowledging it and responding to it. For ideas that don't engage the professional literature, there are still many options: publish your work online, in any of the available formats.