Pure information scouting Concerning point 4: the "scouting" aspect of time-travel. You couldn't send any physical kind of probe back in time to "scout" the destination because it would encounter the exact same problems you would have if you went there yourself (possibly fusion or explosion or displacement, whatever you choose). To check the terrain before jumping in time, you would need a way to send and receive pure information. In Alex Scarrow's "Time Riders", they use Tachyons to communicate through time: a hypothetical particle that always moves faster than light. I'm guessing this is the kind of thing you're looking for, some kind of sonar through time. The problem with this idea is that I have no idea how you get the information back. You send your signal to scan a certain time, but I don't see how you could get them to suddenly map out a physical instance and then come back to the time from which they left. This also disregards the fact that you need to send a physical being afterwards. I'd argue that you'd try to "land/arrive" back in time but in space (where there is as little matter as possible) with a space ship to come back to earth. The scouting would be to check that you are going to space. 

Ah, you've hit upon the famous problem of baryon asymmetry, or, to put it in English, why there appears to be more matter than anti-matter in the universe. Neither the standard model of particle physics, nor the theory of general relativity provides an obvious explanation as to why that is the case. Antimatter galaxies, if they exist, are expected to have the same chemistry and absorption and emission spectra as normal-matter galaxies, and their astronomical objects would be observationally identical, making them difficult to distinguish. So how could we can tell them apart... 

Save Points The idea came from a4android's comment: You create specific points in time and space which we prepare for time travel : perfect vacuum, and we save the exact coordinates (both in time and space) so that travellers can go there. Time travel would then only be travel to these spots. You would then have to manage the usage of such spots, several time travelers can't use them at the same time. I would imagine some kind of infrastructure that continuously welcomes time travelers, being able to take care of a certain amount of travels. This is extremely restrictive but solves a lot of problems. 

How do you go about boosting an already-habitable planet's habitability? I want to maximize biomass, hopefully cover the whole planet surface in luxuriant jungles and forests, brimming with insects, animals and (hopefully) megafauna, while the oceans are alive with kelp, invertebrates and fish of all shapes and sizes, all growing (if possible) at a greatly accelerated pace. Optional extra info : 

So higher temperature, ceteris paribus, yields higher pressure. A regular explosion has an overpressure wave too, it's very sharp but very short. For a thermobaric weapon, the pressure builds, builds, and just doesn't stop, until much, much later. It's a bit like the difference between getting punched and a very close encounter with a 300lbs lineman. See a Chinese weapon in action: 

Just few things that can survive that long, and most of them are hard to do and require process like many had answered here. But you can do something that's quite easy, not a hard thing to do (while it need something to be hard), and it's already imprinted on our DNA : 

Supposedly we human are able to terraformed Mars decades from now, then in few hundred years able to enhance our genes to be more adaptable to live on harsh conditions, creating space colonies and starting to live on moon, Jupiter's moon, all the way to Saturn. Supposedly we also invented FTL travel between our colonies, and planets in solar system. As dates and years will become very relative, it would be a disaster in daily basis to scheduling for 3D video call meeting, or planning some events if human still count days and years like we do now. So what will be the best way as the universal standard time keeping in this situation? It's more about the substitute of days/months/and years count that we used now based on earth rotation and revolution, what's the other alternatives that can be socially accepted that's not linked on just one planet movement? Sun movement can be accepted as we deal with just one solar system. (Hours/second would easily solve able using whatever precise time counting device that we will have in the future.) As @cort Ammon has showed the linked question in here. I've revised the question, since I've checked and still not found the answer. Thank You 

By contrast, no matter how brilliant Da Vinci was, he literally had no chance of inventing quantum chromodynamics, because the prerequisite nearby intellectual assets were outside of his PPF. It was only through the employment of more energy-intensive means of reality manipulation and measurement that the discovery of the subtle aspects of reality embodied in QCD literally became conceivable. QCD was invisible to Da Vinci. This finally puts us in a position where we can answer your question. New Technological Progress and Vantage Points on the Path to Kardashev level I Reaching Kardashev Type I (10¹⁶W) is a hugely ambitious goal, since it would mean boosting our current energy resources by a factor of about 10,000. This is already so far outside our PPF that it is hard to even imagine. How would the world look like if, ceteris paribus, instead of an average US power consumption of 10.0 kW (which is essentially at the current frontier), we would average 100.0 MW? Essentially, you'd have the power of a Nimitz-class aircraft carrier in the hands of Joe Everybody, and that's not taking into account future efficiency gains, which are likely to be considerable as well. Think about it, the power that the most powerful nation on the planet wields (there's only a dozen or so of these behemoths in the world), would be at the fingertips of your average Joe. This itself would be a greater leap than we've made in all history so far: from a basal metabolic rate of 100W, we got to 10,000 W at the frontier, most of it used to power industrial machines and robotic helpers. In reality, ceteris paribus would not hold, of course, so for instance human population will likely increase greatly before we reach Kardashev I, so the the per capita amount will likely be lower when we reach that threshold, although inequalities in distribution might mean that individuals might have access to levels far above that sooner. Currently, there is an exploding PPF dimension, where expansion has not slowed for decades: 

For a long time I had imagine that the most advance human can do if we can learn and practice magic and other mysticism like we learn at schools like hogwarts while also interact and develop technology and science nowadays. In this scenario, in our world nowadays some group of peoples manages to spread virally a ton of ancient knowledge of magic that can be practised by anyone and it really worked. Like any other things that spread on internet, the government late to contains it and it have already spread troughout the world. The rules: 

Establish an electricity supply. This can be hydro power, coal, gas or even wood and chaff powered. This will allow a whole host of technologies that will make your people richer, stronger and more secure. Establish outposts with radio access. This can be done either by scavenging and repurposing old radios from police and army bases, or by building primitive ones from leftover copper wire and primitive batteries. This will allow the towns to be in radio contact and prevent the raiders any chance at surprise. As an added bonus this might help you contact and recruit some of the (hundreds of?) thousands of hunter-gatherer survivalists that might still have working crank-based radio transmitters/receivers in their remote cabins. Establish a united authority. The extent of this will greatly depend on your surviving population density. Without heavy industry (which you won't have for a while) the effective transport range is rather limited by bikes, converted diesel trucks that run on impure oil and horses. Large scale maintenance (highway infrastructure) is out of the question. This can be done by conquest, but most people will still remember and long for the old national states, so the state-building indoctrination does not have to start from zero, so you could have states voluntarily form. This will allow a limited degree of specialization. Start dedicating surplus resources to education and medical infrastructure, before the generation of people with the engineering and medical knowledge is lost, and before damage to extant libraries renders all materials there unreadable. Create the rudiments of an industrial infrastructure. Again, depending on how much of the existing infrastructure you can reuse, you can do a lot of automation, even with relatively primitive electric control systems (mind you i said electric, not electronic). Mining, refining and metal-casting and plastic-casting could then commence. Weapon manufacturing will definitely be a priority. Perhaps even very basic electronics could be in range. Breed like rabbits. Goes without saying, and the motivations of survivors of the calamity will probably be similar to those of Nazi concentration camp survivors. Probably will result in a few centuries of patriarchal domination, but it's the lesser evil. As @MarchHo comments below, your people (if few enough) may need to set up a system to avoid future inbreeding. 

If you mean by without maintenance really means is without human maintenance: then how if you build a forever learning and adaptable ai that can maintain and update itself included in the structure. At first it can deploy a not far future drones to maintain the system and building and later can upgrade itself, learn and discover more technologies, even search and harvest materials it needed from the nature far after human had no longer existed. There's one beautiful story involving a structure like this as its 'main character' its a manga by Boichi $URL$ 

There are well-known procedures for tricking human brains into assigning 3-dimensional perspective to 2D images. Some, like 3D glasses in a theater, work without effort, while others, like the stereogram of a galloping horse below, require some training and many people cannot do it at all: 

The thing is, you can write books on just a tiny subset of the question you asked, so this will by necessity be a very fragmented, partial answer. But regardless, I'll list the problems as I see them, in my perceived order of importance. Legal and Social Ontology Regardless of whether the imprinted clone IS you or not, the question arises on whether the law considers the clone you or not. Would the genetic-memory tleilaxu doppelganger impostor perfect clone be legally considered the same person, have access to your bank accounts, and be welcomed to sleep with your wife/husband and tug your children in at night? Since you state that it is likely that they will. If society, judges or even your wife cannot tell the clone from the original (even down to scars, moles and chest-hair?) perhaps the impostor new you will be welcomed 'back' as if it were you. Of course, this could be made to sound even less appealing if your memory-implant were to accidentally send an early death signal so the duplicate sleeps in a warm bed by your partner while you're slowly dying in a ditch from an infected stomach wound. But say that's not the case (no legal rights, no social acceptance) and you are the clone. In your memory one second ago, you were bravely facing overwhelming odds to push back the Zerg on the battlefield, just as a charging Mutalisk ... and then there's bright light, and the vat door opens. The first experience you have is the woman you recognize as your beloved wife, spitting in your face and calling you a wretched impostor, one that will never measure up to her true husband, who died so bravely. You have no money, no acknowledged education or certifications. You're screwed. Uniqueness Can there be only one? Or do you have Cloning Vats, where the are Perhaps there are thousands of you on the battlefield. Moreover, can the experiences of this multitude be reintegrated into one mind at the end (after the clones are murdered discarded)? Would this mind experience a blurry blend, some as-yet-unimaginable perspective, or perhaps live a thousand subjective days (in what order?) or (simpler) have no memory of the event? Accuracy Does the clone feel the memories as alien impositions? Are the memories vivid, or blurry faded things? Are the neural pathways (randomly built in a natural body during in-utero development) really the same? Is there atomic-level precision, or merely in the rough outlines? Would the new being have a body the same age, with the same afflictions (say a bad back?) or a purified new body? Would that change who you were? Would a rejuvenated you be content with, say the 80-year-old-invalid that is your husband? Are the 'spares' mind-blanks, or do you simply keep them in a cage and forcefully overwrite them when it suits you (i.e your primary is growing frail)? Speed Is the cloning instantaneous, or does it take months to cook, during which you are dead to the world? Obviously if the perceived self were to lose half a year each time around, people would be careful about dying, whereas if it's flash-speed, it might be chosen as a convenient means of transport, rather than schlepping a meatsack half-way around the world. Cost How much does it cost, in today's money? \$10? \$10,000? \$10,000,000? \$10,000,000,000? Obviously, this will have important implications on when, why and how respawning is performed.