Open yourself up to the world. Let the possibilities excite and draw you in. The greatest gift you can bring to the world is yourself, enlightened by your own spiritual practice. Whichever path you take, you will end up where you were meant to be. The lessons you need will find you, where ever you are. Allow yourself to look towards what inspires you, not only what is safe and has good financial prospects. Youth has magic to it (even if being young is not an accomplishment), you can breathe in possibility. Don't allow the disappointments of others to guide you to a lesser path with the idea that it is safer. There is nothing safe in unhappiness. As you walk along your path, keep checking on whether your path has the aspects you need most. Here is a list that I think is well worded, but you can craft your own. (I welcome edits if someone can make Right Livelihood clearer) • Is what we are doing causing harm to others or suffering for ourselves? • Is the way we live and the way we support ourselves causing harm or suffering? • What are the purposes for which we work? • What values do we express in our work? • What consequence does our work have on the quality of our inner life? • What consequences does it have on the world? • Is the way we live our life satisfying and meaningful? If it isn’t, what can we change to create greater joy, satisfaction, and meaning? (I copied it from here: $URL$ ) 

I realize that this text is translated, therefore, this may not be an accurate comment, but I respectfully suggest that in the text the woman is passive to the misconduct (receives it), but in the comments/answers you are assuming she is perpetrating it. In some cultures a woman who is adulterous is still the passive person because she "received" the advances of the other man. There is also nothing to make clear if she was willing in the story. The man may be distraught because she was assaulted and he failed to protect his wife. (he is ashamed in the story, not angry with her). This is what I mean: "He engages in sensual misconduct." the man is the actor of the misconduct "1) Non-recitation is the stain of the hymns." the hymns are stained by not being recited, they are not active in their own "stain" but the inaction of others makes them stained. "(2) The stain of houses is lack of upkeep." here the house which is not maintained is stained by the inattention of others. It is passive to the action. "(3) The stain of beauty is laziness." again, same, the beauty which would shine is diminished (stained) by others not expressing/creating it. "(4) Heedlessness is the stain of a guard." this is a little less clear. When I take the definition of heedlessness as ( adjective. 1. careless; thoughtless; unmindful: Heedless of the danger, he returned to the burning building to save his dog.) I can see that a guard put in unnecessary danger by others or that he may be careless. Both are valid to the text as translated. "(5) A woman’s stain is misconduct." she is stained by the misconduct, but it does not say if she is the doer, or someone does to her this misconduct. It could be completed as a woman's stain is a man's misconduct or a woman's stain is the result of her own misconduct Perhaps it is both and that is why neither is specified. "(6) Miserliness is a donor’s stain." it is unclear if it is his own miserliness (the limit to his generosity), the lack of other people's joining him, or his giving (he is a donor) without clean motivation. "(7) Bad unwholesome qualities are stains in this world and the next." neither this world nor the next are the perpetrators of the unwholesome qualities, they are stained by the actions of others. "(8) A stain graver than this is ignorance, the very worst of stains." if I understand it, this is a continuation of the 7th, that this world and the next are stained by the ignorance of others (not their own). "My disciple, women are just like a river, or a road, or a liquor shop or a rest house, or a water-pot stand at the roadside; they associate with all sorts of people. Indeed, sexual misconduct is the cause of ruin for a woman." all of the items listed (river, road, liquor shop, rest shop, water-pot stand) are objects, not perpetrators of the action. they are perhaps temptations, but not actors. Noticeable that none of them have the power to stop the person who associates with them (the water-pot-stand cannot turn away the thirsty passer-by) 

first I apologize, this question, and my answer are not about Buddhism, purely about your vision. It is actually a very positive vision in this context, please do not be frightened by it. The girl represents the innocent, but in the sense of the unenlightened. She is the maiden who holds firmly her chastity (as the novice holds to his grasping mind). This monster which forces her, is the coming of great knowledge in your practice. You will find what you have searched for. It will arrive like a stampeding herd. You will leave behind things that you once valued, but now no longer need. In their place, you will find an improved practice. breathe... practice, and allow. 

(note: when I say "most" and "some" or "many" in this post I am referring to statistics that are gathered in countries where abortions are legal, and safe. It is not an assumption I am making and I am not projecting personal beliefs) with great respect... there are several assumption by those who look at abortion as causing pain or death with intention to (or disregard for) causing pain. In most cases, when a woman chooses to terminate a pregnancy she is doing it out of love either for the child she carries, or her other children. Most often a woman knows she cannot keep the unborn child safe and give him or her a good life. Sometimes she has other children, or hopes one day to have a safe environment in which to have her children, but having this child puts all of them at risk. there is also an assumption that she walks away from that choice unchanged and unbothered. In truth she will make and re-make that decision every day for the rest of her life. The child does not suffer, it knew only the perfect life in the womb. But the mother suffers every day the pain of not having the child to love. There is loss but not comfort from that loss. There is no end to the mourning because the woman sees herself as the agent of the child's death, and never as the grieving mother to be comforted. most abortions are had by women who already have children and cannot feed one more without taking food from those she has. most women if they could find a way to feed and care for all of them would be willing to take food from her own mouth if she could keep this one too. In this case, I see a woman who made a very brave choice to not bring a child into an unsafe environment. The child will be born into a different life, and did not suffer in this one. This child lived a perfect safe life in a blissful place. The second child also did not suffer, they both lived lovely experiences of floating warm and safe, never knowing hunger or pain. You were trusted to bring a perfect experience of being carried in great love to two small beings who only had a tiny spark of life to live. You lovingly nurtured these children for every moment they had, and now they have returned. Perhaps they will be born at another time, perhaps this is all the consciousness they required. We are not made to understand all things, but we are here to understand love and how to protect a child. In both cases you did that. You will be a wonderful mother. You sacrificed your own piece of mind to protect the first child from a dangerous life where he or she would not have been safe. You did not hurt either child, you are the only being who suffered. But now you need to put away the pain and think only of the love. Your next child, whether it is born of your body or it arrives in your life from another womb, will need all of your love and attention. You cannot be consumed by the pain of the grief, it distracts you from bringing love. whenever you feel the grief rising, think instead of the love you have for all of the children in the world.