How common was anti-Semitism in the United States during WWII? According to the book The Jews and the Nation, by Frederic Cople Jaher, the results of a 1938 poll were as follows: 

Conclusion: The actual numbers are unknown, but the largest study published to date identified the following: 

How widespread was support of Nazi policies in the United States during WWII? The short answer is "Not very, especially after Kristallnacht". The easiest way to get an idea of how many people fervently supported Nazi Germany is to check the membership size of the German-American Bund in America in this period; according to the website for the American Holocaust Museum, it was actually rather small: 

Again, the allegations of bayoneted babies was accompanied by claims of pregnant women being cut open and their fetuses removed: 

Warning: the photograph below is very graphic and may disturb some viewers, hence the spoiler tag. Click at your own risk. 

It appears that was killed in a napalm strike by U.S. forces, although there is at least a slight possibility that the responsible aircrafts was South African. 

The Ebionites were a sect of Jewish Christians in the early centuries of Christianity. Little is known about them, and it appears that most or all of their texts were destroyed or lost, possibly as a result of efforts by the proto-Orthodox faction to marginalize and eliminate their movement. The vast majority of what we do know about them is based on the extremely biased accounts of proto-Orthodox Christians, who labeled the Ebionites as heretics and were inclined to paint a very bleak picture of the sect. These sources are dubious at best, and can only tell us what outsiders thought about the Ebionites; they are of little or no use in trying to discover what the Ebionites themselves believed, how they worshipped, and what their religion stood for. Do we have any accounts of the Ebionites from sources less biased than the church fathers? 

The root of towns (and later cities) is specialization. The town houses the people whose "job" requires there be only 1 of them per few hundred other people. Think of a tool-maker, or clothes-maker, or indeed a priest. Maslow's pyramid of needs teaches us that before a person can grow professionally, they must be able to supply their basic needs, first physically, then emotionally. Specialization could not have happened without an abundance of food. Until the hunter/gatherer/farmer produces enough food for their family with enough left to give/sell to others, everyone has to be a hunter/gatherer/farmer, otherwise they will go hungry. Once food is abundant enough, there starts to be enough "leisure" time for people to innovate and specialize. Only then will towns spring up. It seems simple enough to correlate the end of an ice-age to the availability of food, and to the ease of acquiring it. 

That's all I can come up with in the time available, I'll edit the answer if anything more comes to mind. 

The Jewish calendar is in year 5774 (between September of 2013 and October of 2014, it's a leap year), so the "Jewish civilization" is not in 2014. The state of Israel, which is really the only official body to recognize the Jewish calendar, determines all of its holidays and memorial days on the basis of the Jewsih calendar. However, all of the civil dates of import (school year start and end, tax calculations etc.) are all done using the standard Gregorian calendar and it's 2014 in Israel just like everyhwere else. To answer the question, there are plenty of cultures which use a differnent calendar, and are in a different year. However, the Gregorian (Christian) calendar is the lingua franca of the world, and what everyone uses when they need to be understood outside their own culture. Why this is the case probably stems from the fact that for the last few decades the world has been slowly globalizing trade, and everybody wants to trade with Americans and Europeans because that's where the money is. It is very helpful to set standards for these things, and because the American and European cultures have so much influence, it is the Gregorian calendar that became the standard. 

This account comes to us in what is at least the third hand; the servant, presumably John Pernier, related the story to Captain Gilbert Russell, the commanding officer of Fort Pickering, at Chickasaw Bluffs, Tennessee, who later wrote a series of letters to William Clark. When Lewis had arrived at Fort Pickering, he was "in a state of mental derangement", and apparently drinking quite heavily; after he attempted to commit suicide, Russell "detained" Lewis in his personal quarters for about two weeks for his own safety. I have also heard that in his last hours, among other ravings, Lewis claimed that Clark was on his way to find Lewis and help him, but I haven't been able to find the source of this claim. Did Lewis have any reason to believe that Clark was coming to see him, and/or render some sort of assistance to him? 

Correlation Between Spelling and Quality: Williams, unlike Stalsberg, has also concluded that proper lettering (e.g., +VLFBERH+T) is positively correlated with higher metallurgic quality: 

Conclusion: The simple answer to your question is that censuses didn't work the way Luke seems to think they did. 

According to several sites - none of which offer sources or citations - the Arc De Triomphe de l'Étoile was damaged on or near the same day that the Battle of Verdun began in February 1916. These sites, including this one, claim that the Sword held by the Republic on the La Marseillais relief broke off. Some accounts go on to say that the damage was immediately concealed behind a tarp to prevent people from treating the damage as an omen portending disaster: 

Improvement in sanitation, based on the understanding that not washing your hands causes disease, is a relatively new concept. Ignaz Semmelweis was the first man to work out the correlation and publish data. This was in the 1840's, a good couple of centuries after most of the plague had gone from Europe. It's not just that he was the first to discover it, he had to fight the medical establishment of the day to get his data accepted and understood. Basically, sanitation as a health issue was only accepted in the mainstream near the end of the 19th century. 

In 1938 the Germans occupied Czechoslovakia, and civilians were free to settle there under the "Lebensraum" (breathing room) philosophy. The occupation was (at first) of an area populated mostly by ethnic Germans, but legally at least that doesn't matter. The Chinese occupation (and annexation) of Tibet, in which people who are ethnically Han Chinese are settling in areas of TIbet for many years now. If I remember correctly, they are now about 50% of the population. Israel again, this time in the Sinai peninsula. The territory was conquered from Egypt in 1967, and civilian settlements were built in the 1970's. The settlements were entirely (and forcibly) dismantled as part of the Begin-Saadat peace treaty in 1980-82 and the territory was handed back to the Egyptian government. 

Obviously, no one expected that the Hindenburg would explode during the mooring process, so it the expectation would have been that a passenger aircraft was going to arrive, the passengers would disembark, and that would be it. This wasn't the first time that a zeppelin had crossed the Atlantic; it wasn't even the first time the Hindenburg itself had crossed the Atlantic. So why was a reporter from Chicago in New Jersey to report on the Hindenburg's arrival? 

It began near the nexus of 3 continents: Europe, Asia, and Africa. It began during the Roman Empire, while the Empire was still relatively strong and robust, and controlled much of Europe and the Mediterranean, including North Africa. It had access to an extensive network of roads, and it had never been so easy to travel great distances. In Paul's letter to the Romans, he says he is planning a trip to Spain. He traveled throughout Asia Minor, Palestine, Greece, Macedonia, etc. By our modern standards, this wouldn't be very impressive, but this was happening 2,000 years ago, when the closest thing to an airplane was a horse, After the message was altered to make it less Jewish in nature, it became fairly inclusive. It was relatively unique in that it was a religion of belief rather than mere observance. It was also relatively unique in that it made promises of eternal rewards for the people who had been denied rewards in life. It was evangelical, and some of the apostles were brilliant PR men. Shortly after Jesus died, the new movement began to alter his message. This process has continued to this day, although at a much less drastic rate after the first couple of centuries. This is a huge benefit because it allowed the early church to become whatever its congregants needed it to be. 

While I agree with the other answer givers that you're unlikely to find reliable information on Roman imperial spending budgets, I think we can usefully work back from modern spending figures to show the disparity. For example, below are some of the major spending areas of the United States budget, and a note about Roman equivalence: 

Christianity and Islam The obvious candidates are Christianity and Islam, both of which are clearly monotheistic. However, both of those religions can be said to have "learned" their monotheism from the Jews. For Christianity, we have Jesus, who grew up as a Jew in Israel, and was brought up montheistic. Islam, for its part, recognizes both Moses and Jesus as prophets of God (Allah). For true parallel development, I would nominate the religions of the Indian sub-continent. Though, in all honesty, I'm not quite comfortable calling them religions at all. Hinduism Calling Hinduism a religion is a little misleading, as it is a set of schools of philosophies and practices. Some of these believe that all spirits are part of Bhrama, which is close to the Western concept of God. Trying to use the terminology of Western theology, they would have one God, and many saints and prophets. Of course, other schoold of Hinduism are fully polytheistic, having many and various gods. However, there are some who see all of these gods as avatars or incarnations of the same single God, basically having a properly monotheistic religion. Buddhism Once again, there are many schools of Buddhism. I think there are at least some schools which can be fairly defined as monotheistic, and others which are basically atheistic. Mostly, Buddhism teaches that there is a divinity (which can be thought of as God in Western terms) of which everyone is a part. It also has various Buddhas, who are indeed worshipped. However, there is no dogma that requires this, and becoming a Buddha is something to aspire to become through enlightenment. I would equate the worship of Buddhas in Chinese Buddhist culture more to the worship of Saints in Christianity than to believing them to be gods. It is clear that Buddha was indeed a person, not divine. In other schools of Buddhism (perhaps the Japanese Zen Buddhism is a good example), there isn't really a divinity as such, merely the universe in its entirety as a singularity. This is, in my opinion, quite close to the oxymoron of an atheistic religion. Others Unfortunately, I do not know enough about other religions and belief system in the world to make any further actual knowledgable comments. However, I do think that the Australian aboriginal beliefs of Dreamtime are an interesting candidate for this. Perhaps someone with a better understanding can add something in a comment or a separate answer. 

The article shown in this picture led to the publication of Ford's anti-Semitic screed, The International Jew: The World's Foremost Problem, which was translated into German and became one of Adolf Hitler's inspirations. It is said that Ford is the only American mentioned in Hitler's autobiographical political manifesto Mein Kampf. 

1 In the beginning, people who followed Jesus weren't called Christians. In fact, we don't know if they were called anything in particular. During Jesus' lifetime, he and his followers were simply Jews. This was still the case for all of his followers for another couple of decades at the least, and most of them probably consider themselves exclusively Jewish as long as they lived. It was only in the second and third generations of Jesus followers that the slow but steady drift away from Judaism began. Some small sects of Jewish Jesus followers remained active until perhaps the fifth century or later. This situation cause problems for scholars, who like to have specific names for things. Therefore, the most popular term for the first followers of Jesus are now known as "The Jesus Movement". It bears repeating that these people were completely Jewish in belief, practice, and self identification. Furthermore, non-Jews also considered these people to be Jewish. It isn't clear when the Roman government began to notice the difference between regular Jews and Jesus Jews, but it is known that they had begun to single out Christians (who were by this time really Christians) by about a hundred years after Jesus died. 2 As far as modern scholarship has been able to determine, there is probably no reason to believe that the authors of the gospels were named Matthew, Mark, or Luke. There is a possibility that the author of some sections of John was actually named John, but the traditional claim that this was John the Beloved Disciple is not taken seriously by most impartial scholars. The earliest manuscripts of the gospels don't have any names attached, and there is no evidence that they were called by the names we know until a century or more after they were written. These names were attributed to them by the early leaders of the church, and some records remain of some of these leaders expressing their doubts about the issue of authorship. However, I will refer to the unknown authors of the gospels by the names associated with the gospels. 3 Interestingly, the Mormon church has grown at a rate of 43% per decade for the last century. 

I can think of several examples which are big enough, recent enough and well known enough not to be disputed. 

The phrase "green on blue" originates from the colour assignments for the various forces in a theatre of operations as shown in the tactical displays. These displays are now all electronic, but this holds true for older systems of markers on paper maps as well. Red traditionally signifies danger, and is therefore used to show the enemy. Both green and blue were used for friendly forces in the past. However, with the proliferation of UN "peacekeeping" missions in the 1970s and 80s, the blue was used more for UN forces. This is because UN troops always wear a bright blue helmet or beret due to the UN needing to have it's forces clearly recognizable as UN rather than any one nation. UN vehicles are usually white with the letters UN marked on them, for the same reason. From this, "green on blue" has come to mean "friendly forces firing on the foreign international peacekeepers". 

Anyway, that was a quick comparison to the US. Note that even in modern times, the US spends more on defence than the next 26 countries combined. So perhaps the defence budget of the UK, France or Australia is more comparable to Roman numbers. Addition: I have now looked up the UK's 2014 budget figures, and defence spending is on the order of 5% of spending, which probably puts it at about 2% of GDP.