The proof does not work, I think. Your problems are premises 1 and 2. My main problem is with premise 1: it is possible for a maximally great being to exist. Why should we accept this? There is the tempting notion, mentioned in Eliran's (considerably better) answer, that anything we can imagine must be possible; but there is a great deal to be said about the nature of possibility and the rational mind before we can accept this. And even if it were true, the principle can surely only applied to determinate ideas, not simply names. For instance I can talk a fair amount about a circular square, but there is no true picture of such a thing in my mind. The same could be said of a world without time. Perhaps the same is true of a maximally-great being. At the very least I do not have such a picture. We want some additional explanation for premise 2. We must show that necessary existence is greater than contingent existence. Now intuitively this is easy, in that it seems to be true, but we probably want to say that greatness comes from predicates, and it's not clear that necessity is a predicate. To recap: 

The other answers given so far show examples of non-altruistic foundations of ethics. But your question asks for something much more interesting: why is altruism the default? And the place to go for this is Nietzsche. Not necessarily because he is right, but because his thoughts on the matter are the most original and the deepest. On the Genealogy of Morals can be read as a straightforward answer to this question---how did we get where we are? (You could also look for metaphysical or epistemological insights, or philosophy of action, or psychology, or...) And his answer is pretty straightforward. His task is to show the origins of the altruistic impulse, so if he posited that they were just basic parts of humanity he would not really be doing his job. (Besides, this is not plausible, as he shows in OGM 2:3 and 2:4; we used to be far crueler than we are now.) He examines a hypothesis popular in his own time, that morality grew from the recipients of kind acts calling them good, and finds it lacking. It does not correspond the the actual traits of early morality, and it is implausible the strong sorts, the ones doing the good acts, would want or need the praise of the weak. Instead it originally came about as 

My answer leans heavily on Augustine's conception of God in his Confessions, as well as the freedom of the will in On the Freedom of the Will, and, less so, on Plato's dialogue Euthyphro; direct quotations are available once I return home and find my copies of those books. Your statement would be the mark of a good and just God if and only if we had the free will to either follow or not follow orders. Now if God were not perfectly good and just, God wouldn't be God, but rather just some superpowered dictator and craftsman. Presumably this isn't the case. So there are two possibilities: either we don't have free will, and we aren't actually subject to punishment, or we do, and we are. Presumably again we do have free will. There are a variety of arguments for that; see this for starters. The problem, then, is: in what sense does God have a plan for us, and how is this foreknowledge compatible with our free will? God's Plan What does it mean for God to have a plan? In general a plan is a list of things that we want done for some certain end. Certainly not that God wants something from us, for a want implies a lack, and a lack is an imperfection. Besides that, if God had any ends, God would immediately fulfill them, because God is omnipotent. So God doesn't have any kind of plan in the normal sense of the word. This is because God is very far from the normal sense of anything. God doesn't exist in time, or space, and action occurs in time, so God doesn't act in the normal sense of the word. Thinking is an action, so God probably doesn't even think. Augustine probably wouldn't go this far, but I don't see how it's even possible for God to have a subjective experience. In any event God is so far from our normal existence as to render our intuitions on this front totally meaningless. Presumably God had some reason for creating us, but we probably can't know what it is. What we do know is, our ability to sin was given to us intentionally by God, and, because God doesn't do anything bad, it was given to us for a very good reason. We are somehow better, or more worthwhile, for our ability to sin. Augustine's discussion of this point is pretty lame, so I'll skip it. In sum our free will is good and in accord with God's "plan". Free will and omniscience? It's not clear how it is possible for us to have free will. As suggested in comments, this is probably a pretty good place to start. I'm not particularly convinced by any of the arguments. As far as I can tell---and I haven't read nearly enough to make this claim with any sort of authority, so please, correct me in the comments---there's no clear answer to the question "How is free will possible at all, let alone in the presence of divine omniscience?" Kant thinks that we cannot in fact know that the will is free, but that we are forced to act under the idea of freedom. (Groundwork S3) if it tried to show the source of freedom. The best we can do is ask, do we have the grounds to believe that we are free? And yeah, probably. None of this must be very satisfying. We don't know why we are free, and we don't know how, and we don't know why we exist, but we have to believe that somehow everything works together. That's what it means to have faith. 

I don't think anything formal will be of much help here so I'll stick to heuristics. There is no difference between a statement being in fact the case and that statement being true. In general, a proposition is true if and only if it corresponds to some feature of the real world. So the statement "snow is white" is true if and only if snow is in fact white. The problem is in your statement . You're saying , but in the common account, truth is singular---the world is only one way at a given time. What would it even mean to say otherwise? I think you really mean . To believe a proposition is to assert that it is true. It's obvious that people do believe different things about the world, but it does not follow that they are all correct. People want to have true beliefs, so they form new beliefs based on what they take to be true. Now there are some things we know to be true with certainty. Everybody can agree that all bachelors are unmarried, because that's just what it means to be a bachelor. However most of the things we want to say about the world are not known with absolute certainty. We don't have every relevant piece of information. For instance, if there's a chair in the room, it could be there because Alice put it there, or it could be there because Bob put it there, but as long as you didn't see either of them walking in with the chair, you could reasonably say that either of them did it. As for the reason you would come down on one side rather than the other... Well, the actual essay is yours to write, so I'll go no further, but good luck! You're on a really interesting path. 

This is inductive reasoning. It's an argument that carries with it no necessity, only tendencies. If you're interested in more details, check out Hume. Essentially his argument is that the only reason we think things in the future are going to be like things in the past is that in past futures, things have always resembled past pasts. Clearly that's not enough to show necessity. It's a really very interesting problem, and the one that woke Kant out of his "dogmatic slumber", and so definitely worth pursuing. The modern response to it that I'm most familiar with is Bayesian Epistemology - essentially just statistics. It's Bayesian in particular because it follow's Bayes' rule for adjusting one's degree of belief based on new evidence, and how unexpected that evidence is. Whether or not it is in fact epistemology in the traditional sense is up for debate, but it's certainly a useful way to view many facts in the material world. 

That's a really tricky one, and solutions are probably not relevant to this question, but I hope it'll be fun to chew over. 

Yes, and a lot of it is really great. If you just want a crash-course I can recommend this paper by Donna Haraway. It's short, and readable, and as far as I know it . Rather than summarize its argument I'll give you a motivating example. It's a true story from An Introduction to Feminist Epistemologies, which I don't have on hand so I can't source. There is a well-known experiment establishing that men have better spatial reasoning than women. The experiment involved being alone in a dark room with a researcher and having to verbally request small changes be made in the angle of a light fixture (or something like that). Women did much worse than men. Therefore women have worse spatial reasoning than men. Except what nobody took into account was what it would be like to be a woman in that experimental setting. They were alone in a dark room with, typically, a male researcher, so they were often already somewhat uncomfortable. Then their task involved requesting small alterations. This is something women are socialized not to do; statistically, women are more likely to say, "It's fine" when it really isn't than men are. The experiment was critiqued by a female scientist, because it took someone with a particular kind of experience to see what the male scientists missed. And to her it was obvious. EDIT: Here is another great example that I can cite directly about gender politics and sperm and eggs. I could come up with similar examples about race and sexuality. The point is, even science is not immune to standpoint bias, and therefore not above standpoint criticism. 

As I understand it, or value means universal value. And surely there are preferences that could be held by all people, even if they in fact happen not to be. Why then is the existence of the absolute value of preferences ? And what is he talking about, with wishing to be free of them? 

According to Kripke, things get their identities by being "baptized" with a rigid designator, and we refer to them by way of a causual chain. So it is not the case that Napoleon had to become Emperor of France, but it is the case that Napoleon had to be Napoleon. In my understanding, the term "baptism" is kind of literal. Like nothing that Napoleon does makes him Napoleon, only that he is Napoleon, and he gains this trait by being the thing that causes us to refer to Napoleon. Of course we didn't have to name Napoleon Napoleon, but even if we named him Joe, "Joe" would still be Napoleon. Given that this initial baptism, generally, for people, takes place at birth, what are we to make of the idea that Napoleon could have been born to different parents? If there is a possible world where someone born to different parents than the Napoleon in our world was named "Napoleon" and acted in all the same ways as our Napoleon and found himself in all the same circumstances, I'd be very tempted to say that he is indeed Napoleon. But this would seem to return us to the cluster theory of identity. Has Kripke considered cases like this? If not, does he give us the tools to deal with it on our own? 

(OGM 1:2). A picture I always found useful was of a very strong man picking up a rock, noticing how heavy it was, noticing he could pick it up anyway, and saying, in a caveman grunt, "Hah. Nice." Nietzsche sets up an opposition between essentially these primitive higher types, or masters, and those they subjugated, their slaves, who were forced to be creative to survive. (This is doing a great deal of injustice to his account; you should read the book.) The higher types were a lot like lions or birds of prey---neither of which are noted for their altruism. Altruism came about because while 

There you have it. We pray for ourselves, to remember our place in the world. That's Catholic dogma, at least, but the logic holds true for any religion with a similar conception of God as all-powerful, all-knowing, and all-good. Poverty and the Bible You end asking why the Bible says that God helps the poor when people can achieve success through hard work. However it is not the case that our fortunes are entirely under our control; this is a basic result of living in a world with other people and changing conditions. Our success is highly determined by the place in and kind of society we are born in, general economic trends, natural disasters, etc. Humans have free will, so I think we can safely assume that economic trends are, generally, not the kind of thing God would interfere with. Similarly society is shaped by humans to be unequal. That's on us, not God. That leaves natural disasters and the like. For that, see this excellent summary, and, if you still have questions,---and it's a fair bet that you will---ask them here! 

which is clearly not a contradiction. This is because the sentence is not self-referential, unlike the liar's paradox. 

A small note: All of that is seperate from the morality of any given action, but I find most of the really repugnant conclusions stem from a misunderstanding, or an artificially constrained set of options. 

There's a -elimination rule, too. It's the exception to the no-reiterating thing and it goes like this: 

(Translated by Reeve 2014. Emphases mine.) How can something which is unconditionally good be good for only some people? Doesn't "unconditionally good" just mean "good in all circumstances"? 

Let's go out on a limb and say, hypothetically, that we have some rational beliefs. A rational belief is a belief held for rational reasons, that is, a well-justified belief. A belief couldn't be justified if there were no way to even occasionally acquire justified beliefs. 

So the pond could, but does not need to, have excrescent multiples. However they make a good case that every element of the pond is a normal multiple, and you could probably make the same case for any other natural situation. (EDIT: according to these two books from Google, and also Mauro ALLEGRANZA, natural situations only have normal multiples. So the definition provided above is false.) The crucial part is "each normal element in turn has normal elements." If this is true, at least one element of the pond is the null set,* but that doesn't make a lot of sense. Regarding the pond, or really any other natural situation: Which, if any, of its elements are excrescent multiples? What does the null set mean in the context of a natural situation?