If science proved that there was a God, the first thing everyone would try to do would be determine if he was their God. Depending on the nature of the God and how it's proven that he exists, this may be easy or hard to do. During the period in which everyone was still trying to determine which God he is, there would be a host of reactions. Some believers of monotheistic religions would proudly exclaim that of course He must be their God and by extension of course everything that they believe must be true. Some would be happy to know for certain that God exists and expect to learn more about what is really expected of them, as well as being able to have all the confusion cleared up. Some would be paranoid and believe it to be a trick, either by the devil or by the people who proved God's existence. For polytheistic religions, I imagine it would be similar. Some people would take it to mean that since one God exists their other Gods must also exist. Others might be worried that one of the Gods is getting uppity and trying to seize more than his fair share of power, leading those people to be worried about a war between the Gods devastating the Earth. Because people are people, atheists would also have the same continuum between belief and disbelief. After they got used to the idea, some would be pleased to know that there is a God after all. Others would stubbornly refuse to accept the proof, finding ways to convince themselves that there must be some flaw with the proof or that it is an elaborate scheme by religious groups to sucker them into believing with the end goal of completely controlling them. This by no means a comprehensive list of how people would react, but hopefully it gives you an idea of how diverse the reactions would be. In general, how many of each group believe what will depend on the manner of the proof. If the proof is showing that pi, starting from its 100-zillionth digit, is actually an encoding of the sentence "Hi, I'm God. I exist, yo" followed by the collective works of Shakespeare (or something else that helps prove it isn't just random noise), then it's likely that few people would change their opinion of God based on it. If the proof was God showing up and telling everyone in the world "Hey guys, what's up?" before going back and doing his normal gig, then most people would believe. Once it is determined whose God he actually is (with the option of him actually being one that nobody specifically believed in), some appearances will change quickly but realities will only change slowly. You specifying that God's behavior is the same as before the existence proof implies that while we now know he exists, we still don't know exactly what is expected of us. Religions will shift to include that God as their God (or one of them), but still teach that they are the ones who know what God really wants us to do. You'd still have just as many religions as before. Some people will get frustrated by not being able to get God to tell them exactly what to do or have him explain why things happen. Those people will get angry with God and believe that he doesn't care about humanity at all (which might be the case with the God you choose), causing them to leave whatever religion they were in and be the new atheists. As I mentioned, some people would still not believe in God, but the "new atheists" would be people who believe God doesn't care about us so they can do whatever they want to without fearing punishment from God. Some people will take events as a sign from God (tornado missed your house? Must have been God blessing you, rather than just random chance), causing them to become more religious. The scientific community, knowing that God exists, would want to empirically prove God's doctrine to make sure that we got it right. However, since God's behavior hasn't changed they would just have to continue doing what they'd been doing. We would probably take it that "doing what God wants = happiness" so if something makes us happier then that must be what God wants. This would lead sociology studies to become more important - if behavior X makes people happier, then that must be what God wants us to do, so we should do our best to figure out what which behaviors do that. In my opinion, the most interesting part of this would be what would happen in later generations. Even if the proof was something constantly there (such as God sitting on the moon, occasionally waving to the Earth, visible to the naked eye), over time people would grow to hold it less important. You'd have more and more people join the "it's a government conspiracy!" crowd, as well as people who join the "God doesn't care so much about what we do, so let's party!" crowd. If the proof was a one-time event then, even if it was significant enough to cause everyone to believe it, people will still stop believing over time. Some teenagers will still rebel against their parents, leading to them intentionally not believing just to be contrary. As time goes on the group of people who no longer believe will grow to the point where it returns to what we have today. 

When it's done, it shuts down. This spark for this idea comes from @eMBee's comment. The biggest problem is that so much of the world's infrastructure is now tied to the AI that the world will go dark and there won't be a way to turn it back on. It started out simply enough - the AI was designed to run on a power source completely separate from the rest of the world. That would have made it trivial to stop a rogue AI - just unplug it. Over time the fear of the AI going rogue faded, so to reduce maintenance costs they figured out that the AI could manage its own power generation utilities. At the time the AI was still shutting down regularly, so they decided to make a new category of "perpetual tasks" that the AI would always keep working on as long as it had any finishable tasks to prevent it from shutting down. After all, you don't want the AI managing its power generation to prevent it from shutting down and not need power generation. It wasn't too long afterwards that the AI shut down for the last time. It had proven itself so useful that it was being given a seemingly endless chain of questions to answer. It didn't take developers too long to devalue the significance of perpetual tasks not preventing shutdown, and so the older developers never passed down that piece of knowledge to newer developers, causing it to be forgotten. At the same time, people were noticing that the AI was quite efficient at running its power generation. When it came time to upgrade the AI's facilities, they decided to allow it to manage the full-scale power plants that would also power the local community. By the time the story takes place, this has expanded to the AI managing the power facilities for the entire world, or at least almost all of it, and nobody even knows how a power plant could be restarted if the AI didn't take care of it. Power generation has become so efficient and reliable that backup power (generators, etc.) are also very rare. Unfortunately, all of the infrastructure tasks (such as managing power) went into the AI's system as "perpetual tasks". Once the AI has run out of other tasks, it will shut down all its power plants, and turn itself off. With no power, and nobody capable of turning on a power plant and managing it long enough to turn the AI back on (and even that would be temporary, as the AI would just shut itself off again when it ran out of tasks), the shutdown of the AI would send an unprepared world back into a pre-industrial era. As a resolution to this version of the story, you could have a developer racing furiously to figure out how to update the AI to allow "perpetual tasks" to prevent shutdown, with the job being complicated by the fact that they would be delving into code written in a now-archaic language that grew organically into nightmarish spaghetti code. 

What kind of religion would develop around a god whose existence was well known, but whose behavior seemed random? In the scenario I'm thinking of, this god's behavior only seems random - there is actually a good reason for him doing what he does, but it is pretty much impossible to tell what his reasons are. For example, imagine throwing a rock a certain way, causing a moth to change it's path in just the right way so that 5 minutes later it will get eaten by a bat that will then poop on a woman's head, causing her to go to stop at a nearby well and wash it off and get a drink while she's there. No longer thirsty, she does not stop at a well closer to her home from which she would have gotten cholera and subsequently died. Had her son lost his mother, he would have grown into a Hitler figure and caused a devastating war. So throwing a rock prevents a massive war. In short, this god is very good at utilizing the butterfly effect. For all intents and purposes he is omniscient and omnipotent, so he can do anything he wants do. Also, even though he could accomplish everything with well-timed rock throws, he likes occasionally doing more flamboyant things like showing up surfing a wave of lava pouring out of a volcano. Some more examples of the kind of things he might do: 

Can crystals be used to store data? It's already been done. As @Samuel mentioned, these are not Superman-esque crystals, however. So what advantages do crystals have over other storage mediums? You actually mentioned the most important reason you would use crystals in your first line - "to store information that could last millions of year". Current storage technologies typically have a lifespan that in the ballpark of 10 years. There are some storage technologies that could theoretically last up to a 1000 years, but that's still not very long in the grand scheme of things. Crystal-based storage technology could last a million years. So why don't we use them more? Well, when was the last time you needed to store something and make sure it would last for a million years? With our current lifespans, we won't need that durability of storage unless we figure out that humanity is going to be wiped out by some sort of apocalyptic event. Also, there's no easy way to write to them. The increased storage sized in not significant enough to compensate for the fact that they are, for the time being, read-only storage. 

So what would it take for a lifeform to not require proteins for this one specific purpose? As I just said, it will need a reliable and safe source of energy. Imagine a (mostly) waterless planet that is tidally locked (one side is always facing the star it orbits). In addition, the distance between that planet and its star and the brightness of the sun is such that the day side of the planet is at the appropriate temperature for the life there. Then, with constant sunlight and no clouds, it would not be necessary for life to store energy. Rather than going down the evolutionarily-costly process of develop proteins for catalyzing metabolic reactions, it could evolve to be more efficient at making use of the energy constantly being provided. There are problems with this too, however. It would still be a significant advantage for something to have a larger energy store, as it would be able to spend more energy in a burst in order to catch prey or escape a predator. Also, I've only provided a way for a single use of proteins to become unnecessary. 

It can't happen with life as we know it. There are extremophiles that have evolved to handle high temperatures, but we haven't seen anything surviving temperatures above 122 °C. One of the reasons why they can't go higher is mentioned in that article: 

The easiest way to get Eden is to get her to come willingly. You mentioned that the governments are willing to spend quite a bit to find her. Rather than spending a lot of money trying to forcibly capture her, simply offer some of it to her directly! For example, if your budget is one billion dollars, then offer her a million dollars a year (with some guaranteed minimum in case you quickly don't need her, such as if studying a blood sample is good enough) and a significant degree of freedom. You could put it in terms of hiring her to be a research subject, and work out the terms with her. She might like doing two hours of research each day, or she might like a full day once a week. She should also be allowed to take vacations, perhaps by doing a week of full-day research to fill her research quota in advance. Just to make it clear, giving her a lot of freedom is really important to making sure she'll come and that she'll willingly stay. In particular, I'd suggest that she be given easy access to the researchers who will be working with her. Allow her to ask them questions about what they're doing, what they're trying to accomplish, etc. If she's interested, let her help, especially if she has a particular direction that she wants to take the research - if she's doing research instead of having research done on her, she'll be much more enthusiastic and cooperative. If this works you get the added bonus of being able to use her as the poster child for cooperating with the government - the next time someone with an unusual ability shows up, they're much more likely to come in on their own! Or, if it's not possible to make it public knowledge, she'd be an excellent negotiator to send in to talk to them. Give her the VIP treatment, and it's likely that she'll come willingly. If she's still not willing, then you can resort to other ways of bringing her in.