Legalization and its effect on the long term We can find a lot of research notes and papers on the abortion rate trend in the various countries of the world. All of them draw the conclusion that the trend is downward in the majority. In particular, some draw that conclusion: 

From the various researches found, we can draw the conclusion that Yes, it does decrease abortion rate in the place where it is banned 

According to this scientific review [1] I found a list of changes provoked by a hangover. [...] Significant changes in the blood concentrations of acetaldehyde, glucose, lactate, ketone bodies and free fatty acids were found during hangover [...] Looking toward the effect of each of these elements on the muscular system we know that acetaldehyde causes abnormal muscle development as it binds to proteins [2]. Moreover, glucose , lactate and ketone are all known to have effects on sustained exercises [3]. I suggest to read more about each of these elements to understand exactly how it work on Wikipedia. So the short answer is no, the muscular system does not exactly work the same. 

[1] Ylikahri, R. H., & Huttunen, M. O. (1977). Metabolic and endocrine pathology during hangover. In Alcohol Intoxication and Withdrawal—IIIb (pp. 423-442). Springer US. [2] Nicholas S. Aberle, II, Larry Burd, Bonnie H. Zhao and Jun Ren (2004). "Acetaldehyde-induced cardiac contractile dysfunction may be alleviated by vitamin B1 but not by vitamins B6 or B12". Alcohol & Alcoholism 39 (5): 450–454. [3] McArdle, W. D., Katch, F. I., & Katch, V. L. (2010). Exercise physiology: Energy, nutrition, and human performance. Wolters Kluwer/Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Health. 

Do vegetables, fruits or meats lose nutritional value between the time they are picked / rendered and the time they end up on grocery store shelves? Or is it that the mere act of transportation somehow affects the nutritional content? Both propositions sound spurious to me. 

So, yes, at least one form of cancer (prostate cancer) is less likely for men who ejaculate more frequently. But before you rush out to bed as many women as possible in an attempt to stave off prostate cancer, bear in mind that other studies have found that the incidence of prostate cancer was positively correlated with the number of female sexual partners. From Sexual Factors and the Risk of Prostate Cancer: 

Soda (nor cola) does not cause osteoporosis. However, studies have shown a correlation between cola consumption and increased risk in osteoporosis. The National Osteoporosis Foundation lists several risk factors, noting that: 

In December 2005, the science magazine Nature conducted a study to determine whether Wikipedia was as accurate as traditional encyclopedias, namely the Encyclopedia Britannica. In Study: Wikipedia as accurate as Britannica, Daniel Terdiman summarizes the study results: 

For more information, check out this Radiolab podcast, which includes an interview with Stickgold and talks about his work in this field. 

Is there any reason for a healthy adult to take a daily multi-vitamin? My intuition tells me that an adult eating a healthy and balanced diet will get all of the nutrients she needs and that taking a daily mulit-vitamin would be pointless. 

In conclusion, from the statistics, there does not seem to be any link between the popuplation number and density and the homosexuality rate. Therefore, it does seem to contradict the claim that homosexuality exist to control the population growth. 

However, it does not directly answer your question since it does not imply the state banned abortion. 

References [1] Davidson, J. (2007). The Greeks and Greek love: a radical reappraisal of homosexuality in Ancient Greece. Weidenfeld & Nicolson. [2] Kinsey, A., Pomeroy, W., and Martin, C. (1948). Sexual Behavior in the Human Male. Philadelphia: W.B. Saunders. [3] Hunt, M. (1974). Sexual Behavior in the 1970's. New York: Dell. [4] Pietropinto, A., and Simenauer, J. (1977). Beyond the Male Myth. New York: Times Books. [5] Fay, R., Turner, C., Klassen, A., and Gagnon, J. (January 1989). Prevalence and patterns of same-gender sexual contact among men. Science 243, 338-348. [6] Harry, J. (1990). A probability sample of gay males. Journal of Homosexuality 19(1), 89-104. [7] Smith, T.W. (1991). Adult sexual behavior in 1989: Number of partners, frequency of intercourse and risk of AIDS. Family Planning Perspectives 23(3), 102-107. [8] Janus, S., and Janus, C. (1993). The Janus Report on Sexual Behavior. New York: John Wiley & Sons. [9] Billy, J., Tanfer, K., Grady, W., and Klepinger, D. (1993). The sexual behavior of men in the United States. Family Planning Perspectives 25(2), 52-60. [10] Taylor, H. (1993). Number of gay men more than four times higher than the 1 percent reported in a recent survey. The Harris Poll #20. New York, NY: Louis Harris & Associates. [11] Laumann, E., Gagnon, J.H., Michael, R.T., and Michaels, S. (1994). The Social Organization of Sexuality: Sexual Practices in the United States. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. [12] Sell, R. L., Wells, J. A., and Wypij, D. (1995). The prevalence of homosexual behavior and attraction in the United States, the United Kingdom and France: Results of national population-based samples. Archives of Sexual Behavior 24(3), 235-248. [13] Mosher WD, Chandra A, Jones J. Sexual behavior and selected health measures: Men and women 15–44 years of age, United States, 2002. Advance data from vital and health statistics; no 362. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. 2005. [14] Chandra A, Mosher WD, Copen C, Sionean C. (2011)Sexual behavior, sexual attraction, and sexual identity in the United States: Data from the 2006–2008 National Survey of Family Growth. National health statistics reports; no 36. Hyattsville, MD: National Center for Health Statistics. [15] McWhirter, D., Sanders, S., and Reinisch, J. (Eds.). (1990). Homosexuality/Heterosexuality. The Kinsey Institute Series. New York: Oxford University Press. [16] $URL$ [17] Gates, Gary J.; Newport, Frank (October 18, 2012). "Special Report: 3.4% of U.S. Adults Identify as LGBT". [18] $URL$ [19] $URL$ [20] $URL$ [21] $URL$ 

I've read many articles listing the benefits of buying locally grown food and many of the benefits sound plausible. But today I read the following, which left my skepto-meter tingling (emphasis mine): 

Eating healthy and exercising is, of course, not guaranteed to make you live longer - you could get hit by a bus tomorrow, after all. Nor is there a causal relationship between the two, as you have cited examples where those who ate healthy and exercised lived a short life. But if you look at a sufficiently large population there is a positive correlation between healthy eating and exercise and life expectancy. One such study that reveals this correlation is the Harvard Nurses' Health Study, which was started in 1976 and continues to follow more than 120,000 female nurses. Initially, the survey assessed risk factors for cancer and cardiovascular diseases, but was later updated to include assessing diet. Some findings from the study include: 

In conclusion, cola does not cause osteoporosis. And it is believed the negative effects of cola consumption can be counterbalanced. As the National Osteoporosis Foundation notes in its risk factors list, "You can help make up for the potential loss of calcium from sodium, excessive protein, too much caffeine and cola drinks by making sure you get enough calcium every day." 

My answer would be no, but it is not clearly proved nor provable (I don't see how it could ever be proven). I wanted to take a different angle than the other answers and I hope it will help the readers to draw their own conclusions. If there is a correlation between population control and homosexuality, there should also be a correlation between the homosxuality rate through the ages. Sadly, we were not there to poll the population in ancient times even though it is known that homosexuality was present and accepted in ancient Greece [1] for instance. However, we do have surveys from the early 50's when the world population was only 2.5 billions compared to today 7 billions. So, looking to the research papers, can we see a correlation? 

There has been some changes since the OP asked this question and at least one relevant research paper has tried to provide a new answer to this question. According to study this (Mäntylä T. 2013) published in one of the top ten peer reviewed journal of psychology: Yes there is evidence... but men seems better at it (emphasis is from me) 

Effect of the ban in United state As we said, the legalization does not increase the number of women that want to rely on abortion at a certain moment of their life (at least over the long term). That said, we could conclude that for similar education (on contraception, religion), the rate should more or less the same inside a country. The book "Abortion Rates in the United States: The Influence of Opinion and Policy" study the various researches published on the subject to draw few conclusion. First, public opinion is the most influential factor between state were it is legal. Second, reported abortion number were much lower before legal abortion. Third, illegal abortion increase dramatically the chance of dying. There is no clear statement or proof that illegal abortion result in lower abortion rate (since we cannot count unreported abortion). But from known statistics, from the facts on influential factors we can draw the conclusion that yes it decreases the abortion rate in the place were it is illegal. However, as stated in the beginning, it might artificially increase the abortion rate in the country or state beside where it is legal. Hope that my little literature review has helped. 

But cola consumption is just one of a plethora of risks. In Soda and Osteoporosis: Is There a Connection?, author Gina Shaw examines the link between the two and has several informative quotes from reputable doctors and researchers in the field. Some choice quotes from the article: 

There have been more than 1,000 peer-reviewed articles written that were based on the results from this longitudinal study. An approachable overview of this study is available in the book, Eat, Drink, and Be Healthy, penned by Walter Willett, M.D., who led the Harvard Nurses' Study for many years. 

The Wikipedia article includes citations to news stories and other evidence for many of the incidents listed above. 

Is there any consensus as to how many words are in the average adult's vocabulary? Over the years, I've come across various factoids and blurbs online and in magazine articles that have made statements like, "The average adult has a vocabulary of 20,000 words." And if there is a consensus, how was such a number arrived at? Is the "20,000 words" claim (or whatever it happens to be) just a guesstimate or are these numbers arrived at in a more mechanical and, ideally, reproducible procedure? Have then been any formal studies in this vein? 

Of course, what makes Wikipedia different from a standard encyclopedia is that it can be updated by anyone and those updates appear immediately. When there's a particular hot topic item in the news, it's not uncommon for its Wikipedia entry to be updated rapidly, both by level-headed and factual participants and by more extreme, agenda-driven actors on both sides of the issue at hand. Consequently, when you read an entry at Wikipedia it's important to bear in mind that what you are reading now might include some dogmatic if not outright incorrect statements. As Bibhas noted, it's important to check the sources and references. I also would encourage you to note the history of the piece you are reading. If there were many edits in a short window of time that may be a sign that there is some back and forth going between two "sides," which could imply that the information presented might not be as objective as it was prior to the volley of edits. 

Limitations The author is aware of some limit of his experiments. Most of them are related to the assumption that multitasking involve spatial abilities. I extracted the most interesting part of the discussion, but refer to the original paper for better understanding of their impacts. (again, emphasis is from me) 

So at least, we know that legalization does not spread the use of abortion as a contraceptive method if alternatives exist. 

I came accross one of those top 10 video today on youtube (while I remember trying to learn more about particle filter...) and it was about the longest living creatures. I already knew lobster and tortoise were amongst the top ten, but to my great surprise the number one was a jellyfish. The video claims that they can live forever. I did find some other websites claiming that scientists agree with that, but I would like to see a proof (if there is any). Video: $URL$ 

Education, policies clearly influence We can find a lot of work regarding the influence of good sexual education explaining lower abortion rate in some countries such as Netherlands. It is truly intuitive to believe it, but research demonstrate it. In 2003, a study over abortion data of the United States from 1974-1988 induced that abortion policies influenced greatly the rate. It concluded that: 

This question is known as the great debate in economics, and it started back in the early 20th century between two leading economists, John Maynard Keynes and Friedrich Hayek. The debate was over how best to spur a sluggish economy. Keynes proposed that the government could directly spur a stalled economy through direct investment and stimulus while Hayek countered that such moves might provide a temporary boost, but were not healthy, had unexpected consequences, and simply delayed the day of reckoning. For more background on the Keynes-Hayek debate (albeit with a bit of bias toward Hayek), read Cochran and Glahe's, The Hayek-Keynes Debate – Lessons for Current Business Cycle Research. For a more human-interest look at the lives of these two men and how their theories shaped modern economics, see Wapshott's Keynes-Hayek: The Clash That Defined Modern Economics. Unfortunately, when discussing world-wide macro-economics the system is so large, interconnected, and complex that it is impossible to come up with a definitive answer to these types of questions, which is why this Keynes-Hayek debate rages on. There's not a simple positive or negative test that can be applied. For insight on this complexity and the hopelessness of making conclusive statements from such uncertainty, refer to Nassim Taleb's book, The Black Swan. So to answer your question, "Can a government end a recession through job creation?" the honest answer is, "It depends who you ask." 

Mäntylä T., Gender Differences in Multitasking Reflect Spatial Ability, Psychological Science, April 1, 2013 24: 514-520 

The surveys in scientific literature 1948 [2] (World pop.: around 2.4 billions) Had homosexual experience: 37% More or less homosexual: 10% Exclusively homosexual: 4% 1974 [3] (World pop.: around 4 billions) Had homosexual experience: 27% More or less homosexual: 7% Exclusively homosexual: 2-3% 1977 [4] (World pop.: around 4.1 billions) More or less homosexual: 3.1% Exclusively homosexual: 1.3% 1989 [5] (World pop.: around 5.3 billions) Had homosexual experience: 20.3% More or less homosexual: 3.3% 1990 to 1995 [6-12] (World pop.: around 5.3-5.7billions) Had homosexual experience: 9-20.8% More or less homosexual: 2-9% Exclusively homosexual: 1-4% 2002 [13] (World pop.: around 6.5billions) Bisexual: 1.8% (including bisexual) Exclusively homosexual: 2.3% Other: 4% 2006-2008 [14] (World pop.: around 6.8billions) Had homosexual experience: 4-6% Exclusively homosexual: 2-4% Considering the scientific surveys, if there is any correlation to make between homosexuality rate and population, it would be that it is decreasing as population grow. However, it is widely accepted that the decrease after early research by Alfred Kinsey is more related to wrong estimates in the first place [15]. Moreover, we can see that the rate vary a lot between different surveys reflecting inherent uncertainty of the sexual orientation. 

Per country We could also look into the census done by different countries to see if the densily populated ones show higher homosexuality rate. Warning! depending on the country, the statistics are more or less accurate. Canada [16] - Density: 3.41/km^2 - Homosexuality rate: 1.1% - Bisexual: 0.9% United States [17] - Density: 34.2/km^2 - LGBT rate: 3.4% China [18] - Density: 139.6/km^2 - Homosexuality rate: 0.8-4% United Kingdom [19] - Density: 255.6/km^2 - Homosexuality rate: 1.1% - Bisexual: 0.4% French Republic [20] - Density: 116/km^2 - Homosexual couples: 0.6% (no data on homosexuality) Norway [21] - Density: 255.6/km^2 - Not Hetero: 1.1% - Do not wish to answer: 5.9%