Don't ask about policy, that is futile. You won't get usable information. However you can construct a few stories with a conflict and can use that. Tell the story and ask what the company would do in the situation. If it sounds good, ask ahead, that what enforces it. Or switch to a variant where you discovered that some decision-maker failed to do that, and ask what can you do in the situation, where to turn, how to resolve, etc. Probably you get a better picture. Though still can hit a gap between theory and practice. 

I would not recommend including examples like this in a cover letter. If you want to provide examples of your data visualization skills, you should offer to provide a separate portfolio that shows concrete, work-appropriate examples of your skills in data visualization, not scribbles that are intended to illustrate abstract concepts like the ones that you show here. Also, in the comments to @Alex's reply, you mention that you aren't too concerned about grammar. I personally reject many candidates for technology positions because their spelling and grammar are not up to par. I don't penalize for a single mistake - especially if it is something that would not be caught by a simple spelling or grammar check - but, to me, multiple mistakes in this area call into question the candidate's attention to detail. If you can't be bothered to properly vet the most important documents of your professional career, what does that imply for your day-to-day work? At minimum, you should try to have a native speaker, or someone with a much higher level of proficiency in the language, examine your cover letter and resume before sending it. The more eyes on it, the better. 

I'm sure he has no right for such request. If I was in the situation I would have pointed that out quite directly. And unless he takes it back as misunderstanding, I'd ask this order in written form. From there whatever route would be interesting. 

I don't think "most commonly accepted etiquette when it comes to tattoos and work sponsored events" exists, and even if it did, would be pretty irrelevant. You don't live with some "average" or idealized company but a very concrete one. Therefore you shall figure out the local rules. If you have an ombudsman position in the company I suggest to consult there first. If not, I'd suggest starting with colleagues who you trust, then possibly the boss or some HR folks. (In general I would not think it be a problem of any kind, but the fact you feel for asking here raises suspicion.) 

I don't see what it could hurt. A peer award is nothing to take lightly - it shows that you are a team player who is well respected by others in the company. Listing it on LinkedIn may give you the opportunity to showcase your collaboration skills in an interview if the reviewers scan through your profile and notice it. If you decide to post it, make sure to describe it is you did here - a result of peer voting. If you can call out the exact reason for the award, so much the better. 

That part of the interview is not there as another manipulation opportunity. As an applicant you should ask question that you're genuinely interested in and need the information. Especially whatever is relevant to make a decision on accepting an offer. But "just curious" is also a fair game. I suggest NOT asking anything just for show. A good interviewer will not build any conclusion of that section, as candidates may be well prepared so not need to ask. Or what is usual, just be mentally exhausted at that point. Os just shy or anything. 

Yes, in my mind that is unusual. I'm also a C level manager and would be concerned if this happened to me. One meeting? No problem. Several meetings? I would be annoyed that my boss did not bring me into the coversation. As Joe says in his comments, your next course of action depends upon your relationship with your boss, but I don't think it would be out of line to express your concern. Be sure to do this in a way that gets across that you want to help, and not as a whine. e.g. "I'm concerned that my report didn't feel that he/she could approach me with this, and give me an opportunity to correct the problem, before bringing it to you. What can I do to avoid this in the future?" 

Yes, it is pretty common that growth makes the existing management forms not working well enough, making leaders overwhelmed. And a common response is to get some outsider. And as usually there's little experience on telling good from bad, it's easy to pick up a genuine bad apple with good fast-talking skills. Or one that would be good elsewhere, but not a good fit for that company. I heard stories in all directions, including where the new mid-manager was dropped after a few months and the team restored to good work. Also where he was kept and half the team left or got reorganized. If you really have good standing with the CEO, you may ask yourself out of that pyramid forming a separate branch -- maybe even with some team members. And until the dust settles you can use the 5 WHY method, make the manager explain everything not evident, recursively. That way you might dig out incompetency, or learn that he is right after all. It's quite fail-safe. (And if he just refuses or can't answer, that is sure indication of a douche.) 

It sounds as if you're trying to provide value for your employer by streamlining a business process that is overly manual and repetitive. This is a Good Thing, regardless of any impact on staff. In today's business environment it's important to stay competitive, and one way to ensure competitiveness is to streamline processes and remove unnecessary work wherever possible. This frees up people to do more valuable work and can, in some cases, result in cost savings for the business. It may be accomplished by reducing staff load, but that's not your decision and you shouldn't be overly burdened by it. Remember that you're paid by your employer, not by your co-workers. It's admirable that you're concerned about your colleague's welfare, but your ultimate responsibility is to do the right thing for the business. 

You signed the contract, so you're bound indeed. You can consider the difference as price for a good lesson: agents serve their pocket, not yours. And if you want something done well, do it yourself. (At least in the non-professional field. Leave doctoring to doctors, architecting to architects.) And at least do yourself a favor to verify things before signing, you could find the ad if you just looked, right? Certainly every contract can be canceled, renegotiated, etc following up on the original agreement and using the law framework, you can ask raise nicely, or you can call up some ultimatum. Any of those carry risk, obviously. I'd probably wait up the next regular time point of salary raise/renegotiation, if such thing exist. 

Initiative. Show that you're willing to take on work as needed, including work that no one asked you to do, but that you have independently identified as useful and that proved valuable to your organization. Managers are expected to identify and prioritize work as instructed by their superiors, but it's at least as important to show that you can act independently and appropriately. Judgment. Did you make any decisions that saved your organization money? Did you suggest changes that improved profitability, lowered costs, improved morale and effectiveness? These are important traits for managerial roles. If you can show dollar amounts, specific time savings, or the like, so much the better. Leadership. Each of the items in your resume should somehow highlight your ability to lead. Stress any times that you guided a team, acted as a mentor, led a project, chaired a committee, etc. Your resume should be full of "action" verbs like "led, instituted, guided, suggested, created". Integrity. This is more for the interview than the resume, but think of times when you had to make a difficult decision. When did you do the right thing even though it was hard? This is leadership in action. (As an aside, if you find that the company has no interest in this quality, RUN AWAY!) 

Look, there's usually a good reason to ask the figures. Especially in "big" companies where those you interview with and even who give the offer has limited power over the content. If there's no intersection of the ranges, going ahead with the interview is just waste of time. And nothing forbids to provide a very wide range, stating that it is the "abstract" and it depends on very many factors, related to workplace. And at the point you can't fill the variables, but expect to get wiser on the interview. 

For the technical side: I discovered that ear-bud type headphone is great for this. It kills noise pretty well even without anything going, and provides pretty good-sounding music. Without leaking to outside. And not really wearing on the head or ears. My only remaining problem is to pull them when I stand up or someone wants to talk...