(Aside: Note that the reference is to " Richard Clark"The process of judicial hanging", Capital Punishment U.K. Retrieved April 15, 2007.", which is not currently available; you might want to check the wayback machine) 

Notes on historiography My first temptation when I read the question was to begin analysis from a modern, American point of view; I could begin there and look backwards for sources supporting a connection between the English "right to bear arms" and the corresponding right expressed in the US Bill of Rights. There are some obvious problems with that, and I'd just heard a podcast that referenced the definition of churl including the right to bear arms. It might be more successful to begin with an early source and work forward to OP's quote from the English Bill of Rights. 

As a matter of fact, I believe the last time I visited Williamsburg, the courthouse was trying the case of a slave who was arrested for violating this ordinance; the slave had stopped to listen to a street preacher, and unwittingly exceeded the number of slaves who were permitted to gather. Pretty much throughout history, criminal activity takes place in small groups; every additional member added to the group raises the risk of discovery, prosecution and execution. Given that slaves were property, and by definition had no civil rights, slaveholders had a wide variety of extreme measures available to suppress any attempt to organize slaves. If I were a slave and wanted to escape, I would know that my success was based on how few people knew of my plans. I would not participate in any action by a large group of slaves. The logistics of organizing slaves are staggering. By coincidence the next day I heard Patrick Breen discuss Nat Turner's revolt - both professor Breen and Ms. Covart repeatedly reference the difficulty presented in organizing collective slave activity. 

Heavily revised based on comments This question is NOT simple; I would argue that it cannot be answered, but I can outline what I think the parameters of the answer might be. In "The Origins of Political Order", Fukayama makes a throwaway comment that the key is that the government be accountable to the people; democracy is only one of the ways that accountability can be created. He doesn't develop the concept (at least not to the extent that I would have liked), but I suspect it is the key to the answer to this question. Let’s begin by setting some boundaries to make the question reasonable. 

Absolutely. Pauline Maier "Ratification: The People Debate the Constitution" is an excellent source for both of these questions. With respect to your first question about economic differences, consult any discussion of the Bank of the United States, the arguments between Hamilton (who argued for a commercial country) and Jefferson (who argued for a pastoral anti-commercial country). Southern states were nearly hysterical in their fear of "Northern Stock Jobbers". Or consult the controversy over the Jay treaty that almost sunk the country before it started (briefly, Northern states were willing to trade away the Mississippi in exchange for commerce, while Southern states were horrified that we would make any compromise with Great Britain. State vs Federal rights. This was one of the chief impediments to the passage of the constitution. One of the centers of opposition in all states was by people who feared what would happen if the constitution were passed without a bill of rights limiting the power of the Federal Government. Pauline Maier's book, and Jack Rackove's lectures on iTunes are another excellent source. Your question ignores several obvious sources of evidence. Look at the compromises needed to found the country - each of these were issues where the two sides were willing to fail rather than give in to the other. 

The notion of supply and demand first occurs in the 14th century, so Rome wouldn't have had the concept. 

I found at least one source that advances the notion that Crichton is referencing a source who had an agenda, and may have exaggerated for effect. Ahmad ibn Fadlan wrote about his visit to the Rus: 

I don't believe there were any wanted posters in Spain in the 1500's. If you have evidence, please document your preliminary research in your question. The first record I can find of a wanted poster in Europe was 1881; although the comments suggest that wanted posters were common in the US at that time. True West Magazine suggests (non-conclusive) that they date from the last half of the 19th century. Wikipedia on Calico Jack cites an illustration in a 1722 book. If a wanted poster existed, I suspect they would have used that in preference to a woodcut. According to the history of posters, "The first posters were created in the mid 19th century in France as advertisements for new products." Which suggests that posters and wanted posters both emerged well after the 1500's 

I am puzzled by the lack of sleeve insignia. Today, I'd conclude that these men are E-1 (no insignia). I've actually never seen an E-1; they grow up so fast. 

3) Read Ken Follet's historical novels. Huge generalization, but your best bet is to apprentice with someone local and then be sent off to another master for journeyman training. Yes, this has no sources and is therefore a bad answer. I haven't researched the guild system deeply, but my impression is that everything said about guilds is an overly broad generalization that is meaningful only as an ex post facto academic generalization for analytical purposes. Real understanding of the guilds would require research into a specific guild in a specific city at a specific time. 

The title asks about legal protections under two different governments; the question in the body asks why legal formalities were observed. I'm not sure which question you want answered. The body of the question seem to contain a thought experiment about some hypothetical businesses being nationalized. Fundamentally legal niceties were observed because the Nazi's perceived themselves as a legitimate state. No protection were offered to Jews because the Nazi's felt that Jews were criminals. Most governments limit the rights they accord to criminals. In most states, it is illicit for criminals to keep the profits of their crimes; by criminalizing genetics, it became entirely legal to seize the wealth of Jews, because they could only have obtained that wealth through criminal activities that weakened the state and harmed German citizens. Part of the horror comes from criminalizing genetics. Think about that for a while and then go hug your kid. 

That is kind of like asking "Why can I pick up an egg but not fight off a cold?" The two capabilities are not related in any obvious way. (warning - weak answer full of assertions and opinions - much of the argument is derived from Fukuyama). The ability to project external power is based on infrastructure (UK ruled the waves - had extensive support structures to reinforce power anywhere, massive fleet size), technological/military superiority, and military skill & training. It is crucial to note the numbers of Irish and Scots in the UK military - if you try to use those forces to suppress dissident populations, you may lose both the ability to project external power and the ability to control internal dissent. The ability to suppress dissent derives primarily from internal perceptions of the legitimacy of government. Internal perception of legitimacy results (loosely) from an accountable government, national mythology (see update below), and from prosperity. The globe spanning empire supports the national spirit and mythology. Force projection is not related to the ability to suppress dissent (in a democratic government) - attempts to use the military on domestic populations is .. exceptionally unwise... Ireland and Scotland are fascinating cases, but trying to analyze them through force projection capabilities is like use my spleen to lift weights. It just doesn't make sense. update I was uncomfortable leaving an answer without a source - felt hypocritical. Fortunately, the excellent Revolutions Podcast from Mike Duncan delivered an episode about the revolution of 1830 - granted, isn't about England, but it is a fairly good case study cautioning against deploying troops to subdue the domestic population. Update2: @TheHonRose pointed out that my use of "mythology" is nonstandard and perhaps more anthropological than purely historical. This is correct; I'm trying to abstract a concept that is present in Fukuyama and in political science, but for which I don't have a purely historical framework. Every nation has a set of shared cultural, political, social, civil and military institutions. Fukuyama argues that these institutions, and more importantly the belief the population holds in these institutions, is a major source of the legitimacy of the government. Rebelling undermines these institutions. I'm using the term mythology in a specific sense as used in other social sciences to emphasize that it is the belief in these institutions, not the institutions that generates the legitimacy. Affiliation with the institutions affiliates with the national mythology; attacking or rebelling against the nation distances members from the group. One final point and I'll let this rest - I have no way of measuring or proving the concept, but in my opinion as an unrepentant Anglophile, the British mythology is more effective than the average, and therefore more supportive of legitimacy, and more effective at resisting domestic unrest. As I said at the beginning, most of this is from disciplines other than history, so I didn't want to emphasize it in the answer, but I wanted to capture answers to some questions in the comments. (Comments are now obsolete).