What is happening is that you have enough force in your hand to move the whole mechanism towards one direction overcoming the failure point, but the spring in the derailleur doesn't have the required force. As you pedal (and ride) vibration helps momentarily reducing friction and allowing the spring to pull back, so it finally shifts. The most common cause of this issue is rust between the cable and the cable housing. There are also a few other closely related: 

If what you're looking for is a cheap alternative, here in my country is very common to use diesel or kerosene to clean bike parts. Personally I use diesel, I just pour a small amount in an old plastic cup, and use a brush (the kind normally used for painting) to rub it all over derailleurs, cogsets, bearings, etc. It is plenty effective for removing even heavy grease. It is smelly and leaves an oily residue that can be easily removed with dish soap. (I prefer the liquid one). I Like to use it because it is effective, and the "residue" seems to be protective against corrosion for a few days. You can use rubber gloves, since diesel won't melt them, but if carefully used barehands, it won't cause much trouble as long as you wash your hands right after the job, which you can do with plain water and hand soap. On a side note: Liquid dish soap is an amazing grease remover, but it needs scrubbing, so it does not make the job as easy as diesel. It is extremely useful for the rubber parts of the bike, leaves tyres looking really good, and does wonders with the grips: somehow they end up shiny but not slippery, and it's really easy on the paint job, try it! Diesel has the advantage of being not so flammable as gasoline or kerosene. You can't light up liquid diesel with a spark or a match, but with kerosene or gasoline it's easy, thus my choice for diesel. Another reason to prefer diesel over gasoline or paint solvents, is that it won't damage plastic or rubber parts, as gasoline would do. Some paint solvents may cause long term discoloration of paint (d'uh!) or plastic parts if used frequently. I haven't had these situations with diesel. Kerosene is more flammable, less viscous and less smelly, but I have never used it for cleaning. Many years ago, I used to clean with gasoline, but the smell is unbearable after a few minutes, it damages plastic, rubber and paint. It melts some kinds of rubber gloves and causes immediate damage to the skin. For some specific jobs it can be useful though, since it evaporates rather quickly, leaving no residue. Bottom line: As with all flammable /volatile liquids, they should be used with caution, in open, ventilated environments, and should be stored carefully, properly labeled and out of reach of unsuitable users (children, elderly, etc...). 

Are there any special concerns or precautions to take when traveling by plane with a bike that has air shock or air fork? Is it necesary to take the air out or is it safe to leave them as they are? By the way, the tires need to be deinflated? Details: I'll be traveling by air with a bike that has a Marzocci Bomber MX Pro, that has air springs. My fear is that pressure changes may affect the shock. Also, and I don´t know if I will be near a bike shop at my destination. 

My conclusion after many years of using not two, but three types of valves is that the best is the one that results most practical for you, acording to type of riding, type of pumping methods available and of course the type of bike/tire/rims you are using. Neither valve type is absolutely better than other, but one of them may result better for your particular circumstances. For example when I was younger, the modern mountain bike was not yet popular in my country, so the most available tube had dunlop valves, also, the classical stick pump was available in the only bike store, in many hardware stores and even some supermarkets and department stores that sold sporting equipment. Back in that time, it was crazy to have a schrader valve, because you could only buy cheap and bad quality foot pumps, and the gas stations here where too careless to mantain their pumps in working order. Nowadays, I have schraders in my DH bike, presta in my XC bikes and dunlops in my wife's XC bike. Besides that, I have many presta-to-schrader adaptors in my toolbox, patch kit, in my car, bacpack, etc. So I use a schrader pump head most of the time. This gives me huge flexibility, I can pump with whatever I have in hand! That is, In the car I have a small "compressor", an electrical pump that runs on 12v from the car's battery. At home I use a cheap but decent floor pump that has schrader head from a hardware store. Here the advantage is that it cost a fifth of a "proper biker's floor pump". And my Mini-stick pumps are set to schrader mode. Yes, I preffer to screw in the adaptor than to reverse the inners of the pump head. I still have some dunlop tubes because here you can buy up to four or five dunlop tubes for the price of one schrader or presta. I use schraders on my DH bike because of the high volume. Schrader provides a wider air passage, so they are less restrictive and that allows for faster pumping with a hand of floor pump. Obvioulsy a DH tire does not require high pressure. And the prestas are used because higher quality tubes or certain specific sizes are only available in presta/shcrader. After about 20 years of riding BMX (as a kid), Road, XC, DH, and even BSOs, i have never noticed a significative difference that forces me to choose one over another, and I find equal difficulty inflating them or repairing flats in any tube type. The only possible advantage I see en prestas is that when you need to deflate them, you unscrew the valve closure and press it with yout finger, you don't need a thin object like with schraders. (such an object may already be in your emergency tool set, for example a 3mm hex from a multitool does the trick). The other advantage may be the locking nut that avoids the valve receeding into the rim when pressing the pump head against it. Presta may be mandatory for narrow rims, like the ones in road bikes. Dunlop and Schrader both require the same diameter for the rim hole. Of the three valve types, only dunlop actually requires air pressure to both open the valve while pumping and to seal it, and in practice it is the only one that closes itself while the pump is being filled with air. The typical stick pump for dunlop valves would not have a check valve on the output. Both, Schrader and Presta specific pump heads press the inner pin or the closing nut respectively to open the valve. (I'm not saying prestas cannot be opened by air pressure from the pump, but most pump designs press on the closing nut). For that reason, modern pumps do have a check valve or an equivalent mechanism. After that being said, whether it is easier to pump to a certain pressure depends more on the pump design, including the pump head. Some manufacturers simply have a better presta design than a shcrader design, but the opposite may be true for another make/model of pump. That is, given that you have a good pump, it is equally as hard/easy to inflate a tube, and you will always find people that swears by othe or the other type, but the choice is yours. If you actually have the option, choose the one that is compatible with the best affordable pump that you have or can acquire.