About a century earlier, a similar movement occurred in parts of Great Britain. The Scots Musical Museum incorporated Scottish folk music into the British classical repertoire. One contributor, George Thomson, also made an effort to catalogue Welsh folk music for the benefit of educated urban listeners. 

Short Answer: Jefferson was anti-Jacksonian. Madison was neither Jacksonian nor anti-Jacksonian. Longer Answer: By 1828, every serious contender for the presidency was a member of the Republican Party, so the supporters of Jackson called themselves “Friends of Jackson” or “Jacksonians” to differentiate themselves from the "Administration Republicans" or "National Republicans" who supported Adams, the incumbent Republican President. Inasmuch as the election of 1828 represented the beginning of the end of the Republican Party, supporting Jackson represented leaving the Republican Party (or the Republican Party leaving you). So this question is answerable as “Did Jefferson and Madison support Jackson’s presidential bids?” Jefferson: Jefferson may have died before Jackson's election 1828, but he was alive for Jackson’s first presidential run in 1824. From quotes at the time, we know that Jefferson was absolutely not a Jacksonian. As Jefferson told Daniel Webster: 

As mentioned, early Christians were obviously critical of entertainments that not only had pagan religious origins but which sometimes featured the grisly deaths of fellow Christians. But interestingly, critics like Tertullian didn't object solely to the human slaughter, but to the spirit of all spectacles. Using some Yoda-esque logic, he writes: 

So again, both views you've heard are somewhat correct. Singapore was always an important port in its region, and thus at independence it was wealthier than its nearest neighbors--but in 1965 it was a poor backwater compared to the U.S. and U.K: Singapore was 1/5 and 1/4 as wealthy (per capita) respectively. By 1993 it was as wealthy (per capita) as the U.K. and by 2010 it was approaching American levels. 

(lots of colonial statistics here) So how do the densities between Indian and European agricultural communities compare? A family size of 10 is reasonable in colonial America. So from the raw numbers above, we have 10 people per 60 acres versus 287 people per 100 square miles or 64,000 acres. That suggests that European agriculture was around 37 times more intensive than Indian agriculture. As a rough estimate (and one that likely underestimates Indian productivity due to the way the figures were calculated), I wouldn't put too much stock in that exact figure of "37." But there's no doubt that European colonists made more intensive use of the land than did the Indians. 

Yes. Wikipedia maintains a list of "Wars and Anthropogenic Disasters by Death Toll." Here are the 19th century entries, with lower and upper estimates for death toll. 

I think it may not be an accident that the earliest reference you found to Encaenia composition comes from the late 17th century. From what I've been able to find, music was not a major part of university ceremonial--in fact, many universities were actively hostile to music in general.* From Life in the Medieval University: 

Short Answer: The modern cocktail--as defined by OP as including sweetener, ice, and decorations--predated Prohibition. While Prohibition-era bartenders did need to mask bad liquor, these techniques were not influential because they were only necessary in the presence of bad liquor. The long-term effect of Prohibition was to introduce American bartenders to European bartending techniques and liquors. Sugar: Sugar has always been at the heart of the cocktail. I won’t reproduce individual recipes, but "loaf sugar" or simple syrup is called for in nearly every recipe listed in David Wondrich’s Imbibe, which is a history of pre-Prohibition cocktail culture in the United States. These recipes also often call for sweeteners such as berries. Ice: “Iced drinks had always been available for the few, but in the 1830s, with the burgeoning trade in fresh, clean New England ice, delivered by horse-drawn carts from insulated central warehouses even in the hottest months of the year, ordinary people started getting used to the stuff, expecting it, calling for it in their drinks” (Wondrich, 40). Showmanship: Showmanship also long predates Prohibition. Here is an excerpt from an 1853 article on the New York barkeeper George Augustus Sala: 

The caveat is that this study is based on urban populations, and certain rural populations may have experienced more severe poverty. But the overall message is that deaths due to starvation would have been rare throughout this period. My admittedly very ballpark extrapolation from these data is that we might find a rate in the thousands per year before the New Deal agencies got up and running: 

Bryan and Hanna were so successful at realigning the coalitions of the two parties that the 1896 election is considered to be a pivotal realigning election, ushering in the Fourth Party System. Business became associated with the Republicans, which in the 1900s led to unions and the Democrats tightening their bonds. 

New England: New England was the most ethnically homogenous region and had the fewest new immigrants in 1776. New England always had the highest rate of family immigration, giving it a high birthrate. It had the lowest death rate, due to a healthy climate. Its low rates of non-English immigration are due to its cultural intolerance. However, far northern New England had a French splash from Acadia. The South: The tidewater South was more ethnically diverse than New England, but that's mostly due to the presence of slaves. It initially had a lower birthrate, due in part to the immigration of single men looking to make their fortunes. Southern states had the highest death rates, due to malaria, yellow fever, and (some argue) physical violence. Still, these colonies had been settled early enough that they were still dominated by established families and third-plus generation yeomen. Slaves, of course, succumbed to overwork--especially in South Carolina, which learned a crueler version of plantation management from the Caribbean colonies. In the upper south, slaves had been in the colonies long enough that we might speak of "African-Americans," whereas in the deep south the slave population had to be "replenished" at such a rate that we might still speak of "Africans" (which is why there are more vestiges of African culture there than elsewhere). Appalachia: Little ethnic diversity here, as it was largely settled by Scots-Irish and others from northern England in the 18th century. At the time of the Revolution, this region would have been dominated by 1st to 3rd generation Americans. Middle States: This is where all the ethnic diversity was. The Dutch were prominent in New York (around a quarter of the population), especially along the Hudson River Valley. Most Jews in colonial America were of Dutch Sephardic descent. "New Sweden" (running along the Delaware River Valley) initially had a sizable contingent of Swedes and Finns, though this was of diminished importance by 1776. Perhaps the most important non-English group in the Middle States was the German Palatines, who made up about a third of Pennsylvanians. Finally, maybe around 5% of the Middle States population were black slaves. As in the upper South, they were likely to have been descendants of several generations of slaves. Most of the immigration to this region had occurred by the early 18th century, so the Middle States too were dominated by third-plus generation Americans. As a final aside, if you believe that the origins of the American Revolution were largely ideological, then it's no surprise that the Revolution occurred at a time when such a large percentage of the population was third-generation or older. The development of institutions and philosophies of governance incompatible with those in Britain doesn't happen over night, but over multiple generations. Sources: Albion's Seed, American Colonies, American Nations, and Wikipedia. I'll update if I ever find firmer estimates of the native-born/immigrant breakdown. 

So the organizations that were key to creating a “Hispanic” identity were the Cabinet Committee on Opportunities for Spanish Speaking People, the Census Bureau, the National Council of La Raza (a social movement), and Univision Communications Corporation (a media organization). These four organizations often coordinated their efforts to create the panethnic Hispanic identity, even exchanging staff to some extent. To get social scientific for a second, ethnic groups are not pre-existing categories, but are always constructed through political, social, and cultural processes. Put another way, neither Mexican-Americans nor Anglo-Americans in the 19th century saw a need to talk about “Hispanics” as a single class. Cuban-Americans, after all, were likely to respond differently to the Mexican-American war than would Mexicans and Mexican-Americans. Because large scale Puerto Rican immigration and Cuban immigration to the US are primarily 20th century phenomena, there was no need for a national discourse around "Hispanic" issues and so that category did not emerge as a useful or meaningful term in national discourse. (As jfrankcarr notes, Catholicism was a hot issue in the 19th century, so "papist" was a socially meaningful term, but this covered many non-Hispanic ethnic groups.) Similar stories can be told about the creation of a pan-Asian racial group – and the pan-European "White" racial group as well. 

Tyler Durden's comment does a great job with the first two parts of your question. This answer addresses when playgrounds began to look like the things we have today. Short Answer: The modern American playground was championed by progressives in the 1880s-1890s; the most common playground equipment was all invented by the 1920s; and New Deal money made playgrounds ubiquitous in the 1930s. Long Answer: The modern American playground was a pet project of progressives such as John Dewey and Teddy Roosevelt. The first public playground was opened in San Francisco in 1887. It included swings, slides, cart-rides pulled by goats, and a Roman Temple carousel. (source) New York City owes its playgrounds to progressives' ability to organize and lobby. In 1898, the Outdoor Recreation League was founded, which went around placing slides and seesaws in parks near NYC slums. In 1902, a Reform party mayor had the Parks Department take responsibility for all of these parks; in 1903, Seward Park was opened as the first municipal park in the country to be equipped as a permanent playground. In 1906, a national playground advocacy group was founded (The Playground Association of America). (source) In Chicago, progressive Jane Addams led the charge for playgrounds. Here's a picture of Chicago's Hull House playground in 1895. It's still mostly a wide open ground (but note play structures in the back and on the right). According to the Chicago Tribune, there were swings, rope ladders, and hammocks on the playground. (source) 

American emigration had a big effect on the future of American cocktail culture, in part because it led to the publishing of the enormously influential Savoy Cocktail Book: 

To the extent that modern capitalism has encouraged an even greater development of the "nuclear family," the tendencies of all cultures toward romantic love have also grown more noticeable. Again, this isn't to suggest that the idea of romantic love is particularly Western or modern. Rather, the influence of romantic love on actual family formation is determined by economics, politics, and other kinship patterns. Love therefore becomes manifest in unique ways in each culture. As Alan MacFarlane puts it: 

A few comments about the table. First, death due to disease generally did not increase during the period, so the researchers are not misclassifying "death due to malnutrition" to "death due to disease." Second, note that in the table they even break out diseases like Smallpox, responsible for death rates under 1 in 100,000. This generally implies that starvation would have been responsible for deaths at an equivalent or lower rate. This study confirms other studies that find, for example, that the infant mortality rate consistently declined across the 1930s: 

I'd think that any breakaway Southern republic--even a Communist one--would somehow acknowledge the Stars and Bars, perhaps with some suitable nod toward racial equality. The Confederate Flag not only has more emotional resonance in the South than any other icon, but Southern socialists might actually find some inspiration in the history of the Confederacy: 

As for Dickens, he was undoubtedly the most-read English author in America, although he had insulted Americans with American Notes and Martin Chuzzlewit. Anyway, here's The Economist's estimates of Dickens' total sales (worldwide, I think), 1846-1870: 

And it wasn’t just that the Census was behind the times. People of Latin American decent similarly did not embrace a panethnic identity: 

Just for completeness, here's an all-English instance of a king dispatching "currers" in their other role as scouts. From Edward Hall's Chronicle of Edward IV (1548), : 

Ridley's argument as presented above is very simplistic. Fragmentation may sometimes lead to prosperity, but only if a number of other conditions are fulfilled. To my mind, these other conditions are more important and more interesting than the number of countries in the world, which seems incidental and arbitrary. Does Ridley think more fragmentation is always better, or are these diminishing returns when you reach the levels of the Holy Roman Empire? Is there something magical about our 195-some countries today, or would we for some reason be more prosperous if the U.S. split up into 50 countries? What are some of these preconditions for prosperity among political fragmentation? For example, fragmentation of government does not lead to wealth if every minor baron demands a toll to use his road or float barrels down his river. This is grossly inefficient. The Roman Empire (which mind you, also had the revenue to invest in roads and other infrastructure) was more conducive to growth. Political fragmentation can also lead to a lack of standardized currency, volatile exchange rates, and jealous attempts to protect domestic industry, all of which can slow growth. The United States' economy puttered under the Articles of Confederation, but started to prosper after the new Constitution sought further political integration of the states--which led to further economic integration. Note that it was the merchants of New England and the pro-growth Hamiltonians who wanted closer political integration in order to achieve economic integration. Note also that governance can exist at many levels. The modern state system has been accompanied by a proliferation of trade-related international agreements. These often seek to harmonize domestic laws, establish international standards, standardize payment methods, protect property rights, tear down tariffs and customs. International political economy faces enormous pressures for coordinated governance at the highest levels--and that level of coordination appears all the higher when we consider the role of behemoth transnational corporations, which generate a "private" layer of world governance. It's unlikely that the modern economy could sustain such high levels of economic integration without these many, many public and private coordinating mechanisms. TLDR: A fragmented world is conducive to growth in some ways (innovation; distribution of wealth) but deleterious in other ways (incompatible standards; higher barriers of trade). However, the fact that governance exists at subnational levels means that even very large political entities can enjoy great periods of economic growth and innovation; the fact that governance also exists at supranational levels means that even a world as fragmented as today's can enjoy the benefits of political integration. The number of countries is only loosely related to the quality of governance, and so it's better to write directly about the policies and institutions conducive to growth, trade, and innovation.