The robots makes a save point by uploading their memory to mission control. These pre-boss save points are the command centres of the militarized city/fortress/flying ship/headquarter. The boss' room is always close to the command centre because they need to be in the command centre to command their army. In most part of the enemy base, there is a wireless jammer so wireless communication does not work except on a few designated points designed with wired connection to the outside world for use by defenders, but it is standard operating procedure by the defending army to disable these access points when an area is overwhelmed by attackers, and this can be done remotely by the command centre. The command centre are always designed with unjammed communication with the outside world so that it can communicate with other bases even while the wireless jammer is active, so they have been designed with a physical wiring that aren't affected by the regular jamming system and cannot be intercepted by the heroes without crushing through layers of thick concretes. These command centres are built on the assumption that once the opponent reach this point, the base must have been lost, so once you reach the command centre there's little preventing you from hijacking the data link to upload your memory. Knowing that the robot attacker have been using these data link to upload snapshots, newer bases have been designed with data link self destruction system, so if the defender senses that they are going to lose the command centre, they would trigger this self destruct mechanism before leaving the command centre, so now attackers have to figure out ways to stealthily gain control of the command centre without the defender having chance to trigger self-destruct. When given intel about the building infrastructure, the attacker can pop up extra save points by using explosives, and heavy equipments, on vulnerable points, to get access points to these physical wires outside central command, but blueprints for enemy bases are highly classified information, so they're not readily available in most missions and blindly blasting things without such blueprint would just be a waste of your limited supply of these powerful explosives/equipments. The switch to disable the jammer is also often located on the command centre. So once you conquered the command centre, you also gain control of the jammers and can therefore enable saving anywhere using wireless datalink. 

For knowledge to survive through generations, people need to take pride in their craft. You need to motivate people by making it so that what they do is not just a job, but rather an art, a craft, something they can take pride in, something that affects other people, and something only they can do. You need a tradition. For an algae farmer, each generation need to show to the next generation how the produces from the farm affects the society, how the result of a bad crop directly affects the health and happiness of the rest of the crew, how a bad crop causes half of the crew to become sick. You also need people to be able to make mistakes without devastating the entire mission, so you need just enough redundancy, enough to maintain the crew through a bad period, to show the effect of laziness from time to time, though not too much that it causes people to depend on the redundancy. You need a tradition whereby people don't just pass on their skills, but also their pride to the next generation. They may pass on tales and mythos about other ships that didn't survive because of fatal mistakes made by people within their craft. These mythos are intended to make the successors appreciate their work, and to take it seriously. 

The problem with real world Chi is that it is actually a conflation of various unrelated concepts. In medicine context, Chi might refer to the nervous, circulatory, or endocrine system. In martial arts context, Chi can refer to manipulation of one's own or the opponent's center of gravity, or to the use of psychological intimidation, or to make use of reflexes to force predictable response. Any martial artists would tell you how important it is to maintain a sense of balance to avoid being thrown, how to shift balance to prepare for certain moves, or how to manipulate opponent's center of gravity to take people down with less than brute force. A street brawler would tell you how they would intimidate their opponent to make them hesitate during critical moments of an attack. A martial artist may also tell you how an attack to the face would cause most (untrained) people to reflexively try to protect their vitals (eyes) in fairly predictable ways which is used to lead for the follow up attack. Of course all of these are commonly over exaggerated in tales and frauds to unrealistic extents. Essentially, ancient eastern culture uses Chi in similar way that ancient western culture uses God to explain away any unexplained natural phenomenons or disasters on which people know it happens, but don't know why or how it works. A close scientific scrutiny would show how these previous explanations are unsatisfactory. If you want to include elemental manipulations, you necessarily have to either invent new forces that we don't have in our world (e.g. some sort of magical ether) or allow the use of external tools (e.g. using low ignition oil/gunpowder to make fire, throwing sand to blind an opponent, sleight of hands, etc). You would also necessarily have to include low scientific literacy, such that most of the world's inhabitants are ignorant of how the physics in their world works. 

Money is a reward of privilege that one gains by doing a favor that is considered good by someone else, which can be used to exchange for the favor from someone else. A fine takes away some of that privilege. In comparison, other kinds of punishments, like imprisonment or community service takes away one's privilege of liberty, death sentence takes away one's privilege of life. Corporal punishments and public humiliation, on the other hand, directly discomforts the punished by including pain and shame. Public humiliation can be in the form of publishing news stories about the criminal, or branding the criminal with a publicly recognizable mark. Some types of indirect punishment may also have inevitable public humiliation, for example, striping of one's ranks is privileged taking punishment, but it necessarily includes public humiliation as the new rank must necessarily be published to a large number of people. A post scarcity society would offer a large amount of privileges to its members as a basic right. Punishments in a post scarcity society would revolve around taking away these privileges. Maybe a minor crime can be punished by taking away one's privilege of privacy, by requiring the punished to wear a tracking device. Or reduction in the quality or quantity of the goods normally afforded as basic rights. Guilt tripping can also be effective for certain people by inducing guilty conscience. Membership in a post scarcity society is also a privilege, which can be taken away, in the form of banishment. People banished from a society is no longer bound by the rules of the society, but also receives none of the privileges its members had. Banishment may include physical ejection, but that is not necessarily required, if the society has an easy way to distinguish between members and non members. A post scarcity society does not necessarily mean a society without money though. A post scarcity society usually means that all basic needs can be satisfied at no cost. This means things like basic food, clothes, house, education, transport, etc are free. Money can still exists in post scarcity society to regulate non basic needs, which are categorized as luxuries. 

It's really hard to suppress chromosomal development, because if you don't have either XX or XY, you're most likely sterile. However, you can make it so all humans are always born with the same chromosome. You can choose XY, by injecting fathers with a spermicide that specifically targets X sperms; and vice versa you can force all humans to be born XX similarly by suppressing Y sperms. A bloodier, but much cheaper way to do this is to simply abort or kill all fetuses/babies with the "defective" chromosomes. There are advantages and disadvantages of whether you choose XX or XY. If the chosen chromosome is to be XY, it will be easier to revert to mixed chromosome culture by stopping treatments, but if you choose XX, there will be no turning back once the last XY died. So in the long run, maintaining XX-only civilisation is easier. You can use hormonal manipulation to suppresses the hormones that causes the development of primary and secondary sexual characteristic. According to Wikipedia, development of primary sexual characteristic is controlled by hormones: 

If your chosen chromosome is XY, you would want to decide whether you want to mess with the TDF/SRY gene. If you suppress TDF/SRY before gonodal differentiation, you'll trigger development of female sex organs, so all children will be genetically XY/male but physiologically female and have female reproductive organs, so those wanting to be male will need operations. If you don't suppress TDF/SRY, all children will be essentially male and those that chooses to be female will need operation. Male-to-female surgery seems to be more expensive than female-to-male surgery, according to CostHelper at The Philadelphia Center for Transgender Surgery: 

For the cost-conscious governments, it seems that it'll be cheaper and preferable to have physiologically female children where half of the population will receive female-to-male gender reassignment surgery. If you want to require medical intervention for both genders rather than just one, then you'll have to find a way you suppress the development of both male and female reproductive organs. In XY only population with TDF suppressed and in XX only population, you need to suppress the hormones that triggers vaginal development. This is to keep both pre-penis and pre-vagina cells undeveloped. In adulthood, you'll either artificially trigger pre-penis cells to start developing or undo the suppression of the hormones that triggers vaginal development. It's hard to know whether it would've been possible to trigger the development of primary sex organs at such a late age. Once the primary sex organ develops, the secondary sex organs should follow suit as they depend on the hormones produced by the primary sex organs. Another complication for XY only population is that, since the mothers also have XY gene, then half of her egg will contain Y egg. That may cause two things, either reduced fertility because Y egg is either not viable or can only mate with X sperm. I don't know what would've happened with those born to the YY chromosome, they'll probably be non-viable. Also, if you want to maintain XY only population, you'll still have to suppress/abort all XX conception. This leads to a population with at best half the fertility of mixed chromosomes population. No such issues exists with XX only populations. Note: I'm neither an expert in human reproductive system nor biology, so even though I try to base my answer on the sciences as I understand it, at least half of the things I said here is probably scientifically wrong. 

Send an unintentional "assassin", that has no intent to kill him. The assassin could be a pizza delivery guy, delivering pizza bomb, he never knew anything about the special pizza delivery. For extra sadism, the "assassin" could be his family or close friends, they thought they're giving him a gift for the Holiday season. Little did they realize that you've spent the last few months to socially engineer them to choose a particular gift that you've bobby trapped. Or you can send a hitman that has a regular job, like construction worker or a postman. Hire the hitman for his regular job nearby the crime lord's residence, the hitman must never suspect that he's being hired to do a hit. Get him close enough so that the hitman himself don't come with any intent to kill. At the planned moment, tell the hitman that his hiring was actually a facade and make him an offer he can't refuse, with the condition that he immediately do the hit within an hour, equipments are already provided nearby.