Please don't. What you're doing here is nagging, and it can only affect your chances negatively. They won't "admire your persistence" or anything like that, it'll just be annoying. If you find yourself having to apologize for writing an email, maybe take another look if that email is really necessary to send and reconsider. If it's an email you're required to send then you won't have to apologize for sending it, and if you have to apologize for sending it, chances are you shouldn't be sending it. 

Usually you do the whole "Goodbye" spiel on your last day. This also includes any email(s) you send. Doing it before may be awkward, but not exceptionally bad or anything. Keep in mind that sending goodbye emails has fallen out of usage greatly (at least where I live) and may not even be necessary. Your mileage may vary. 

An interview with a HR manager will most likely focus less on the technical perspectives of interviewing, and more on the "soft skills", e.g propensity towards team work, feedback handling, general demeanor and such. When answering questions (it could be some will be duplicated) keep in mind your audience. You're not talking to a tech person, so don't go into unnecessary detail in your answers. Don't assume a "you won't understand anyways" either, though. This is really important. 

There is a very easy case to be brought to upper management here. "The situation with the bathroom queues right now means X manhours are beeing wasted every day due to waiting times at washrooms. This means the shortfall of washrooms is costing the company Y$ a day. I propose to to reduce this cost factor for the company and increase overall employee satisfaction." 

If your company has a HR department, go to them. Mention your concerns with sharing personal information at work. Depending on what country you live in, this could be anywhere from very unprofessional to illegal. Your HR department should put a stop to that fairly quickly. 

First of all, since you have not mentioned where you live, you will have to follow local laws. Be aware that some offices both in the USA and in Europe require a doctors note for every sick day you take, on the same day. So make sure you comply with legal requirements first. Then, if you send a quick mail to inform your supervisor, make it as short as possible. He wants the information and only the information, and you don't want to write a novel while sick. Something like 

Depending on where you work, maybe. But I wouldn't count on it. In the US, that time would most likely have to be unpaid, and its almost unheard of to get a whole month (!) off so soon after joining a company. In most of Europe, this would be either possible or completly impossible depending on the company. It is generally within the rights of the employer to not allow vacation during a probationary period (which often lasts a couple of months) in europe. Generally speaking I would advise you to reconsider that. Your employer may react very negatively to it or even terminate you for asking (both legal in the US and Europe if you're still in the probationary period). 

To be quite honest, its a little shocking that people would even go that far in the workplace. It is ofcourse unprofessional and unacceptable at the same time. You should have a word with these perpetrators (if you want) and otherwise escalate this to your/their management. This is making the workplace less comfortable and friendly for colleagues who like star wars for no discernible reason. 

Unless the apology involved referring to sensitive data that other people aren't allowed to know about, I don't think so. In my view, it doesn't diminish someone's respectability or authority as a manager if they can admit mistakes the made openly. (Everyone makes them, seriously everyone). Quite the opposite in fact. Mind you, this is for a business context, not a millitary context. In a millitary context where you need people to follow orders and follow them quickly, apologizing in public may not be conducive to that. 

No. Never. Not even work passwords. Passwords are private. We sysadmins and software vendors go to extreme lenghts to make sure they can never be viewed by anyone but the password holder, and it's for good reason. If there are any accounts she needs access to, she can have IT reset them. This is the (only) legit way to get access to passwords upon employee departure. They should definitely be changing them anyways, since you'll no longer be working there. As for your personal email password, such a request is absurd. Tell her she can come back for that if she has a court order subpoena in hand. 

You can try to explain this in a friendly, non confrontative way to your new manager, but you should try and not make it sound like an accusation against your former or current manager, merely a miscommunication. If that fails though, the relationship with your superiors may not be salvageable. You describe by your own admission that you "have nothing to do right now", which could mean that they're planning to fire or lay you off, and just moved you first to get you out of the way now. Also consider if you really need that information, or if you just got used to being told everything, relevant or not. Re-evaluate yourself before you assume all your managers have no idea what they're doing, maybe the company is just doing things differently now and you need to adapt to that. 

Then you most likely have a data protection officer or someone who is in charge of IT security in general. It's correct to never give out your password. Anyone from IT who has the permission to access your files can reset your password or have it reset anyways. It's important that you never disclose personal passwords. Report this (anonymously or not, your choice) to the relevant IT security officer in your company. I suspect the people who dealt with you will get a railing or disciplinary measures over this. Especially since it's a big company. 

To assuade your fears: The CEO would probably not even read the mail, and delete it without a second look. Even if they would read it, it would only serve to ensure that nothing your mom says to them will ever be taken into any other account then "That crazy lady with whom we have no relation". 

As brutal as this sounds, but thats in the best interest of the company. You've been not very thorough with trying to negotiate a fair salary, and it is in their interest to pay you as little as possible. 

The company probably got good enough of a picture of you in those three full days to make the informed decision of hiring you. 

Essentially, this is one of the risks that can happen when you ask for a higher salary then they initially offer. They might decide to drop the offer alltogether. Wether or not thats the case will take some time to find out, I'd say a week is fair to wait for them to respond. 

It's actually a very similar situation to the one I'm in. My employer has numerous companies, but 2 of them are somewhat big. We have only one IT department, who supports and develops for all of the owner's companies. The way it works is we're here 8 hours a day, and how we spend these hours is something for the owner to decide. Now if he decides that we support all of his companies in this time, that's fine, that doesn't make it more work though. There's a reasonable expectation that you can do only so much during any given work day, and it seems to me that your problem harkens more from that your expectation of what that is is very different from your employer's. So adress that. Whether you spend 8 hours on one company solving 20 support tickets (drastically simplified but you get the point) or 8 hours supporting 4 companies solving 5 tickets each is irrelevant. 

Firstly, I would highly recommend against working in the same place as your wife. Especially if you could come into contact professionally during it. I have seen several marriages ruined this way, and even if between the both of you it works, its commonly seen as unsavory and an inherent conflict of interest. Secondly, I would recommend against recommending her internally. If she wants the job, she should apply normally for it. In this stage for most companys your word will count against rather then for her. It may easily be seen as you just wanting to get your wife in there and exaggerating her skills because of it. (Even if you're not) Additionally, as a new hire, doing something like this could easily count against you in the perception of your managers and the company's HR. This could be a career limiting move. In general thats a mine field you absolutely do not want to tread. 

Im going to offer a different perspective, I am from germany. It is completly normal here to include date of birth, place of birth and nationality in the CV. Not including it here will most likely get your resume binned right away. There is a sort of template for CVs here ("Lebenslauf"), and not following it or missing crucial information (like Age, date of birth, nationality, etc) will almost automatically disqualify you from most positions. So while it might be acceptable not to include it in other countries, like the US or the UK, in Germany it is definitely not advisable. 

What you feel and what is legally required are most likely two different things. The only person who can help you find out the latter is a lawyer. I suggest you consult one. 

Nothing childish about that. As far as you know, he promised you this bonus based on the original deliverables. The fact that he changed scope multiple times and is now making your (already earned) bonus contingent on yet more deliverables is sleazy at best (it may be legal though unless you had a contract, IANAL). The problem here is how you approach this, though, since bringing it up directly may make you lose your bonus completly. I would first wait and see how big these changes are, and then see if you can comfortably do them in the remaining time. You can confront your boss about this (and its reasonable to confront people over unfulfilled promises) but realize that doing so could mean you either: 

I don't think this is a big problem. Yes, a salutation would be better, yes, thanking you would be appropriate, but the standard you see in most emails is an automated signature, so there isn't typically any sentiment behind it. You asked a simple question, he gave a simple answer. I don't think this shows lack of enthusiasm. It maybe shows that he was busy while responding, or maybe his signature failed. 

Its definately not normal for office based roles, and depending on the exact laws in your country it may even be flat out illegal (I know it is in my country, not sure about the UK, but IANAL). So my advice would be to consult with an actual lawyer wether or not the company is even allowed to ask for this. But its definately not normal. 

It is very important that you always take your vacation days. Vacation days (paid vacation) are directly part of your compensation package that you negotiated with the company when you started. They knew what they were getting, as did you. Those days are there for you to use. If your boss doesn't take his vacation, he is acting badly for his own interest (increased stress due to not having proper vacations) aswell as badly in the company's interest (increased stress due to not having proper vacations hurts productivity). If you get pressured into not taking vacation days, reject that pressure firmly. If they want to keep it up, look for another job and leave. Work life Balance is very important and you should not compromise your (mental) health just because of some loon notion of your boss. All that said, its best practice to not take PTO until after the Probationary Period, and to give notice for it early. 

Thats not a good idea. It will cause the recruiter to think that you're already planning to leave this new company soon should you get the job, which is not a good impression to give. Notice periods are usually outlined in the contract. So before signing it, you should read it. If there is no notice period specified in the contract, the legal standard in your country applies. So, for better or worse, you'll get this information when you get the contract. 

Do some hard research. Estimate how much time (== money) it costs you of your daily time to work around free tool's limits. Estimate how much the paid tools will cost and how much time and money they will save. Do all of this very precisely and have figures ready for every point. Then you lay this business case for a better tooling out to your managers. If your managers are worth their salt and not constrained by outside hard limits, you will get your tools. 

Depending on your locale, that may have been a well intentioned call, but it could potentially come to fire back at you. 

It depends. They may be looking for someone who will start out with a normal job title but will get quickly promoted to a manager or managerial role. Maybe corporate politics prevent them from hiring managers directly. One key point is though: A competent interviewer doesn't test for skills that the applicants don't need to succeed. So you have to ask yourself: Are you willing and able to tolerate this kind of stress in your job? If not, you probably don't want to work there. Its however very possible that this was a newb interviewer or something went wrong the first time, and its worth giving the second time a shot. Even if you don't end up working there, going to the second round is valueable to make connections and gain info on the company and yourself. 

It may very well be the case that the interviewer fears you would actually make him redundant or surpass him in the company. And most likely, because the interview isn't his choice alone, he would have no way of directly rejecting you without some serious basis, so he hopes that you won't take the job instead. 

Wether or not this would go over well is heavily dependant on the personality and tolerance of your superiors. I wouldn't risk it. You can, of course, bring up at the end of July that you are looking into getting this certificate and ask then if that would bring up another avenue for a raise, but independently asking for a third raise in the same year would probably be quite unsavory. If you get a promise for another review/raise out of that, you should insist on getting it in writing. Generally speaking, if your employer isn't looking to screw you over, you can expect to get regular raises until you're in the ballpark of the value you add to the company. The more value you add to it, the more you can justify getting another raise. 

You're defrauding your employer. Yes, you would argue that someone else may have not figured it out. Yes, you probably really like getting paid to run a script once a month. No, that doesn't change that you are essentially defrauding your employer. I'd suggest you come clean with this immediately and hope that they'll see it as a demonstration of your value and give you other work. Depending on how laid back they are they might even go "good for you, we don't really care how it's done as long as it is". But that is not your place to decide. They're paying you to work full time, you're not. 

They are making an offer, and think that they will be able to get away with having you take what is effectively a ~12% pay cut. Wether or not that is typical depends heavily on your company, and industry. I have personally never encountered nor heard of such an offer in my circle. They are presumably doing this because they want more work from you, and want to pay only nominally more for it, to make more profit, of course. They also think they can get away with it by praising your performance first, in a weak attempt to mask the fact that they are basically "offering" you a pay cut. 

You should definitely tell them if you plan to not attend the interview, not just out of fear from blacklisting, but just out of respect for their time. Preparing an interview takes lots of work depending on the position, and you should respect their time enough to let them know. In addition to that, you could be uneligible for hire at that company, or, as you said, even take a hit in your reputation in the industry overall. That being said, you should generally only not attend the interview if you're absolutely certain you want to accept offer A, and have no further interest in even pursuing B. They could end up making you a better offer.