There are going to be two stages to trade. In the first stage you can pay them in Just about anything manufactured The novelty gives things value. A plastic model of a horse will be such an unusual item, such a strange alien creature than it will have, for a time, value on alien markets. Even photos of Earth, white clouds? a blue sky? way out man! Later as the market starts to saturate you'll have out actual animals for a while. Everybody loves invasive alien species on the black market. Eventually these things will lose their value as the novelty wears off and you end up needing something a bit different. Works of art These will probably turn out to be the ultimate in transferable trade goods on the interplanetary market. Art remains unique and special to a planet even if fairly basic, as it does for the various regions on Earth. Against a vast galactic population, works of art in a specific planetary style will always remain in limited supply. 

Any drive system is about control. A torchship flies on a continuous controlled nuclear reaction. Probably the simplest way to destroy it is to cut through that control, fire a significant load of fissile material up the pipe contained in such a way as to explode within the constrained area. Pour too much fuel on the fire. As for how to protect your missile on the way in, use same method as the drive itself is contained within the ship. Anything that can protect the ship against its own drive can protect an incoming missile against the drive. Part two is about balancing the missile drive against the returning force of the ship drive to get it inside but that's a solvable problem. 

Abuse confirmation bias, tell them a story that they want to be true. These are always the most believable lies, it's very hard to convince people they're not true, as we know from current news stories. A quirk is that people who have swallowed the lie wholeheartedly will often become even more convinced of its truth if shown that it is false. Tell the most outrageous stories, people know they're lies but they're too much fun to look into too much. 

The Faerie Queen Soft power is the way to deal with an excess of hard power. The Faerie Queen is not one to meet them in open battle but rather to meet members of the unit after a couple of drinks and take them off to faerie land one at a time. These men may return to their families many years later with no memory of intervening time. Scandinavian Trolls These are kidnap specialists, almost solely going after men who like a drink, these trolls tend to kidnap people and leave them lying face down in a ditch a couple of days later. It was a well known risk that a man going out for a drink may be kidnapped by trolls for a few days and return with, again, no memory of the intervening time. 

It doesn't matter if you're thinking of traditional currency. At the end of the day, they're all the same. Given the vastness of space, anything is effectively a fiat currency. The addiction people have to the shiny! that is gold, despite its effective low value, will be lost in the shear quantity available. Gold merely becomes a fiat currency that's heavy, awkward and expensive to transport. Value can only be given to that whose value is accepted. All currencies will be fiat currencies, and that's just a matter of the accepted value of any given fiat currency. For those who choose to say that ultimately no fiat currency has value, I say you are correct but in return I ask a different question: What, in space, has value? The trouble with the follow up question is that it depends. If I'm at an asteroid mining colony then food with flavour has the most value. If I'm on a planet then maybe the resources from the asteroids have the most value. I'd say Terry Pratchett was right when he said: Time. The time of your life. 

I was watching a BBC history documentary about the Romans in Britain earlier today and words along the lines of 

You don't, what you do is take the other option: Pre-marital genetic testing. This is common in several places and groups including Saudi Arabia and anyone with Jewish ancestry. $URL$ $URL$ This is assuming your civilisation is at the technological stage where this sort of testing is possible. In a more primitive environment, family is going to be very important to survival. I'd expect to see several generations of a family still living in the same house/compound, making keeping track of family much simpler than in our modern world of individualism. 

Fran's species are a communal burrowing species, but more importantly they're solar navigators which is why she has to be back at the hotel by nightfall or she'd be completely lost. Their two key directions are "towards the light" and "away from the light" *. Their cities are built along a straight line with a large artificial light at one end. Individual "buildings" are burrows dug straight down from the main route. Passing another person on the street is done by the one going away from the light going over the top of the one going towards the light. Overtaking someone moving more slowly is done much the same way, personal space is not a thing. Prior to their becoming a technological species they were mostly active in the cool of sunset and sunrise and remained in their burrows during the heat of the day and dark of the night, the cities were orientated East (sunrise) to West (sunset). Her Earth hotel is specially adapted for her species, having a large light at the top to aid navigation and burrows at ground level for accommodation. * These directions translate generally to "towards" and "away", for example, "towards the food" and "away from the predator". 

There are other options you can use in there. Increase the rate at which people become resistant. It can only be used a few times in a person's life before they're resistant. Make it obvious that someone is under the effect of the drug. Anyone can suggest they do just about anything. Standard process for signing a binding document is for some to suggest everyone dances on the table, anyone who does so is treated for the effects of the drug before any further action can be taken. Make the knowledge of the drug limited, but known to powerbrokers. Anyone of high status or political power is treated with the drug until they become resistant at the earliest possible opportunity. These people need to be handled by conventional means. Knowledge/access to the masses is suppressed but it is used on large scales to repress riots or other unrest. Unruly populations eventually become entirely resistant. 

For your situation you're asking a top predator to share a kill. That's not an easy thing to do. I'd suggest considering the education of each target as an individual, as per the cuckoos and cowbirds above. The gryphon comes down to share the kill if not passed some. Should the target not willingly share, then the gryphon calls in the pack to take the whole kill. However: Passing a share of the kill upwards is nigh on impossible for most ground based predators, they do not have the capability to divide an animal, only to tear off mouthfuls to eat. A pack of hunters might have the ability to divide a kill but would be a much tougher target for even the whole pack of gryphons to take on. 

This is what we do, it's what we've done for thousands of years Plant some of everything to start with, see what survives. You're going to end up with Japanese knotweed, horsetail, Russian vine, bindweed, ryegrass, dandelions. Weeds. The kind of plants where the first google result is "how do I get rid of [...]". Why? because they're hardy, they'll survive anything. They're not delicate little pansies, they're the survivors of millions of years of evolution and hundreds of years of humans trying to get rid of them from our fields and gardens. They're perennial, they're invasive, and they will survive. From what survives you make something useful. Wheat is just a grass that we've spent thousands of years messing around with. As are barley, oats etc. What we eat is grass. The fact we haven't directly messed around with the genome doesn't mean we haven't done it indirectly. We've selected traits and bred for them, as you will on Mars. The first trait you're going to select for is survival, the next trait you'll select for is some edible fruit, seed or root. Perhaps some food crops will survive that initial planting, perhaps not. If any do then you have shortcut to later food crops, but if not then you have to go back to the start and rebuild the food crops from surviving wild related varieties. 

However There's actually a way out of this problem. There's a range of viruses that kill as much by immune overreaction as by the effect of the virus itself. Spanish Flu being a key example of this. Not just because of how many it killed, but because of who it killed. 

A good child is grateful, a good child appreciates the gift, a good child writes a polite thank you letter even when they didn't get what they wanted. Bad children get coal. Replacement presents are easy, a couple of lumps of coal will do. A good child can have the rejected present. (I don't have children) 

While they have intrinsic value, that value is going to be very low. It's like having a currency with only pennies. It could be fine and accepted, but it'd really hard to pay for anything high value due to the shear tonnage of bullets you need to haul. Mad Max implies shortage of food and water, American west also often used a shortage of fresh water for plot points. It's going to cost you a truckload of bullets to buy a sandwich. Let's make them less common so they become more viable as a currency. Once they start to have higher value you hit the issue of them not being divisible. Something is worth half a bullet, but half a bullet is worthless. Supply and demand will be hard to balance, if there's a conflict demand will rise, supply will rise a little behind it, so a currency value surge before settling, but after the conflict there are going to be too many bullets still being made for a while so risk of hyperinflation. The thing with gold as a currency is it's otherwise largely useless. Minor industrial value, used for decorative purposes, but always it remains gold. It can be melted down and recast as coins when you need it. Silver has been used in much the same way. Using a consumable manufactured product whose consumption and manufacture you can't control is risky, and likely to be highly volatile. If you're trying to rebuild an economy based on a currency you need something more stable and another "currency" is required quickly to give economic stability.