I have not had a discussion with an insurance provider, or had the need to have that conversation. But, I have had similar conversations with similar, physically strong people with regards to BMI. I doubt any single person will change the health industry from using BMI as a guideline for insurance premiums. I do not work for an insurance provider, but if we are to use a single measurement of health, there are arguments for using BMI. BMI is body MASS index. In simple terms, it is simply the effect of your MASS on your heart. Mass is not biased. Two hundred pounds of mass is 200 pounds. There is no difference on the stress of your heart if that two hundred pounds is 4% body fat or 40% body fat. The heart still needs to support the stress of 200 pounds. Yes, absolutely, 4% body fat is generally better than 40% body fat especially in terms of high blood pressure, blood sugar, etc. But, again, BMI is all about total MASS, not body composition. I think we are trained, maybe from various media, that the term obese is only associated with high fat and overweight people. But, in reality obesity is simply a measure of mass or BMI. If again we accept that BMI is a valid measure of simply stress on the heart, then one must agree that the BMI scale is a good single indicator for health insurance companies. With heart disease and heart attacks being top causes of death and other related (high cost) issues in the United States, it's simply a way of filtering the highest risk candidates with the lowest number of tests. 

I've been using my stationary bike to do cardio 3 times a week for about 50 minutes each session for almost 2 months now. When I started off, I found it very uncomfortable to sit on the seat, so I got a softer seat, which didn't really help. Now after about 30 minutes into the session, I find it very painful, and am sore for about 2 days after finishing a session. Is it possible to avoid getting sore? 

Based on my height, weight, age, exercise levels, how many calories should I be consuming daily to lose a healthy amount of weight each week/month? I have been to about 5 difference sites and have used their calculators, which all seem to return different results ranging from 1500 to 2000 calories a day. For example, based on $URL$ I should be consuming 1525 calories a day. 

The simple reason for a LSD is to get you comfortable with being on your feet for a long period of time. The reason for doing LSD runs at a much slower pace is because running at pace is very demanding on your body, especially over several hours. It's all about preventing injury. 

I think depends on your reason for going vegan. If you are just doing it for a lifestyle/nutrition change, if you get a soup made from chicken stock as opposed to vegetable stock, you probably won't know or care. But, however, if you are changing due to your beliefs against animal cruelty and the like, you may care. Soup stocks are probably the biggest gotchas as most chain restaurants use chicken stock. You can also tell your waiter that you are vegan before ordering so they may alert you to vegan options. 

I have converted this into 1 meal so far and roughly get the right amount of everything in the list above from protein to sodium. For example 35g protein, 100g carbs, 50g fat, almost 3g sodium etc etc. But it's only working out to around 500 calories... So I am not sure what to do now. Is 500 calories enough if all the other values have been reached, or do I need to triple all the values just to get 1500ish calories, or do I need to get 1500ish calories without tripling the other values? 

You definitely do NOT want to be supporting your weight with your arms on the bike for normal riding. One exception would be while on a time trial or triathlon bike, where it is best to support your weight with your upper body/arm skeleton structure to save your legs for running off the bike. During non-TT riding, your weight should be primarily on the saddle with your core doing a lot of the supporting work. Otherwise, your upper back and arms can become extremely fatigued over longer distances. Not to mention, as you've found the safety issues with supporting your weight primarily with your arms. One drill/exercise you can practice to get the correct balance of weight is to keep your hands one inch off the handle bars. You should be able to maintain this position for a period of time; say 60 seconds to start. Of course, I only recommend attempting this while in a bike trainer or for the more advance cyclist. It sounds like you may have an ill-fitting bike or a bike that needs to be adjusted more to you. Check with a local bike shop (LBS). Many offer various bike-fit analysis options. Some options may be quite expensive (up to $300 USD), but most are much more affordable. And, if you are going to be riding your bike frequently and/or for long periods of time, you'll greatly benefit from a proper fitting bike. 

Based on GDA (Guideline Daily Amounts), the GDA for someone who has a BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate) of 2500 calories a day is: 

UPDATE 2: Managed to get all nutritional values correct, and have got the calories upto 1000. Still missing 500 calories. If everything else is ok, but calories are missing 500, is that OK for health reasons? Here is the spreadsheet: $URL$ UPDATE 1: I didn't save the old version, but here is a newer version: $URL$ It is working out to about 500 calories less than I need, but too much fat. ORIGINAL QUESTION: Based on my BMI, my GDA is: 

A common condition that matches your description is patellar tendonitis. It certainly could be other ailments as well. You can try taking a NSAID for a few days. I will typically take the maximum dosage of Aleve (naproxsen) for up to 4 days before reducing dosage over the next week at most. You don't want to stay on a NSAID for an extended period of time. In addition to medication, you can ice the area after runs, or take a few days of complete rest. In you current condition, the ailment should go away in a week or 2, especially with medication, rest and ice. These types of injuries are typically from overuse and in the case of running - probably too much, too soon, too quick. 

I am trying to work out how much fat, carbs, and protein I should be consuming daily based on my BMR which is around 2025 calories. Apparently you're supposed to have 500 calories less than your BMR to lose around 1lbs a week. Anyway, I have done the following calculations and wanted to know if I have worked it out correctly: 

Can water be replaced with fruit juice? So instead of drinking a certain amount of water daily, would it be better to get your H2O from fruit juices? Edit 1: How about veggi juice? 

I would definitely consult a sports doctor about this problem. It could be a result of any number of conditions or a combination of conditions. However, here is a list of issues that have caused lower back pain in my experience, in no particular order, with remedies where possible: 

There are many options to try out. Please don't stop - you're on the right track. Before each run session, prepare your body a little bit through some dynamic stretching to prime your muscles and joints for the effort. This should be part of every session. If you are pressed for time, cut back on your actual running time (and mileage) to fit in a routine similar to this link video. When you are out running, focus on good form more than speed or distance. Without seeing you run, or knowing how you run, here are a few pointers on good form: 

According to a previous question, we should be getting atleast 100g carbs daily. What is the minimum fat I should be getting if 58g is the max? And is it normal that the GDA above allows me to have more fat than protein? 

Using the calculator: $URL$ I've finally had a chance to work this out properly by measuring myself as last time I did it based on guesses. Apparently I have 28.9% body fat. I weigh 95kg, so that means my lean body weight is 67.55kg. If you're supposed to have 0.5g of protein per kg of lean body weight, that means I should be getting around 34g of protein daily. Therefore, if my BMI to lose weight (1lbs weekly) is 1525 calories daily, I am getting the following figures for GDA: 

I have a new enemy and its name is CHEESE Believe it or not, this is some what common. It frustrated me for quite some time before I found the cause. DAIRY. I used to have a cup of greek yogurt every day as well as some quantity of milk and ice cream throughout the week. Every single time I would get in the pool, I would be annoyed with phlegm. Try cutting out or reducing dairy (cheese, milk, yogurt, etc.) for a few days and see if it gets better. It certainly did with me. I still have eggs or egg substitutes almost daily and that does not seem to bother me. Here is a supporting article from livestrong.com that supports dairy as a cause and accelerator of phlegm is some people. Also, it may be a intolerance to lectin (which is a component of dairy). But, it may not be dairy that causes your excess mucus. Other sources of lectin are legumes, glutens, and potatoes. More on lectin intolerance can be found here.