Generally speaking, when we start on the spiritual path, we almost completely lack a feedback mechanism. It's like we are numb. It's like we dance with a woman stepping on her feet and not even noticing it, and not seeing how she cringes. Or we see, and feel something we step on, but can't connect the two. Untrained mind is like that. Then as we watch ourselves critically in our day to day life, and as we stare at ourselves for hours during meditation, we start getting some sensitivity. It's like iceskating, initially we don't feel much with our feet and then we begin to feel the surface, and then it's almost like we grow eyes on our feet and can see every nuance of the surface. Same with our ability to reflect upon our state of mind, it gets clearer and smarter and more precise year after year of practice, until it becomes a superuseful everpresent feedback mechanism. Eventually what we get is this wonderful ability to balance and tune our mind dynamically, right in the midst of any situation, by plugging the self-reflective ability as feedback into the state of the mind itself. So at the mastery level, we never get angry or selfish or miserable not because we are now gods, but because we can see troublesome mindstates from miles away coming up, before they really descend and become a problem. And we can counterbalance them with very little effort pretty early on. So that's the goal of developing mastery of reflection, is to eventually get an automatic mind balancing mechanism. 

Here is a set of more detailed guidelines on achieving Calm Abiding: an excerpt from a lecture given by Gelug meditation master Lati Rinpoche. 

Buddha was notorious for only saying things that no one (ethical and reasonable person) could disagree with. His doctrine of Sat Dharma (true/eternal way/dharma) was specifically designed to be irrefutable. In order to be irrefutable it had to be always true and win/win. In order to be always true and win/win it had to be well-specified. Well-specified means specified as broadly or as precisely as needed, worded very carefully. (This is portrayed in many places in Pali Canon but is subtle enough that I can't easily search for references.) In this case we can imagine that to require the laity to be celibate would be rather "refutable": Remember that the goal of laity is good happy living, not nirvana. While some of the Buddhist practices lead to both happy life and nirvana, some like celibacy are not conducive to happy living in the long run. Indeed, imagine if Buddha said "everyone should abstain from sex". If everyone agreed, the civilization would die out. So much for the happy living! On the other hand, if everyone disagreed, Buddha would likely lose some of his credibility. If some people agreed and some disagreed, there would be a lot of arguments in society. However you look at it, it just doesn't make sense to advise the laity to be celibate. Are there any benefits from practicing celibacy or is it not useful? Now, of course if celibacy was not useful for attaining the goal of spiritual life, Buddha would not recommend it to his serious students. From my teachers, the main reasons for celibacy are: 

Correct. Well, not all parts are necessarily material. There is also pieces of information that assembled together to form this person. Also, if you really think about it, the parts did not connect together "in a certain point of time". They keep coming together all the time. 

The guidance I got from one teacher, of Tibetan Nyingma school, is to let the eyes relax. In detail, this includes: 

How is this reconciled with the highest (Mahayana's) teaching of emptiness? Emptiness, or groundlessness as it is sometimes called, does NOT mean there is no good & bad. It does NOT mean there's no skillful & unskillful behavior. It means good/bad and skillful/unskillful cannot be simply generalized and reified. This is known even from the modern ethics with its infamous trolley problem. Good & bad is not something you can decide once-and-for-all and always go by the same rule. Same goes for skillful/unskillful. If being wise and skillful were as simple as learning a rule of thumb, everyone would be a buddha by now. It also involves clear understanding that, in any kind of dispute, to be too attached to one position as "the only good" - is not good, because it leads to trouble. Attachment to reified morals, aversion based on that attachment, and conflict it generates - is not the most skillful approach. It is better than having no clue, sure - but not as good as seeing the situation from all perspectives at once. So from Mahayana perspective, moral categories are not tangible, they cannot be grasped. Morals and wisdom is a skill one has to master, and the more someone masters it, the more nuanced and less stereotyped it gets, until it's almost like it has no definite shape - and yet you can see it working with clarity. At the very end of this progression of mastery is what Mahayana calls groundlessness or positionlessness of a great master. Nothing can be further away from the moral nihilism. 

Here is what's going on in that text: Bodhisattva "Pure Wisdom" asks "Buddha" to explain the levels and stages of attainment. Buddha responds with a usual prajna-paramita explanation of emptiness: that Anuttara Samyak Sambodhi has no svabhava, that Bodhisattvas and sentient beings are mere illusory appearances, and that therefore there is nothing like “attainment” or “an attainer”, let alone any such "stages". He then elaborates on this point by saying that because sentient beings are “thoroughly confused” and are bent on making things up, they can't help themselves but continue to contrive notions like “cessation” or “person who attains cessation” or "a level of attainment", hence the question about levels. When they attain real cessation, like that of the Tathagata, they will clearly see that all these notions are illusory, making the question irrelevant. The phrase that you are interested in belongs to this line of argument. The exact phrase goes like this: 

In short, in our day to day practice we must have a good sense of direction -- which way is feeding our ego and weaknesses, and which way is being an "arya" (advanced person). Your know your efforts are correct if you become less frustrated and more successful with whatever you do. Because Sat-Dharma is "good in the beginning, good in the middle and good in the end", the Noble Path works on all levels: 

Very standard critique, and very confused about Buddhism. Probably too much to unload in single post but here we go. First, he does not understand what Buddhism means by "suffering". By suffering Buddhism means the painful state of discontent and frustration when things don't go the way we want and can't be easily fixed. Obviously, when you want something and it can be easily obtained, that's not suffering. When you're in an objectively difficult situation but you are at peace with it, that's not suffering either. That's just difficulty or pain. When you exercise and feel pain in the muscles, that's not suffering - because you wanted that. It's only suffering when your "is" conflicts with your "should" and you are helpless to fix it. Second, "desire" is not as much sober aspiration/determination as it is the fruitless kind of obsession. When we obsess over a wish (positive), or over something we would like to stop (negative), we feel bad or we do some crazy stuff or both. No doubt about that. Generally speaking, there are two approaches to discomfort: extensive and intensive.In one approach we turn on the heat - in the other we put on more clothes. In one we exterminate cockroaches - in the other we keep the kitchen clean. In one we pave the wilderness with asphalt and build hotels - in the other we put on hiking boots and carry all food. In one we take medicine and do surgery - in the other we fix diet and lifestyle. In the same vein, when it comes to satisfaction with life, Buddhism says we must make our own mood. It is as simple as that. Instead of depending on external circumstances for happiness, we take charge of our own mood. Nirvana as final death is a big misunderstanding. Nirvana is obtaining deathless. The deathless is obtained when we stop identifying with that which is subject to death. This is an act of making our own mood, an act of freedom. We choose to think that we are not this organism, nor are we the information that reincarnates from one organism to another. We don't identify with anything. Because we don't identify, we are not subject to death. Not subject to birth either. Hence "no more rebirth" and "final Nirvana". That's a simplification for kids. The real Nirvana is when we took charge of our mood, tamed our mind, and made it free from everything including death. Now, on top of all that, some bright ancient people noticed that when people obsess with Buddhism, they tend to get antisocial, whether before they attain their peace or after. So they added this notion of compassion which was mentioned in the original teaching but not emphasized. They said, as you work on taking control of your mind and mood, why shouldn't you be nice to other people. And once you obtained your peace, why don't you help others. This fit surprisingly well with the teaching, and this is how Mahayana was born. Indeed, taking care of others is the best way to eliminate our mental fixations that cause our suffering in the first place, plus it helps reduce identification with "I" on the way to achieving the deathless. All in all Buddhism is a very cohesive teaching where all elements fit together and help each other. The only thing to understand is that it is all about psychology of life, not life in this world but sentient life in general at any time any place in the universe. That is not to say that this world is all we have. As we learn to see beyond preconceptions and become masters of mind, we start seeing things we could not see before. Training to be a master of mind, able to navigate layers of information, emotions, and energy without getting lost or confused is a way to that bigger world.