I tried dipping a spare pair of small vice grips in plastidip today. It was workable, but the product is too soft to exert much force on the spoke. Also the covering tears instead of resisting the force of a turning spoke. Perhaps if I baked it or did several dips, or left it a couple more days it would have cured harder. 

Sounds like your wrists are taking too much impact. Try placing the bike on the ground rather than slamming it down. Reducing the violence of the landing will help all round. Gloves are a great idea but won't really help much with this. Your hand/hood position might benefit from a review too - I personally have my knuckles quite vertical, and the wrist moves in the direction of the thumb and little finger. At the other end my ankles rotate, after the initial push-off, and only then would I flex my elbows and legs to raise the bike, to gain height. You might get benefit from doing some hand/forearm exercises too, to increase the control inside the wrists. Hand crunches (those squeeze things) might be a good start. 

There are many other tools that help and make the job quicker/easier but they're more specialised and not worth buying for a one-off. Just remember, its a bicycle. The tolerances are not particularly small, and you don't need sub-millimetre accuracy on ferrules and so on. 

Personally I find step 3 works better if my hands are on the drops rather than the hoods, but you may not have time for that. Step 5 might be all you need to do to get over many obstacles. This is called Unweighting the bike and it will only be exerting ~10-20 kilos of pressure on the ground compared to your full mass+bike mass. Step 5 is a lot easier with clips or clipless pedals. With flats you're going to have to try and push the bike down so the tyre springs you up somehow. (this is a gap in my knowledge.) Step 7 can be a bad time if you're not going fast enough. Horizontal distance is a result of how high you jumped, and how fast you're going. That's all. If you're coming down short, you need to avoid smashing a rim into the corner of a pothole cos that risks punch flats, cuts, and a dinged rim, assuming you stay on the bike! So back to ballet - you're maintaining the arc of your center of mass over the jump by sacrificing head/body height in favour of lifting the bike. 

Making the two washers - started with large 2" washers from the junk drawer. One needed an 8mm hole in the middle for the crank bolt, and the other need a 26mm hole to clear the BB axle. Somewhat rough way to do it, but it works. 

There are other mounts like this one, but they have no vibration take-up mechanism, so I'm leery about dropping money on them. 

If you're handy you would consider carrying pump/spare tube/levers and whatever you need to get the wheel off, for changing a flat. You will get a puncture eventually. Its just a part of cycling. Depending on how old your bike is, it might benefit from new brake pads. They dry and harden with age, and braking suffers. If your bike has knobbly MTB tyres, consider replacing them with smoother ones when they wear thin and punctures start getting frequent, or you see canvas. Otherwise simply keep riding. Aim to wear your bike out and then reward yourself with a better one in a couple years. 

To taco a wheel means you've bent it so badly its a write-off and cannot be salvaged through truing. This is significantly worse than going out of true, because the rim will be creased or torn, spoke holes will be pulled through on the outside of the taco curve. A damaged rim alone is not a taco, there has to be a folded wheel to earn the title. Examples: 

There are Blood Oxygen booster drugs like Acetazolamide aka Diamox which is used to treat Altitude Sickness. They're treating the symptoms after onset, not preventing the problem in the first place. 

Since this question was posted, services like Zwift have appeared. They let you partake in "virtual rides" but tend to require a fair amount of extra stuff. You'll need a bike on rollers or a trainer, some way to read the power (ie some kind of power meter on the bike or integrated into the trainer, a reasonably capable computer, an internet connection where your trainer is, and an ANT+ receiver in your computer. There is some suggestion you can get part of the experience using a Heart Rate Monitor that can talk to your PC, so either Bluetooth or ANT+ again. $URL$ 

So its a click once per wheel revolution. That suggests its not bearing specific cos they rotate a lot more per wheel rotation. I'm suspicious of race damage in the hub roughly even with the logo as you noticed, and a slightly loose bearing such that theres not enough preload on the bearings. Some things to try 

The front wheel is beside the bike. The rear wheel is left in here, probably to stop the chainrings from carrying the weight. Its not unusual to have the forks both protected and extended by packaging, again to keep the pressure off the more delicate parts, and to protect paintwork and disc caliper. Saddle and post are often removed for height reasons even though the width there would be okay. Bars and stem are normally completely disconnected, which can cause issues with pre-charged hydraulic brake lines. Pedals always come off too. All these small parts are stored around the bike, either between the chainring and the forks, or sometimes in packing and then cable-tied to the frame, which also wears packing. 

This is proportional to the inventory sticker being 12.0mm high as per all the ones I found in my house. There appear to be two other sizes in the bag as well, one smaller and one thicker like a tap washer. 

You also need to consider batteries for an ebike. Mine had 3x 12AH 12V batteries mounted in the frame, and all up the bike was about 28 kilograms. More details at $URL$ If you wish to electrify a bike, consider a kitset from somewhere like $URL$ The $800 USD ranger seems decent, and you can revert your bike to normal by taking the kit off. It looks like you're not the first to have this idea though.... $URL$ Note he had to build an airscoop to cool the motor, and a powered fan for when stopped. That's a friction drive too, so uses up tyres fast. Finally - your locality will have some restriction on the maximum power motor you can fit before your bike becomes classified as a motorbike. In New Zealand its something like 250-300 watts which is good for about 20 km/h maximum. Now I can exceed my electric bike speeds by riding my road bike, so I sold the ebike parts and use the old MTB for towing my bike trailer. Consider upgrading your own motor by biking more for health and fitness. 

Packing things for travel or freight is a balancing act between convenience, protection, and weight. A wooden case would be heavy, or thin enough to be light leads to less protection. If you do make a case, look to making it layered with protection from sharp thing on the outside plus softer padding on the inside to absorb shock. There are computer/server packing gear that involves filling a soft plastic tube with blowfoam and letting it expand around the item. If you did it carefully, the bike/wheels should be able to pop out of the foam with minimal/no disturbance. If your hard case was built like a big clamshell with clamps and it opened wide, that would be ideal. 

Yes you should get it checked out. I had an 80's 10 speed Morrison with frontal impact damage, but it was minor enough to not notice immediately. However it was "squirrly" to ride, and any minor road bump was enough to make it veer right a bit. A large bump could have put me into traffic. Also I noticed on a slightly wet day that the wheels didn't follow each other while riding straight ahead. Instead, the front wheel tracked about 20mm to the right of the back wheel's track. Confirmed using a rain puddle in an otherwise dry carpark. Another test was to hold the downtube and front wheel in one hand. It was obvious to the eye that the wheel was not in-line with the rest of the frame. My fix was to remove the fork and use a vice and some packing for protection. Then I carefully bent it back into line. This was checked using string, and by laying the fork on flat concrete and carefully measuring the gaps on both sides. A bit of a "bush" fix but it worked well. A steel fork can often be bent back into shape, but an aluminium or carbon one will be scrap. 

I've cleaned up a couple of sets of alivio shifters lately. The more modern one had the gear indicator in one plastic part that lifted off after taking out two screws. The shifter mech worked perfectly, so I suspect it was designed and intended to be part of an integrated brifter. No photo, but a couple of dabs of RTV Silicon sealant should keep the water and spiders out. The older unit was a combined brake/shifter. It was much more fiddly and exposed heaps of the internals. The full breakdown is in this question/answer. 

Additional points from a former ebike rider: I've had an electric bike, and it got too dangerous for my taste. It was an old rigid MTB with a front wheel motor, and despite weighing about 25 kilograms (55 US pounds) I could consistently achieve speeds of 40+ km/h (25 mph) and peaks of 45 km/h (28 mph) It was "rated" at 300W the legal maximum here. 

So if you are out of the saddle, clipped into pedals, and have your hips to the stem and are bending forward at the waist, then there's little more you can do to balance the bike. Consider not wearing a backpack. You might be able to vary your track on the path by zigzagging, or taking a slightly less head-on approach. Try the climb again, while recording on strava. Then use the Compare function, or a link like this $URL$ to compare your best segment effort to someone else's. The top time was only doing 1.4 km/h on the really steep bit at 0.7 km into the segment. Generally the answer is momentum, and lots of it. And if you stop, you're stuck. If you're there, try and watch other people ride the same track. See how they approach the same sections and where they push hard. 

I guess you have an aluminium/aluminum rim, which doesn't take kindly to rebending. Steel is generally okay to bend, but I have no experience with CF wheel rims. Tool for rim tweaks is Vice Grips - with layers of padding in the jaws. If you can find the ones with ~50mm wide clamping surface, that distributes the pressure better and reduces the localised "bottle lid" effect. 

Opinion: its definitely a cool bike and worth repairing. If you don't want it, pass it on to someone who can do it justice. 

Depends how damaged the fork is. Take it to another LBS for a second opinion. Could be that your pannier rack took most of the impact and the threadded hole is damaged but the fork could be okay. Note there's a fairly good chance your wheel/hub is okay. A second/third opinion will help you decide if the first shop just wants to sell forks. Also consider your own gut feeling - you were the one in the crash and you experienced the impact.