@erdekhayser, I think you have already answered your own question, though you aren't realizing it yet: 

Flying dragons would have a much stronger advantage in tactical mobility than that conferred by Viking longships; and the horrifying effectiveness of dragonfire against agricultural targets would be decisive. As a result, your answer is going to be limited to two reasonable worldbuilding techniques: 

The nature of feudalism Feudalism is probably best described as fractally distributed authoritarianism. It means that political power is (theoretically) organized as a tree structure, with obligations of fealty that go up the tree (and sometimes down; European feudalism had formal recognition of bidirectional obligations, while the samurai of medieval Japan conceptualized their loyalty to their lord as one-way and absolute.) This means that any subset of the political structure is potentially autonomous. Let's say, and why not, that you are a medieval European Baron, and you owe feudal duty to a King. What happens when the King dies without an heir? Well, you pretty much keep going: running your barony, intriguing against your neighbors, keeping the Vikings or whomever at bay as best you can. At some point, you will be offered opportunities to swear fealty to some kind of suzerain; you may even take part in the intrigues attendant on creating a successor's claim to the throne... The point, of course, is that the death or loss of legitimacy on the part of a leader does not cause as much widespread ruin. The system reconfigures itself, more or less naturally. This creates a very stable political situation. Probably the most stable that could be contrived, given the tumultuous nature of medieval times. That resilience is the core benefit of feudalism. Where it comes apart, historically, is when a society starts generating enough economic surplus, or encounters sufficiently uncharted circumstances, that feudal suppression of the peasant base becomes insufficient as a political model. I've recently heard Democracy described as "the crowdsourcing of political decisionmaking", and I don't think that's entirely wrong. A secondary downfall of the feudal model would be when economic and technological factors make it impossible for the nobility to sustain its position. This is often characterized in historical recapitulation as "when central governments got cannon and could reduce castles at will". That, however, is an historical artifact of European history. Your question isn't about that. Would it be possible for a sufficiently powerful (politically and technologically) 'elite' class to oppress the masses and re-enforce a feudal style society? The best answer I can give you is another question: Can your envisioned high-tech society provide a set of circumstances in which: 

At minimum, about 2,100 dinosaur fossils, probably not more than 200,000. The main problem with this idea is that most of the dinosaur fossils are embedded in solid rock. While some are close to the surface, or even directly exposed by erosion, most are probably buried by literal tons of rock and sediments. To give any sort of meaningful answer we have to make some assumptions about the magical forces and their upper limit. Lets imagine that the magic force to hold up our dinosaur revenant can also remove at an equal amount of confining rock / sediment layer. Some example numbers: A 15 ton dinosaur might have a surface area of 10m^2 of rock covering it. Assume an average density of 2.6 g/cm^3 for quartz based rock, and our magic dino can escape from being buried about 1/2 m deep. Math: 0.5m * 10m^2 * 2600kg/m^3 = 13,000kg of covering rock. 15 tons = 15 * 2000 lbs/ton / (2.2 lbs/ kg) = 13,636 kg of dinosaur Larger dinosaurs would weigh more, but would also have a larger surface area to have to escape from, so it probably balances out. I made a ton of wild assumptions here, such as a dinosaur fossil weighs about as much as the live dinosaur, rock types covering them, and surface area. This is just to get a decent idea of what we're dealing with. Apply some hand-wavium to adjust the strength of the magic to extract them from even further down by magically shattering the rock and having the revived dinosaurs crawl upwards through the rubble. Three meters deep is probably a decent ballpark for that. The exact number of remains in that region is difficult to predict because we don't know how many dinosaur fossils there are in total or their distribution. However, it is estimated that there are around 2,100 fairly complete dinosaur skeletons in museums around the world. Those will be far easier to remove from their locations in research institutions than those locked in bedrock. Lets work with that number and say we have found 10% of partially exposed dinosaur fossils world wide, and now we can say 20,000 dinosaurs are exhumed by our spell. Adjust that percentage as you please (or how optimistic you might be for paleontologists!) and say that our 2,100 found skeletons are only 1% of the global total in our range of the surface and you've got 200,000 revived dinosaurs. Here is the source I used for the number in museums: $URL$ Have fun and I hope that helped! 

You could build a small flux-compression generator into a bullet, possibly replacing the explosive charge with simply the impact force. That would give you the combined effect of an hollow or explosive round with an electromagnetic pulse which I imagine would be quite good against cyborgs. 

For a being that desires to help humanity grow and not subject us to trickery, it has a very funny way of going about it. Growth and development are inevitable assuming we survive, so the offer of the wish with all it's ensuing disruption and conflict is counter productive. 

This would very rapidly take humanity to a much higher female:male ratio. Since sex with pregnant women counts less, you need at least five women for every man, probably considerably more. It is quite possible that one sex will make a commodity the other. Certainly sex work will have the biggest boon in human history and become legitimate, since access to sex becomes a survival necessity. I wouldn't be surprised to find brothels in every supermarket. Effectively you're keeping women perpetually pregnant, which results in a massive population growth. You'd get about 60% increase globally every year: even converting all available land to high-intensity agriculture and the entire population living on GM rice, we'd exceed the Earth's total ability to feed us within a few years. To manage that I would expect the immediate, total and compulsory use of non-barrier contraception. I would think everybody would receive contraceptive implants, and probably some license system would be used give people a break from them and have children. Back of the envelope calculations suggest that there would be no stable population level, and humanity would be condemned to boom-bust cycles. The loss of barrier contraception would also massively increase the prevalence of STIs. That could cause people to form closed networks of sexual partners, with strict rules on health and fidelity, which in the long run could displace the family. Health, particularly mental health, will take a massive hit. LGBT people will be especially badly affected for obvious reasons. Monogamous relationships will effectively become impossible. People will become traumatised by the necessity of involuntary sex. Mental health problems will also suddenly carry a huge risk of death, since both problems and treatments are strongly associated with sexual problems. Last, but certainly not least, our concept of sexual consent will probably go out the window. An act is not a crime if it really is necessary for survival, so committing rape about one a month would be a valid lifestyle choice. 

Realistically, any civilization capable of colonizing another planet will blanket its orbits with satellites first. Satellite imaging and communication will simply be too important for maintaining a developing colony, especially if contact with the home world is valued. GPS would absolutely be one of the vital services provided by the satellite arrays any of our colonies would demand. Instead of mandating that GPS satellites are not used/ are not reliable, why not posit that the GPS satellites have been taken out or sufficiently damaged? A large solar flare or Coronal Mass Ejection (CME) could potentially wipe out all the satellites in orbit and even damage ground based positioning systems. $URL$ If you still need long range comm systems that survive the CME, have the colonies connected by fiber optics rather than relying on satellite communication. Alternatively, if your GPS satellites were parked in geosynchronous orbits that are far enough outside of the protective magnetic field of the planet they could be critically damaged while those in near-planet orbits were protected. It could take quite some time before replacements arrive from outside your colony or for your colonists to fabricate and launch their own replacements. A major part of the need for unguided exploration could be scouting to find deposits of rare earth-metals needed to fabricate replacement GPS satellites.