You should measure the threads to be sure, but 70mm on a bike like this basically means it's Raleigh thread. Phil Wood makes both square taper and Shimano-compatible outboard BBs for Raleigh shells. Other than use the old stuff, or other old stuff, that's your option. 

Should be fine in almost every case. The exception would be tubes that say "700x32-35 (27x1-1/4)", or anything else that has a 700C range where the starting number is larger than 28. That would be bigger than you want. (Would still probably work, but it wouldn't be ideal.) In other words, there isn't usually a difference, but only in the sense that most 27x1-1/4 tubes have that width on the top end of the range they cover rather than the bottom. If you can't find one that just says 27x1-1/8, use anything that has 700x28 in its range. That's the answer you won't go wrong with. It's a tire for a different and more common rim size, but the tubes for it are interchangeable with 27x1-1/8. Make sure to get the right valve type. 

They're essentially part of the brake lever. They don't really have an agreed-upon name. Probably the closest is "mushroom ferrule," which appears to be what Dia-Compe calls them. They're not totally universally sized. Different brake levers have slightly different bits that go there but do the same thing. That said, the ones on the great majority of bikes with applicable levers are all the same size, which I believe is basically Dia-Compe and clones. You can just buy the common size ones new. In the US, J&B Importers (one of the largest parts wholesalers) has a house brand one they call a "Cable End Button" and UBS has one they call "UNIV BRAKE CABLE ADAPTER." There's also Dia-Compe part 94, same thing. You can just order any of them from an online reseller, or find a shop that has them. Some shops will also have old levers around to cannibalize. 

Sounds weird and wrong. Usually you indeed have a lot more thread engagement, I think 5-6 turns or more on the road/cross forks I have my hands on all the time. If there are a lot of threads present on the fork and nothing filling them up, I agree it sounds unsafe. One easy possibility is that the bike ended up with an axle that isn't a correct match for its fork, and someone either didn't notice or care. To be really right it must be the axle intended to go with the fork in question, and they can require some work to track down, particularly if it's an OEM fork as opposed to a named aftermarket one. 

I assume you've got the triple version of the Claris FD. There are no strict standards for chainring spacing so while if the crank you had was too far off what the shifter/derailer "expect" then yes, that could cause bad performance, that part isn't really a mountain vs road thing, and is more about what width chain the crank is intended for. If that was causing the problem, it would probably be pretty clear when trying to adjust the shifting. To answer your second question, no, a Shimano MTB front derailer will not work well because their road and mountain front shifters pull different amounts of cable. It can be made to work badly and this is enough that some people will tell you it works. One probable reason it's working badly is because you're going under the minimum mid/top tooth difference spec of your FD-2403 by 1 tooth, which forces the derailer to be mounted higher than it should be and can throw off the chain contact points. That will exacerbate its not quite optimal match with the profile of the rings you have. Both of these tend to cause larger problems than people often expect. Just using an IRD Alpina may completely solve the problem. It is currently the only STI-compatible FD available optimized for this kind of application. (And the main one ever, the exception being one or two weird old Shimano ones, RSX I think). What I don't know offhand is how well it's going to play with an 8-speed chain. If that proves finicky you can use a 9. 

It's unclear if you mean versus other standards, or if there are different kinds of BSC/ISO (BSA is kind of a misnomer, and in my opinion it's clearer just to call it all ISO, because that's the standard that current examples are actually made to). Some road bikes are still made with Italian, but only a couple brands, and bottom brackets can still be had for all the old national sizes. Other than that, yes ISO is the only threaded standard left. Each ISO BB is made for a certain shell width, or widths in the case of the common 68/73/e-type ones that come with 2.5mm spacers you use as needed, but there aren't shell interface differences within ISO beyond that. Yes, no problem. Chain retention tends to be acceptable with just a narrow-wide ring and nothing else helping it, but it's something I'd be looking at when test riding the new setup. Of all the many rear derailers in the world, you could probably come up with some that didn't pull on the chain adequately. It's also good practice to start a new chainring out with at least a new chain and ideally also a new cassette. (This is now less true of the cassette since suddenly it's much more common for people to have extremely expensive ones.) You could skimp on it if they're still pretty fresh, but the idea is that minimizing wear on the ring tends to save more money ultimately. Worn chains can bring a new chainring to their level of wear fairly rapidly. 

Yes and no. Installing them with normal sized (2-2.3") tires will result in that much less ground and pedal clearance as well as tweak the geometry of the bike. So that's not likely to work out well. However, 27.5+ tires (2.8-3") get the tire outside diameter into the ballpark of normal 29", so the bike's geometry and clearances still work as intended. For example, there are now bikes intended to be swappable between the two, and conversions have become common on older bikes. Many 29er frames and forks have the clearance to take a 27.5+, although it's something you'd have to experiment with yourself. 

FR-5, any Shimano one, basically any cassette lockring tool other than Campy (there's only 2 standards and Campy is much less common). You also need a chain whip. If you want to use a torque wrench then any that have 40nm or 30 ft-lb in their range will be fine, such as most common automotive ones. In that case you'll need a lockring tool with a square drive in back such as the ones made by Lifu or Pedros, or a 1" socket for the Park ones. Personally I only use torque wrenches on aluminum freehub bodies and even then it's a pretty minor concern. 40nm/30ft-lb is pretty tight. The best way I can describe it is as it's reaching full tightness, you'll typically feel one last firm click of the teeth of the lockring and cog engaging, such that it would be hard to imagine any unintended forces overcoming the thread preload and getting the teeth to disengage. That's tight enough.