In general, others have pointed out nothing prevents happiness to come with moral duty fulfillment. On the other side, we pick up a life risk to analyze, other kinds of risks vary at great scales and should not be treated the same. To risk someone's life to perform moral duties is counter-intuitive and counter-instinct. It roots from the question: what is/are more (valuable) than a life? An easy answer might be "many lives are"!!! Hang on a minute, are you serious? Based on what metric system or criteria? are those many lives of the same kind of the referenced life and how same? who is/are the judge?... such kind of questions will push the initiator back at the wall with noway out. Life is the most complicated concept in any areas of study. Therefore to discuss or make statements about it requires a lot more than just a few quotes. 

Beware that the distinction you are assuming may not be there. Hegel writes in the Philosophy of Nature ยง202b that 

Generally, Physics is a chapter of Nature (namely the second, while the first one is "Mechanics" about space, time and matter (and their unity...) which of course we would subsume with physics), and nature is the externalization of the Idea (here), and the Idea is that which is objective and true in the Notion (here) and the subjective part of the Notion is deductive logical thinking, where one would locate also the activity of mathematics. Translated suitably, this should resonate well with common modern undertanding: fundamental modern physics is itself a mathematical theory (for amplification see the first few slides here), hence physics is in a sense that which is "objective" in mathematics, in that it is the part of mathematics that connects to, let me say, the real world. So if we say that the concept of mathematics is magnitude, or measure, then there is an "objective" aspect of that, which is that which gives reality, that is nature, in particular physics. In case you care, I am preparing notes with more details here, for a workshop next week. 

It rather depends on you than on the book or things therein. When you find a matching between your mind or soul's ingredients and the interpretants from the book (For interpretant - Refer C.S Pierce on Semiotic), the chance of being convinced increases and so on. God to each soul is likely to be different in some way, despite many could think they are worshiping the same God. So it doesn't matter it's true or at least convinced to others as well. Such matching is sufficient to make you convinced. In another way, even if others are convinced, you may be not - no matchings or not sufficiently. 

I would offer that the fact you find the thought horrifying,"[that] no one could be obligated to respond to demands for justice", implies that the formal, logical imperative is unnecessary, for you and people like you, to hold and act upon the opposite assertion, "one is obligated to fulfill demands for justice." One could very well admit there is an disjunction between a thought, true or not, and man's operative and personal psyche without thereby having to take a stance about the validity of the thought. This argument that the moral implications of materialism exclude any who wish to be moral from agreeing with it is only valid if one holds that one must operate continuously with what one has agreed is objectively true. I know almost no one who does so-especially those with a modern education-, nor is anyone, under any theory, forced to operate in a continuous manner with regards to its implications. 

Firstly, the two English words can be understood differently through times and geographies. For example, eudaimonia means literally well-classed spirit and is translated as "happiness". The difference is too remarkable. "Pleasure" in hedonism can be used interchangeably with "happiness". So it is safe as long as concerned in philosophy, no clear lines are important. It depends on your philosophical position to go further into concepts such as eudaimonia, provided they are not precisely "happiness". You can't understand a theist being atheist. 

One may formalize this is any formal system with a good concept of equality. One of these is homotopy type theory which knows the identity type (X = K). It is then a theorem that Sum_X (X = K) is a contractible type whose essentially unique inhabitant is K itself. David Corfield just the other day wrote a note on this for an audience of philosophers interested in structuralism. 

Regarding specifically Russell's attitude towards Aristotle's logic, I have come to wonder if in the course of a justified complaint about an enormous time span of intellectual stagnation, Russell maybe missed an opportunity to recognize a few excellent aspects of Aristotle's logic, which, after dismissing them, took much effort to be rediscovered by Russell himself and then eventually by other people. Here I am thinking of the fact that Aristotle's logic, while certainly naive and inaccurate from a modern perspective, has the exceptional feature of being a primitive kind of type theory. Where Aristotle says "All A are B" we should recognize what in modern systems would be a function of types A -> B (maybe a monomorphism, if you insist, making A a subtype of B). Where Aristotle says "Some B1 are B2" this is clearly to be read as an intersection of types, what in modern categorical logic is called a fiber product. From this perspective, two complaints that are frequently raised against Aristotle's logic seem to be easily transmuted into virtues: Some of Aristotle's deductions really depend on some silently assumed context. While that means that these were inaccuracies back then, today we easily know how to fix this right away: all types should be regarded as dependent types that exist in some context, to be specified. Another common complaint is that as Aristotle's types move from the subject of a judgement to the predicate, they seem to turn from types to propositions. For instance on the one hand Aristotle speaks of the collection of all mortal beings, on the other hand he speaks of the proposition "X is mortal". But there is no need to complain about this, in fact this very conflation is a famous accomplishment of modern logic, famous as the Curry-Howard isomorphism or the propositions-as-types paradigm. Of course one has to be slightly benevolent to see all this in Aristotle, but it seems to me that the ratio of benevolence over advantage of hindsight that we have is not too large. This is a bit ironic, because it is Russell him very self who, right after rejecting Aristotle, runs into the paradoxes of the young modern logic and is then the one to introduce the modern fix to these: types. See the references here. I came to think of this when following Lawvere's suggestion to keep an eye open for hidden insights in Hegel that are invisible to first-order logic but that begin to make a great deal of sense in modern categorical logic and type theory. Since Hegel likes syllogisms, that made me wonder. I have collected a few further details on what I have in mind here. 

I am addressing the question in a rather indirect way as I believe there's no resolute direct answer. For example: the assumed clearest evidence of any type on this topic is Libet's experiment. Nevertheless, I would agree with the criticisms on it and his own view rather than with a variety of bestowed conclusions. Libet "believes subjects still have a "conscious veto", since the readiness potential does not invariably lead to an action"(Wikipedia) My answer is freewill has too many different versions of definition, each with its own ground and purpose. Besides it requires insights from Neurology and psychiatry which have not reached maturity sufficiently enough to have a resolute thesis. Philosophy appears to be the only way for thought experiments but you can't set aside theological sides of it. 

The essay/book contains the following paragraph: "The manufactured object, as opposed to (natural) useful goods, though it may still hold some habitual meaning (for instance depending on how metals are used, which can have emblematic meaning), loses its character as its manufacturing becomes more complex and diversified. The act of manufacturing, which becomes more diversified as it progressively gains complexity, replaces the use of goods (natural or cultural) with the efficient utilization of objects. Since manufacturable efficiency wins out on the profit level, the use of natural or cultural goods, which defines those goods according to an interpretation to do with their customary usage, is seen as sterile; use, that is, enjoyment, is sterile - since actual goods are considered unproductive in the manufacturable efficiency circuit. [...] In the industrial era, utensil manufacturing definitely broke with the world of sterile usage to set up the world of manufacturable efficiency, relative to which every natural or cultural good - both human bodies and the earth itself - is appraisable in turn." It may be my unfamiliarity with the terminology, which a fairly involved google search provides no clear answers regarding, but I'm a bit confused about exactly what he's saying. The natural, useful good, is defined as a good and as useful by the use human beings habitually make of it; that, I understand. His contrast between the 'efficient utilization of objects' and 'the use of goods' I find to be a little less clear. We have, within the habitual/cultural sphere, a finite amount of goods which have a finite number of uses: hence a set demand which is constant, does not 'reproduce'. In other words, the goods themselves don't produce demand, but a 'real'/'natural' demand motivates the production of the goods. These goods not having the ability to produce demand in and of themselves being what qualifies them as sterile? Or does he mean something else entirely? At the end of the book he makes reference to the production of simulacra, which being only means of evoking fantasies, are not bound by a set of 'natural' uses and can thus be priced arbitrarily, seeing as an experience cannot be quantified in terms of the cost of producing it. I see how the production of fantasies and their simulacra is not sterile-if my interpretation is correct- because the experience the simulacra is capable of evoking is the source of the demand; and also, every fantasy produced allows the conception of still more fantasies, or more simulacra corresponding to those fantasies, which is productive of more possible products to a theoretically infinite degree. He phrases this with complicated references to physiology and perversion-the usurpation of physiological instincts by the imaginative psyche being the lifeblood of fantasy and perversion (?)-, so even that interpretation could be off. Any interpretive aid would be appreciated, even if only in the form of a reference to things I might need to read to understand this work. Thanks in advance! 

In Book I, third section, first chapter of Science of Logic, Hegel makes it rather clear, I find, that the measure that he is talking about -- at least in its aspect as specifying measure -- is a choice of (physical) units, hence is a choice of gauge. See ยง714: 

In the rest of the text, of course, whenever two opposites are identified as two moments, that unity of opposites gets a name. (As in the archetypical example of "becoming" being the name of the unity of the moments of "nothing" and "being", e.g ยง152.) Here I am wondering: what is the name (the term, if any) that Hegel assigns to the unity of the ideal and the real? The ideal and the real are two moments... of what? (Is it maybe "ideality"? I probably don't really understand yet the rest of ยง324.)