Is there really a difference here? Any place you speak with will want to know why the rapid transition; the answer in both cases is more or less in the question here: you were looking for a position closer to where you live, and you're only there a couple of months because the company you joined pulled the rug out from underneath you on day one. 

You just went through the job application process so you might be in a better-than-usual position to assess how difficult it would be to obtain another position in your desired location/hometown. (Maybe there were even places that you had already started conversations with.) It sounds like you're committed to finding something in that locale, so going back to your old place doesn't make sense since you don't want to work there. (It's quite possible they would rehire you; the reason they wouldn't is less happiness with your successor and more that both you and they expect you to quit as soon as you find something with a shorter commute.) If it's very challenging for you to find suitable work, maybe you could reach an agreement that made sense for both of you. 

Ask. Some companies will ask you about your timeline in an effort to make sure that they can move through the process before you are faced with a timeline for another offer. Telling a company that you're actively on the market (no surprise--you're interviewing with them) and would like to see whether they have some flexibility is not inherently problematic. This is especially the case if you can tell them -- hey, you are a really attractive company to me, I want to make sure we have a chance to see whether this is a good fit. Of course, maybe they won't be able to, in which case you'll need to manage the other timelines as best you are able to. If your preferences are C > B > A and you're doing well then maybe it won't matter -- you can get an offer from B before you need to make a decision on A etc. [As for the comments: accepting an offer only to back our days later seems to me an inferior option -- it's far more likely you can delay getting the offer (or making a decision, or extending the negotiation process etc.) without doing something that should feel a little ethically questionable.] 

Switching after three months without a good reason -- and from a hiring manager's perspective, "I took this job and figured I would keep looking" is maybe the worst reason you can give, since this is a terrible outcome from their perspective of hiring a new employee -- is the only real negative. The rest is just about the narrative; resume gaps of 2-3 months are not especially notable. People want to understand why you made the choices that resulted in you bring where you are today. "Bigger" is not at all necessarily "better" with respect to companies, although for sure working for companies which are well-respected in the industry will help when people look over your resume. 

tl;dr: completely reasonable. I'm going to answer your questions from three perspectives: as someone also asked to provide reference letters, as someone who used to teach students about how to ask for references, and as the product owner for a company who offers a confidential letter of recommendation delivery service. The good news is that the answers are the same from all three perspectives! 

Something like "Thank you for the opportunity to interview with your company, scheduled for (whatever date). However, I have recently taken a position with another company, and so must cancel our scheduled interview and withdraw from consideration. Again, thank you for the opportunity." An e-mail is all that is typically warranted unless you have a close relationship with the recruiter/hiring manager or you are very far into the interview process and want to be ultra-polite. However, even if you do speak in person, there is no need to go into greater detail. If you do, you are setting yourself up for even more discomfort if the other company tries to immediately counteroffer or something of that nature. 

In situations in which I am on a committee, and I receive thank you notes from individuals, I do not respond. The only instance in which I would respond would be if I were the committee chair. When I do respond, as either committee manager or as an individual interviewer (when there's no committee), I keep my acknowledgement brief (and I only respond if it's an emailed thank-you): "Thank you for your interest, and for taking the time to talk with us about the position. Our decision timeline is..." 

As a hiring manager who has done this a lot, I have a standard line no matter the situation: I tell the candidate how the rest of the process will go, regardless of how I may or may not have judged them during our conversation. For instance, if it's at the end of a phone screen, when I know that the next round of candidates will be called for longer interviews with the team, I say, "Thanks for talking with me today. Here's how the rest of our hiring process works: I'll finish the phone screens in the next n days, then we'll select some folks for longer interviews, and we hope to have the whole process wrapped up by x date. I'll stay in touch with you as we move through the process." If this conversation is at the end of a longer interview, I adjust what I say to take that into account. I try very hard not to give anything away, either positively or negatively -- although I know my tone changes if I know a candidate is bombing or excelling -- and instead focus on giving information about the process rather than the person. This method avoids any extended discussions or arguments, as well as avoids any sort of commitment that might be assumed/misinterpreted by the candidate, and has the added bonus of being transparent about the hiring process itself. 

We have a small team (9 total, 3 of whom are admin assist types and 2 of whom are part time specialists), and I'm in charge of this small but strong crew. The team is great, very professional, organized, etc. Everything I could want as a manager. But the boss.. she's smart, determined, and a huge workaholic (like, 4 hours of sleep a night consistently, a year a half later.) We decide on tasks for the week, and by mid-week, everything is changed, and there are a whole new pile of tasks to be done. Some of it is justified (the 'old' tasks are now no longer relevant), some of it, I think is a result of her stress (which is quite high and is justifiably so - it's a big, complex, many 0's job with constantly changing vision and needs). We are trying 'agile' but even that is built for 1-2 week sprints, which don't do a lot to blunt this. She doesn't seem to have much patience for the idea that we need to re-scope out work, or that we ought to re-insert management processes each time... I don't see any slowdown in changes coming (Think the person who walks and throws all the balls behind them.. everyone is struggling to catch up). The team is feeling overwhelmed. My boss trusts me, and us, and our competence - I feel like I can say anything. But what do I say? What do I do? I want the team to learn and grow from this, to have us all walk away knowing how to handle this in the future. Thanks for your thoughts and effort here. It's tricky... 

I've got a scenario where Applicant A has listed "United Nations" as their employer on the resume. The truth is, the UN was actually involved in the project, and subcontracted or were partnered with another, much smaller, unrecognizable company, which is the company this person worked for directly. This person did interact with UN staff. I've seen this same practice with consultants and subcontractors before - a small university project or funded partner (let's say a media lab) contracts someone for some work, and then they list the university as the client. Or, they were employees of the university, and later as consultants state they were a client. Or, the university and the united nations partnered, and the consultants lists both as past clients, even though they were employees at the time. Hopefully with this example you catch my point - there are number of combinations that might lead one to act or state an affiliation. I see variations of this frequently when I check references, and I'm never totally sure what to think. I can see a few different ways it could be considered dishonest or legitimate. As companies do more and more subcontracting, does anyone have an idea of hwo to handle this? Is it appropriate for the prospective employee or the consultant to be doing this? Should it always be whoever paid the cheque? Are there any rules or laws surrounding this? If you are in HR, is there a best practice? 

Or, you could combine all the technologies/skills used under a single "Skills" heading, and list as you would on a traditional resume. Similarly, you could instead highlight the advanced/elective/special/interesting coursework you took (all the good stuff beyond intro courses), and list the projects under each course listing. Personally, I've always preferred the first option I gave, because it looks most like what your traditional work experience will look like once you have it. And, once you have that professional experience, the project experience should start to be deemphasized on your resume -- but don't feel like you need to do that immediately, especially if your course projects were comprehensive and applicable to your career. 

If your objection is to the fact that they could call your current employer for a reference when you haven't told your current employer that you're looking for a job, then that's on you. The fact of the matter is that probably more than anything else, a prospective employer wants a reference from your most recent work, as that reflects your skills, outlook, work habits, etc now. If you have not and in no uncertain terms will not ask your current employer to act as a reference, then you will have to be up front with your prospective new employer about that. The fallout from that could be that you are no longer considered, or it could simply be a big negative mark against you from which you'd have to recover in other ways (by being extra great). As an example, depending on the type of job, level of responsibility, and so on, if I can't talk to your most recent employer, it's very likely that I will just drop you from consideration all together. For example, if I am hiring you in a management position, and at your current company you manage n number of people and are responsible for x number of strategic initiatives, and you have told me about all of this but I can't then verify or get a different perspective on it, then I'm not going to move forward with your interview because that's not a risk I'm willing to take. 

You've begun to answer your own question by stating that it is "extremely important and relevant to the job I'm applying for". If you think that is true -- for example, if you are applying to the work for or with the police department, or another city agency who would recognize this achievement as something relevant, then it is something you should include. However, be aware that in a general application form, the "Certificates and Licenses" section is typically where the company would expect to see industry-specific professional certifications such as the Cisco Certified Network Professional (CCNP) certification in some IT fields, or the Project Management Professional (PMP) certification in the field of Project Management, certain licenses for commercial trucking, and so on. When trying to determine if a certificate is "worthy" of inclusion in this particular section of a job application, think first if it's something that would be recognized broadly -- outside your location, or outside the application for this particular job. If not, but is still relevant in some way because it is an achievement that you earned, then I would recommend putting it in the Miscellaneous section.