During the era when the Phoenicians ruled the Mediterranean sea and surrounding territories (cerca 1550 - 300 B.C.), salt was indeed a highly precious commodity. After this, the Romans became the dominant force in the Mediterranean, though the value of salt did not immediately decline by any means. Whether it was pound-for-pound as valuable as gold, I think it is hard to say, but probably not out of the question at some point. Until relatively modern times, salt was prized mainly for its ability to preserve foodstuffs as well as season food. In the hot Mediterranean climate where fish and meat would decay rather quickly, this was particularly useful. The period of Phonetician domination during the early to mid first millennium B.C. (including its successor state Carthage) represented one of the world's first monopolies. Essentially, other nations (including Ancient Greece and early Rome) did not have great access to salt, and hence the Phoenecian monopoly could dictate its own outrageous rates. From this article on the economy of the Phoenicians: 

All contributed to increase oligarchy and eventual pseudo-monarchy in the Roman Empire. The natural response to the many crises that occurred over the first century B.C. was to put power in the hands of great individuals; a dangerous move at any time, despite it having some logic. No doubt, the spiral towards collapse had begun long before Caesar's heydey. Worth noting: the first Emperor Octavian cunningly maintained the pretence of the Republic's continuation, gradually dropping it towards the end of his reign. Now there are of course other explanations, and I have only touched on the surface here, for it is a highly complex subject, but I hope this gives some insight for you to go and read around the matter further, at least. References 

So the number as Steve Bird suspected correcty it should be a batch number. Most probably your item and this one made in very different series, but the material is the same. It doesn't contain silver, it's content typically are: 60% copper, 20% nickel and 20% zinc. This formula also known as (in)famous german silver, beginner silver investors sometimes fall into the trap mixing up it with real silver. It's density is significantly less than real silver. It is 8.3 gr/cm3 instead of 10.5 gr/cm3. 

The currency you posted is from an occupied territory, see the related wikipedia link. If you read carefully, it says: Reichskreditkassen on the bottom, Nazi Germany issued these notes in occupied territories which weren't considered to the Reich's territory. Note that these notes had completely different rules than real Reichsmarks, for example they were legal tender only in occupied territories, and couldn't be subject of a negotiation inside the Reich. Also the fact that it was independent from Reichsmarks, it added a layer of protection of real Reichsmarks. For example it could have been inflated separately from real Reichmarks. Take a note: 5 Reichmarks in German territories were minted on silver coins (I have one), not notes, an important difference! Read more interesting facts of your banknote here. I have only a subjective opinion on why didn't they have Swastika, since the webpages only give clues, not definite answers: The occupied territories had their own currency in this form, maybe this was easier to accept as legal tender than Reichsmarks. It was printed very differently to make it easier to separate from real Reichsmarks. Real Reichsmarks were printed approximately 3:4 ratio while occupation Marks were printed on the whole surface. But if you check out other - in-Reich - notes, for some strange reason swastika doesn't seem to be overly used on banknotes unlike on coins. 

The same article also mentions employment of spies by in ~500 B.C. by the Ancient Chinese, and by Greek and Roman leaders, all of which post-date the Egyptian use by many centuries. The first paragraph of the article does in fact allude to even earlier spies in written history: "Espionage is one of the oldest, and most well documented, political and military arts. The rise of the great ancient civilizations, beginning 6,000 years ago in Mesopotamia, begat institutions and persons devoted to the security and preservation of their ruling regimes.", though it does not provide any direct evidence. 

The Sumerians are widely credited with being the first real civilisation on Earth, beginning in around the 5th millennium BC. Cities and agricultural communities existed before this time, but are generally not considered to have constituted a civilisation. The Sumerians, who were situated in modern-day lower Iraq and Kuwait, are widely believed to have invented the wheel, writing, government, law, systematic agriculture, and irrigation, among various other early innovations and marks of civilisation. Although the dates of the start of these civilisations are generally not well-defined, the order of the appearance of "civilisations" is often accepted as the following: 

The Roman Inquisition had it's influence on Polish Kingdom, but for most of Copernicus' life Sigismund I of Poland was the king of Poland who was famous of supporting Renessaince, art and science. Poland in that time was a very potent and influental country in Europe, so my best guess is that Roman Inquistion couldn't do much more than just condemn Copernicus' theories, unlike Galileo who worked in various parts of Italy where the Inqusition had greater impact. 

I decided to make an answer since I pointed out a lot of the issue, I deleted my comments, and I state now I don't have the historical evidence, but have a good view on practical use of arrow and bows. The arrow rarely breaks in the middle, most of the cases if it hits solid material, it breaks very close to or at the head. Both arrow's body and head is recoverable if it found. I agree with Felix Goldberg, the archers most probably didn't reuse the arrows in a single - unbroken - battle, since they had to keep formation and received orders. They might pick up the arrows only if it is there, pinned into the dirt and healthy (like they were targeted by enemy archers), but this is unlikely too, archers typically used against footmen and cavalry. Quote: "However, if I'm shooting arrows at guys wearing armor, then some of the ordinance will get damaged after use and not be reusable in "tomorrow's" battle." This is wrong, they can be repaired very easily. For me in a workshop it takes 5 minutes, with a proper tools and practice in the medieval age it would take similar length of time, it needs to glue together, which happens overnight. And I can tell, it is way easier and quicker just to repair your arrows than making new ones. A typical arrow is reusable 5-6 times until it gets shorter. If it gets too short: you need to make new body. If it is not sharp enough, just sharpen it. Sharpening with proper tools happens in minutes. I also want to point out, that there are no really huge collection of arrow heads in archeology, so it seems they were reused. My point would need confirmation from a person who really researches the battle histories. But I would assume the recycle of arrows were lot closer to 100% than 0% for the winner side. 

I'll answer just the part about the Roman Republic, if that's alight for now. The Roman Republic is probably best described as a pseudo-democracy of sorts. Its creation and initial set-up actually pre-dated Athenian democracy by a single year, though even until its dying days it was more of a "democracy for the privileged" than anything. Hence, Classical-period Athens is usually considered the world's first true democracy. Nonetheless, the Roman Republic was clearly a very successful model for a state. It was ultimately the lack of fail-safes and precautions against powerful consuls and leaders that led to its down-fall, and arguably the fact that only landowners had a say in the vote, or indeed only equestrians (members of the ancient noble families) could become senators or consuls. Your average peasant, born in Rome or otherwise had little say in the state. Generally seen as the first real sign of the downfall of the Roman Republic was Lucius Cornelius Sulla's stint as dictator (to use the actual Latin word). Dictator was a special privilege granted to a military leader (general) by the Senate -- often a past consul by nature of the office -- in times of great need. For example, during the Sack of Rome in the 4th century B.C. by the Cisalpine Gauls (of northern Italy). It was however used extremely sparingly until Sulla was granted the position during the Roman Civil War of ~82 B.C. (the very worrying second one in the span of a decade). The senate relied on the honour of the general to relinquish the title of dictator when it was no longer required and return to normal life (of a senator often). Fortunately at first, Sulla did this, though as we all Gaius Julius Caesar did not and craved power until his final assassination. Ironically, Caesar was known as a member of the populares (unlike his aristocracy-aligned rival Pompey [Gnaeus Pompeius] of the First Triumvirate), gaining widespread support from the working class, and thus facilitating the end of what small democracy there was, and the start of Octavian's tyrrany. I hope you can see from this that effecitvely the collapse of this pseudo-democracy was facilitated greatly by the lack of sufficient legal codes as well as increased internal strife within Italy, propagated by corrupted and varying degrees of oligarchic control. There were always too many loopholes in Roman politics and law to allow power-hungry men to wield disproportionate control. One might say the Roman Republic was a time bomb ready to explode (though not as disastrously as the Roman Empire of course!). A lecture summary for a history course on Classical History in the Purdue University gives a good summary and highlights four main causes (in the lecturer's view, though largely accepted by historians I'd say): 

Take a note, France was involved to American freedom fight, had cultural renewal by Enlightment, and of course the 1789 revolution happened, then Napoleon focused all the resources to Europe, they even sold Louisiana to finance war. We can say, the focus wasn't on Australia in France to press any claims, so Great Britain had relatively a green light to do whatever they want there. 

I wanted to comment, but an actual google search gave some sort of answer for me, maybe there will be better answers than mine, I see the practical side of the fastening problem. The handles are typically sort of "D" shaped where the straight side is the shield or some straps with two fixed points on the shield body having enough space between them for an arm or hand. The shape is ideal to apply independently from the shield any regular rope, leather strap to fasten it to your armour, or clothes and make it easily accessible. Let's see some examples: First picture is Arc d' Orange shield with handle. A strap would perfectly fit in, and could be used for fastening it to armour. 

Pre-dating the usage of spies by the Persians is (perhaps unsurprisingly) the Ancient Egyptian use of spies and military intelligence, from at least the New Kingdom period (late 2nd milleniunm B.C.) onwards, but quite possibly even from the Old Kingdom. period (early 3rd millenium B.C.), as suggested by the reference to "early Pharaohs" in the following source. This source describes the ancient usage of spies by the Egyptians, and lists evidence as hieroglyphs discovered in Egypt. 

The rise of the popular tribunes -- late 2nd century B.C. The rise of the private armies -- most notably by Garius Marius (namesake of the notable Marian reforms of the military) and Lucius Sulla (the famous twice-dictator). The First Triumvirate -- as mentioned above, consisting of Julius Ceasar, Pompeius Magnus, and Lucinius Crassus. Note that the second triumvirate effectively occurred after the fall of the Republic. The granting of Caesar's dictatorship -- a 10 year period in which he was meant to restore the Republic, but instead laid the foundations for the Imperium beginning with Octavian (Augustus). 

Under Roman Republic one unskilled worker typically made one sestertius a day, and it was enough to keep up a modest life in ancient Rome back in the day. But I found data about Rome started to decrease the silver content of the coins denarii and sestertius, so they could mint it out of more common metals like bronze. So the value decreased significally. Here is a quote 

Gold value back in time compared to 1900's USD (backed by Gold) and then use inflation adjustment. Labour value between the two eras, first I would need to find out for example how many hours a roman peasant worked on the field in an average year and use it as base in comparasion to modern days work. property, land, etc... other methods (?) 

Second picture is a Viking shield replica. There you can see an applied strap for carrying/apply on the arm, but the handle here has enough space to put a rope or strap in it, so even without the applied strap, it would be easily attachable to anywhere. 

The origin and spreading out of the Celtic peoples is a topic shrouded in mystery, at least to my mind. While the Germanic migrations occurred during the late Imperial Roman period and Early Middle Ages, the Celtic migrations generally occurred much earlier, as there is historical evidence of the Gaels existing in Ireland since at least 500 B.C. The Brythonic Celts, as opposed to the Gaelic (or Goedelic) Celts, have a somewhat better-known history, at least in the sense that we know well that they inhabited the lands of Ancient Britannia (specifically England, Wales, and southern Scotland) and later Brittany in modern France (following the Anglo-Saxon invasions of England). Geographically, this is a fairly localised region, and well documented thanks to Roman sources. A few facts we do know about the ancient Gaelic peoples: 

The main factor is here undoubtedly Christianity. The Ancient Greeks may have distinguished themselves from the eastern Persians, but they did not align themselves any more with the barbarian tribes in most of Europe at the time. In fact, they at least appreciated the civilisation of the Achaemenid Persians. Other factors, most notably the Roman Empire and it successors the Byzantine and Holy Roman Empires contributed to uniting Europeans as a single entity. The partitioning of the world in this sense started after the growth of Christianity really, and properly after the rise of Islam. In all fairness the "West" is really synonymous with the European Christian world, which happens to lie mainly in the west of the Old World. The "East" refers to the non-Christian, predominantly Muslim, Hindu, and Chinese/Oriental regions. Africa usually isn't included in this, due to the lesser role the continent played in world religion and politics for the most part, and never really posed a threat to European religion or culture (unlike e.g. the Arabs or Turks). During the Middle Ages, the fierce wars between Christian European nations and the "East" in the form of religious Crusades in the Levant, and notably the Mongol invasions of much of Eurasia except Central and Western Europe only increased the view of Westerners and Easterners mutually as strange foreigners, and often enemies. In essence, a combination of religion, conquest (imperial rule), culture, and ethnicity led to increasing separatism between the "West" and the "East". It has however interesting to note that these factors unified European/Western nations rather more than they did the Asian nations, arguably for obvious geographic and historical reasons. Now, historically the majority of Christians were based in Europe and specifically controlled by Rome (the Catholic church) -- very much towards the West of the Old World when considered as a whole. The colonisation and Christianisation of the Americas by the Spanish, Portuguese, French, and English, only helped solidify this geographic barrier. Sure, Australia/New Zealand sort of broke it, but they're still considered "Western" nations because of their religious and cultural heritage. Hence, the term is largely cultural and socio-political these days, rather than geographic. 

Less known fact is that Hitler considered slavic people as simply non-aryans, non-aryan category didn't automatically mean that the race should be exterminated, just take a note, they set up alliance with Japan too, and Hitler gave many Japanese citizens the "honorary aryan" status. The fact they aren't aryans was used to justify invasion of the territory of Poland, Russia and the area between them. Many TV shows and movies interpreting this as hatred against slavs but in reality he wanted to expand Germany to east and take their land. Read the following wikipedia link on relation how they treated people who fit in category as "non-aryans". This fits to hungarians, slovaks and croatians too, not sure about romanians. 

The declaration says the king of Ur, Sumer and Akkad is de-facto word of Utu, the Sumerian Sun God, therefore it passes as a regulation of authority of the king. 

I read a couple of short articles about Lenin and Hitler met each other, and there is a picture, a drawing from Emma Lowenstramm - which's by the historians' opinion is most probably authentic - where they played chess in Austria in 1909. Here is a link to the article of the mentioned picture, thanks to neubau. By historical timeline it could be possible since by then Hitler wasn't famous at all, he was in Austria, later after the WW1 he joined to DAP (Workers Party of Germany), by Lenin's side, then he was in exile from Russia because of failed 1905 revolution and he spent some time in Austria and Switzerland as well, and he attended to various communist congresses all around Europe. Ideologically Lenin and Hitler had many common points. They both were socialist, they both were autocratic persons, they were both interested in politics. Were they friends at any level? It seems from the articles I found by simple google search that at least they most probably met a few times.