Jean-Paul Sartre had a very strict view when it came to this. As an existential Philosopher he laid a lot of the ground work when it came to how many view the world. He says "life has no meaning" he thinks that its up to us to make our own. Also its important to look into Kierkegaard to get a better understanding of where Sartre's views on existentialism come from to get a better understanding of his perspective and thus his role in it. Modern Philosophers Before I go talk about modern Philosophers its hard not to remind you to look at how David Hume's teachings of Empiricism influence how philosophers today think. A large portion of philosophers today will link back to Hume's teachings as a reason they think how they do on the topic, like Massimo Piglucci. However in the interest of keeping this answer short I leave you with John Cottingham a modern Philosopher who does a lot of work on the topic. 

According to this very detailed entry in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the crucial passages related apperception is "blindingly difficult". In the Stanford article it is also disputed, that we can equate apperception with self-consciousness. 

When the empirical apperception functions, it allows you to conceptually recognize this or that particular object, as a unified object. You sense a manifold of stuff, but are able to combine what you sense into a object (say a unique, specific cup of coffee). Kant argues that this presupposes the transcendental apperception, that in itself can have no objects, but conditions and apply rules, that allow you to recognize an object as a an object. This entry from G. J. Mattey's Kant Lexicon seems to make a clear differentiation. I highlight parts of it: 

Because things that are not are more numerous and descriptive of being than the things we immediately see. While I am not well read in regards to Greek Idealism it seems that this definition extends the typical of what a form is as the essence of an object. In the idealist sense I understand the form to be a prototype object that every true object of this kind exist in reference to. Leonardo here uses a definition that is modern and mathematical in essence. An important dimension of mathematical work consists of identifying an object under question and abstracting it as much as possible in a way that the mathematical object could describe anything of that type. I.e. 2πr and 2π*r(squared) describe the geometric properties of any circle, not a specific circle, every cirlce. A circle with r = 5 meters we might have in front of us is not the essence of the circle because it is not every circle, but just one. The essence of the circle extends to the non-being circles that every existed and will exist. That is as with the being of humans, animals and trees. More will have existed and will exist than in our present and even more are their possibilities that will never exist but still would be described as human, animal and tree. In this sense the study of topology in mathematics is relevant, but only to a certain extend, because several geometric specific properties are included. Thus we can say that being and nothingness constitutes everything and there is a mathematical intuition for that. 

Consciousness is an illusion To put it simply and to answer your direct question. Consciousness is an illusion onto itself. The illusion is of a very clear picture of a "never ending" story we call life, but in reality Consciousness is fragmented and can and does misinterpret (to put it plainly) Reality. To give a few examples anecdotal examples every time you go to sleep, There is a break in your Consciousness, and every time you hear a noise that isn't there or mistake a word for something else or misinterpret an optical illusion you brain feeds your consciousness a wrong answer that you would swear is true. 

The Italian words could be "L'essere del nulla" or simply "il nulla". The etymology must be the same as of the English word, that is, from the Latin nullus meaning literally (ne) "not" + (ūllus) "any". I do not know an exact Greek tradition that investigated nothingness and influenced Leonardo but I know that his environment could sometimes be described as neo-Platonic. On that trail and according to it the property is described to contain the things which it describes i.e. nothingness contains the things that do not exist. Intuitively we describe things that are (beings) as our sensory perceptions. That is nature, everything we see and feel comes from nature and returns to it. Everything we see is also in the present, thus we know that nature is certainly in the present. We do not see things that are not. But we know things can stop being. By our past experiences we know that things we knew of are not there any more, the present, in which we make this observation and is the future of our past. By deduction we can say that things will change in the future to the point of not being as they have changed with the passing of time. Thus things that are not are found only in time and words because because of time we know that things are not and with words we can refer to them while we cannot directly experience them. 

Well you ask the question: "How does philosophy treat the possibility of the omnipotence making all possible religion basis unable to be determined on their truthfulness?" and the short answer is there isn't a clear answer simply because there is no consensuses on the topic throughout philosophy. That being said When you look at it from an empiricist perspective you have to take a look at the claims that that religion makes and find examples of that in nature. If everything adds up than as far as empiricism is concerned than that religion is True. However most Empiricist including David Hume (who is basically the patron for Empiricism in the Empiricist vs Rationalist debate) employ a certain level of skepticism for every claim you make you have to put effort into disproving to find if it holds up. And to answer your root question it comes down it depends on if the religion made any claims to truth that it hinges on, then yes it can be discussed on the basis of that truth if not than no. Now things do get a little complex when you start entering into the territory of well because the god or gods are all powerful they can change the status of that truth you cant argue that point with the same approach and discussing that quickly becomes fruitless. At that point the discussion has to shift into the discussion of How we determine what is true In witch i would direct you back to the empiricist v.s rationalist argument. 

The main source would be The Critique of Pure Reason, but an accesible book is his Prolegomena which goes straight to the point. Aristotle had stumbled upon the structure of the syllogisms and invented the traditional logic, which alone was in use up until modern times. Kant in turn wasn't arguing against or trying to outperform Aristotelean logic, but was instead arguing against the empiricist view, that experience alone counts on the one hand - and on the other against the metaphysicians, who opposed to the empiricists, held reason in high regard. The former group led by great philosopher David Hume, who was close to willing to abolish fundamental concepts such as causality, was a serious threat to religion, ethic and science as Kant saw it. The latter considered reason as an all to valid source of knowledge - Kant is trying to justify how metaphysics itself can be valid at all and why. Kant wasn't trying to modify the Aristotelian logic itself as mentioned before, but grounded it's source as a active process, where the brain has the ability to schematize what ever goes through it like a stamp, producing judgements. His major insight was that the logic stems from reason itself, also termed the Copernican revolution. Thinking itself involves judging in Kant's regard. Judging is an innate ability, which is why reason and logic are so closely intertwined. To ease it up, a judgement is simply a sentence like "This is a horse". Let's analyze this sentence, which surely involves some forms of judging. "This" is something particular, "is" refers to existence, and "a horse" refers to one or more of the pool of horses. Simply gazing out, dozing off or experiencing without giving thougths to it, does is contrast not necessarily rely on judging things. The oneness or particularity of the horse may or may not exist in reality, it could be a fatamorgana or not, but the distinct logical concepts themselves is no longer up for questioning in the way the empiricists had done. Kant limited and narrowed the scope of reason and in turn the nature of metaphysics. 

I will ask you another question in turn: should chess players think before they play a move? Another approach is that you might have had a change in your belief system or trust in something. You might need some time to reconsider in general and as every case comes to you again you will have to see it under this new light and find again what is a meaningful stance for you. Everyone should follow his inclinations I believe, that is the way to offer the most they can. Some people by philosophizing are the thought of the others, helping them coordinate while they run and move. How much you need to change by thinking or how much you need to act to change only you know. Nietzsche said 'We are a cold river for the warm hands of those who act.', or something like that.