A lot will depend upon your relationship with the boss and the size of the company and its HR department. It may be helpful to tell those with whom you have a lot of interaction (including your boss) that you are going to be changing some medications and that you don't expect any problems, but there's a possibility of adverse reactions that might require using a different treatment. Don't go into specifics about what is being changed; there's no particular reason your boss or coworkers should need to know or care. What is important is that they understand that if they notice adverse changes in your mood or other such problems and they let you know, you will be able to pass that information along to your doctor so he can try something else. If stopping the medication does adversely affect your work performance, you will need to talk to your doctor to figure out how to address the problem, but that would be a medical issue more than a workplace one. 

Many companies need to maintain programs that may have been written in absolutely dreadful fashion. They may consequently need someone with the ability to maintain one or more of those particular programs. While some people are better than others at reading programs in general, certain programmers may also "click" with certain programs. Given two prospective programmers, one of who was absolutely brilliant but was totally stymied by the particular piece of code a company had to maintain, and one of whom wasn't generally as skilled but, for whatever reason, was able to look at the code and instinctively understand what was going on, the latter candidate may be a much better fit for the company's needs. There would be no way a company could find that out, however, without seeing how the candidate would fare given the actual code in question. That having been said, I would suggest that there should be a very clear agreement that the company will not make any production use of code written by the candidate unless the candidate gets paid for having written it. For that reason, it would likely be best if the company asks the candidate to do something that has already been done satisfactorily by someone else, and tell the candidate that. If the goal is to find a candidate with a unique ability to understand a particular piece of arcane code, make it clear that the candidate should focus on showing an understanding of the existing code, rather than showing how new code should be written. 

Despite whatever happened with 'Sally', the OP should not be expected to lie to a coworker (even a slight lie as 'tell her you're busy') at the instruction from a manager. This does not address disciplinary action that should / should not be implemented against Sally due to her own actions. It's entirely plausible that she was totally at fault and should be fired, suspended, demoted, or whatever for violating company policy/protocol; hard to tell from where I'm sitting. Regardless, I don't believe the reaction from management was appropriate. end of edit 

There's no 'standard' format, as warnings can be of different severity from company to company, and depending on the report's content. I've seen companies put a disclaimer at the footer of all emails (auto-generated and otherwise) stating that there could be legal repercussions for distributing to anyone outside the company. I've also, myself, added a CYA of the sort you're using on things I've done. Assess the reason that you feel you need the warning, and that should guide you to the appropriate wording. A potential pitfall: Managers/executives may not like this, if you haven't discussed it with them. You may find yourself being asked why you don't have faith in the reports you've created, or asked to nail down a specific accuracy %. 

Again, what good can come from this? Maybe it's a good play politically for the manager, but it's not something that a good manager would do. My opinion, obviously. 

I wouldn't stand; it probably would seem intimidating, or at least odd. I've been that manager stopping by and would not expect someone to stand. Definitely offering them a chair if they're sticking around is a good thing to do. One other thing I feel I should point out, since you mention a 'beginner' and 'entry level job': make sure to give your boss (or anyone, really) your full attention if they stop by. This is a no brainer for some people but I've known plenty of others who will continue to work, look at their phone, or whatever during a conversation (and I catch myself doing it now and then). When someone stops by, push your chair away from your desk and turn to face them. Focus on the conversation until it's concluded. 

I had a similar problem as well. In my case, the other employee's reason for opening the blinds was to get a bit more light in their corner, where light was somewhat insufficient. The solution for me was simple: I would close the blind as far as necessary to make me able to see the screen, but it was still open enough let some light through. The next step was obvious: go to management and ask for better lighting. The main point in this issue is understanding. They need to understand why you close the blind, but ideally, you should know why they open it, too. Presumably, they don't simply open it to spite you, though I suppose that's possible. Once you understand each others' motivations, you can work out a solution, and if necessary, request better lighting from management or even (very much dependent on work situation) switch work stations. 

Suggest he take off his shoes. @DavidSchwartz's answer is excellent. If, however, he does not want to invest in anything, and your workplace is comfortable with this, he could simply take off his shoes. Very likely, he's building up static because either his chair or his shoes are not grounding as necessary to keep from building up static. I know it can sound very unprofessional in some domains - and it is - so I don't suggest it unless your workplace is very relaxed and is absolutely fine with him doing just that. For instance, if there are high profile clients going in and out of your office all the time, don't do it. But if you're a kind of back-end tech company who basically sits in a back room all day, this could be an option.