When did President Franklin Roosevelt announce he was running again for a 3rd term? And was there any shock or outrage at this? I noticed the Vice President, John Garner, actually ran against FDR in the primary. That's what led to Henry Wallace on the ticket. I also noticed that the Republican candidate, Wendell Willkie, did make some criticism of the 3rd term but it didn't seem that strong. There appears to be a lack of serious or strong criticism and I'm trying to understand why. It appears people trusted FDR for a war, and yet America was supposedly very isolationist, so I am having trouble why most Americans would vote for FDR when he appears, to me, very vulnerable to these criticism. Edit: Another way of saying this: Most of the country was isolationist. Therefore, if the war in Europe is heating up, why tolerate a hawk for a 3rd term? 

That wiki paragraph actually has citations. The reason I bring it up here is because the snorkel is often attributed to the Dutch, because they apparently had two submarines using them in 1940, which were captured by the Germans. For example, you read this article on u-boat.net and it makes it sound like the Germans first discovered the snorkel concept in 1940 from the Dutch. For all I know, that may be true, but it can only be true if the Germans were unaware of the British patent from 1916. I think this is a prime example of how the history of these things can be tricky. I wouldn't be surprised if something similar was going on here with the acoustic torpedo. 

Sadly, the smallest producers are all agglomerated into "Other States", but you can see their total is so tiny, it's hard to imagine they could matter in the war. More sadly, the website does not let you download it as a PDF unless you have some university login. So I had to use the built-in viewer, but that's better than total paywalling. I took the liberty of tabulating the 1940 entries myself and arranging them by rough geographic area. I also converted from Millions of Barrels per year to Millions of Metric Tons per year, using the density figure of 870 kg/cubic meter. 

I've read the obvious wiki article (which is rather small), but did not really find an answer. At the end of the article, it says: 

This comes from a related question. It seems Germany never conceived of the possibility that Russia might migrate its heavy industry to safe locations beyond the Urals. So now I want to know if Soviet officials always had this plan, or if it was suddenly thought up at the last moment. When was the migration plan first mentioned? What is the earliest written record? Did Stalin or Voroshilov always have this backup plan ever since 1933? (the year Hitler came to power.) Or, did no one ever think of it until suddenly Barbarossa was launched? That would be pretty tough to believe IMO, but if there's no mentioning of it by anyone until June 1941, I guess we would have no choice but to believe it. 

Just a cautionary endnote: Submarine tech history, even the "new stuff" of WW2, can often be traced back to WW1. Classic example is the Snorkel: 

The first entry appears to be a birth date because I see the number "1946". There is a printed number, "I-T3 No. 681711". However, a 6-digit number can have at most 10^6 = 1 million unique entries. The USSR around the time of the war had 170 million people, and around 1990, around 290 million people. So a 6-digit number is nowhere near enough to hold that many unique ID numbers. You would need a minimum of a 9-digit number. This makes me think the internal passports were not issued to everyone, only certain people of whom there could only be a million or less. But then, the "I-T3" could be part of it? (Edit: It's actually I-TЭ, where Э is the 30th letter in the Russian Alphabet. TЭ is a district code. The I is a roman numeral but as of yet I don't know what it really means.) Is there some ID document given to everyone, that gives you a unique ID number? I looked at birth certificates too but came up emtpy. 

I've been reading about it's history during the colonial era. Apparently the Native Americans mined copper from this area because there were great copper deposits near the surface. I'd like to know if any Native Americans spent the winter there, and if so, about how many? What tribes did so? Just Ojibwe, or others? Were there perhaps even permanent settlements where they grew corn or other stuff? The year I'm interested in is around 1750. If it matters, the exact area I'm interested in is the southern half of the peninsula---both coastlines and the inland area. (I have many similar questions for this time period about Native American history in many areas in North America. If anyone knows some good books about that, don't hesitate to recommend them.) 

Those are literally the last 2 sentences of the article. It also mentioned negotiations with Vichy France, which might lead me to believe that the region was simply transferred to Japanese control without any fighting. That's rather unbelievable IMO, and the article neither says that explicitly nor makes a single inline citation of a source. How did Japan conquer this region? Obviously I'm interested in what Japan did successfully that France, America, and China apparently did not do in the Vietnam War (Parts 1, 2, and 3). 

The Peninsular War saw France intervene on the Iberian Peninsula, first against Portugal, then against Spain. It lasted roughly from 1808 - 1814. I would like to know what material Britain gave to Spain and Portugal during this time. Muskets, powder, cannons, food? What trade price did they ask, or was it given freely? Did Britain give it to the regular armies, or also the guerrillas? Edit: I'm aware the Portuguese leadership fled and the only proper army in Iberia was British. But there was guerrilla fighting all over Iberia (Portugal and Spain). Surely the guerrillas must have asked the British for arms/food? If the British really didn't give anything to them, then the answer would be "no", preferably with a source. 

Bamboo-copter was a toy in China, dated to 400 BC. A Rotary Fan also existed in China around 180 AD. I'm interested in both of those things, as they work on the exact same principle. Do we have any archaelogical finds of them? Absent that, are there any detailed drawings of them dating from those periods? I can find tons of pictures of these things online, but they all look like modern versions. I want to see original versions, because it's very critical to see the blade shape. In particular, I want to know if the blades were plain rectangles, or had some curves in them, especially washout twist like you see in modern propellers.