Given a postfix expression, construct an expression tree. Looking code code review, optimizations and best practices. 

Perform a graph clone. Verifying complexity to be O(E). Looking for code review, optimizations and best practices. 

Given a singly linked list, swap kth node from beginning with kth node from end. Swapping of data is not allowed, only pointers should be changed. 

Left view of a Binary Tree is set of nodes visible when tree is visited from left side. Left view of following tree is 12, 10, 25. 

Convert a sorted linkedlist into a balanced binary search tree. Looking for code-review, optimizations, and best practices. 

The stock span problem is a financial problem where we have a series of n daily price quotes for a stock and we need to calculate span of stock’s price for all n days. The span Si of the stock’s price on a given day i is defined as the maximum number of consecutive days just before the given day, for which the price of the stock on the current day is less than or equal to its price on the given day. For example, if an array of 7 days prices is given as {100, 80, 60, 70, 60, 75, 85}, then the span values for corresponding 7 days are {1, 1, 1, 2, 1, 4, 6} Looking for code review, optimization, and best practices. 

When you have code that repeats itself like that, you want to try and separate the logic from the values. Something like this would work, and you just have to add more to the settings object when needed. It's not jQuery that's badly written, you just have to change the way you're using it. $URL$ 

The way you have your function set up, you're appending and changing the DOM each time that loop goes around, and it goes around for every image. That's not good because DOM manipulations are quite expensive performance wise. So if you have 100 images, you're append one at a time - 100 times. The better way to do that would be do all your stuff and save to a variable, string, or object, then append once outside the loop. Here's an example of what I mean: 

Now, what I would suggest you do instead is create a div outside of your main stack to handle this. Imagine an absolutely positioned div behind most of the page, and you only bind the event once. 

- Save a function calls: If you read the jQuery source code you'll see that shortcut methods like , , and etc. all reference the method. All they do is basically call the method with some parameters. Well why not just go straight to the meat and potatoes? Check this out: 

There are n balls kept on a table and connected by same singe connected string (which can be cyclic or maynot). Write the code to select a ball such that after lifting the whole structure from that ball height will be minimum. (algo+code+ mathematical proof of correctness) Note, I do understand merits of unit testing in separate files. But deliberately added it to main method for personal convenience, so request you don’t consider that in your feedback. Looking for request code review, optimizations and best practices and complexity verification. 

The question is attributed to GeeksForGeeks. Since the code dictates not additional data structure, I am forced to extract out TreeNode class outside, rather than keeping it as an internal data structure. Looking for code-review, best practices and optimizations. 

Check if all leaves are at same level. This question is attributed to geek for geeks. Looking for code-review, optimization and best practices. 

Given the binary Tree and the two nodes say ‘a’ and ‘b’, determine whether the two nodes are cousins of each other or not. Two nodes are cousins of each other if they are at same level and have different parents. Looking for code review, optimizations and best practices. 

Here are some quite general pointers on your code. If you put up a fiddle with everything working, I might be able to play around and re-write this for you. But anyways, I've included my comments directly into the code to provide some context: 

I'm currently learning JAVA in a class and we're using the ACM Graphics package. I wanted some pointers on my code. To provide some context here is the assignment: 

You're on the right track by setting up the options variable. This concept will be vital when you start to develop plugins, if that's what you want to do. - IIFE's: If you have your code in the footer (which you should be doing) what you'll want to do is wrap it in a IIFE. "What the hell is that?" you may ask. A basic syntax looks like this: 

When in doubt about which element to use, always refer to the spec. It will tell you exactly where and when it is appropriate to each element(s). For a section here's is what the MDN spec has to say: 

- You can use $ in Wordpress: If you have your code in the footer (which you should be doing) what you'll want to do is wrap it in a IIFE. "What the hell is that?" you may ask. A basic syntax looks like this: 

Finer details such as tie-breakers, rules of input params etc, are well documented. Looking for code review, optimization and best practices. 

A BST has two nodes swapped. Figure out which two nodes. Looking for code-review, optimizations and best practices. 

Solution to bounded knapsack 01 problem. Once again comprehensive description is difficult in this space, refer here. Looking for code review. optimizations and best practices. 

This program connects all nodes of the binary tree at the same level. A node of a tree contains a left, right and a sibling pointer which would connect it to the next node at the same level. This connection is from left to to right. Example: consider a binary tree with parent as node A and left and right child as node B and C. then this program joins B.sibling to C. If the immediate sibling is null, then it is skipped. More details if needed can be found here. I'm looking for code review, best practices, optimizations etc. 

This question is attributed to geeksforgeeks. Looking for code review, optimizations, best practices. Please ignore reviews which include improvements to class / variable names. They are named so for personal reasons and well aware they need to be better. 

A couple of pointers not in any particular order: If you use a single main object with methods it'll be easier to follow along later and add functionality etc. A pattern you can use is the observer pattern for setting up and triggering your events. Also if you use a single main object you can refer to the methods with or to config options like . Another thing is when you initialize your variables, you don't have to set them to false. If you do it will be set to a falsy value so all you have to do later is set to , or to test for if false use . On the other hand if you want to test for just test for like you have been doing. That way you can set any value to and the test will be ok. 

So lets break this down. The in the front is a safety net against unclosed scripts, which can be common if you use plugins in Wordpress, or if you concat and minify your files it will protect you from your function becoming an argument. Then we pass in , , and . We pass in and at the bottom assign it to jQuery. So now in this function, no matter what value the carried outside, in here it's jQuery. Then we pass in and . These are optional in your case, but a good idea since you do use references to in your code. It saves as a local variable, and also will be good when you minify your code as the reference can be changed to something like or automatically. Now keep in mind there might be times where you have to put your script in the header. Modernizr is an example of this. Then you'll probably end up using the . Don't sweat because all you have to do is this: 

Implemented iterator for a binary tree and "pre" "in" and "post" order flavors. I'm looking for code review, best practices, optimizations etc. 

Why I don't extend or reuse: I am prepping for interviews, and interviewers explicitly want you to code, in my experience. I request the reviewer to not insist on reusing, as I am aware in real life reusability is the right approach. This does not work in interviews. Why don't I use a class instead nesting method inside linked list? That is because I need the to be an internal data structure. Had I made a class, it would have no access to internal data structure and perform operations on the node's pointers. 

Given a linked list of 0s, 1s and 2s, sort it. Looking for code review, optimizations and best practices 

Looking for code review optimizations and best practices. Complexity - both time and space is O(n*m) 

Given a binary tree, return the next right node. This question is attributed to GeeksForGeeks. For example, consider the following Binary Tree. Output for 2 is 6, output for 4 is 5. Output for 10, 6 and 5 is NULL. 

Design a Data Structure SpecialStack that supports all the stack operations like push(), pop(), isEmpty(), isFull() and an additional operation getMin() which should return minimum element from the SpecialStack. All these operations of SpecialStack must be O(1). To implement SpecialStack, you should only use standard Stack data structure and no other data structure like arrays, list, .. etc. Looking for code review, optimizations, best practices. 

I'm going to go through a few main points here about your code and at the bottom I'll have a "what I would change" section with inline comments. Do not be overwhelmed by the size of this book, I prefer to be on the side of too much information than too little. - Cache your selectors: Probably the most important thing you can do for your code now. As a rule of thumb, if you use a selection more than once, you should cache it. What happens when you use is jQuery queries the DOM to try and find elements that match. So imagine that every time you do that it runs a search. Would it be better if you could save the search results? This way you can look and play with them whenever you want. Ex.: 

When you have multiple 'animate' calls, jQuery puts them in a queue to execute them one by one. This goes for the rest of your slider as well. Save function calls. Do it like this: 

UPDATE: If you really want to bind a click event to everything except , you can do it (jQuery 1.4 friendly) like this: 

Given a Binary Tree, find the deepest leaf node that is left child of its parent. This question is attributed to GeeksForGeeks. Looking for code-review, optimizations and best practices. 

This code is attributed to geeksforgeeks. I'm looking for code-review, optimizations and best practices. 

This code detects cycle in acyclic graph. The assumption of this approach is that there are no parallel edges between any two vertices. Looking for code review, best practices and optimizations. Also verify the complexity is O(E) and not O(V+E). 

Example: If a linkedlist list contains 10->20->30->40, and 2nd node has to be deleted then the output should be 10->30->40 This question is attributed to Geeksforgeeks. Looking for code-review, optimizations and best-practices. 

Find ceiling and floor in the BinarySearchTree. Looking for code-review, optmizations and best practices. 

Given a set T of characters and a string S, find the minimum window in S which will contain all the characters in T in complexity O(n). eg, S = “ADOBECODEBANC” T = “ABC” Minimum window size is 4 - “BANC”. 

Looking for code review, optimizations and best practices. Also verifying space complexity is O(n) and not O(logn) where n is number of nodes in tree.