I gave an answer to your other question, and it's my considered opinion that electrical control of the brain is insufficient to control an individual. So the question is somewhat moot - controlling the electrical impulses of the brain will not result in mind control, so disrupting that control will not solve anything because there was no problem. That being said... A qualified Yes Assuming that you handwave the way the brain works to make it purely electrical, disrupting the electrical functioning of the brain is something we've done lots of. Essentially, by delivering an electric shock to the brain, you induce an artificial seizure. Muscles spasm, and neurons fire in an uncontrolled cascade that generally results in both a loss of coherent thought and of consciousness. I cannot imagine any control method withstanding that. Downsides: 

No The activity of the brain is not purely electrical, it is chemical as well. This doesn't just mean that neurochemicals moderate the speed or ability of neurons to produce electrical signals - a given neuron will produce chemicals/electrical impulses based on the electrical and chemical signals of adjacent neurons. Both aspects are crucial, so it's easy to disrupt neural activity with the application of electricity (this is part of why tasers work and is definitely what electroshock therapy is meant to do). Control, on the other hand, would require manipulating both. As has been pointed out in the comments, you could theoretically control the person like a puppet by direct electrical stimulation of their muscles, but you wouldn't be hijacking their brain, you'd be ASSUMING DIRECT CONTROL. Not only would this not be subject to any sort of brain "reset" to free you from its influence, assuming someone could do it to you, it would be extremely difficult to manage without some sort of technological intermediary (a computer serving as your body's brain, so to speak), since direct manipulation would require that the controller use your muscles as well as their own. This would (obviously) get even more difficult with more people being controlled. 

What if we allow arachnids to the mix? Here, things can get even more interesting, as you can introduce... 

A popular one in a lot of military sci-fi: The Discovery of a Hostile Alien Race I don't necessarily know how realistic it is (we're a fractious bunch) but generally in science fiction (and some fantasy works), the thing that unites us all is someone else threatening us. If nothing else, it makes diplomacy more expedient. Small nations threatening to ignite regional conflicts would likely have their bluffs called by superpowers as part of the knitting-together of global military forces to oppose the enemy. Any nation not doing its part doesn't get its interstellar convoys protected by the United Earth fleet. And a variety of other carrots and sticks. On a more philosophical level, some authors offer the concept that because mankind is a fractious bunch, we need someone to fight. Lacking an external target, we fight each other. Given an external target, we get to fight that instead! Alternately, how about... Global Catastrope This one's popular too - something happens that threatens the entire Earth. Maybe it's a zombie outbreak, maybe it's an incoming meteor, maybe someone blew up the moon - the Earth is threatened, but not by aliens. The whole world's resources are needed to fight the threat, and so the foundation for a world government is forged out of necessity. When it successfully saves the planet, momentum keeps it around. Alternately, the bad thing can already have happened. Major nuclear war, plague outbreak, warring genetic supermen - cities lie in ruins, and only one major world power emerges in any sort of good condition. Hegemony, in the name of rebuilding the planet, quickly follows. This is generally not a utopian one-world-government, but a world under a dictator is still a one-world government. Some time after its founding, a genuinely benevolent dictator sets the stage for a transition to elected officials replacing the hereditary positions established by his predecessors. 

So is it possible? Possibly, even probably, if someone were determined enough. But it would be so wildly outperformed by a conventional sailplan, it wouldn't ever be worth it. In answer to the title of your question, it definitely would not be viable. 

Cost, as suggested, is definitely a means of preventing the use of metal armour, but if you absolutely, positively have to have a region or culture not do something that would otherwise make sense, you can't beat... Religion Assuming that it's not set in our own world, have the local religion forbid encasing the body in metal, which cuts the soul (inside the body) off from the deity/deities/nature (outside the body). Anyone disobeying the taboo faces social or political (depending on the standing of the church) censure. Et voila, you can have the kingdom export iron ore but not wear a scrap of metal armour. 

The short answer: There is no way for diamonds to form naturally in cheese. The longer answer: Diamonds, in particular, are right out because of the processes required to form them. Carbon needs to be under incredible pressure and temperatures (usually in conjunction with time) to become diamond - even vapor deposition methods require high temperature and pressures. Organic crystallization - particularly that of something like honey or salt - is potentially doable, but wouldn't result in anything that looked particularly precious - and crystallization doesn't match well with the process of cheesemaking. The presence or absence of a catalyst is immaterial - the pressing and aging process doesn't generally allow enough solvent to allow for deposition. The best mechanism I can think of for having crystal-studded cheese is to have some sort of microscopic organism native only to this planet that likes to eat cheese and excretes carbon (or your substrate of choice) in a crystalline structure. Then the aging process could be in caves where these organisms live, and they chew their way partially through the cheese and leave diamonds in their wake. I can't think of a solid biological justification for these creatures to behave in this manner, but it's a big universe. Edit: I should add that these microscopic organisms would still have to, internally, create the pressures and temperatures required to create diamond, as there is no chemical way around this necessity of the diamond formation process. This would be incredibly energy-intensive (obviously) and is therefore difficult to justify, but could be handwaved as something natural but unexplainable, a la The Force. 

You might draw inspiration from some existing post-scarcity worlds. Most notably, Ian M. Banks' The Culture has AI so sophisticated and technology so all-encompassing that no one wants for anything. The motivation seems an easier question to answer, though - experiences are still of value. There could even be (and has been, in works by people like John Varley) a marketplace for recorded unusual experiences: skydiving in a gas giant, running the rapids in a world comprised entirely of massive rivers, unusual sexual experiences, etc. But even if recorded memories are available, you'll have people insisting that it's not like the real thing, and going out to do it themselves. Addressing specifically "inventing things", it's likely that even with sophisticated AI, you'd have something similar to what the big mobile app houses have now: a person comes up with an idea for an app/device/whatever, explains it in detail to their home fabber AI, and it handles the actual implementation. Everyone becomes an inventor, and the most popular fabrication schemes gain reputation for their creator (since in a post-scarcity society, money wouldn't have any real meaning). 

Potential major avenues of improvement from having the effectively-simultaneous computation abilities of a useful quantum computer: Bioscience So there's this nifty project called Folding@Home. It allows people to donate their processing time to working their way through protein folding conformations. The reason that this works is because the process is susceptible to massive parallelism. Every "volunteer" computer is working down another "path" of protein folding that results in a different eventual conformation. Those conformations, if they are calculated to be viable, can then be used in the development of pharmacological cures for protein-related diseases (and cancer), or targeted genetic therapy. So it's worth donating a few trillion cycles (and the commensurate electricity) to something other than Bitcoin mining. But the crucial bit here is that that same parallelism makes it an excellent project for a quantum computer. With a wide enough bitspace (or qbitspace, I suppose), all possible conformations of the protein could be processed simultaneously. Having that number of qbits is probably impractical for the immediate future, but it would still massively reduce the time required to explore a given proteins' conformations. Similarly, protein synthesis from DNA fragments, DNA mapping - a lot of molecular biology and bioscience could make huge leaps forward with the advantages a practical quantum computer could give them. Physics Same deal. Lots of physics, particularly particle physics, depends on probabilistic computation. A huge number of potential outcomes that need to be explored. With a quantum computer, you get parallelization without the drawbacks (communication speed, quantum chip effects, bus width, etc.). All (or many) avenues can be explored at once. 

No, Assuming Science-Based as a Prerequisite There are a few iffy assumptions here if you're going with the science-based tag. They kind of leave the "bases" uncovered. 

All of this assumes, as I said, that we're using carbon-based, earth-like life. It's possible that something resembling life but using processes entirely different from what we're familiar with could address some of these issues. Some of the height issues could be addressed by the creature living on a very low-gravity planet. But assuming you want this thing to be able to tap-dance through Tokyo, it's straight-up impossible. There is no conceivable evolutionary path. 

So, this is a trope common to any number of science fiction worlds: humanity emerges from its solar system to discover that there are a bunch of alien races out there, but, importantly, at least the major players are all within decades of each other when it comes to technological advancement. Star Trek is perhaps the most egregious example of this, but lots of other continuities have the same basic structure: humanity (or another race) may have primitive warp drives/proton torpedoes/sun harvesters, but not so much that any fight is a foregone conclusion, if and when it comes to a fight. This is generally handwaved, if it is addressed at all. Given the rapid pace of advancement of technology (particularly weapons technology), any more than an effective century of disparity would seem likely to produce the kind of imbalance that would make conflicts entirely one-sided. Over the course of an intelligent species' evolution, a century seems like an awfully narrow window. So: What would a reasonable mechanism be by which this result could be accomplished? Assumptions: FTL transport is possible and cost-effective to transport actual beings over interstellar distances (soft sci-fi), life is relatively common (one in a hundred stars has a planet with a biosphere), limited deus ex machina (ideally would prefer to avoid "God did it"). 

So there have been a number of questions asked in comments, and I'll try to sum up the answer to the OP with those in mind. What would the effect be on the orbit and forces? I'm not sure what you mean by "forces" - if you mean the force of gravity, it would obviously be reduced in proportion to the mass removed. The effect on the orbit around the sun would be dependent on how this mass was being removed. Ordinarily, when you're moving stuff off Earth, you have to propel it in one direction or another. If you're doing that to a substantial fraction of the Earth's mass, you've got effectively a giant rocket engine, so the direction in which it is being propelled matters. If it's being ejected in the direction of Earth's orbit, then Earth will fall towards the sun. If it's being ejected orthogonal to the orbit, or parallel to the orbit, the Earth will move away from the sun. If it's effectively being shot off in random directions, there will be no change in the orbit due to propulsion. While technically this reduction of mass will change the orbit of the earth relative to the sun and moon in a small way, Kepler's third law indicates that the orbits will still remain effectively constant. How long would this have to occur to show significant signs of its effects in the weather and what are these possible signs? Depends on what's being removed. If you're reducing the mass of the earth by removing its atmosphere, I imagine the effects would be rather quick to start showing up. It would be an absence of weather, though, rather than any weather extremes, and weather would not be the problem. If you're just removing, say, all the iron, the effect would also be the gradual acceleration of the loss of the atmosphere to space, and reduced weather effects. This would likely take hundreds of thousands or millions of years, even if all the iron were (safely) removed at once; atmosphere loss is a gradual process, just ask Mars. How great an effect would this have on Earth's axial inclination? If the mass is being removed in a fashion that doesn't act as propulsion, zero. If the mass is being removed in a fashion that does act as propulsion, it depends on which angle it is being removed at, how much mass is being removed, how fast it is removed, etc. Would this move Earth towards the moon, or pull it closer? Or drift into the Sun? Answered above - it would not, unless the mass were being used (deliberately or inadvertently) as propulsion. So, to sum up, you could chip away at Earth for millennia, even steal the core entirely, and it wouldn't have much effect on where the Earth lives in the solar system. It would probably have other potentially catastrophic effects, but that's outside the scope of the question.