Perhaps it pretty much like with anything that is repressed: It comes back up. For a while, the effort helped humanity to suppress it's violent tendencies, but those tendencies started to pile up in this artificial collective consciousness, slowly 'poisoning' it. After a certain threshold was reached, this started to damage pretty much everyone's mind, transforming a huge percentage of the human population into violent monsters (psychologically) with only a few people being able to more or less resist those violent tendencies. (Ok, sounds like a variations of the Crossed Comics now ;-)). 

As for the advantage... No. If the other you is just you, then you gain nothing by talking to him. No different point of view means that he cannot look at a problem from a slightly different angle, so, for example, he cannot point out any flaws in your reasoning that you wouldn't notice yourself. To "profit" from a discussion with another person, that person needs to bring something new into the discussion, otherwise you are just re-iterating what you already know and believe - which will only harden your beliefs, but this is not a good thing. That's the dreaded "filter bubble", people only hear what they already believe and thus they learn nothing new and have no chance of actually developing in another way. Having someone to talk to might be nice for some, but if that person is also just you, it might become pretty boring very fast. You are then sharing a room with a person that has nothing interesting to say, since you already know EVERYTHING that person can and will say. We could argue that running the same program twice might actually be an advantage, but only if there are enough free resources. For example, if one personality would only use 50% of the brain, then running two might allow you to think in two directions at one, utilizing the full capacity of the brain. But if the brain is used to capacity with one personality, adding a second will only slow down both and you will end up thinking twice as many thoughts - but needing twice as long (at least). (Of course, that's just a very primitive view - but I doubt that the brain has very much free capacity for that, evolution is not that wasteful to create a energy-hungry thing like the brain and then not use it). 

The answers depends a lot on "what kind of vampire". We could make, for example, one distinction here: a) The, let's call it, "pseudo-realistic vampire", with some (pseudo-)biological reasoning for the whole vampire mess (a virus, whatever). Such a vampire would have a (pseudo-)biological reason for needing blood - and a synthetic blood could be good enough for them. Of course, such a vampire could need blood for purely psychological reasons, in which case it depends on those reasons if synthetic blood is good enough. b) The "mystical" vampire that draws from the "life essence" of a person with blood only being the carrier or even just a symbol for that. Such a vampire would probably not gain much from synthetic blood, since it has no connection to an actual living being. But of course, there are many more possible variants of vampire and depending on your choice of vampire "style" the answer varies. Some might live from synthetic blood and even prefer it (how many people would want to suck milk from a living cow if the can have it delivered to their doorstep in a clean bottle?), for others synthetic blood is just something that looks like blood but doesn't actually nourish them. 

(Note: I'm assuming you mean a decrease in percentage points [ie 70% -> 60% -> 50%] and not an actual percentage decrease [70% -> 63% -> 56.7%].) I think that while there would be differences, it would ultimately end up pretty similar to today's society. Differences: The leaders of SpartaNova would probably be a bit more cautious about declaring war. It's the simple effect of knowing that your child could be on the front lines -- but we'll get more in depth on that later. Wars would probably be carefully scoped out, planned to be combat-light and occupation-heavy (statistically you're more likely to die during combat than during occupation, so in the name of "keeping the children safe"....). Military service is the economically smart option. Due to the growing class differences (more on that in a bit), there may be resentment toward the military families. Similarities: Gonna start with some assumptions here. 1: People like money and people like power. 2: Those who have one, the other, or both, want to keep it. 3: Parents don't want their children to die if possible. 4: In addition to only getting full voting rights through military service, you can only fully run for office with military service. Suppose there are two sets of people, those who have served and those who haven't. Over the course of a few decades, those who have served will end up significantly more wealthy than those who haven't (the simple effect of a 20+% reduction in taxes compounded over the years). Also, the power base will be veterans -- even if Assumption 4 is incorrect, veterans will be more likely to vote for other veterans, because of the brotherhood and all that. So we end up with one group that is both wealthy and powerful. By Assumption 2, they want to stay that way. How do they do that, especially when it's easy for someone to move into that group (all they have to do is serve for a few years and save money)? Well, they have to find a way to make sure their kids can stay rich and powerful. That little bonus to specific roles in the military is suddenly a big deal. If they can rig things so that their kids are getting the "good" jobs, while the common riff-raff get the "bad" jobs, that will help them even more. So we could set things up so that the wealthy families can afford specialized schools that include a focus on, for instance, military intelligence or aviation, making them more likely to get the specialized positions which lead to a better economic future for them. Alternatively, something like ROTC would be a huge draw for the wealthy families -- anything to get little Bobby a chance to get as high of a position as possible to keep him out of the line of fire. Sure, there's more risk involved in SpecOps or the Bomb Squad, but the bonus tax reduction can save a hell of a lot over a lifetime. And realistically, if they're already rich and powerful, they can probably swing it so that Bobby gets put in Intelligence, or on a submarine somewhere. Leave the Bomb Squad for the poor, think of it as a lottery to get elevated to a higher caste. The issue with that is that it's the poorer families who are going to be on the front lines, for the most part. So going back to the earlier issue of declaring war with your kid on the front lines... Maybe not so much. The children of the rich and powerful are at less risk overall, leading to even more of a class divide - the majority of the casualties will be poor people, so enlisting is less likely to give you an advantage than going through . There's also a high possibility of behind-the-scenes networking. "Oh, you're John Smith's kid? We've been buddies ever since Basic, I can definitely find you a place in [a "good job"]." So all in all, it looks pretty similar to today's society, with a few minor differences, namely an even bigger class divide and the possibility of resentment toward the military. 

I agree with the previous answers in that lava coming out of an ordinary volcano could not do this. Unless you took Kilauea and multiplied it by 1000. However, a possibility is to have a lava flood eruption something like Laki in Iceland whereby instead of lava coming out of the top (or vent) of an on-land volcano, you could have a massive, continuous fissure-type eruption in very shallow water. This could be combined with your two flanking volcanoes. As an aside, I suggest you go to Wikipedia to look up "hypercane". A pretty scary cool concept. Hope this helps. 

Difficult to give you a precise answer because you have not provided any information about level of technology. Is this the equivalent of 1 AD, 1000 AD, 1500 Ad, or 2000 AD? Secondly, the number of nations is a function of the population per nation. The higher the population of each nation, the fewer nations you can have given that geographical areas have a limited carrying capacities. The basic starting point is to determine the populations of your nations, kingdoms, etc. Populations are largely a function of geography and climate. Cities require a supporting rural/farming population. A general rule of thumb up until about 1500 AD is that 80% of the population of an agrarian polity/state (i.e., prior to the industrial revolution) would be engaged in agriculture, pastoralism, fishing. So a city of 10,000 people would generally require a supporting hinterland population of 40,000. There are exceptions of course. Classical Rome (the city itself in 1 AD) had a population of about 450,000. But Rome "cheated" in that it shipped in most of its grain from Egypt and North Africa. To determine the number of polities requires that you make some decisions about population densities in this province/region you have created. You mention fiords and mountains and coastal islands. Mountainous and hilly land areas support fewer people than river valleys and lowlands/plains land areas. For example, the population of SW Norway (mountainous and fiord-y) has been much lower than the population of SE England (mostly flat-ish lowlands) for the last 2000 years even though they both have relatively similar climates. Another example: England (not the UK) has a land area of about 50,000 sq miles. In 1100 AD, the estimated population of England was about 2,500,000. That works about to about 50 people per sq mile. In 2015, the pop. of England is 53,000,000 = 1000 people per sq mile due to the magic of technology. In closing, this is my suggestion on how to proceed. 1. pick a land area where you want to have a nation. 2. Determine the sq mi or sq km of that area. 3. Allocate percentages of that area to: farmland, pasture land, forest, wastelands, etc. E.g., 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%. 4. do some historical research on population densities for those sub-areas. 5. crunch the numbers to get a population for that nation/city-state. 6. rinse, repeat. Hope this helps.