Ancient ancestors of Homosapeiens, ala. "Cave-men" had ethical codes based on what anthropologists and archaeologists can tell although they did not have clear written records and it pre-dated religion. From an anthropological perspective, ancient superstitions were known to be gathered up and became the first psuedo religion which had rules to avoid risk if that counts as a religion. So the first pagan religion which is lost to the annuls of history of late stone age is likely the one you are looking for. If you are looking for written records of one that is known by name this may fit your bill: 

Great question. I will preface this with the qualifier that from a political perspective it means many things to many people. At a basic level Classical Liberalism vs. Modern Liberalism is: 

Funny. I would say your are accidentally falling into a trap by using today's modern terminology to try to understand a translation of an idiom from a long time ago. Wikipedia does a good job describing the original intended meaning, saying: 

Basically when you ask: What does purple taste like? ...it is meaningless. More info: It comes down to if you buy into Betrand Russell's theory of descriptions, or similar, which at a high level believes you can learn things about the world by purely examining language. I am an Evidentialist and therefore hold Russell's therory is untrue source. 

This is a sort of a meta question for a paper I am writing defining an ethical system linked to an Epistemology. From the perspective of a formal argument I am trying to ascertain if the paper I am currently writing answers the key questions to be passable for peer review in a journal. After performing a syntopical analysis of the major works, it looks like at the least I need to address the ideas/questions: 

The fact that someone has a resource that someone has a need for is a normal condition of reality since all resources are scarce. This inherent scarcity of all resources is the very basis for Economics, who's very nature is to understand the principles of how resources are used, measure the effectiveness of resource distribution, and construct methods to distribute scarce resources. The bottom line is someone will always want something else someone has, and a method of distributing resources should be used. From a philosophical perspective there is credence that the method of distribution should be a consistent way if it is to be a just method. Alternative Means Nothing in the scenario prevents alternative means of getting that medicine. I would find it very difficult to create such a scenario, hence the strength of the argument for even the hard libertarian position. Here are the obvious objections people would raise: 

That's probably enough for now. Enjoy. PS. you can also have negative amounts of grain as a pile too, but that one is hard to describe. 

No, it is apples and oranges. Evolution in a nutshell is the natural means of the diversification of life. There are sub processes such as natural selection encompassed in it. It is a well established principle in biology. Free will and determinism has nothing to do with Evolution. Traditional definitions of determinism disregards the real-time interactivity with reality we have in the present which is absurd. Traditional definitions of Free will disregard the limitations of reality, i.e. you can't fly unaided through the sun and live. Both definitions are poor. IMHO what is most likely true is that these terms should have narrower definitions and we should concede a compatibilism perspective unless you are a solipsist (which gets everyone no-where). 

Using the ideas mentioned above, in the 18th-19th century people in the US / Europe used them and ancient Greek philosophic ideas as the basis of what people usually refer to as Classic Liberalism. Generally these ideas 

For that scenario I would say it would come down to property rights. Provided it is legitimately his property to begin with no one has a right to take it from him for any reason. If anyone were to take it by force it would be theft, even if they had a badge or special position in the government. Theft is never justified however it would be the case that someone steals it, accepting the full consequences of their actions of theft to possibly save the life of their infant. Considerations Consequences Where government/societal based theft is common the historical precedence of human behavior is: 

Looking at the Nicomachean Ethics the unity of virtues appears to relate directly to the individual based on the repeated phrasing of who's virtue or duty is being described: (Below emphasis is mine) 

I recently read an article which may be a good starting point for a meta answer if you are trying to make a formal argument. 

In logic, if you have a chain of arguments to be evaluated, one only need to read the statements one at a time and determine their value. If any one item in the chain fails the entire chain can be thrown away as an invalid argument. This is the driving force for making concise and easy to understand direct statements instead of long winded arguments. Due to the limitations of human intellect the more complex your argument the more likely it is flawed when it comes to human generated arguments (which is what we actually care about). From a practical perspective, anyone that tends to have a valid argument can usually simplify it into something intelligible for even novice logicians. Any time I see a convoluted series of statements arguing for something red flags go up immediately in my head. Even the most complex arguments tend to fall on simple grounds such as the new versions of the ontological argument for example. This can be done through hard practice, diagrams, etc. but enough practice tends to hone your intuition of what to look for provided you are well acquainted with logical fallacies and cognitive biases (not logic, but helps you spot fallacies). 

It is important to point this out because it is a VERY COMMON thing people do. For instance people do this with historical documents such as the constitution and accidentally (or purposely) twist the meaning and are misled. This underscore the criticality of reading something in context of the time it was written as intended by people of that time, with the context of what was known at that time, with any known biases the author may have had in the back of your head. We have all made this mistake, so it's a good thing to have a chance to learn from it. 

Not to hate on wikipedia but the definition is the result of edit wars. Most people who are Atheists I know are unconvinced by the evidence available. Most theistic traditions followers rely on faith (aka. beliefs vs. evidence). This is not to say evidence does or does not exist but where each groups primary justifications tend to lay. Relating it to science, you can say Atheists they are basing it on the evidence or lack there-of vs. a belief (aka. faith). You could say science to a degree says "show me the evidence". So you can look at it as different people take different approaches and value different types of evidence in various ways. As philosophers, what tends to be more important are principles of how we arrive at the truth. Namely, 

The logical fallacy of, "Begging the Question" is simply using circular reasoning; more specifically the justification of the claim assumes the conclusion. The author of the original piece states there is something wrong about this argument, however points out premise 1 may be flawed for other reasons. An easier to understand example of begging the question would be, When did you stop hitting your wife? Which implies you beat your wife before some time in the past. The example provided are poor examples of begging the question since they are clear examples of circular reasoning. It appears you are looking for more simplified examples and explanations; this resource is along those lines: $URL$ 

As a modern reference, these are the same principles to a large degree as the current ones voiced by the Libertarian party in the US. Neo-Liberalism A historical clarification I originally left out to prevent confusion: In the early 1900's people attempted to institute a middle ground between pure collectivism and individualism which had some aspects of Modern liberalism, such as big government, and some aspects of Classical Liberalism, such as free market economies. From an Economic perspective these are incompatible beliefs and so Neo-Liberalism lost it's original meaning as it quickly evolved into Modern Liberalism some time around the 1930's. Words change over time for various reasons so to understand what is meant by a concept sometimes you have to ask what it meant for a given period of time. since about 1990, Neo-Liberalism is a synonym or slur for Modern Liberalism. Modern Liberalism Modern is the antithesis (or basically the opposite view of) of Classic Liberalism. Many people are inspired by Marx or others, although certainly not all modern liberalism is. It is guided more towards the ideals of the ultimate fairness. Its guiding principles tend to be: 

It is also called the paradox of the heap. In essence you did solve the problem, however it is not a Paradox. The problem is deceptive and lies within the weakness of the language itself. It is a misdirection and NOT a paradox. Here are alternate answers I came up with (and I am sure many others have too):