Of course if "an alien civilization" is behind this then everything will depend on their long-term aims. Update: Some comments pointed out purely mechanical machinery won't be affected by any EMP imaginable. This is, of course, true. OTOH in our world we are heavily (and even more so with every year) relying in electronic controllers to do the work previously done by simple mechanical devices. Whoever thinks we can go back is severely misguided; today's electronic controllers do much more than control machinery, they compensate for imperfection. When controllers were rudimentary (e.g.: spark coils in cars or mechanical teletypes) all mechanics was highest precision because it had to work flawlessly on the given input, nowadays the same things are built in cheap plastic because the "smart controller" can track uneven movement, take it into account and (usually) produce a better result than the previous high precision (and expensive!) counterparts. Trying to run a modern car engine without electronic control is a difficult exercise, very likely to result in a useless pile of busted junk. Even the Army is (at least partially) abiding to this trend and relying more and more on "tactical coverage" impossible to get without electronics (e.g.: some tanks have no windows and rely on cameras to "see" outside). 

One of such "perfect" product is said to be the Springfield Model 52 rifle. Similar "perfection" can be found in (not so) modern fractional distillation towers. It is interesting to note (but this is probably irrelevant here) the original meaning of "perfect" was to indicate an action that is completely in the past, so it is completed and cannot be changed anymore. A "perfect" thing is, by translation, a thing that cannot be changed anymore without making it something different. 

All in all a setback seems unavoidable, but it may be temporary (say, till population is in the range of 100M) or may be a slow decline ending up with some XVI century technology from where to restart. 

There is something essential to be harvested on the surface of the planet. Some plant that blossoms randomly on surface of the planet. The two races don't really want to obliterate each other (and don't have the means to do it, even if they wanted). Gigantic battles happen wherever the "something" sprouts and subside as soon as it has been fully exploited. Variation on the theme: Make the Elves and Dwarfs be part of the same three-forms race: 

You can insert in mouth, between cheek and teeth, a couple of containers holding some flammable liquid. Nozzle can be exposed by smiling and a spurt can be done with some mechanism activated by teeth. There are a few liquids (e.g.: Silane) that will auto-ignite at room temperature (they will be at body temperature, of course) in presence of atmospheric oxygen, without requiring any igniting device. If you want to use more conventional fuels (e.g.: kerosene) you need to complicate your mouth-activated-flamethrower with an igniting device; piezoelectric comes to mind, but it might pose problems with unavoidable humidity of mouth. Of course the amount of fuel would be quite limited, otherwise you need some "invisible" implant near the mouth (similar to modern on-stage microphones, possibly covered by band-aid and make-up) with an external tank. 

Simulating human brain is currently absolutely not feasible for several reasons (I'll detail later). AFAIK the only successful simulations (meaning: simulated result matched what biologic Neural Network actually did to a reasonable degree) were done for very simple organisms, if memory assists the most complex was a snail with several thousand neurons. These simulations, however, were done simulating effects of neurotransmitters and neuron membrane; Simulated Neuron Networks (SNN, the kind of Neuron Networks that are actually in use to solve many problems, including prepare weather forecasts) work in a completely different way, the abstract the actual working of a neuron in a "stylized" way which has nothing in common with real Neuron operation. They are models of the neuron leaving out a lot of details to capture general principles of operation. They do a good job, enough to be real useful in building A.I. They're powerful enough to scare people like Elon Musk and Bill Gates with perspective results. There's a heated debate if these SNN really capture enough of neurons working to permit replication of a complex brain. In general problems arising when trying to simulate human brain are at several levels: 

Sorry, I do insist: Utopias are something that won't work in the real world, probably ever. It is much better to accept there are certain impulses and try to create rules to constrain them without strangling the society. The idea man (or woman, of course) is essentially "good" and it is external influence that makes him "bad" has been proven false over and over again throughout all History. It might be we will "evolve" into something capable of giving rise to Utopias, but that may take as much as it took to arrive here (about a billion years) and we won't be "humankind" anymore. 

It is not by chance plants are sessile (an erudite way of saying they don't move much) and have a very large "skin" surface. Photosynthesis is quite inefficient, but even if it was not, you would be hard pressed to live an active life with direct solar power. By comparison note highly engineered solar cars have average speed around 40Km/h and limiting factor is energy, because they can easily go over speed limits for short distances. The best you could have is something with the (mean) activity level of a sloth. You could think about beings basking in the sunshine for hours at a time and then start some activity till energy lasts. A bit like cats would like to do. Surely such a life style would encourage meditation. Main problem, here, is why they should move at all. If they do not need to move to find their food why should they develop all complex (and expensive) machinery to move and manipulate environment? You can relay on regression (photosynthesis is acquire is after motion), symbiosis (beings have some form of grass on their skin, instead of fur) or direct need (semi-desert climate where some rivers exist, but often change their course and "plants" need to follow or they will die). In any case you may want to rely on some more efficient photosynthesis agent than chlorophyll to boost your energy levels. You don't say what other fauna is present in your world. If there are other, potentially dangerous, animals then the push to protect themselves would drive knowledge accumulation. The first to invent solar lamps would become very rich. In general, as said, these beings are not going to be overly active, so they would probably be a race of philosophers, with some practical fallout. Their houses would probably resemble greenhouses and they would be masters in building banks and dams to constrain the squishy rivers (if you chose the third alternative). 

Very much depends on road, kind of carriage, total distance to cover and who's chasing you. In Roman times, with relatively good roads, average daily distance was between 40km and 60km. Distance between caravansarais, on the Silk Road, were about 40km apart. Conestoga wagons on the Oregon trail traveled 15-20 Mi (24-32 Km). Chose Your pick. 

Limit is not (only) the Heisenberg Principle, but matter quantization. Current (best) integrated circuits are at ~7nm which is about one order of magnitude above distance between atoms in metals. This means "conductors" in ICs are about 20 atoms wide and about 5 thick. We are not far from minimum dimensions. Next frontier is to stack several planes on the same die to gain space in the third dimension (this is already used quite extensively in memory chips). I don't believe Quantum Computers will allow breaking these barriers. OTOH Quantum Computing promise is to provide more powerful basic operations, which means they could achieve the same level of functionality with less active elements. 

It's highly likely vitrified surface will start cracking in a very short time due to thermal contraction initially, then thermal cycles and, in the long term, tectonic activity. Vegetation is likely to spread from there, given characteristics you state (seed resilience and root depth, mainly). Depending on specifics of soil and irradiation process you can have either large placques with deep canyons (more likely on rocky ground, but possible elsewhere, particularly where vitrification is deeper) or finer fragmentation in (relatively) smaller boulders. In the former case vitrified soil would be very evident even after millennia, while in the latter I suspect vitrified rubble to be completely colonized in matter of few centuries. Other things to note: 

While knights are distracted hit them hard with venom spiders, scholopendras and similia. In the meantime "thank" the "nice peasents" you previously helped by sending hordes of locusts to destroy their fields; it's very likely they'll ask the king to withdraw the knights. 

You are asking for science-based, so the answer is "no" to the first question and "yes" to the second (since it doesn't exist). Air is a mixture of simple elements (mainly Nitrogen and Oxygen) that, at normal temperature, are in gas form. There is no (science-based) way to "collect the molecules" short of solidifying air near Absolute Zero temperature. The best you can effectively do is have some form of focused sound waves, but that would probably be to thin or too weak to be an efficient shield. Such limitations might conceivably be overcome in future, but I didn't go through the work of computing the energy required. Such a shield (akin to the "sonic wall") would be almost invisible. 

Many animals have a pre-ovulation phase, commonly called "heat", marked by profound metabolic changes. In some animals copulation triggers actual ovulation (it has been proposed, I don't know with what confidence, that human female orgasm is a "leftover" of such mechanism, now dismantled in our species). Some mammals will remain in this altered state (i.e.: in "heat") indefinitely if no sex is allowed. "Heat" condition is already somewhat stressful for the female (sometimes very stressful); all you have to do is to make it actually dangerous for health and fatal if prolonged. Something like impairing digestion or something along the lines, so that death is a sure outcome, but different individuals can withstand it differently. 

"Good" and "Evil" are, almost always, very relative terms. While wars are invariably (if there's some counter-example I cannot think of it right away) fought for economic reasons fighters are usually driven by some compelling inner moral reason. [I know I'm oversimplifying, but otherwise this answer would become a long treatise.] Your "heroes" fall, most likely, in the "fighters" category and thus they are motivated by sentiment more than pure greed. This makes very easy to achieve what you ask; there are very many different "views of the World" that are irreconcilable even with the best intentions. One example for all: dichotomy between "freedom" and "security". Both are seen as "good things", but different persons will give precedence to one or the other. When it comes to a situation where the two things come to conflict each of us will side according to his/her inclination, but there's no "evil" or "good" side (even if participants would think otherwise). In this framework each of your heroes could become champion of one of these "world views", perhaps one advocating individual freedom (roaming freely in the prairie hunting wild animals and hoarding cattle) while the other tries to build a more organized and secure country (perhaps with a guild/caste system... and barbed wires limiting the prairie). 

This study has been adapted by NASA for a proposal for a Mars shield. In Your case having the shield in L1 of the satellite wouldn't help, of course, so it should be in L1 of the planet and large enough to protect gas giant and bodies orbiting it. It may be necessary to step up magnetic field to cover a larger area, but if this is something NASA is actually evaluating now it should be a no-brainier for any race able to build starships. 

You needn't "invent" anything. In all polytheistic cultures there are "sects" worshiping one or the other deity, even if all are believed "real". Also very minor deities as Nymphs or Dryads are known to have their followers (sometimes very influential; see the legends about Nymph Egeria and Numa Pompilio (second King Of Rome)). It is absolutely normal to have some different religious twist in polytheism. OTOH we manage to have more than one monotheistic religion only because the "One and Only" God apparently doesn't care much about who and what is said "in his name". You can "simply" postulate different kingdoms elected to worship mainly one or other the God (while respecting all of them, of course); this is what happened in ancient times, as Athens was named after Athena (Minerva) and Sparta worshiped mainly Ares (Mars) (curiously those were two "War Gods" Mars well-known for battle prowess, while Athena was more about strategy and all other "non-strictly-physical" aspects of war). Having your Gods not to interfere much with everyday life helps, but it is not necessary if you add the rule (taken straight from Hellenic Paganism) "One God cannot undo what another God did". You should have all leeway needed to make an interesting plot. 

Brain size is not a direct measure of "intelligence" by whatever metric You chose to measure it, otherwise elephants would be much more intelligent than we are (not to speak about whales). A better, though not very reliable either, criterion is "encephalization factor" which is the size of brain relative to body mass. Rationale behind this is a large part of the brain is used for "normal body maintenance" and only the "excess brain mass" is used for "special functions". Intelligence is but one of the many functions that are "implemented" is brains; other example is dolphin and bat sonar which accounts for their "abnormally large" brains. You can have a sentient Tetrapod "just" by reducing its (or should be "his"?) body size to match the reduced brain size (i.e.: preserve encephalization factor). 

Model Earth and all relevant atmospheric interactions as a (huge) set of differential equations and integrate them. (algorithmic) Feed a SNN (Simulated Neural Network) data taken from last 30 years and let it decide what will happen in the near future. (pattern recognition) 

There are many changes that would prevent such an evolution. There are several relevant differences in physiology you need to take into account: 

IMHO the only realistic option is the first. Tetrapods have a very stable conformation and it didn't change during all evolution. Likely ancestor should be of Sarcopterigii clad. Reason why I do not think various types of convergent evolution are highly unlikely is that, contrary to popular belief, it is not possible to code "whatever" in a gene set. The biggest divergence in ontogenesis between Arthropod and Chordata is the "mangling" of homeobox genes which means that: