Infinity isn't "playing with notation". Without infinity basic math does not work. It would be inconsistent. Without infinity there must be a "biggest number" and that breaks math. For example, for the set of positive integers (1, 2, 3, ...) it can be said that if then . But what if N is the biggest number? If M is greater than N, then M must be the biggest number. Contradiction! This might not seem like a big deal, but in mathematics a system which contains contradictions is false. Without infinity integer addition does not work. Similar problem with the infinitely small and division of the real numbers. If then because . But what if N is the smallest number? If M is less than N, then M must be the smallest number. Contradiction! Without infinity there are no irrational numbers, numbers which have infinite, non-repeating decimals. Pi is an irrational number. Without Pi, we can't work with circles. No infinity, no mathematics. (You can construct mathematical systems without infinity, but they're not nearly as useful.) 

A straw man is a scarecrow. On the false assumption that there is glory to be had in knocking down an adult human being, there is still none at all to be had in knocking down a scarecrow for a scarecrow has no means of fighting back. The straw man fallacy involves ascribing a position to your opponent distinct from and weaker than their actual position, demonstrating that the weak position you have ascribed is unsustainable, and then proceeding as though you had refuted your opponent's actual position. Having focused upon a position weaker than that that your opponent genuinely was advancing, you have attacked a view that has fewer resources to resist your attack than does the actual view on offer. The appropriate response to a straw man fallacy is to point out that the position being attacked is distinct from the position that is purportedly being attacked. 

The post presumes that infinity is some abstract concept that is a result of mathematicians faffing about. That it doesn't have any application to the real world. That's not true. In fact, without infinity math does not work. 

There's a bunch of leaps and logical fallacies in the original post, but I think this is the big one. 

Your induction draws from a set of city names. However, you have failed to show a proof that there is an infinite number of city names (and that all those cities exist). This is like saying... 

Another way to look at it, your argument is circular. Your inductive proof that there is an infinite set of cities assumes there is an infinite set of cities to draw from. 

Let's put these two together. The first seems assert that every concept which cannot be physically represented is false. The second builds on that by saying if you don't actually count to infinity, infinity is false. Ok, let's imagine a world without infinity. That means there has to be a biggest number. What's the biggest number? Here, I'll pick one. 1,000,000,000,000. There. I have just asserted the biggest number. What happens if I add one to it? 1,000,000,000,001. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,002. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,003. A new biggest number! Do it again: 1,000,000,000,004. A new biggest number! For any biggest number you can imagine, you can add one to it to get a bigger number. I don't actually need to keep at this task, it's enough to prove the potential of their existence were you to keep at the task. Same as I can add 10 + 20 without actually moving little groups of objects around. This is the great utility of mathematics, I don't need to move physical things around to do math. Concepts which don't have a physical form are not false, they just don't have physical form. If I have an idea to build a house slightly different from all other houses it's not a false concept on a house. We know houses work. This particular house just doesn't have physical form yet. But wait! It gets worse! (Or better depending on how you look at it) 

Metaphysics Epistemology Value Theory (includes moral and political philosophy and the philosophy of art) Philosophy of Language Philosophy of Mind Logic Philosophy of the special sciences (philosophy of mathematics, philosophy of physics, philosophy of history, etc.) 

The answer that violence is never the answer does have a rich literature behind it; pacifism is not foolish and it does have the virtues of both clarity and consistency. It is also a minority view. More common is the view that the proportional use of violence is justified in defence of self and of others. Consider two cases: 1) I am attempting to stab you in a circumstances where you cannot reasonably expect to be able to run away from the threat. 2) A police officer arrives at the scene of one of the lamentably common "school shootings" to see the perpetrator firing an automatic machine gun at a crowd of students. The perpetrator is over 100m from the police officer. On most views, in (1), you'd be justified in using a level of force against me that a reasonable person would think necessary to neutralize the threat I pose to you as it is reasonable for you to fear that I am attempting to cause you serious harm or death. If and when you have managed to effect a situation where a reasonable person would no longer perceive me to pose a threat (say you broke my arms or rendered me unconscious), no further use of force would be justifiable. On most views, in (2), the police officer would be justified in shooting the perpetrator. By hypothesis, the perpetrator is in the middle of killing other people and is too far away for any other means of stopping that killing to be available to the police officer. Even here, if the police officer has a choice between shooting to kill and shooting to incapacitate the perpetrator, most views would have it that the police officer ought to aim to incapacitate. Of course, in the nature of the circumstance, it might well be that a shot aimed to incapacitate does instead kill. Likewise, if a shot aimed to incapacitate does wound the perpetrator but does not succeed in stopping their efforts to fire into the crowd, most views would have it that the police officer then may shoot to kill, the lesser use of force having manifestly failed to preserve the lives of those the perpetrator is attempting to kill. Common features of both cases are that 1) there is a risk of serious harm to someone, 2) no non-violent method can be reasonably expected to prevent that harm, and 3) the harm threatened is threatened due to the actions of a bad actor. ((3) is intended to distinguish cases like (1) and (2) from ones where Pat's actions pose a serious risk of harm to Sam, but Pat could not have reasonably been expected to foresee that Pat's actions did pose a serious risk of harm.) 

I agree with you that philosophy is not a field of knowledge. This, however, does not mean that one should not attempt to seek answers to its questions - it means that, most of the time, one cannot find any one definitive answer. Typically, a philosophical question will be answered differently depending on whose philosophical ideas you find valuable and from which you are then deducing an answer. Therefore, even after receiving an "answer", one has not attained knowledge, but rather gained new insight and perspective into different ways of attempting to answer the question which assists your "endeavour and spiritual exercise". 

I do not agree with you that a product is abstract when in stock - most people may not care about it, but e.g. its location and possessor certainly are far from being incomprehensible. The scenario you describe would, however, arise when the products being sold have not yet been produced. In that case, one would first describe a future object, which only begins to exist at a later point in time. The future object can, by definition, only describe our knowledge of the future object and not its actual properties and will therefore not be entirely describable, which leads to the problem you are facing. To answer your initial question in a general fashion: a category (or class, in software development terms) is simply a set of properties that belongs to all of its instances (i.e. in common use — some philosophers may define it differently within their theories). In no way does this mean that its instances need to be or represent actual objects or even be conceivable by humans. That said, how to solve the problem of describing physically nonexistent and existent objects is entirely up to you. Defining one category for the kind of the product and another one for physically existent/nonexistent objects is certainly one way. You will, however, also have to take into account the design and performance limitations of your development environment — factors that will probably matter more to you in practice than philosophical concerns. 

I am going to answer entirely on the logic side, disregarding the connection to religious issues. There are a wide range of logics available. Call Classical First-Order Logic (CFOL) the logic that is usually taught in contemporary introductions to formal logic. It has several properties of relevance here. For example: from P & ~P, everything follows, P v ~P is a logical truth, and quantification (statements like 'There is an x such that Fx' and 'For all x ....) range only over objects (hence 'FO'). There are various extensions of CFOL. Higher order logics allow one to quantify over properties of objects (Second Order Logic), or properties of properties (Third Order Logic), etc. SOL is needed to state the full generality of the principle of mathematical induction in arithmetic, to articulate a formal theory of arithmetic such that the natural numbers are (up to isomorphism) the unique model of the theory, and to state in full generality Leibniz's laws of identity. For each order above first, there are alternative semantics available which induce different rules of inference. There are various modal logics, which add operators for notions like metaphysical possibility and necessity, temporal relations, epistemic notions, and notions of permissibility and obligatoriness. Even for metaphysical necessity (likely the best studied modal logic), there are multiple logics available, depending on the underlying view about the relationships between possibility and necessity.) There are also many restrictions of CFOL. Intuitionistic logic gives up on the general truth of P v ~P, doesn't in general allow you to conclude P from Q & ~Q (though ~P still follows), and treats quantification somewhat differently. Relevant logics require more for the truth of P --> Q than the CL condition that either P is false or Q is true in order to avoid the paradoxes of material implication. (Along the way, it looses the principle of Disjunctive Argument: From P v Q and ~P, Q.) Paraconsistent logics drop the principle that everything follows from a contradiction (in a fashion rather different than does Intuitionistic logic); it is motivated in part by the idea that there may be true contradictions. There are multi-valued logics which assign, in their semantics, more than 2 truth-values (even for 3 values, there is more than one way to proceed) and adopt corresponding principles of proof. These are not in general classifiable as restrictions or extensions of CFOL; it depends upon the details of the particular multi-valued logic. That is just a very quick (hand-wavy, really) survey of some of the better know alternatives to CFOL. It is, however, sufficient to establish that not only are alternative logics possible, they are actual. However, none of these (including CFOL) are universally accepted as logic; the demarcation of the bounds of what really counts as logic is one of the central problems in the philosophy of logic. 

I ate one potato chip from the bag. I ate another potato chip from the bag. There are still more potato chips in the bag. Therefore there are INFINITE POTATO CHIPS! 

Sure you can! Infinitely! What happens when you mix red and green? Yellow! What if you mix yellow and red? And the result of that mixing with red again? And that with red again? And again? And again? And again? Each will be a slightly different color. This is similar to what you get when you try to find the smallest fraction. What's halfway between 1 and 2? 1.5. Between 1 and 1.5? 1.25. Between 1 and 1.25? 1.125. And so on. The difference is paint is made up of discrete molecules and eventually you'll have nothing but red left. Numbers don't have an end and you can just keep on dividing. Not only is there an infinity of numbers, there are infinities between every number! The infinite set of positive integers is countably infinite meaning you can potentially count them without leaving any gaps. The infinity between the real numbers is uncountably infinite meaning you can never list them all out (I realize this is not the formal definition). Every time you try to count them you create more gaps to fill in. This is the infinity of the very small. 

The heuristic that the burden of proof is on the affirmative side of a dispute is intended to be broader than just claims of existence and non-existence. It is also one of a number of different (sometimes conflicting) considerations that go into the determination of the burden of proof. I said 'heuristic' as there is no algorithmic way to determine where the burden of proof lies. Imagine that we observed some phenomenon for which cannot account, say the diminished bee populations. Were I to suggest that the population decline was caused by cell phone transmissions, you might well accept that this is the sort of thing which could conceivably be involved but might still reasonably demand to know why I think this. 'Well, why do you think it isn't cell phone transmissions?' would be a wholly inappropriate reply on my part. As I am offering the positive account, all else being equal, the burden is on me to establish that my account is correct, not upon you to impeach it. Another consideration is initial plausibility. Say that we were to arrive at my apartment and observe that the door frame was splintered, the door was open, all my electronics and other portable valuables were gone. You offer the theory that I have been robbed; I offer the theory that a highly localized meteorological phenomenon tore through my apartment. We both are offering affirmative claims, but since yours is quite plausible and mine is not at all plausible, the burden is on me rather than on you. Indeed, we would reasonably take the inability of proponents to mount a serious case for alternative explanations to count as a reason to accept your account. Neither of these are fool-proof. One can often reformulate a claim to change whether it seems affirmative or negative (often with a transformation that seems less like a cheap trick than the one your offer). And, erroneous beliefs will adversely affect the extent to which our judgments of plausibility are reliable. (It takes a fair bit of knowledge of 20th c. science to find it plausible that the chair on which I sit is made mainly of empty space.) Some conflict between these two considerations can help explain why "all else being equal" is needed. If you have the view that dogs exist and I've the view that they do not, the fact that your claim is affirmative hardly means that the burden of proof is on you; my claim is so implausible that that implausibility swamps the affirmative nature of your claim for purposes of finding where the burden of proof lies. A third consideration is the costs of error on each side. Consider two drugs developed by pharmaceutical firms, one intended to help with acne, the other to help patients with advance terminal cancer. The burden of proof to establish safety of the drugs is higher on the firm that developed the acne medication than it is on the firm with the drug targeting the cancer patient as the cost of error in the acne case is much higher. 

My question is very simple: Is it, as Russell seems to imply, possible for something to have no cause and why? 

The goal of the jurisdiction of most democratic states today is the reintegration into society of criminals. Therefore, according to modern standards, a badge of shame would not be considered successful as it would obviously oppose this goal. Of course, in some cases, a reintegration is impossible - but wouldn't it be better to lock these up all their lfie instead of letting them walk around freely? And for all others willing to improve, a badge of shame would be an inappropriate punishment lasting to their death. 

It is a very well known phenomena that people feel pride for the country where they were born and/or live, even though the effect seems to be declining slightly nowadays. Frequently, governments also try to instill a sense of national pride in their citizens in order to motivate them to serve the country. But is it ethically correct to be proud of one's country? When people say that they are proud of being a citizen of a country that has an independent jurisdiction, is a democracy and respects its citizens' rights, the obvious question to me is: Can you be proud of something that you did not create?