Frederick II the Great, king IN Prussia 1740–1786 used to counterfeit currency of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (PLC) on a large scale, for profit and to economically weaken Polish state. Officially PLC wasn't at war with Prussia but the only reason that this and other hostile activities of Frederick the Great were unanswered by PLC was the weakness of Polish administration at that time. (and that's probably the reason why he did it). Frederick obtained the dies for Polish coins during his raid on Saxony during the Seven Years' War (1756-1763). They were there because at that time PLC was in a personal union with Saxony. EDIT: Wikipedia piece about this particular episode of Frederick's activity points to those books in English as sources: Hamish M. Scott, The emergence of the Eastern powers 1756–1775 and Norman Davies, Europe: A History 

from Pro Murena vi.13, 63 BC. Cato has accused L. Murena of dancing, and Cicero replies that Murena is accused of dancing but not of activities that would be precursors to dancing. Cicero says no sane man would dance unless he is drunk, and there are no tales of Murena drinking and carousing, so therefore the accusation is scurrilous in origin. The Yonge translation of the entire section is as follows: 

You didn't specify a particular service or a particular country. But I am going to go ahead and say, for the most part, no. Within three years of the end of the war, the U.S., Japan, Western Europe, Canada, and Australia had all experienced a "baby boom." Some of this was timing: People postponed marriage and childbirth due to the weak economy in the early 1930s, and then again because of the war. They resumed when the men returned. At the same time, the younger generation got married at a higher rate and at younger ages, helped in part by strong economic conditions especially in the U.S. and benefits offered in the GI Bill. Either way, returning soldiers were clearly marrying and having families in significant numbers. The Soviet Union and Eastern Europe did not see a boom. But they had seen population loss and displacement far worse than countries on the Western Front. Also, the Soviet Union experienced a severe famine starting in 1946. So, even if veterans were ready to settle down and raise families, things were much more uncertain. But even West Germany had a baby boom starting in the mid-1950s. No doubt, the experience of modern warfare on the scale of the Second World War is a traumatic experience, and many returning soldiers would have had trouble adjusting to civilian life. But there doesn't seem to be evidence that the scars of war were leading them to shun marriage and procreation. 

Poland had many foreign kings and in my opinion it does make sense to include them all into this discussion, even though only a few of them were ruling another country at the time when they accepted Polish crown. The sheer fact that they were foreigners heavily influenced their politics. In one extreme case it even resulted in moving the capital of Poland from Cracow to Warsaw. But it's impossible to generalize - each case should be investigated individually. And that would take way too much time so I will just write about the two kings you mentioned. Louis rule over Poland was pretty much uneventful. He had several lands to look after so obviously he wasn't present most of the time, delegating power to local lords. In 1374 however he reduced the tax duties of Polish gentry to buy himself some support and to secure Polish throne for one of his daughters. That was detrimental to Poland in the long term* One may draw the conclusion that he was more devoted to the idea of securing the Polish throne than to make royal power strong at the risk of losing that throne for his children. *But it's not all that simple. One may say that the appeasement of the gentry through bribery was detrimental to any future ruler who would truly care about Poland and would need the power to make adjustements. On the other hand, it also acted as a safeguard against a ruler who would like to blatantly pursue his own interests at the cost of the Polish agenda. Louis of Hungary didn't have a chance to demonstrate that to any meaningful extent. Regarding Augustus the Strong of Saxony, he was elected king of Poland through bribery, scheming and civil war. Russia was already a powerful country and influenced the election. Now, that doesn't mean he was poised to be a bad king of Poland :) Well, actually his rule marked a period of absolute disaster for Poland, but still, it's hard to say it was all his fault, or that it was caused by the fact that he was a ruler of Saxony at the same time. The Polish-Saxonian alliance had the potential of being beneficial for Poland since it was naturally aimed against Prussia. I don't think there was any conflict of interest. Augustus even changed his denomination to Catholicism. On the other hand, as a ruler of Saxonia, in cooperation with Russian tsar he started a war with Sweden that ultimately utterly devastated Poland. And he was bribed by Russian tsar to drag Poland into that war. He also used Russian army to deal with internal opposition in Poland. That looks very bad but that was just instrumental use of foreign troops and most probably he would turn against Russia after he consolidated power in Poland. If he had stronger royal power in Poland, his plans might have materialise and his rule of Poland could have been appreciated. Now, I'm writing this from today's perspective when we know that weak central power was the primary factor that contributed to the demise of Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. But in Augustus time, lots of Polish gentry hated his guts because of his royal ambitions. However, recently I came across information that there came one moment when Augustus gave up in his struggle for power against Polish gentry and instead planned to partition the country. If that's true then there is no excuse for that. 

There are no known contemporary opinions— perhaps because there was no such event to form an opinion about. Entire books have been written on the loss of the library, but I would first note that most historians reject this story as scurrilous. In fact, the orientalist Bernard Lewis, not ordinarily considered a propagandist for Islam, wrote an essay entitled "The Arab Destruction of the Library of Alexandria: Anatomy of a Myth" which appears in What Happened to the Ancient Library of Alexandria? by Mostafa el-Abbadi and Omnia Mounir Fathallah, eds. (2008), a series of papers from a conference on the same topic. A mention of Umar directing the burning of the library is first found in the 12th-century writings of Abdul al-Latif al-Baghdadi. Ibn al-Qifti, who visited Cairo in 1200, writes of the incident in his History of Learned Men (Ta'rikh al-hukama), and his story was repeated a few years later by Bar-Hebraeus. In other words, despite a rich literary tradition, half a millennium passed when no source, whether Christian or Muslim or Jewish, from anywhere within the Arab or Byzantine or Persian worlds, makes any reference to the destruction of the world-famous library that supposedly occurred in 642. That is, none until it surfaces in al-Qifti, for whom it was politically expedient. The library had already suffered. A good part of its collection was destroyed in 47 BC, and another in 273 AD, and probably more in 391 (although blaming Patriarch Theophilus seems to be an equally scurrilous accusation, considering his real target was the Temple of Serapis in another part of the city). It's possible that the story is a fabrication; it's possible that Amr burned a different library, perhaps that of a monastery, that became conflated with the Great Library; or perhaps Amr did burn the Great Library— but by that time, itw as a library great only in name. 

On September 3rd 1939, when UK and France declared war on Germany, both ordinary Polish people and government officials became enthusiastic. There were spontaneous demonstrations of support for the French and British allies. People truly believed that Germans will soon be defeated. And from what I see those thoughts were reasonable - if an allied offensive, no matter how poorly prepared, took place, the allies would soon be in Berlin. Hitler left only 23 divisions on Western front, while the allies had 110 divisions. And those Germans divisions were poorly equipped. The French had 4 to 1 advantage in artillery, 80 to 1 advantage in tanks and the Germans hardly had any planes there. During Nurnberg trial general Alfred Jodl admitted that the Germany would easily be defeated in 1939 if the allies helped the Poles. Hitler gambled and concentrated the bulk of manpower, as well as nearly all mechanised units and Luftwaffe on Poland. And it's not like it was just a logistical challenge of transfering those resources to the Western front in case of allied offensive - the Poles managed to destroy much of that equipment and that's the reason why Wehrmacht generals asked Hitler to postpone the invasion of France for next year. What exactly failed in the allied camp in 1939? Was it military intelligence? Poor strategy of supreme command? 

Second, a 1984 preliminary report from the commission suggests that Galileo's 1633 trial was prosecuted on a forgery. To simplify, he was accused of violating a 1616 decree that banned him from even discussing the theory. It now appears that the decree entered as evidence was not the same document he had agreed to, and one that was much more restrictive. Galileo was a genius, but an arrogant genius: he had made enemies in Rome. I would note that heliocentric theories date back to the ancient Greeks, and while Copernicus attracted many critics, both Catholic and Protestant, the Church did not attempt to ban his books for six decades, until they got swept up in anti-Galilean sentiment. Consider also that Galileo's complete works (accompanied by letters stating the Church's criticisms) were published in 1741 with papal imprimatur, and the proscription against them was lifted in 1757, not 1992. 

The statue was later confirmed by kings of Polish – Lithuanian Commonwealth. In the next century, tolerance guarantees were given to Orthodox Christians, Armenians, and Muslim Tatars. In 1525 Polish king agreed to a plan of establishing formerly Catholic Duchy of Prussia as his Lutheran fief. In the XVI century protestant ideas gained supporters in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth proper. As a result in 1573 Polish parliament passed Warsaw Confederation act, which gave the protestant denominations the same rights as Catholics. From now on, every newly elected Polish king had to accept those provisions. So, Poland avoided religious wars of Germany. Another result was that Polish – Lithuanian Commonwealth became attractive destination for “heretics” from other countries, primarily from Germany. It also harbored the biggest Jewish population in the world, and the most orthodox versions of Judaism developed there. I don't find any particular reason for the direction that Poland (it's kings, gentry and clergy) went regarding religious tolerance, except from pure pragmatism. But it's just an example country, perhaps someone with more knowledge will comment on the situation in Ottoman Empire and other European states.