That says that a "prime cause" isn't "evident". Conversely Buddhism encourages people to consider what is evident. I think it's a good answer. The doctrine (the "dhamma") implies that some questions don't have good answers: that the question or topic causes confusion and a tangle or thicket of views -- see The unanswered questions -- and this question (i.e. of whether or not the world is infinite) is one of them. 

The "middle way" is the way between two extremes, one extreme being hedonism and another being asceticism. I think there's a phrase in the West, "eat to live, not live to eat". Hinduism includes a word atman which means more than just 'self': I think it means 'eternal self' or soul. Buddhism includes a word anatman i.e. 'not atman'. I like to translate that not as 'no self' but as 'no eternal self'. There are a couple of things you ought to notice about the five skandhas which you listed: 

So my real question is this: is the pro choice movement hijacking this debate by arguing from adverse consequences, and by appealing to women to get enough votes to push the issue through without thinking about the only real issue on the table: life? Well if you're asking, I would say no, that your premise is flawed: 

The converse is true, i.e.: "If assuming that a premise is true leads to a paradox, that shows that the premise isn't true." There are mathematical proofs that work like this: Wikipedia calls it proof by contradiction. For example, "How can we prove that the square root of 2 is irrational? Well, assume that it's rational. Then, (see Pythagorean Theorem Proof which shows that if it is rational then a paradox exists). Therefore (to avoid the paradox) the premise (that it is rational) cannot be true: therefore Q. E. D." 

You regard falsifiability as the criterion for scientificity, which is again unwarranted. The current consensus among philosophers of science is that a scientific theory cannot be reduced to testable statements. The Duhem-Quine thesis is the accepted view. 

should mean that Christians think that life (on earth) is worth living and life in after-life (heaven) is also worth living. 

To the question whether machines can generate ideas, I will say the answer is affirmative. If you define ideas operationally (like "I have an idea": i.e., solving problems and offering causal hypotheses), clearly machines can be said to generate ideas. Machines do not need specific algorithms or to be pre-programmed to generate this meaning of ideas. "Deep learning," believed to be the next wave of advancement in AI, is an example. The reason that it is such a big deal that Google's Alphago (based on the deep learning technology) beat a Go master (Go is a traditional Chinese board game) is that the machine taught itself the rules of the game and winning strategies. Now, if you think that an idea is something that is generated by the mind (like Lockean simple and complex ideas) that is housed in the protein brain, as infatuated states, then the original question is merely morphed into a different question: "What is mind? Posting the mind as a black-box, philosophers of mind question what should be the appropriate model of human mind. Many think that human minds are like machines, and try to understand the mind through a computer analogy. Two views of the computerized model of the human mind are prominent in philosophy of mind: computationalism and connectionism. Computationalists (e.g. Jerry Fodor) maintain that the mind is a Turing machine, performing purely formal operations on symbols. There is no "Cartesian Theater" in which the mind becomes conscious of its own computation. 

My opinion as a former mathematician, is that infinite series prove nothing of the sort -- you can make silly paradoxes with them if you're not trained -- IMO an infinite series converges or doesn't, in neither case is it a proof of God. You appear to be, are you, deifying your concept of infinity? I.e. you have some concept of infinity (or some limit to infinity), and saying, "that is God". That seems to me an example of man creating god, a mind-made artefact. There's a fable I read once, 

Are you making some kind of religion out of science? Why are you taking, as the subject of your argument, what you yourself describe as "metaphysical" topics in science (cosmology and quantum mechanics)? If these don't "lead to welfare & happiness" (I studied them at university, and I'm not sure they do), why not choose other topics (scientific fields) which matter more, which have more practical/tangible/beneficial/knowable consequences? Alternatively do you know the physics or history-of-physics (not "metaphysics") well enough, that you could explain to a clever 12-year-old (who is curious but uneducated) what experimental/experiential observations led people to develop theories like "Big Bang" etc.? 

The lead-in to the Sutta also describes the Dhamma (doctrine) as famous for being "admirable in the beginning, admirable in the middle, admirable in the end": which means that it's admirable when you start to learn it, admirable when you practice it, and still admirable when you have perfected it. 

There's a well-known expression, "you can't step into the same river twice." (perhaps attributed to Heraclitus). You may be introducing an extra confusion when you say that "a thing has changed", or that "some specific change is a permanent property of some thing": because in reality the changed thing isn't the same thing as the previous thing (see the Ship of Theseus). 

Socrates is well known for his participation of several wars during his life span (for almost 30 years). It is believed that he was 48 at his final participation in a war. As an armed foot soldier, he was reportedly very brave and competent in his art of combat. It is also reported that he observed and experienced many horrors and sufferings, i.e., some evils of war first handily. No philosophers ever talk about this foot soldier experience of Socrates when they talk about Socrates' philosophy. But surely the experiences of the evils of war should have left some post-traumatic stress on him, which could have influenced his idea of a just nation. What can be some features of the just nation (the Republic of Plato) that might have been the result of his experience as a soldier? EDIT: I should have added where I got the idea. I read this article entitled "Socrates in Combat: Trauma and Resilience in Plato's political Theory" $URL$ 

Since I do not think Pascal's argument is fallacious, and since I detest a long post, I offer this second post, as an appendix. Pascal's question is whether he should believe in God (the paradigm relating to the Christian God: e.g., Soul lives after one's death; Believing in God is necessary for the eternal salvation of the soul, which is the most important thing one can hope for). These are essential assumptions of Pascal: Pascal 1. Either God exist or does not exist. Pascal 2. Either I should believe in God or should not believe in God. Pascal 3. Based on the Christian paradigm, the following payoff table obtains: 

Aristotle is said to have asserted that all fallacious arguments essentially commit Ignoratio elenchi (= ignorance of argumentation or missing the point for moderners). Since some logicians categorize ignoratio elenchi under the non sequitur (= does not follow), we could say that your observation that all fallacies are essentially non sequitur is right. The problem with your assertion however is that scholars deeply disagree on the categorizations of fallacies and the scope of each fallacy. They cannot even offer a precise definition for 'fallacy': at most they agree that a fallacy is a defect in reasoning. Even Aristotle himself used ignoratio elenchi in the above broadest sense and a very narrow sense where the concussion simply is irrelevant to the premises, which is neither a straw man nor a red herring (e.g., "Abuse of the welfare system is rampant nowadays. The conclusion is obvious: we must abolish the system altogether.") Presently, Non sequitur is usually limited to the cases that produce a comical effect due to breaking the cliche or expectations: e.g., "My wife and I were happy for 20 years....Then we met." Formal logic has been unhelpful to understand fallacies since many perfectly valid arguments are fallacious. Informal logic that is informed by critical thinking, rhetorics, communications and AI have been far more helpful to understand the categorization of fallacies. Under the informal logic, it is now clear that many fallacies are fallacies for the reason other than relevance (broadly, non sequitur): e.g., weak induction, illicit presumptions. Viewed in this light, your assertion can be said to be false. 

For that reason a Buddhist might say, "I don't see an atman (i.e. an eternal and independent self or soul) in the skandhas, i.e. in the body or in the consciousness or in the sensations or etc." Buddhism furthermore teaches that views about "self" are a source of dukkha (which means 'suffering' and/or 'unsatisfactoriness'): views like "this is me" and "this is mine" are unastisfactory e.g. because of illness and death etc. The Dalai Lama said that he prefers to think of himself as being a human like any other; that if he thinks of himself as special, as being "the" Dalai Lama, as being "the" Nobel Prize winner, then that thinking "imprisons" him. Buddhism recommends not being 'attached' to things (because the 'Second Noble Truth' is that attachment is the cause of suffering). Becoming detached from a view of self is part of the first stage of enlightenment. 

The logic of the paradox in the OP depends on "zero multiplied by infinity equals zero" (i.e. zero-probability-per-point multiplied by infinite-points equals a paradox). You get that equation by doing a division-by-zero, "one divided by zero equals infinity" (i.e. finite-area-of-the-table divided by the size-of-a-zero-area point equals infinitely many points). But "division by zero" is an undefined operation. Using it results in well-known, trivial (grade-school level), easily recogizable algebraic fallacies, for example as shown here: Division by zero -- Fallacies It doesn't prove anything about the universe, it's pushing the numbering system until it stalls. You can divide one by n, where n is any non-zero number. 

Writing this answer reminds me of Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance ... in which, about two thirds of the way through the book, the protagonist becomes angry to discover that "What is good?" is not considered the central question of philosophy, but was somehow demoted by Aristotle to a sub-sub-category, of "logic" or something like that. 

"Does [Selfish desire has no place in the pure aesthetic experience] mean that purity comes with the consequence of selflessness? That if one is clean and pure they must be selfless?" No, no, no. the causal relationship is the other way around. It is not the selflessness that allows you to experience purity, but it is the purity of (aesthetic) experience that allows you to become self-less. Purity of (aesthetic) experience happens, when you read a great poem or watch an awesome movie, and you lose you spatio-temporal self and become the person in the poem or the movie. When I finally understood Robert Francis' Pitcher, I lost myself and became the Pitcher for a moment (the poem provided at the end of this post). Selflessness, for Blackburn, is not meant to be the opposite to selfishness. Rather it is the sublime self who is able to see things for their intrinsic values, no longer interpreting everything as an instrument to further one's needs and desires. By this way, the sublime self can also experience other values like the goodness. The hitherto self-interested self comes to understand that experiencing (doing) the good is intrinsically valuable, just as experiencing the beauty. In other words, the selflessness activated by the aesthetic experience is transmitted into the moral self (other-regarding self). This is why some argue that aesthetics is the mother of ethics (e.g., Marcia Eaton) The possibility of self-lessness through the aesthetic experience is important to Blackburn since such a possibility allows him to elaborate his projection theory. According to him, the reason that this world is a moral world, despite the absence of moral facts in this world (so-called the analytic world, world inhabited by brute facts), is that our moral values, just like aesthetic values, acquired through language games, are projected (or spread) onto the analytic world. Pitcher His art is eccentricity, his aim How not to hit the mark he seems to aim at,