Per Rule 18 (establishing the "pecking order") a power boat should probably keep out of your way, but per Rules 9 and 10 you must not impede traffic in designated traffic lanes and channels. Also, be aware that large vessels (like container ships) move deceptively fast; you want to stay well clear of them! I suggest obtaining charts for your area in case there are any special exclusion zones. They will also show the COLREGS Demarcation Lines, indicating where the Inland Rules take over. Between the charts and the brochure linked above you should be able to identify traffic lanes and channels in your area. 

I haven't seen any particular rules for boots at Philmont. I am aware of a wide range of footwear having been used, ranging from the traditional heavy high-topped boots to lightweight, low-cut trail runners. In general it seems the Philmont trails are well-maintained, and with the exceptions of places like Valle Vidal (off-trail) and Mt. Baldy (plenty of scree) the terrain should not pose any problems that demand specific footwear. This means you can fall back to the basic rules of hiking footwear: that which fits properly, does not hurt your feet, and does not cause blisters. If you have used your boots before, and have had no issues with them, I would recommend sticking with them. On the other hand, if you are buying new boots and gear for Philmont and are lacking backpacking experience, you will want to spend a few hours trying on different brands of boots and walking around in them in the store. Once a comfortable pair is found, you will then want to do a number of practice hikes. Another question will be the weight of your gear; most people wearing trail runners will likely also have reasonable pack weights (e.g. 20-30 lbs or 9-14 kg). Knowing Scouts, the packs may lean toward horrendously heavy, and that's an argument for boots with decent ankle support. A similar question was asked on BPL a few years back, so I suggest reading over the responses to that as well: $URL$ 

Comments from Aaron and StrongBad suggest this may be a country-specific thing, in particular due to being further from civilisation, and perhaps with greater public access to guns. In the UK, every walker, without exception, will talk to other walkers. To fail to say "hi" as you pass is deeply rude - and in places accessible with transport (such as the top of Snowdon) where you'll get keen walkers and day-trippers together, people blanking you is the clearest sign of whether they're walkers or they just got up there on the train. (Unsuitable footwear too, of course! :) And if you pause at a natural stopping point - a stile or trig point, say - and another walker coming past asks you where you've come from and where you're heading, again it would be seen as unusually rude to just blank them. You don't have to tell them your life story, or your full plans for the day or the next week. Partly it could be out of genuine curiosity. But partly it's a human interaction thing though. The person asking is simply acknowledging that you both have a shared interest, and that shared interest gives a common topic of conversation which otherwise you would not have. Sure, you could both talk about the weather (and that's why Brits talk about the weather - it's about the only safe shared experience we all have as a conversation opener), but you're both doing something you both enjoy, so why not chat about it briefly while you both get your breath, then move off again? I've done a lot of walking, and I rarely find people wanting to use this to show off. Show-offs don't tend to survive (often literally!) in the hills. Where you're going is purely factual. If someone is setting themselves a hard day's walking, you don't think they're boasting, you wish them luck. And if they've just got a short distance today, you say "you lucky sod, you'll be in the pub before me then". If you think they're showing off and they won't make it, you still wish them well, knowing privately that they're going to be suffering around mid-afternoon. (You can generally tell "all-the-gear-but-no-idea" folk by their pristine kit.) Mostly you won't be going in the same direction as the other person. If you're doing a long distance walk though (especially if it's a defined route), the chances are very good that you'll meet the same people as you go. Maybe you'll overtake them during the day, or they'll overtake you, or you'll just see the same people at the campsites or huts in the evenings. If you blank them during the day, things are going to be pretty damn awkward in the evening. Be human. Interact. You may not know these people from Adam, and you may never see them again in your life - but be sure that any of these other walkers will risk their neck for you if they find you in trouble. 

I find myself in agreement with the definitions listed on Climbing.com, so I have excerpted them here: 

I would recommend a site like CalTopo (my favorite) or Hillmap; you can import GPX files into them, or click on points to define a path. For Caltopo, creating a path by clicking might not be immediately obvious; first choose "Add New Object", then select "Line", and once you've edited any details you can click each waypoint or hold down shift while clicking to draw a free-hand path. Double-click to finish the path, and right-click the finished path for options such as viewing an elevation profile. Viewing the help information may be helpful. Other tools like Google Earth may also be able to provide similar information, but may not be as straightforward. Note that for each of these tools some advanced features such as slope analysis, snow depth, and so forth may rely on sensors or data only present in the US. For example, CalTopo defaults to USGS maps that do not cover Norway; switching the map to one of the Google layers would be necessary for Norwegian locations. 

You might also consider a Z-Rest, which greatly improves on the warmth of a foam mat. It also solves the problem of condensation under your mat, which afflicts both air and foam mats, by the "egg-crate" design allowing some airflow under the mat. Like other foam mats though, it is still bulky. 

In addition to the good answer from @whatsisname, don't forget about the possibility of gear and/or placement failure. If you're leading, you have precisely one piece of gear catching your fall. If that doesn't hold, you'd better hope the one below does - and that the extra slack you now have is less than the distance from that gear to the ground. If you've got a bomber gear placement, then you're probably good. If all you've managed to place is a tiny wire, and/or the rock is weak and may let your gear pull out, you need to be looking for your next placement ASAP. And don't forget that gear may come dislodged as the leader pulls the rope through. This all makes your gear placements a long way from perfect. Conversely, standard best practise for top-roping is a three-point gear placement. You've got plenty of time to choose the best places to fix your gear/slings/whatever, and you can test them to make sure it's secure. Even a two-point setup drops the risk by orders of magnitude; with a three-point setup, the risk of injury through failure of the belay itself is astronomically small. The weakest point in the link now is the belayer doing their job properly. 

Such packets are included in MREs (Meals, Ready-to-Eat) and are referred to as "flameless ration heaters". The packets contain finely powdered magnesium metal, alloyed with a small amount of iron, and table salt. Adding a small amount of water results in a salt-water electrolyte fluid that allows the magnesium and iron to rapidly react and generate heat. The standard use is to place the food packet inside a bag along with the heater packet, then add a small amount of water. The top of the bag is folded over, the bag is held level to allow the heater to soak up water, and finally the bag is placed back in the carton and left at a slight incline while the food warms. Note: Per the instructions, you should not drink the water or use it in food items. Also, the reaction produces hydrogen gas, so be cautious of breathing the fumes or using it in a confined space or near open flames. The packets weigh about 1.5oz each and are single-use, so it's usually more efficient to use traditional cooking methods (alcohol, isobutane canisters, etc.) for trips that will require more than one hot meal. ref: $URL$ 

I'm only a beginner, but... I found in my very first pool dive that losing my peripheral vision with a black silicone skirt on the mask gave me immediate and profound claustrophobia. I spent the whole dive stressed about what was around me. I went out and bought my own mask with a clear silicone skirt. Problem solved. From a practical PoV I'm well aware that I can't see clearly through the skirt, but then that's not the point of peripheral vision. Peripheral vision is designed to let you know that there's something to the sides. For me personally, I can't deal with not having that awareness. For other people (Cort Ammon above, for instance) it may be a distraction they actively don't want. For you it may be a no-big-deal either way. 

I have similar problems with an inflatable mat. With a foam mat, even if it gives slightly under pressure locations, you're still insulated. With an inflatable mat, any pressure location has a good chance of going straight through the mat and touching the ground - and at that point of course you have no insulation at all. For myself, I combine a Z-Lite underneath and a regular 8mm foam mat on top. The Z-Lite ensures you are well away from the ground, and the foam mat stops you sinking into the Z-Lite (the "egg crate" effect can be uncomfortable). The extra weight is negligible, and the end result is a perfectly-comfortable and perfectly-insulated night's sleep. The Z-Lite is also the best thing ever invented if you're camping on rough/lumpy ground - effectively there isn't competition, because everything else isn't even in the same race. And for bonus points, the Z-Lite also allows some airflow around the tent floor underneath you, so the normal problem with condensation building up under your mat doesn't happen. 

Finally, one other point you should be aware of. Fuel vapors are cause to reject a stove or empty fuel container, meaning if the screener smells white gas, out it goes. Using denatured alcohol to clean the container and leaving it in a warm spot to "bake" dry may help. For a stove, running it for a time on butane might similarly help, as mentioned in this thread. An alternate option to consider is shipping fuel to your destination ahead of time, particularly if you'll be staying at a hotel upon arrival. Having someone at your destination who can obtain or hold the fuel for you is also useful. ref: $URL$ 

A helmet tested to the EN 1385 standard is not intended for use in white water class V and VI. For those who haven't done the math, a 2.5m/s speed corresponds to only about a 0.3m drop, or about half the speed most helmets would be tested for. The reasoning is apparently due to the expectation that someone floating in water will have difficult reaching high speeds. Beyond applying impacts to different parts of the helmets there is no multiple-impact testing included in the standards. Low-speed impacts to a helmet that meets either standard will simply fail to crush the foam and the force (though distributed by the helmet rather than focused) will be passed along to the head. (Some types of multi-impact helmets might make use of materials like EPP foam instead of EPS, but the rebound behavior of EEP is still, I believe, not yet well-characterized.) References: 

If you gets gusts and choppy water, that's what we call "sailing". It happens. :) If the gusts get severe, you reef the sails, or drop the sails altogether. Note that this is still within the normal parameters of sailing. Any competent sailor should be able to deal with this, until you get to gusts so severe that a person would have problems standing upright in the wind, until something breaks, or until your boat ends up somewhere dangerous (such as a lee shore). If the boat starts to take on water and sink though, the word is founder. You were nearly there! Mayday is a radio code indicating that you are in immediate lifethreatening danger. Pan-pan is a similar code indicating that there is an emergency but you are not in immediate danger. Neither is something you'd use as a word to describe the situation. What are you actually looking for though? If you're trying to throw words at a piece of writing to make it sound authentic, I strongly suggest you don't. Unless you know what you're talking about, you're almost guaranteed to write something ridiculous, and there are enough people with basic knowledge of sailing to call you on it. If you particularly need expert guidance on how to make it sound authentic, write normally without using jargon, and then call in a friendly expert to advise you on turning it into something which actually works.