Ajahn Tong Sirimangalo (who is the teacher of @yuttadhammo, mentioned in other answers) was a student of (among others) Mahasi Saydaw and developed a course structure using Mahasi-style noting and walking/sitting meditation (2-4 weeks foundational course, 10-day retreats). He was an abbot of several temples in Thailand (Wat Ram Poeng, then moving to Chom Tong). The international section of his monastery in Chom Tong, Thailand, headed by Thanat Chindaporn, coordinates a number of teachers and retreat centers around the world: Germany ($URL$ Israel ($URL$ Czech Republic ($URL$ IIRC Mexico, plus a number of occasional retreat events elsewhere (Brazil, France, ...). 

Do vipassana, a retreat if possible. In every moment you have a memory, know that it is a memory, know about feelings which are coming up and so on. Your mind is in the habit of believing the images, but in fact what you see is just mental noise. Maybe you had past lives like that, but it does not matter (I bet you think it does matter; that's exactly the power these images have over you). The training in returning back to the present moment (by acknowledging whatever is happening and letting it go, time and again) will gradually break the attachment of mind to those images, so you will be able to stay more stable even if these images come. Whatever in the mind is not a hindrance to be present, if seen clearly for what it is (body sensation, feeling, mind, mind object -- technically speaking); present cannot be destroyed but we are sometimes unable to tune in back to it, and that's why we train. As a side note: if your condition is psychiatric (you are not able to take care of yourself in regular matters, often can't distinguish hallucinations from reality etc), do seek proper treatment first. 

But when we think even deeper, if both mind and body are 'sankhara', then who is the 'being' within our minds, who travels through this eternity of existence? This 'being' that some refer simply (and quite wrongly) as an 'Āthma' or in other ways as 'existence'? If 'Āthma' or 'existence' is Sankhara, then how does it endlessly exist? Sure it changes from one existence to another, but it is endlessly existing , which contradicts the nature of 'Sankhara' itself, making 'our existence' immortal. It is like a man travelling from house to house. The house breaks down, but the man is eternally travelling. Who is this man, and how is he eternally travelling, is he is also 'Sankhara'? Shouldn't he also end at some point or the other? In this analogy, the man is the 'existence', and the house symbolizes our body and mind. I know this is very confusing material, but I consider this site a realm filled with knowledgeable beings. I would find myself very happy to find any number of meaningful replies. Thankyou!!! 

Note that in 1. and 2. you are supposed to manipulate your experience as a part of the training, where as in point 3 (vipassana), non-manipulation is essential. It is very important to be aware of this context, otherwise people might use meditation instruction in daily life (e.g. being mindful of pain or other's suffering instead of going to see doctor or helping someone). During vipassana practice, you should be aware of things happening; this might include what you conventionally think you do, such as stretching or relaxing, but actually happening in a way by themselves (that is one of the 3 characteristics - anatta, non-self or non-controllability), though we are often in habit of ascribing them to ourselves and making ourselves guilty of such actions, thinking we are performing "badly". Before you relax, try to become aware of feelings taking you there (disliking, maybe feeling of helplessness, thoughts about the pain never going away, craving for peace or similar - dunno) which actually make you want to relax. And if you relax anyway, be mindful of judging thoughts or whatever else comes afterwards. As others said, fulfillment from the practice is something very hard to measure and is definitely not co-extensive with good feelings during the practice. In the long run, you actually want to bring bad feelings up (so that you deal with them), a little bit in the line of "no pain, no gain", but let the practice take you there, it does its own thing quite well if you don't interfere :) (PS: I attribute the 3 trainings discussion and difference in goals they have to D. Ingram's Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha.) 

According to Buddhism, there are five orders or processes (Niyama Dharma) which operate in the physical and mental realms. They are: Utu Niyama - physical inorganic order, e.g. seasonal phenomena of winds and rains. The unerring order of seasons, characteristic seasonal changes and events, causes of winds and rains, nature of heat, etc., all belong to this group. Bija Niyama - order of germs and seeds (physical organic order), e.g. rice produced from rice-seed, sugary taste from sugar-cane or honey, peculiar characteristics of certain fruits, etc. The scientific theory of cells and genes and the physical similarity of twins may be ascribed to this order. Karma Niyama - order of act and result, e.g., desirable and undesirable acts produce corresponding good and bad results. As surely as water seeks its own level so does Karma, given opportunity, produce its inevitable result, not in the form of a reward or punishment but as an innate sequence. This sequence of deed and effect is as natural and necessary as the way of the sun and the moon. Dhamma Niyama - order of the norm, e.g., the natural phenomena occurring at the advent of a Bodhisattva in his last birth. Gravitation and other similar laws of nature. The natural reason for being good and so forth, may be included in this group. Citta Niyama - order or mind or psychic law, e.g., processes of consciousness, arising and perishing of consciousness, constituents of consciousness, power of mind, etc., including telepathy, telaesthesia, retro-cognition, premonition, clairvoyance, clairaudience, thought-reading and such other psychic phenomena which are inexplicable to modern science. The Buddha says: 

Some insight into 3 characteristics is gained at every stage, though the depth (and thus the transformative power) of this insight is different, and also type of objects in which 3c are seen are different as one moves through the stages of insight. One goes forward through the stages by understanding more and more of 3c. 

(With the risk that this only corresponds to a certain interpretation of Theravada buddhism, in particular based on Mahasi Saydaw and Sayadaw U Pandita's texts.) Nibbana is "state" when mental processes (samsara, uniterrupted moment-to-moment arising of conscious experience) cease, thus it is a "state" called supramundane, outside of time & space. It is said to have a profound impact on how one relates to experience and can be achieved through vipassana (contemplation practice). Vissudhimagga describes 16 stages of insight naturally occuring during contemplation and the knowledge of fruition (phala-nana, #15) is just this. The reason why I put "state" and "experience" in quotation marks is that the "moment" is missing from consciousness (like discontinuity in time which you only realize when it's gone). "It" is never achieved permanently but its purification effects are lasting. The very first "experience" of nibbana is called stream-entry (sotapatti) and it can be attained repeatedly through practice. The Buddha said that Nibbana is achieved through vipassana (which cultivates wisdom, and rests upon morality/personality and concentration), as explained in other answers in more detail. 

In addition, I would like to recommend you to follow Ven. Ajahn Brahmawamso's YouTube channel and read his publications. It is an easy method for new converts to understand the basic concepts in buddhism in an easy way. Visit Ven.Ajahn Brahmawamso's YouTube channel! 

Every volitional action of individuals, save those of Buddhas and Arahants, is called Karma. The exception made in their case is because they are delivered from both good and evil; they have eradicated ignorance and craving, the roots of Karma. According to the Niyama Dharmas, the 2nd which is "Bija Niyama" does indicate a determinant force which is inherited by the parents. But in my opinion, it is not a hypothetical idea that what our parents do right here right now or in the far away past, affects us today in the present! No it does not. It is more about what we inherit - by that I mean our genetical inheritance. And that is predetermined by our own Karma : which is the 3rd Niyama Dharma - "Karma Niyama". Our actions bear results. And they are partly what we inherit in a next existence. So the answer goes as such All that we experience begins with thought. Our words and deeds spring from thought. If we speak or act with evil thoughts, unpleasant circumstances and experiences inevitably result. So have pure thoughts, and the results will be pure! Nothing to worry about our parents' deeds! 

My approach personally is lot of practice (daily & retreats), and picking up theory if/as needed. Otherwise it is just dry scholasticism, and I've had enough of that already. 

The Chom Tong tradition (linked in the answer above for Thailand already) also has a number of centers in Europe and around (incomplete list): 

Metta is a type of samatha (tranquility, concentration; 2nd training) practice (with a particular object: loving-kindness), so it feels good and has other benefits -- but it does not produce any insight/wisdom. It is not a criticism, it is simply not its goal (just like eating does not produce wisdom, but is still something very useful). I've seen people doing "too much metta", as an escape from looking at negative stuff they had inside, in particular hatred they were unaware of and could not deal with. As you say that it feels addicting, be aware of attachment to those mind-states (attachment to jhanas is removed only at the moment of final enlightenment -- says the theory of 10 fetters) as much as possible. What produces insight/wisdom, and also removes negative conditions (incl. attachments), is vipassana (3rd training). Take good care to do enough Vipassana, that's what ultimately brings more understanding about oneself and better life. 

When I contemplate these deep words, I feel that 'Sankhara' means 'things that are conditioned, impermanent, ever changing and not reliable sources of happiness'. Wikipedia defines 'Sankhara' as follows: 

It maybe a very confusing question. But I have been contemplating this quite a lot recently. Ven. Ajahn Chah preached, as the Lord Buddha once said : 

My opinion is that there is no such gradation. Actions begin with a thought or Chēthanā. These are the seeds that determines the eventual actions. So if our Chēthanā are pure it will lead to pure actions. If they are impure, the actions will be impure. 

Hence, as these verses quite clearly justifies, thought precedes all actions. Since thoughts cannot be graded, it is more so the quality rather than the quantity of the thought that really matters. Forget all the jargon that comes with the precepts and rules. Follow your heart. Ask yourself truly, at the very point of thought, "Is this what I really want to do? Does this go against my self conscience and pure gut feeling? Does the action that comes with this thought hurt me, others and both above mentioned parties?" . If the answers are satisfying, then put that thought into action. It will bring good. Life is not like a game of basketball or cricket where a judge keeps score. It all comes from the strength of the thought itself. If your thought is strong enough, you can even attain higher Pāramitās or 'states of perfection' which are stepping stones to Nibbana. 

When training mindfulness (Vipassana), there are 4 foundations of mindfulness: body, feelings, mind, mental objects. "Mental objects" (also "mind objects", or "mind qualities") are usually sub-divided into 5 hindrances and 7 factors of enlightenment. Fear (also under the name of anxiety, worry, depending on translation) is one of the 5 hindrances. When practicing Vipassana based on 4 foundations of mindfulness (such as in the Mahasi tradition), fear is definitely something to be contemplated (acknowledged), acquainted with, mindful of. By acknowledging it every time it arises, it loses (some of) its magic power it has over an untrained mind, and is seen progressively more and more as a "mental object", something which passes through the mind; thus is the mind purified of fear. If you want the canonical text, here you go: From Maha-satipatthana Sutta: