Here Nietzsche describes his feeling about idols - most are not real (idols illustrate or claim a particular reality, but they cannot all be correct. In their number they provide too many different, contradicting claims). 

I Second Chris Sunami, and I would like to add that everything we observe and do as humans is natural (additionally, setting up a dichotomy between what is natural and not only leads to strange forms of domination and humans inability to cope with environmental concerns). As Leslie Thiele and George Carlin, among many others, note, humans and their experiences are natural. "Human genetic adaptation and cultural development have mutually reinforced each other from time immemorial" (Thiele 1999, 11). Put another way, plastic bags are part of evolution and nature, as are fatherhood, morals, and contraceptives. Birth control and cultural mores are not man's triumph over nature nor separate from it, we are naturally created and what we create is natural. "Our sophisticated brains and rational capacities that challenge primitive drives are neither independent from our genes nor wholly antagonistic to them. Indeed, they are the consequence of the proper functioning of our genes" (Theile 199, 22). Fatherhood is as natural as blinking, motherhood, blue eyes, lions, tigers and bears. Now, if you are interested in discussing the nature of human, and not whether cultural features are natural, you may quickly observe that most things are not consistent across all societies. For instance, Karl Friedrich (1963) identifies only six basic traits of human and explains that they offer no systematic insight into how we order society. Thus, beyond forming communities, adaptability, experiencing oneself as self, communicating with others through language, and reason, human society has no other basic consistencies. We may use these basic traits to create fatherhood or not. Similarly, we stand on these basic traits to form motherhood, friendship, love, hot food, etc. In other words, fatherhood like motherhood and hot food, are not basic human traits, but nothing beyond these six could be considered basic or the nature of human. So identifying human nature provides little insight into whether our customs, culture and behavior are valid or natural. Nevertheless, if you deviate from Friedricks six characteristics of society, lets say you do not have a sense of yourself or communicate through language, you are only now acting, in some sense, against basic nature (but with time our view of basic nature could always change, and this would be natural). Furthermore, humans are genetically disposed to develop more complex brains, culture and moral understandings that "challenge unmediated drives" (Theile 1999, 15), which means searching for basic human factors does not tell us about what is man's natural condition nor will it help inform his normative stance. Finally, if someone attempts to say something about the nature of human primitiveness before society existed, they are describing a different species and misleading you. The article you cited mentions that agrarian settlements were the moment of social formation, but this is inaccurate as many nomadic tribes today and in the past had social aspects and fatherhood roles (see Timbuktu). 

How they were made You could classify AI into those that were developed 'by man' and those that were developed using evolutionary algorithms and/or machine learning. Deep blue, was programmed with a defined set of rules, whereas the Google AI 'DeepMind' that can win at 'Go' is much more of an evolutionary algorithm, and effectively taught itself to win. 

Facts includes the existence of all things, but also all provable properties and behaviors of all things. Imagine a universe made up of only a teacup and a hammer. Things: 

The problem you're having with that statement is that it's ambiguous. I suggest the follow two possible interpretations of your statement, one of which is impossible, one is completely valid. I believe to understand it, you need to specify which meaning you mean. 

Finally, Nietzsche often references Napoleon, Dostoevsky, Victor Hugo, and Richard Wagner throughout his works and discusses the former two's strength and the latter's weaknesses. For instance, in the Twilight of Idols and within the chapter "Skirmishes of an Untimely Man," paragraph/aphorism 1 titled, "My impossible Ones" Nietzsche lists several writers and thinkers including Victor Hugo and reduces each to a negative quip, often about their foolish romanticism or logic. In paragraph/aphorism 44, "My conception of Genius," he discuss Napoleon and his genius that was allowed to emerge because of particular moment in time. 

I believe he uses the phrase "philosophizing with a hammer" to illustrate the process of checking whether idols are 'sound' or 'hallow', whether they are deserving of their status as an idol, such as the strong-willed Dostoevsky and Napoleon, or undeserving weak-willed, 'false idols' like Victor Hugo and Richard Wagner. For more on what constitutes the strong and weak or how to test an idol, perhaps pose another question. Evidence: Because this is a fairly well accepted notion of philosophizing with a hammer I will not go into great detail providing evidence for my claim. Nietzsche is a very straight forward philosopher and his words in the preface of the book, The Twilight of Idols, Or Philosophizing with a Hammer, typically speak for themselves. 

Have a friend sit on the other side of a curtain with a box of tokens. have them pick a number of tokens (x) but not tell you how many they have picked. Ask them if they can form a rectangle with those tokens. Repeat the experiment, ensuring that at some point they choose 2 tokens 

Although we take these things to granted, we do allow for them to be disproved or to proved to be lacking; if new evidence arises that does so; but we may not seek that evidence out. Many of these theories are proven 'beyond reasonable doubt' but may never be proved to be 'absolutely true' 

Mr. Black is committing the fallacy of over-generalisation. Because it is clear that there are some claims that must be 'accepted' without evidence. Otherwise Mr. Black must deny all the axioms of mathematics and science. There is no evidence that always equals . There is no evidence that if . These are Axioms that we take to be true without evidence. 

In metaphor, Nietzsche describes how the hammer is used, like a 'tuning fork' to examine idols naturally looked upon for many years or centuries and evaluate their quality. Humanity's idols who are truly strong should be timeless, and not merely a coincidence of their time. Rather than take for granted that historic figures heralded today are indeed great, Nietzcshe believes we should investigate and assess them more closely. Here is another example of the hammer's role, in a section from Thus Spoke Zarathustra's poem "The Hammer Speaks" 

Daniel Dennett has nicely provided answers to the question of determinism. He claims that determinism and inderterminism are not incompatible. Fundamentally, we cannot definitively answer the question, nor does it make a difference if things are determined or not. Either way, we are morally obligated. Nevertheless, your logic for a deterministic universe is problematic. You say that a copy has the same rules as what it is copied from, therefore because the rules do not change the universe is determined. I don't see the logic? Football has the same rules copied from one game to the next, but each game is different and prior to the end, the outcome is unknown. The same rules mean that the constraints are the same, but it doesn't delineate all the opportunities or determine how the rules are used. Is a mathematical function for social relations obtainable? The very probability that math is correct hinges on the fact that some things are impossible to prove (Gödel's incompletness theorem), thus an all knowing mathematical genius would be unable to predict the future with math. If she knew everything about math (the ability to prove it all), math would be a contradiction and not useful for prediction. If she didn't know everything in math (couldn't prove it all) she would also not be all knowing, and would again be unable to predict the future. There cannot be a being with predictive mathematical determinism. A paradox like you posed points out that such a being cannot exist (for other examples of paradoxes that illustrate that something is false see the village barber paradox). 

You're missing information on whether or not A AND C is representative of A and representative of B. I.e. it could be that A AND C represents 49% of A, and 49% of C, and that NONE of them are B. Let's try an example: 

You can't really identify a logical fallacy unless someone makes a claim, and the only claim your question describes is this: 

Almost all scientific theories are taken 'for granted' we don't have to re-test them every time we come to a conclusion that relies upon them being true. I.e. if I want to test whether Ball A is bouncier than Ball B, I assume that the laws of motion apply equally to both balls, and that acceleration due to gravity is the same for both, etc.. 

A world without randomness presupposes many things and is impossible to assess, but assuming that the only thing that has changed is our knowledge that the world is not random we can then try to evaluate free will. So, what is free will? For the sake of argument, we can call it the ability of agents to make unimpeded choices. Obviously all choices are impeded to some extent by our experience, but we want to know whether randomness is what allows our choices. This is where the premise is obviously silly. Randomness has no logical connection to choice. Just because I make a calculated decision, one that is not random, would not inherently mean I did not make the decision. How can I make a particular choice, if my choice is random. Agency, is far more deep and controversial than a debate between randomness and determinism. For instance, what determines our actions are often well illustrated as not random, in fact in social science and psychology we often see the causation behind action, but that does not necessarily take away agency. For example, I may choose one job over another because of very concrete, non-random reasons like salary (a value shown by society), but that does not inherently mean I didn't make the choice unimpeded. If I randomly decided which job, I would not illustrate free will, all that happened was chance. Second, even if my choices are caused by non-random circumstance, that does not mean that circumstances do not create agency. Physical reactions may create a quality of agency as defined above that then follows non-random behaviors. Finally, we live in a world with more or less free will. For instance, a trafficked prostitute has more agency than a prostitute that is not trafficked (much of this is determined by the discourse of how states define women and prostitution). In the most meaningful way, one person can have less impeded choices than others, which illustrates, regardless of randomness or determinism, free will. 

Whilst I agree with most of what he says, I believe that there is potentially a 'Straw-Man' hiding in here. 

We also have 'Axioms' in science, like we do in mathematics. Some of these 'Basic Assumptions' are things like "There are natural causes for things that happen in the world around us", "Evidence from the natural world can be used to learn about those causes.", and "There is consistency in the causes that operate in the natural world." 

i.e. if you had two stones, you cannot arrange them into rows and columns to form a rectangle; therefore two is a prime number. Unless you can find a way to make 2 stones form a rectangle, it is a prime number. We can use this to address the 'philosophy' aspect of your question, you are effectively attacking the 'divisible by other numbers' aspect of your definition of prime, however my definition dispenses entirely with the concept of dividing by anything, and still gives us a complete list of 'prime numbers' which includes '2'. Even in a theoretical universe where the number of numbers less than x is indeterminable (i.e. there may or may not be numbers less than x) it is still possible to independently verify whether or not x is prime using this method, therefore the 'primeness' of 2 can be verified regardless of the fact there are no whole numbers between 1 and 2 In fact, we can prove this is in our own mundane universe with an experiment: