This is close to my goto answer for tyre issues. Tyres designed for touring use are meant for higher loads and inflation pressures. I run marathon plus on my commuter hybrid. They make a 26x2.0 version which is rated to a load of 260lb per tyre and 70psi inflation (which you could probably exceed a little). It's possble that won't fit your rim (see Sheldon Brown) or your frame/mudguards (flip the bike over and pad the tyre out to test it). But you could go a step thinner. As you've noted, your weight isn't split equally between the tyres - the back wheel carries more load. 

I'm surprised this hasn't been asked before, but as a general rule, is a single rear pannier or a backpack (of similar sizes) more aerodynamic on a hybrid or MTB? Even on flat bars drag is much more than (road) rolling resistance for sensible speeds, and small changes could be significant. I'm specifically considering a backpack narrower than my shoulders, and except on fast descents or into a headwind I have a fairly upright posture. I also have quite wide bars. My general preference is for a pannier but with a couple of longish (50--70 km / 30--45 mi) rides coming up I'd like to optimise for effort. 

It depends on a lot of things, like how fit you are to start with and how well the bike fits you. The same distance can be a very different amount of effort depending on the surface, incline etc. But as a general rule (and assuming you're in decent health) tired is fine, muscle aches are to be expected, but don't ignore pain especially in your joints. As with any new exercise, do build in some rest days, and expect to build up what you can do. 

I commute on clipless for the suburban/commuter belt section of my commute. When I get off the train and ride in city traffic I'm on platforms, so I have a foot almost literally in both camps. Where I don't ride clipless, it's less than 2km on the bike, with 6 sets of traffic lights. But platform pedals are not created equally and your shoes matter too. The platforms I ride on daily are moulded plastic from wellgo. Some trainers grip them OK, but nothing grips them well. On family holidays I swap my clipless pedals for some cheap bent steel platforms. They're great. Wet trainers, hiking boots etc just don't slide on them. (Evans own brand). I've come off a few times commuting, and only once was not being clipped much use (a car pulled in and sideswiped me, somehow I landed on my feet on the pavement). Other times, even if I got my foot down first, it didn't do much if any good. If I was optimising a bike for inner city commuting now, I'd probably go for carefully chosen platforms, and pick shoes to go nicely with them (though I'd give half clips a go). 

If your current tyres are knobbly right out to the shoulders and your new ones much smoother you might get away with it. But you won't know until you try it by which point you've bought at least one tyre. Other options: 

where there's about 3 mm (and that filled up with mud today) There are 2" tyres for mud, but they're reputed to have a harsh ride on anything else, and not grip well on wet rock/tree roots -- something I need at my skill level as my lines aren't up to much and I don't always carry enough speed. This is the only bike I've owned with a top-pull FD. And I can see why they've used one rather than have cables under the BB getting coated in mud and even bashed. But it takes up much more room than any of the bottom-pull FD's I've got. Is it because it's a cheap FD? Because it's a triple? It's an Altus 3×9 drivetrain. Is there an upgrade that would gain me a few mm? 

I think a top bag for even a small laptop will be tricky - a shame really because the top section of the all-in-one touring pannier towers would be plenty big enough so it's not impossible. I use an Altura laptop pannier set well back (there's some adjustment). I've got big feet (and a big bike) and my heel doesn't hit it (platform pedals). The cheap big pannier (something like £8 on ebay including postage) does get in the way of my other foot if I'm not very careful how I fit it. Because this is meant for big laptops my 11" netbook fits sideways leaving lots of room for other stuff (a full change of clothes is easy, smart shoes rather more awkward to get in) The rack is a topeak, and there's a little bit of tilt adjustment when you fit the rack to the bike, allowing you to gain another tiny bit of margin if you're worried I went through a puddle that was almost up to my bb the other day,feet were wet, pannier contents dry. 

In the outer pieces, open up the pilot holes to clearance holes, and in the middle piece, tap the holes (you will probably want to make sure the pilot holes break out the other side. Screw sizes could be M4 or M5 (stainless cap head screws are on ebay in small packs) to use hex key sizes that are used elsewhere on bikes. 

This is a collection of thoughts rather than a real answer, but pictures don't work in comments. Some v-brake pads have permanent shoes in which are fixed replaceable pads. I'm sure I've used some in which the stud was a normal M6 bolt, which you could swap out by removing the rubber pad. However the ones I currently run (Kool Stop) use a custom-headed bolt: 

The combination of disc brakes and full mudguards on my tourer means I'll need to space the left lowrider rack at least 30mm from the fork. On the right I'll only need 5--10mm. Should I space them equally from the point of view of handling? The panniers for the first trip will be fairly lightly loaded and will be different: one will be my Altura Morph that converts into a backpack because I'll need a backpack when I arrive; the other will be a slightly fatter roll-top. I've already got the rack, having used it on my hybrid. With a single front pannier the handling was awful at low speeds (but I also had a child on the back) so I'm wary about getting it wrong for a longer ride. 

No. Here's a vague, handwavy descrption of why: A dehumidifier will reduce how much vapour (oil or water, so long as the boiling point and saturation vapour pressure at room temperatureare appropriate) is in the air. In the case of water, which is in plentiful supply, there's usually enough vapour in the air to affect the rate of evaporation, because there are plenty of sources, both natural and man-made. In the case of oils, the amount present in the air is so low that reducing it further will have no effect on the amount that can evaporate. Where the dehumidifier might have an effect is that it blows out slightly warm air (assuing it's working fairly hard). The extra heat might just be enough to increase the rate of evaporation, but in practice I'd be surprised if the temperature of a bit of bike in the output flow of a dehumidifer could get 5°C above ambient -- much less than leaving it in the sun. 

The thing I've found most effective for removing the smell from gloves (including leather gym gloves in the past) is home brewing steriliser. Soak for a couple of hours and then wash however you wash the rest of your kit. I believe baby bottle steriliser is the same thing. You might worry about soaking your gloves if they're leather, but they get just as wet in the rain. If they're expensive some form of leather treatment afterwards might be a good idea