In dependent origination, 'jati' ('birth') refers to the conception & production of the view of 'beings' ('satta') based in the beguiling appearance & manifestations of various aggregates and the mind seized by & enslaved to sense objects (ayatana). Comprehending 're-birth' is therefore necessary to understand the Buddha's message & to reach enlightenment. The Buddha did not teach the two truths doctrine. The defiled/polluted mundane right view in MN 117 is not really 'the truth' because it is defiled with upadhi (attachment;self-views). It is only a right view that accords with morality (rather than accords with Nibbana). 'The two truths' were developed a little later on by Buddhaghosa. However, again the two truths of Buddhaghosa are not really both truth because one truth is how the truth really is and the other truth is the worldly interpretation by the unenlightened. Buddhaghosa said: 

'Reminding oneself' is called 'mindfulness'. The wisdom (panna) used with reminding oneself is called 'sampajanna' ('situational wisdom'). 'Reminding onself about impermanence' is called 'anicca sanna'. 'Anicca sanna' is a preliminary practice (mentioned in MN 62 & MN 118) & particularly useful when there is a very strong hindrance that one cannot control and thus must endured; patiently waiting for the energy of the hindrance to dissipate & dissolve. It is also done whenever necessary when something must be endured or when something is lost. Such as when you dislike a poster on the internet or lose a debate on the internet. You can think: "This internet is impermanent; this debate is impermanence". For example, you have a good meditation, which then ceases, due to hindrances. If the mind clings to the good meditation wishing to have it all the time, one can reflect on impermanence to get rid of the craving. Or if your mother nags you to do your chores, you reflect: "This nagging is impermanent; the sound is impermanent; doing the chores is impermanent". 

In Buddhism, actions based in greed, hatred & delusion are 'bad' or 'unwholesome' because they are destuctive. They do not come from your own mind but are universal realities. 

Of course this is not false speech. Often it is difficult to write an accurate question. After an answer is given, the questioner may become more clear in their mind about what they really intend to ask. Therefore, the questioner modifies the question. The precept about honest speech is for not creating confusion, harm & deception in important relationships, such as a husband lying to his wife; or politicians in the world lying about fake terrorist acts so they can start a fake war; or fake monks lying about being a real monk. However, the example given here about changing questions & answers, after reflection or reconsideration, is not false speech because it is not harming any one. 

The five hindrances is a teaching for meditators &, originally, obviously primarily for monks. Therefore, the worldly desires mentioned are generally not relevant to the life of a monk. The point of sensual desire is, obviously, it is a biologically based desire (in relation to sex & food) that is difficult to extinguish. As for some of the other examples in the question, such as "I should have done otherwise", "why did she say so to me", "I need to find a solution", "I must improve", these appear to be examples of the hindrance of restlessness & remorse. "Why did she say so to me" could also be ill-will. 

The basic values of Buddhism are found in the Noble Eightfold Path, which can be read at this link: $URL$ More teachings about values, particular for lay people (non-monks), can be read in the following links: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ Note: You should be very careful to not get into arguments at your meditation centre about Buddhist values (since many Buddhists are not learned about Buddhist values & want to learn their own values by meditating). 

Even good families often do not agree with a child pursing Dhamma. Dhamma practitioners practise for their own salvation and do not allow any unnecessary impediments; including family. 

Implicit in sexual fantasies is the underlying wrong view that the actions in the sexual fantasy are not harmful & will bring happiness to both sides. The Dhamma states in many places that sexual liberalism or sexual promiscuity harms, defiles & degrades women. 

The Puttamansa Sutta lists four nutriments for the sustenance of beings (sattānaṃ) who have come to be (bhūtānaṃ) and for the support of beings seeking to be (sambhavesīnaṃ), namely: 

Many people are interested in living forever (eg Christians) because such people do not think living is suffering. Instead, they wish to spend forever with their loved ones. That is why they are not queuing up to practise Buddhism. My impression is Buddhists are similar, in that they wish to believe in reincarnation so they can live more lives. That is why most Buddhists are not practising the path, hardcore, but preaching that Buddhists must believe in reincarnation, rebirth, whatever. Also, Buddhism does not state making merit ends suffering (SN 12.51) so what is its relevance? Also, Buddhism does not state all beings are destined for enlightenment (AN 10.95). Imo, the questions are an extreme & pointless misrepresentation of Buddhism. If the questioner truly believe they were suffering, they would be a monk urgently putting out the suffering, like as if their hair was on fire. 

No person has ever saved all sentient beings or emptied the hells, including any Buddhas. It would be expected a Buddha would teach what is possible & achievable. A person that has not completed their Path cannot be a Buddha. 

In Buddhism, monks are forbidden to kill a person or instruct to kill a person, for any reason. But for Buddhist laypeople, taking life is a training rule rather than a commandment. Buddhism does not prohibit people from doing their duty to protect their family & nation. A monk informs people about the potential results of their actions (kamma); that is all. The Buddha taught kamma is intention. If killing is done from a greedy or hateful intention, this is bad kamma. But if killing is done with compassion for life, this is not bad kamma. The results of kamma are only known within the heart. The heart knows. For example, the people in this video are heroes. It can be seen with the heart how their hearts have compassion rather than hatred & violence. These people defeated foreign terrorists & restored their nation to civility & normality (rather than harmed people). After they won, the many people celebrated Xmas & dancing with freedom, as shown in this video. 

The Pali suttas say unwholesome states are caused by ignorance (rather than by a person or self). You can reflect as follows: "this anger & despair are produced by ignorance". 

The above is meditation upon the first 4 links of dependent origination. When the sankhara (2nd link) are all calmed & clear, this is samatha. When ignorance (1st link) is reduced or eradicated due to seeing the four noble truths & the impermanence, unsatisfactoriness & not-self of the five aggregates, this is vipassana. 

Temporary ego death & stream entry are not necessarily the same thing. Temporary 'ego death' can occur in different ways that are not 'stream entry'. For example, temporary ego death can occur from taking drugs. Buddhist stream-entry includes two major characteristics: 

Where as the teachings about ending "I-making" and "my-making (ahaṅkāra & mamaṅkāra) represent the highest truth about freedom from suffering (Nibbana). In summary, 'self-respect' is a statement of conventional mundane reality where as the destruction of "I-making" and "my-making" is a statement of ultimate supramundane reality. The way to keep self respect without showing ego is to comprehend the word 'self' is only a word, only a convention & not something inherently real, as explained in SN 1.25. 

The word 'karma' means 'intentional action' and, based on the quality of intention, there will be results. For example, there is the intention to make money via an investment. If the investment is successful, there will be happiness over the result; if the investment fails, there will be disappointment. This happiness & disappointment is the result of the intention or wishfulness. 

This 'self-belief' or 'concept' is a thought that is known or observed by 'consciousness'. Just as consciousness is not the thought of a 'dog' or 'tree', consciousness (which observes) is not the thought of 'self', 'I' or 'me'. The thought is a separate thing to the consciousness. There is no evidence of anything living on beyond the ending of the activity of 'the' brain (not 'my' brain). The totally lame analogy about a candle flame going from one candle to the next which explains nothing was not an analogy spoken by the Buddha. Buddhism teaches the five aggregates are impermanent. When the activity of life (the aggregates) ends, that's it. If the mind can fully realise & accept all life ends, it will be at peace. That is all that needs to be done. Please read the Anatta-Lakkhana Sutta and the Maggavagga and be free from doubt. 

There no contradiction. The opening post contains a serious misunderstanding. There is one primary sutta where the Buddha remains silent. This was for the sole reason the listener (Vacchagotta) was unable to understand, i.e., 'bewildered'. Vacchagotta asked the question: "Is there a self (atta)? Is there no self (nanatta)"? (kinnu kho bho gotama, atthattāti...Kiṃ pana bho gotama, natthattāti.) It was Vacchagotta that defined the words or terms used in the discussion (rather than the Buddha). Vacchagotta was not asking a question about Buddhism but asking a question based on certain non-Buddhist doctrines. Vacchagotta did not ask about the Buddhist 'anatta'. Please carefully read the relevant sutta below: 

The teaching of 'good & bad kamma' is not Buddhist but is merely a conventional & universal understanding about 'personal' behavior found in most cultures & religions that is also part of Buddhism. The doctrine of kamma in Buddhism is called 'lokiya dhamma', which means a 'mundane' or 'worldly' understanding based on the view of 'self' or 'persons'. To the contrary, the suttas state (eg. MN 56) that the unique or special teaching of the Buddhas is the Four Noble Truths, which includes the Noble Eightfold Path that ends kamma (refer to AN 6.63). The Noble Eightfold Path ends kamma because its fruition renders all kamma as 'not-self' ('anatta'). Such understanding in Buddhism is called 'lokuttara dhamma', meaning 'transcendent', 'supramundane' or 'beyond the world'. Thus, according to 'lokuttara dhamma', suffering is impersonally caused by the element of ignorance according to the process of Dependent Origination. In short, the Acela Sutta answers the question exactly. Note: the Acela Sutta states the view that suffering is 'self-caused' is a form of 'Eternalism' and the view that suffering is 'other-caused' is a form of 'Annihilationism'. 

As for not meeting personal desires or expectations, we can only reflect upon the noble truths & dependent origination, how craving/expectation causes suffering and how human life is often controlled by ignorance. Often, we make mistakes, miss opportunities or simply do not achieve what is wanted because ignorance is a common thing affecting all beings (except Buddhas). Here, we practise reflection upon the imperfection (dukkhata) of life. Here we practise metta & compassion towards ourself. 

Both have a Trinity or Triple Gem. Buddha reveals/makes known the Dhamma (Truth & Nibbana), the path to which is represented by the Sangha, who live the Holy Way of Life (Brahmacariyaṃ). Jesus reveals/makes known the Father, of which the Holy Spirit is the way. Both teach a disciple may attain the same realisation as the teacher. 

An effect is a cause because it is an effect that is the cause of a cause being defined as a 'cause'. In other words, since a cause is dependent upon an effect to be defined as a 'cause', an effect is the cause of a cause & an effect and is therefore a cause. A cause is similar. Since a cause is also an effect and since an effect is also a cause, there are not really any true causes & true effects. This is merely intellectual gymnastics & not the experience of meditation. In meditation, the mind sees causes creating effects, such as feelings causing craving or feeling & craving stimulating attachment or refined smooth long breathing causing calmness. These ideas of Nagarjuna are from thinking rather than from observation. In meditation, the mind does not really see 'causes' & 'effects'. Instead, the mind sees one 'phenomena' stimulating another 'phenomena'. To think in the manner of Nagarjuna is alien to contemplation (observation) meditation. If there was not the belief X causes the effect Y the path would never be practised because it would not be believed practising the path causes liberation. In fact, the only reason Nagarjuna must have formulated his idiosyncratic philosophies was for those philosophies to cause a positive effect. If Nagarjuna was actually not seeking to cause a positive effect from his idiosyncratic philosophies then that philosophizing was in vain & for no purpose. Nagarjuna was often very illogical why Nagarjuna is so easy to refute. The refutations of Nagarjuna could be as lengthy as his idiosyncratic philosophies. 

You just finished a retreat. Give everything time to settle down. Currently, you are taking it all far too seriously. Obviously, you had an arduous experience. Tears of relief; possibly some catharsis. There is no need to be concerned. Give 'anicca' ('impermanence') a long term view; such as one month for those 'sankharas' to settle down. 'Sankhara' does not (exclusively) mean 'intention'. 'Sankhara' is any kind of mental formation, including non-intentional or automatic instinctual emotions. For example. when the mind goes into 'shock' due to an accident, this is not intentional. Similarly, during an intense retreat, emotions will arise that are not intentional. It appears that a few emotions, more or less, is not going to increase or reduce the sankharas stored within your mind in any significant way. I suggest, for the next few weeks, to forget the teachings you heard & return to some ordinary activity, particularly some physical exercise to burn off & settle the emotions & hyperactivity. 

There are three basic vedana (feelings), namely: (i) pleasant; (ii) unpleasant; & (iii) neither-pleasant-nor-unpleasant; as follows: 

MN 37 most briefly summarises the entire teachings as: "Nothing ought to be attached to (as I, me or mine)". This is the essence of Buddhist enlightenment. 

Of course society is the follower of Mara. In India, for 100s of years, there has been the evil caste system, with millions of people living in condemned institutionalized poverty. For thousands of years, there is war after war. Only 70 years ago, 50 million people were slaughtered in a world war, including fire & nuclear bombings of civilian cities. The current world has technology to be able to feed & house every person, but there remains war, poverty, greed, abuse. Nations & peoples lives are destroyed in unprovoked wars, such as in Iraq, Libya & Syria. The public internet has evil pornography on it, which governments allow & the people do not object to. The word is full of broken families. Slavery and slave labour has returned. A mafia of billionaires has just become the USA govt; which replaced a murderous war mongering government. Yet most of the American people agree with one of those governments. Of course society is the follower of Mara. 

My advice is this is the right noble path; the path of utter impermanence (anicca) taught in SN 22.59, which resulted in the first five arahant disciples. The last words of the Buddha were: "All things are subject to vanish" (DN 16). The first words of the first stream-enterer were: "All that is subject to arising & subject to cessation" (SN 56.11) The suttas clearly state any views about reincarnation are not the noble path (MN 117). This question is illogical because believers in reincarnation can never be Noble Dhamma practitioners because they can never view impermanence to the degree required for the fruition of dispassion (viraga) & Nibbana, as taught in SN 22.59. Instead, their minds engage in continued becoming. The Buddha condemned as blameworthy (MN 144) those that crave another 'kaya'. The Buddha called those who crave for aggregates "little children" (SN 23.2). As for believers in reincarnation, my advice is to change religion & stop corrupting Buddhism for those with little dust in their eyes who reject the Buddha-Dhamma because of the superstition. The suttas clearly describe the following as evil wicked defiled views: 

The Buddha does not affirm ugliness is a direct consequence of past lives in MN 135. Instead, MN 135 states ugliness is a result of past kamma (intentional action). Again, you have misunderstood the language in the sutta. The Buddha has taught literally a person is ugly due to anger. Also, there is no evidence the Buddha actually spoke this sutta. Same girl. Pretty & ugly due to different kamma. 

MN 115 (Bahudhātuka Sutta) does not state a woman cannot be an arahant (fully enlightened being). MN 115 (Bahudhātuka Sutta) only states a woman cannot be the Sammasambuddha. There is only one Sammasambuddha in a world system. In the current world system, the only Sammasambuddha is Gotama. Importantly, a Sammasambuddha is the Buddha that: (i) discovers enlightenment without a teacher, when Buddhism does not exist in the world; and (ii) commences the Buddhist religion by teaching his discovery. A Buddha that attains or discovers enlightenment without a teacher but does not teach & does not start the Buddhism religion is not a Sammasambuddha. Instead, they are a silent Buddha. Thus, a woman cannot be a Sammasambuddha. This is not an unreasonable point of view since it is difficult for a woman to convince men who believe in God or Atman that all things are not-self. In the future, if the Buddha-Dhamma disappears, it is unlikely (impossible) the new Sammasambuddha will be a woman for the same reasons. Since woman are not particularly to partial to the teaching of anatta (not-self), it is unlikely a female Sammasambuddha would arise in a matriarchal society since women are less likely than men to accept the teaching of anatta because the majority of women have stronger reproductive instincts than men. Thus, it is likely MN 115 is correct when it states it is impossible for a Sammasambuddha to be a woman. Modern ideas of "feminism" will not change this.