Was the soil particularly favourable towards maize? And were they simply most experienced and accustomed to maize farming before old cereals were introduced widely? Was it simply a preference that finally phased out with the onset of globalization? Was there a major export demand to meet? Though this doesn't explain the simple family farms out west. Is there any other reason it took so long for wheat to take over as the universal mainstay grain and when might this have been, more specifically? 

Are there any countries in which steam engines have a regular purpose, or are still dominant on the railway? When did they officially fade out of use in the western world? In Australia at least, they are being privately looked into again to make a comeback. Is this the case anywhere else? It's several questions, I know, but mainly anything related to the title. 

As for names and titles: The imperial family was hugely fueled by propaganda, especially by flaunting their pedigrees. This is perhaps most apparent in the Julio-Claudian period. The first tie they tended to claim was of course to Augustus Caesar, first emperor and son of the hero, Julius Caesar. This name was kept through many generations. Next, it was common to take on the name of a relative who was particularly well loved by the people. An example would be Germanicus, nephew of Tiberius and a famous general whose death was thought conspiratorial. Often in a case like that, an emperor used the name of some character "beloved by the people" to distance himself from a previous ruler who was disliked, and to strengthen ties to a certain branch of the family for many such reasons. If you look at period coinage you can see how their extended names are given to highlight relations and all. E.g. Tiberius Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, was the name of Emperor Claudius, conqueror of Britain. On that note, names also were taken and given to boast of military conquest, like Germanicus (Germania) and Claudius' son, (Brittanicus). So you see, they chose most names for themselves. Titles? If you mean this as in political positions such as consul or imperator, then these were simply taken at the emperors will, offered by the senate to honour him, or given to another person to honor them. The emperor often naturally favoured those he liked, not always those who deserved it. Yes, a glorious military achievement might encourage an honour to be bestowed on you, but these things were often tools of flattery and boasting at the ruler's whim. A wiser man like Augustus might choose not to accept some titles and honours to show humility, and also not boast of and openly exercise the ones he possessed, so as not to intimidate the senate. The same as with titles, heir adoption usually had little to do with giving a capable person a chance, but as a tool to tie oneself to a family, or to favour their fond ones. Claudius was even manipulated by his wife, Agrippina, to get her son from a previous marriage, Nero, in line for the throne. It's all pretty nasty and corrupt business. 

The western Empire was totally overrun, and very little Roman culture was left. Many families fled abandoning estates, especially the aristocracy. It was quite a sudden transition, but many buildings survived and were used by the occupiers. The technology and knowledge that the Romans had left in each province was lost, and you can imagine how throughout the dark ages and well into the middle ages, people must have marvelled at the skill apparently needed to have left the elegant villas, bridges, aqueducts behind. Stone building was a rare skill for centuries afterwards, and concrete had to be rediscovered. In England for example, the main Roman towns became the main cities of the Anglo Saxons. Wintanceaster (Winchester) was the court of Alfred the Great, previously Venta Belgarum. Lundenwic (London), used to be Londinium. York, Eboracum. The crumbling fortifications were supplemented with simple palisades and utilized as 'burhs'. I could certainly tell you much more about this time, but please be more specific, in case I end up writing a book. And I would too. 

Romans didn't even use archers that much. They relied heavily on their very well trained infantry; and history shows that they could adapt to nearly any situation effectively. Any other troop types were auxilia kept for situational backup. It wasn't until the late period that other troops dominated the field. Artillery is slow and vulnerable to attack. A battlefield is always moving around and it takes specialised skill and calculation to use artillery. So, it's letting fly at a charging enemy long distance with wind and poor accuracy at play, recalculating every shot as they move; or firing over your allies heads, in which case you need high ground without obscurities or a vulnerable flank position. The Romans of course had a highly trained standing army with specialised units. Medieval armies were not so, other than later mercenaries. But the same issues applied. Therefore, artillery was best used in siege warfare, against a large,still target. It was impractical elsewhere and mainly a tool of intimidation and a show of power in the field. 

And a little question on the side: if they made their whiskey with corn, did they also use it in beer commonly? 

As feudalism died and common men began to build themselves up in business, large scale sheep farming was a very popular way to riches. Sheep are cheap individually and prolific breeders, so men bred more and more sheep to expand and with the discovery and settlement of Australia and New Zealand, we now had great swathes of land ideally suited to carrying millions of sheep. Obviously with flocks that massive, it's a full-time job looking after them. These stock men would be out there with the sheep all day and all night, so you can see how those rumours emerged. Why sheep? I know as I am a shearer, that sheep can be manhandled (I know what you're thinking, but NO, not I) as opposed to larger animals, say, cattle. No one ever accused a cowboy, as it's obvious the animal will not take kindly to it. As expanding your flocks is the way to fortune, such men take an appropriate interest in breeding, too. As for Wales, I think it has to do with it being a remote, mountainous area which engages in a lot of sheep raising. It's how clueless, clean city folk put down the hardworking countrymen who keep them eating. Congratulations, you asked a question about sheep-shagging and got a serious answer. 

You might say it started in the renaissance. Common men such as peasants found opportunities to expand their businesses and move up in status; e.g. A yeoman purchasing neighbouring land and building a large wool business. An all round richer population created opportunity for many more youngsters to have education. People moved around more than ever, and university was more accessible. That way, more great minds found their way than just clergy, nobles and the particularly wealthy. Science increased in popularity as the age of travel shared more knowledge and technology. The increased prosperity and surplus in goods encouraged developments in industry to deal with them efficiently. The other side to this was the extra jobs it created became a pull factor, resulting in a migration from country areas into cities, mining towns and ports. To specify what areas Britain prospered in: Wool was a large enterprise in Britain since early times, and with the introduction of new technology, (such as the spinning jenny, 1764) and the conversion of farmland to sheep production, a greater export market developed. Coal mining is still a significant trade activity, especially in northern England and Scotland. At first it was found to be very convenient for household fires/cooking, but soon fueled steam engines, which was a huge advancement in industry as machines took the place of human and animal workers in places like factories and transport reached a new level with trains and sea craft. Sources: The Pictorial Encyclopedia of British History 

In North America the native corn, maize, was the dominant grain and flour and an important mainstay in the diet. At first it was obviously the only available grain crop, with Old World cereals such as wheat not being introduced. But for what seems an oddly long time - right up to the turn of the 20th century - it remained the favored crop and daily food in many forms (bread, whiskey, etc). 

In the largest cattle raising countries - Australia and the USA, huge free ranging herds were kept. Nowadays, we use yards and crushes for husbandry activities such as drafting and calf marking (castration, etc). Small herds can be pretty tame, but it must have been painstaking to cut calves out of a 1000 head herd with defensive mothers out in the open, keeping track of your progress and stopping them from running back in. Was this the case? Or was there a particular way? Corrals/round yards may hold the manually separated animals, but what might free grazers have done without any facilities? 

Firstly, the word viking does not refer to a culture, it particularly means raider. Scandinavians 'went viking'. When it comes to raping, pillaging and burning; "the less, the merrier". One lord with his small band of warriors (no one keeps a large army on the payroll) leisurely loots a place and shares it. The Saxons don't have a fearsome force of professional soldiers nearby and they have an easy time. The Danes weren't all that unified either. A lot of earls behaved as kings in their own right. They came first to raid (as 'Vikings'), and then to take land. It was for personal gain most of the time, they rarely had an actual king ordering them around in this case. The Danes only came together in truly unified strength under a leader when campaigning. Even then, you'd only see a large army around the time of a battle. Of course, like the Saxons, they became more organized later when their enemy became a real threat and they had to hold onto the land tighter. This was done on the most part by occupying burhs. The burh was Alfred's brilliant strategy to keeping the Danes at bay. Danes occupied them too, and they were where the strength of each side was.