Generally speaking, back pain that occurs due to sitting is linked to either tight hip flexors, tight thoracic spine or both. The best way to remedy these is by going through some mobility drill during your warm. An example would be doing some thoracic rotations for your tight upper back, and some hip flexor stretches for your tight hips. I would also adivse you to do some core activation exercises during your warm up. This can be achieveed by doing a 30 second plank. The reason for this is that when your hips get tight, your core becomes more mobile than it should in order to pick up the slack of the tight hips, so be simply doing the hip stretch you still wont tighten the core, and this can lead to tight hips. In short, yes you can and should run, but not without going through a good warm up. For a more in depth explanation on this approach known as the joint by joint approach, click on this link. 

I have been trying to master the standing overhead press for some time now, and every time I try to go a just a little bit heavier my lower back starts to hurt. Now I am aware that I need to brace my abs and glutes, yet I still seem to have this pain. I decided that I will swap out the standing version for a while and instead to the seated version. Will I get strong enough from the seated version to eventually be able to perform the standing version pain free, or are these exercises too different to have any carryover? 

Every time I do front squats my knees hurt the next day. Well I shouldn't say hurt, but I certainly feel some discomfort in them. I know that without a from check video it would be hard to say what is causing me this mild pain, but perhaps there are some common errors that people make that I should be more mindful of? 

Both cardio and weightlifting play vital roles in weight loss. Weightlifting helps as you mentioned, by building muscles which in turn burns more calories over the course of the day even when you are not in the gym. Cardio on the other-hand is a great way to burn calories in bundles in one workout. Your problem seems to be that you only have 3 days a week that you can get to the gym which doesn't allow to work cardio on the days that you are not lifting. Because of the above I would really recommend doing HIIT type workouts. High intensity interval training allows you to burn a lot of calories while you workout and also build some muscle which will help you burn calories even when you are out of the gym. Now obviously this won't build as much muscle as as would a regular weightlifting session, but given the fact that you have a goal of losing FAT and not WEIGHT and only having 3 times a week to workout I think that this is your best bet. 

I have recently noticed that in my gym they have two different sizes of barbells. The difference between them is only in length, but not in diameter. the reason why I'm mentioning that is because I was doing some research and found out that standard bars, which usually weigh about 35 pounds, have a smaller diameter, but These shorter bars have the same 2" diameter as the longer bars, so do they also weigh 45 pounds? 

Progressing A treadmill is a very good place to gain stamina, but only 1km is very little. Suffice to say, if you want to complete a half marathon, you won't be running 1km per day, and then suddenly 21km on event day, right? If you run on a treadmill you have the luxury of setting a steady tempo for yourself, and seeing how far you can get at that tempo without having to walk. Testing So one plan of attack would be to set the treadmill to say 12km/h, and test yourself. Say you can run 8km at that pace, you have a benchmark to go by. After a month of running at different speeds and different distances, try testing yourself at 12km/h again. You should also seek to test yourself at distances outside, in the environment that the half-marathon would be held on (concrete, terrain, etc). Try for instance completing a 10k as fast as you can, and use that as another measurement for your progress. Calculating your needed average velocity Say you want to complete the half-marathon in 4 hours (just an example). 21km / 4h = 5.25 km/h, so that's the average speed you'd need to complete it in that time. I see now that this should be a very pedestrian speed, so let's try 3 hours. 21km / 3h = 7km/h. This should be very doable for most people, especially someone who is already presumably in decent shape. You get the idea, right? You should easily be able to gauge whether or not you'd like to participate in the upcoming half-marathon based on what you've been seeing on the treadmill. 

Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS) is not something you should use to gauge the efficiency of your workouts. It's mostly only experienced when your body gets put through something it's not used to. In essence, it's not anything you need to aim for. But in terms of getting variety into your workout regimen, it's a good indicator of "hey, this is new", which is often good. If you're working squats with the intention of progressing weight-wise, then DOMS will sooner or later disappear, but will most likely come back once you change it up, and start going in wildly different set/rep ranges, or different exercises. 

There's always going to be benefit from any movement (you're using SOME muscle, so SOME muscle will get trained), but of course, by limiting the range of motion (ROM), you're also limiting the effect. But it's likely ill advised to do any squats or lunges while your knee is being repaired. 

Any worthwhile pilates endeavour will ultimately strengthen your entire core. But it's easy to forget that a lot of abdominal work also engages the entire core, which includes muscles in the lumbar region. So to answer your question; I believe that either you're 

Sounds good. Honestly, getting started is the hard part. First things first; get yourself a good workout program. There are tons of them out there, but some crowd favorites are Stronglifts and Starting Strength. As for the measurements, it's likely nothing to worry about. When you start out, the body makes the biggest changes. But when it comes to losing fat, you have to remember one thing: When you lose fat, you lose it all over. You don't decide where to lose it. Same goes for gaining fat. But honestly, just stick with it. Don't try to figure out what the measurements mean. But by all means, keep measuring and logging them. Anything you log (workouts, bodyweight, measurements, calories) is going to tell you what you're doing right and wrong. Seeing "hey, your chest grew and your stomach shrunk over the past two months" is going to tell you that you've made some gains on your torso, while you lost some fat. That's good info. Equally; if the opposite happens, you might think "ok, doing something wrong here". And your logs are going to tell you what you actually did, so you'll have a good idea where to start making changes. Keep it up! 

When you bench press, it is very important to try and keep your wrists from bending back from the weight in your hands. In other words, you want to have your elbow inline all the way up with your knuckles. If it's too hard to do that with the weight you're using, than that's a sign that you're using too much weight. $URL$ This page should help you understand the correct form and technique for bench pressing safely. There is also a video of Mehdi demonstrating the correct form. If you'll pay attention to his wrist you will notice that he keeps them almost perfectly inline with his elbows. 

When doing an exercise with the goal in mind of doing 5 sets per exercise, are those 5 sets for the muscle or for the exercise? Meaning as follows; if i want to do both flat and incline bench presses do I have to divide them so that they equal to 5 sets, or can I do 5 sets per EXERCISE which would result in 10 sets for the muscle? 

While it is true that doing cardio may lead to muscle loss, there needs to be a distinction between steady state cardio and HIIT. Steady state carddio such as running on the treadmill for a longer period of time at one steady pace may in fact lead to muscle loss. HIIT on the other hand, is the sort of cardio that blends muscle stimulation with cardio work together. Another thing that needs to be pointed out here is the fact that you need to really be sure what your exact goal is. If your primary goal is to build muscle, then for now your trainer may be right in his approach. Although there is some talk about being able to build muscle and lose or maintain your body fat at the same time, this seems to be the opinion of the minority. Building muscle ultimately comes down to being in a caloric surplus and losing fat boils down to being a in a caloric deficit, so combining the 2 goals seems highly unlikely. Ultimately if you want to build muscle then you should continue with your approach till you reach your goal at which point you may want to start a cutting phase. During this time you may want to add some HIIT training along with your weight training all while being in a caloric deficit. This will allow you to MAINTAIN your hard earned muscle while losing the fat you gained while bulking up. This is the approach I take with my clients. 

I just started doing the Strong-lifts program this week, and while researching the correct movement for each exercise I got a little confused with the barbell row. in some videos I saw it being done with an underhand grip, and in others with an overhand grip. Is there a difference between the grips? If there is, then which one is recommended to do in order to get the best results from the Strong-lifts program? 

Failure generally means being unable to lift the weight at all. As for good form, each exercise has a safe way to be performed. If you are performing an exercise and you achieve the end result of completing the lift, but in doing so put yourself in harms way, you have broken form. A good example of this is the bicep curl. The goal is to get the weight up by flexing the elbow. In many cases when the lifter is tired, or lifting a weight that is simply too heavy, he may bend back in an attempt to aide his biceps in lifting the weight. This hyper-extension of the back can lead to a severe back injury, so ultimately that is a case of broken form. A general rule of thumb: If the exercise is hurting you in areas that are not the designated area you are breaking from. Muscle aches are ok, but joint pain is always a red flag.