During the termination of the latest ice age the warming climate leading from glacial to interglacial conditions was abruptly reverted by a distinct but short (about 1300 years in duration) cold event, referred to as the Younger Dryas. This event resulted in substantial moraine zones around the southern edges of the Fennoscandian ice sheet, indicating a halt in retreat. There are also evidence of strong permafrost conditions in the periglacial area. What caused this cold event? 

On a broader scale the ITCZ and monsoons are related. This is because the global circulation shifts as a result of the tilt of the earth's axis relative to the orbit around the sun. In northern hemisphere summer, the northern hemisphere is tilted towards the sun and receives more radiation (energy) than the southern, and vice versa for northern winter, The southern hemisphere is affected in the same way. Without the tilt we would not experience any seasons. In the tropics the largest amount of energy reaches the region where the sun is at the zenith. In northern summer this region is north of the equation, where as in winter it is at the south. At the spring and fall equinox it coincides with the equator. Hence the region of maximum energy input wanders seasonally to the north and south of the equator. Climatologically the region with maximum energy input sets up a circulation in the form of so-called Hadley cells where warm air rises where it is heated the most and then transported at elevation to the north and south. At the location of upward air flow formation of convective clouds yielding precipitation becomes the norm. This zone to which ground winds flow towards the region of maximum energy influx is the ITCZ and because the zone of maximum solar energy influx wanders, the ITCZ flows. The zone is fairly wide so the regions around the equator sees the effects of tropical precipitation more or less without seasonality, actually two rain periods and two drier periods as the ITCZ moves once to the north and once to the south over the region each year. Away from the equator the resulting period of precipitation becomes more and more marked as one moves to the north and south resulting in strongly seasonal rains. This movement of the large scale circulation on the earth produces several associated effects and the different monsoons are such phenomena. There are several monsoons on the earth created by weather phenomena typical for the specific region. The Asian monsoon is perhaps the most known. The specific conditions leading up to this monsoon is found in the high elevation Tibetan plateau. During the northern winter the plateau sees a larger high pressure forming which generates winds flowing south over India and causing a dry climate. During the northern summer large parts are heated generating a low pressure over land which draws in moist air from the sea yielding strong precipitation. Hence the monsoon follows the same seasonality as is seen in the wander of the ITCZ but the cause for the regional change in seasonal wind and precipitation pattern has a different cause. So to understand the large scale weather systems and their seasonal patterns, you must start by understanding how solar energy drives the atmospheric circulation. This causes a specific and typical pattern which is locally disrupted by the distribution of land and oceans on the earth. Land masses can be heated more and more quickly than oceans on a seasonal basis, land masses also includes topography that can impede the atmospheric circulation, so it it perhaps obvious that land masses contribute on regional and local scales. 

The key is with wind-drifting. The predominant westerlies cause snow to drift into protected places. We should perhaps recall that glaciers exist because they are essentially snow-catchers in a landscape that is sufficiently suitable for some of the snow to survive the summer melt period. The drifting and depositing of snow on the eastern side of mountains thus favours formation of glaciers in such locations. If you take a trip using Google Earth into the Swedish mountains to the East of the area you describe you will see that glaciers are also in north and south-trending valleys where of course they catch snow for the same reason. In this case it is the larger scale geomorphology that dictates the location and direction of glaciers. The latter implies that a glacier is not just formed in the lee direction of the predominant wind direction but also requires a suitable landscape geomorphology which affects the location of where the glacier forms. 

Some background. The idea of towing ice bergs to provide a source for fresh water in dry climate zones was first proposed in the 1970s by Weeks and Campbell (1973) and Hult and Ostrander (1973). This sparked interest that resulted in several studies published in conferences (Husseiny, 1980; IGS, 1980). The focus of the work was manly on the wastage of ice during transport and of course the technical aspects of towing ice. The main issue, however, concerns the integrity of ice bergs during transport. The mechanics of ice bergs is still poorly understood and it is known that bergs gradually break up. How this is affected by ocean swells and other forces acting upon a berg under tow is still investigated (see a wealth of publications in particularly Journal of Glacology and Annals of Glaciology). The idea has, however, not been forgotten and more possible technical solutions are proposed (e.g. Fast Company. So while the financial aspect of the process may be calculable, the strength of ice bergs, and the forces acting upon them in the open sea and under tow requires more research before towing could become a reality. On top of this are legal issues. Who owns the ice? and also how can towing ice berg across busy shipping lines be safe, particularly in the event of a break-up in mid-ocean. To respond to your specific question on towing northward and anchoring: The towing in any direction is subject to the same issues as described above. Anchoring, the ice bergs will melt and degrade over time so that moorings will continually have to be renewed. Most ice bergs in the north will go through at least one cycle of being caught in seasonal sea ice but eventually will be set free to follow ocean currents in whatever direction they move locally. Since the ocean water will carry some heat, it will not matter where the ice berg is located, it will slowly melt. On top of that is the issue of disintegration since melting will change the shape of the berg and hence its stability and centre of gravity causing stresses within the block to alter. If one takes a longer-term perspective and ignores the practicalities (incl. costs), moving ice to a place where it melts slower would momentarily decrease the contribution but eventually one would reach a new equilibrium where the same rate of melt water will be contributed and the temporary benefit will be lost. So apart from being highly impractical from all aspects, the longer-term benefits will be nil. References Hult, J.L. and Ostrander, N.C., 1973. Antarctic icebergs as a global fresh water resource. Rand Corporation, Santa Monica. Report No. R-1255-NSF. 83 pp. Husseiny, A.A. (ed.) 1978. Iceberg Utilization. Proceedings of the First International Conference, Ames, Iowa, 1977. Pergamon Press, New York. 759 pp. IGS (International Glaciological Society), 1980. Proceedings of the Conference on the Use of Icebergs. Annals of Glaciology, 1 136 pp. Weeks, W.F. and Campbell, W.J., 1973. Icebergs as a fresh-water source: an appraisal. Journal of Glaciology, 12, 65, 207-233. 

Liquid water can be stored in several ways in a glacier and the glacier environment. As ice and snow melts water can be temporarily stored stored in crevasses in the glacier or as equivalent to ground water in the permeable firn and snow pack on the glacier. Such water is slowly released, although sudden releases are also known, during the frozen season. In addition, sediments under and around the glacier also store ground water which is released during the frozen period. Altogether, this is known as "base flow" in hydrology. depending on the size and evacuation rates, the flow can persists throughout a winter season. There are factors that influence this behaviour. The general case described above concerns so-called temperate glaciers. Glaciers at very high elevations and latitudes may be completely below the freezing point. There may also be permafrost in surroundings. Under such circumstances the storage volume can be very small and winter flow may cease altogether after some time. A small fraction of water can also be generated by melting from geothermal heat. If the glacier is temperate at the bed the heat flux will provide energy to generate melt. A simple calculation based on typical continental geothermal heat fluxes show that the energy is sufficient to melt millimetres to a centimetre of basal ice. Consider that this melting occurs during the course for a year and the volume of water will be the melt rate multiplied by the basal ice-ground contact area of the glacier and the numbers will show that the runoff will be minuscule. Hence such contributions are generally not comparable to those produced by the "base flow" from ground and glacier aquifers. The following paper provides a thorough description of storage of water in glaciers: Jansson, P., Hock, R. and Schneider, T., 2003. The concept of glacier storage -- A review. Journal of Hydrology. 282 (1-4), 116-129. A large volume of literature on glacier hydrology and runoff can be found in Journal of Glaciology. 

The straight answer is no. The definition of a glacier requires the body to be of ice and snow, to move and deform under its own weight. If the body is pure ice the pressure needed to make ice deform corresponds to about 30-40 m of ice pressure. The definition makes any body not consisting of ice and snow not a glacier. As an example, so-called "saltiers" are bodies of rock salt that move like glaciers. You find such features in the southern part of Iran. They would not qualify as glaciers from the first part of the definition. The second part says that they must move. In mountainous terrain snow packs and also thin features of ice can move because they slide downhill. Because these are too thin there is no internal definition so the third part of the definition prevents such features from being glaciers. Hence what remains are bodies of ice and snow that have sufficient thickness to induce deformation and hence they will be of a minimum thickness. As a glaciologist, I do not find this definition very academic. With glaciers reducing in size around the globe many glacier will, in time, pass the limit and cease to be glaciers but knowing when this happens requires physical measurements which for practical reasons (and current technology) can only be made on a very small subset of the about 160 000 glaciers (not counting the ice sheets) on the earth. It is hence of little practical use when trying to figure out when particular glaciers cease to fit the definition. 

Using the latest numbers from the 2013 IPCC report (Ch. 4, the Cryosphere), Antarctica contains 58.3 m of sea level equivalent (sle) and Greenland 7.36 m sle. Remaining glaciers provide an additional 0.41 m sle. In total and adding very minor contributions from permafrost etc. the total comes out to approximately 66.1 m sle. EDIT: Just to be complete: If one by "pole ices" also includes sea or other floating ice apart from glaciers terminating in the sea, the contribution from those components to sea level is zero. 

Snow fall can occur under several conditions. In this I am assuming conditions typical for mid to high latitudes. Association with cold-warm fronts are probably most common. Snow fall in mountainous areas can be associated with orogenic clouds and precipitation, when air is raised due to topography creating conditions for precipitation. In addition it is possible to have convective precipitation although such conditions are much more common during summer conditions yielding rain (and when severe e.g. hail). So when snow fall occurs in association with warm fronts, one could expect a warming since warm air replaces the cold when the front s passing. My guess is that it is this that you have experienced. However, since it is also possible to obtain snow fall during the passing of a cold front the opposite may occur. The orographic conditions concern a more steady situation where the air is affected by a mountain which is stationary so I would not expect large changes in air temperature unless the air moving across the mountains itself changed temperature for one or another reason. Convective snow fall would not likely yield marked changes in temperature as I see it since the snow would be created by vertical movement of warmer air, cooling to form the snow. I would rather expect a slight cooling, similar to what happens under a heavy rain shower in summer. So in short, the warming you mention is not generally associated with snow fall per se but likely associated with the passing of a warm front. 

This is a question of topology. There are three major attempts to order streams from small to larger. The first was established by Horton (1941) who established the concept of drainage composition. To establish the relative importance of streams in a network Horton suggested to investigate each junction and to set the stream that entered the junction at the highest angle as a stream of lower importance. By starting at the mouth of a river, one can thus establish which would be the main trunk of a river and which are tributaries of smaller and smaller significance. The order number of streams cannot be determined until the entire tree of streams have been ordered. In the figure on Strahler stream order the diagonal would be the main trunk of the river and have order three. The only order two trunk would be the one labelled two turning down from three in the figure. Strahler, 1952 took the concept further and established the concept of stream order. In this approach the basic stream is the smallest source tributaries. When two streams of order one meet they form a stream of order two. It takes two of the same order to make a stream of a larger order so a stream of order two and one will not increase the order number, the result is still two. The following image provides an example of Strahler's stream order: 

One example of an ore deposit that runs under a city is the banded iron formation ore in Kiruna. In this case the ore has been mined outside of the city since the turn of the previous century. The ore has been found to run under the city and there are now plans to move the city more detailed information. This has led to a process where the city has to be re-established in a different location including moving a large number of historically significant buildings. A similar situation is also present in Malmberget (about 120 km S of Kiruna), part of the twin town of Gällivare-Malmberget. In this case the plan is to have Malmberget inhabitants to move to Gällivare. The mining activities at Malmberget have resulted in several collapse features see images on this link. There is also some information in English on the Gällivare web-site. In both cases there are significant restructuring of the societies. It is also worth noting that the definition of ore is economical which means that what is worth mining depends on market prices. In the case of Iron the market has been strong but has fluctuated significantly. The result is that the planning and decisions for a move such as these are difficult since they are costly and depend on the market to be financially viable (it is the mining company that largely pays for the move). 

Strahler stream order concept. Image from Wikipedia commons The stream order allows one to calculate an assortment of statistical measures that characterizes a drainage basin and it is possible to use these characteristics in, for example, flood prediction. Shreve (1967) took the ideas of Horton and Strahler further by introducing magnitude, now called Shreve Magnitude. This concept differs from Strahler's in that all streams are additive so that as soon as one stream is added to another the resulting stream is the sum of the two tributaries. The result is that the system can be seen as reflecting discharge, assuming all first order streams are of similar size. In the figure above the largest magnitude would be six, this is also the sum of all order one streams. So establishing the main trunk of a river is not necessarily simple. Hortons method does this but is at the same time relying on geometry and rivers may be heavily influenced by geology to generate odd river patterns. References: Horton, R.E., 1945. Erosional development of streams and their drainage basins: Hydrophysical approach to quantitative morphology. Geological Society of America Bulletin, 56, 275-370. doi: 10.1130/0016-7606(1945)56[275:EDOSAT]2.0.CO;2 Shreve, R.L., 1967. Infinite topologically random channel networks. Journal of Geology 75, 178–186. Strahler, A.N., 1952. Hypsometric (area-altitude) analysis of erosional topology. Geological Society of America Bulletin, 63 (11), 1117–1142, doi:10.1130/0016-7606(1952)63[1117:HAAOET]2.0.CO;2.