I take your question to mean you have road style 3 bolt cleat shoes, but want to use them with Shimano SPD type pedals that need a 2 bolt cleat. You are looking for a way to attach 2 bolt SPD cleats to the 3 bolt shoes. Another way of putting it is you need a Shimano SPD to SPD-R adapter (SPD-R (road) cleats use 3 bolt attachment). Yes, there are adapters available. Specific product recommendations or shopping help are off topic here so I wont link to a specific product, but try Googling 'Shimano SPD SPD-R adapter'. 

You should find the shifter moves the cable nearly immediately as you select the second higher gear. You can then go through the Park Tool derailleur setup process. 

I recommend #2 BTW, if you threaded the chain through the derailleur cage incorrectly, you can remove one cage side plate instead of re-breaking the chain. 

If you look at the rear derailleur upper jockey wheel from the back of the bike, you can see the limit screws working as they are adjusted, and see which screw effects which setting. It's a bit awkward to arrange the bike to get a good view of the derailleur cage. Putting the bike in a work-stand with the front wheel lower than the rear is best, but you can also prop the back wheel up on something and have someone hold the bike upright, or you can put it upside down on its bars and seat (being careful to not scratch up seat, shifters or brake levers or course). To see the inner limit screw working you'll need to shift to the highest gear and manually push the derailleur inwards (not by the cage though, you could bend it). To see the outer limit screw working you'll need to shift to the lowest gear. Note that the cable will stop the derailleur moving outward at some point. Keep track of the number of turns adjustment you make to each limit screw if you want to put them back where they were before starting. 

Primary adjustment items It's basically: brakes and gear shifting, but if you are riding the bike everyday you will want to go over the safety checks every couple of months at least to catch any issues before they become major problems. 

Specific product recommendations are off topic here, but the answer to your general question is yes, it's fine to look beyond the biggest bicycle producers (Trek Specialized, Giant, Cannondale etc.) Surly and Salsa are two brands that offer touring oriented frames that come to mind. (Note, I offer these as examples, not recommendations). 

From the video it does indeed look like the derailleur is being prevented from moving properly. You need to determine where the cause of that is. I think that most likely it's the cable or housing that is the problem. 1) Examine the shifter cable and housing, make sure there are no kinks, tight radii bends etc. Make sure the housing is fully inserted in any bosses, including shift levers and derailleur barrel adjuster. Make sure there are no obstructions to any sections of uncovered cable. 2) Remove rear wheel, shift gears at the levers and check the derailleur is going through its full range of motion and not sticking, especially on upshifts (cable loosening). 3) Disconnect the shifter cable from the derailleur, move the derailleur through it's range manually. Check there is no stickiness and the parallelogram spring is positively returning the derailleur to the high (outer) position. 4) Hold the shift cable at the derailleur end and put a little tension on it, run the shifters through all the gears. Check the cable is moving freely as you go through all the gears. This should make it obvious if it is the derailleur itself that is sticking, or the cable, or possibly the shifter. 

Don't over do it. If you over tighted your front or back QR, you can squeeze the bearings too much and cause damage -- unless you left your bearing adjustment slightly loose to compensate. You can experiment by using your QR in the wheel with washers on each end, instead of inside the fork of the bike. On the other hand, you don't want front or rear too loose; I was attacked by dogs one time and when I stood up to pedal, I locked the rear tire against the chain stay. My normal position of the clamp is 90 degrees from the bike when it gets snug - then squeeze all the way in. It should be enough to leave an impression in your hand but not enough to damage your bearings. 

I never have "snake bites" in my road or ATB tubes and I've been riding for over 40 years. When you install a new tube, make sure the rim strip is centered. Coat the new tube and the inside of the tire with baby powder (talc, not cornstarch). Inflate the tube to about 30 psi. Deflate. (This removes any pinches.) Inflate to the max and ride. 

Years ago I used SPD pedals and I really liked the increased performance, especially with the "scraping the mud off your soles" movement on the upstroke. However, as I got older and the padding on the bottom of my feet got thinner, my soles began to feel like they were on fire and I could barely walk after getting off my bike. Today, I found MY perfect soluction which is the flat platform pedal like the one above made by MKS (I got mine from Rivendell many years ago) with the addition of Powergrip Straps (see link below). I can wear my thick soled leather sneakers and pedal all day in comfort. The Powergrip Straps are as tight or loose as I want simply by moving the angle of my foot. Or I can just turn the pedal upside down and not use them at all. Please note there are two sizes of metal attachment which comes with the PowerGrip Strap. I have to use the longer one to accomodate my wide foot. $URL$ 

Dogs are territorial. Get out of its territory. I have tried spraying and missed, swinging my pump and missed, and each time almost wrecked. If I'm not fast enough, I just get off my bike and walk out its/their territory while using my bike as a shield. 

Because of a herniated disc in my lower back, I was forced to NOT PULL with my hands on steeps. Surprisingly, I found that by concentrating all of my energy below my belt, I could climb much better and faster. This was definitely a "lemonade from lemons" kind of discovery. Try this and see if it helps. 

This is not a "one size fits all" solution. It will depend on the number of dogs (pack mentality) and breed (some are more agressive than others). My unsuccessful attempts have been to try to use my frame pump or pepper spray -- try doing this while pedaling for your life and you will wreck, which the dogs will love. I never try to outrun a dog unless I have a gigantic head start. The one solution that has always kept me alive is to get off my bike, use my bike as a shield, maintain eye contact with the dog/s, and walk out of its territory. That's what this is all about -- you are in the dog's territory. The dog/s don't hate you for who you are, but for where you are. How dare you trespass in his territory! 

'Comfort' and 'hybrid' are not particually specific terms. Let's assume: Comfort bike means a bike with an upright riding position - the rider's back is nearly vertical. Handlebars are high and relatively close to the rider. Hybrid means a cross between a road and mountain bike rider's back 45-30 degrees from vertical. Bars far enough forward so that riders arms are nearly straight. (Almost) all other things equal: wheel diameter, mass, tire width and pressure, the more upright riding position of the comfort bike makes it harder for the rider to apply power to the crank, hence it will be harder to ride at the same pace as the hybrid. The comfort bike will likely have a lower gear ratio range to accommodate the lower possible power. 

Any 8-speed Shimano mountain bike shifter will work. All Shimano 8-speed shifters use the same cable pull. Addressing what model your actual shifters are, a `97 8 speed MTB with a 'Deore' drivetrain probably has Deore XT M739 and Deore LX M569 parts. (See the Shimano Wikipedia page which includes a timeline of MTB groupsets.) You could narrow down the exact model you have, then try to find a lightly used or old stock replacement on EBay. Googling for 'M739 Shifter' for instance yields images that you can compare to what's on your bike. Many shifters from about this time were combined shifters and brake levers. If you have cantilever brakes be aware that the brake levers for cantis and linear pull (v-brakes) are different. Newer shift-brake combos will be for linear pull brakes and will not work with cantilevers. I don't think Shimano currently makes an 8-speed groupset above Tourney level. But you could also look at newer 8-speed shifters from the Alivio/Acera goupsets. 

These are just machining marks from the tool that cut the braking surface. Rim manufacturers don't bother to get the braking surface completely smooth. The tiny grooves don't negatively affect brake performance and will eventually wear away. You'll need to look for other causes of brake performance problems. Do you have new pads. New pads on a new rim make need 'breaking in', i.e. get a little wear before they achieve proper friction. 

Stability of a bicycle is mostly determined by its geometry: primarily the wheel diameter, wheelbase and front fork geometry. If the rider is not touching the handlebar it has very little effect (its mass and rotational inertia do have some effect). When a bicycle is moving there is a force trying to align the front wheel with the direction of travel. This is because the contact point of the wheel with the road is behind the axis if rotation of the fork. However, this also means that if the bike is leant to one side slightly, the fork turns in the same direction. So, to answer the question in the title 'What is the key factor for stable handlebar?', the answer is 'the bike underneath it'. You cannot adjust your handlebar to make the bike more inherently stable - and you would not want to. The bar should be adjusted for proper riding position. The headtube bearings also cannot be adjusted to make rotation of the fork stiffer and hence hold the bars steady - that would potentially make the bicycle impossible to steer at speed. The bicycle is steered by making is lean slightly, which due to the steering geometry rotates the fork slightly. If the fork is inhibited from rotating the bicycle will not steer properly. That said, the length of the stem and width of a bar does have an effect on the steering of a bicycle. The further the hand positions are away from the axis of rotation of the fork, the more leverage the rider has and therefore more control, at the expense of slower steering.