As the diameter is standard (sort of) steel rails will be stronger than aluminium*. But I'm surprised at saddle rails bending. When I started cycling regularly I was about 100kg and even the roughest bits of road didn't come close to that kind of force. You may benefit from a suspension saddle post for reasons of both comfort and damage avoidance. Steel has a further advantage in that it's tougher than any of the other common materials for saddle rails, i.e. it can handle repeated stresses better without failing. Do you ride very rough roads? If you get the occasional pothole or bump it's worth taking more of your weight on your feet just for a moment (you don't have to pedal while doing this assuming you don't have a fixed gear bike). 

I'd pick a different spot in the rack if possible. But if I was in a hurry or there wasn't another suitable place I'd use it (e.g. my bike doesn't fit on the bottom of the double stacker at the station; some places have decent racks and others that don't allow proper locking for all day use). I would try to make sure it's easy to get the lock off, perhaps by sliding it to the end before parking. Blocking out a space is properly selfish and possible in some racks (e.g. a lock right across a slot-in rack). I wouldn't show any consideration to anyone who does that. Luckily it's rare. In many places if you want to store a lock, the done thing is to lock it to something like a bike shed pillar or the outer side of the outer rack, so it's easily accessed and not in anyone's way. My views on this are perhaps quite harsh, as I park at a couple of stations where some people park all day and others all night. Overlap is inevitable. Offices are rather different in that they tend to be occupied for the same part of the day. 

For similar fine tasks, silk inner gloves are ideal. They are very thin but add a noticeable amount of warmth. Their real benefit comes when you remove the outer gloves and have essentially bare hand dexterity with some insulation. Then you just have to get your timing right to minimise the amount of time your outer gloves are off. Some people use latex or nitrile gloves in a similar way but I find them too sweaty. 

On a friendly ride of mixed ability some people will be happy to get round the route intact, while others will want to race each other up hills or on straight sprints, or just find a slow pace frustrating compared to a quick ride and a wait. But they may still enjoy a friendly ride even if it's a little tame for them, and their experience is welcome). The slower riders do expend less effort because even uphill air resistance accounts for a fair bit of energy. So while they plod up the hill the sprinters can get their breath back. My attitudes to group activities were formed from hiking and kayaking, so I reckon that no one should be left alone at the back, and the back group should include someone with tools, map, phone, etc. but who could also catch up to the main group if necessary (e.g. me as I'm a bit of a pack rat but not too slow). Others differ on this so we choose different rides, to the extent that if the word drop is used except in the sense of not believing in the concept, I'll leave that ride to other people. 

In the UK (you don't say where you are) independent front and rear brakes are required on all bikes (unlike most of the rest of the regs this is a use not a sale requirement, though with several exemptions). This means that a bike with a coaster brake will have a front hand brake -- though it will probably be a rim brake. From my limited experience of disc brakes, at least the cheap cable ones aren't so very much sharper for a modest pull than rim brakes. This might mean you need very good disc brakes (a retrofit on all but the most expensive bikes I'm sure) to get the performance you want. Or it might mean that there's not actually all that much difference between disc and rim braking performance (under ideal conditions of course). I hope I'll attract comments form people with wider experience, but also how absolute is the disc requirement? I'm sure the UK regs aren't the only ones requiring independent brakes, just the ones I know about. Given the international nature of most manufacturers and their designs, adding a front rim brake to a bike with a coaster brake might not be that hard. Just a thought, on top of all that: It might be possible to use both hands to operate the same cable front brake to increase the force you could apply. A product exists apparently (2nd option at that page). 

Neither Boris bikes nor folding bikes are exactly built for speed, so we can consider mainly the gearing. For this, gear inches are a convenient measure taking into account not just the gear ratio but the wheel size. On Brompton folders (as a well-documented example) you have a choice of gearing but the default 6-speed gives up to 100 gear inches. That's quite high for a bike with small wheels and flat bars. For short urban journeys you might not make it into top on the Brompton. The Boris bike is a 3-speed with up to 60 gear inches. this is actually lower than the single speed Brompton. But it's not a stupidly low cruising gear. If you know the rear wheel size and tooth counts for the chainring(s) and sprocket(s) (plus any hub gears) you can use a gear inch calculator where you can also work in metric if you'd rather. For many typical urban journeys, the time taken is determined more by the traffic than the bike. A bigger difference is trading off the unfolding/folding time against finding a Boris bike and then finding somewhere to park it, plus walking between where you park it and your real destination. You know the journeys you're likely to make better than we do, and so you're on your own for that. Another benefit of having a folder is that it's yours. You know you've got it if there's a problem like a tube strike when the Boris bikes will all be taken. You can also customise lighting and luggage to some extent. 

GT85 is useful on outdoor bikes. I wouldn't use it on the chain of my decent bike but I also have a bike kept outdoors in a rather wet city, with limited space to store spares etc. and no chance to clean it except a while with a rag. As even the sprockets are steel on this bike, something that gives an even coating of oil is worth having. It does seem to stay on the parts long term, unlike WD40. It also helps with the sticky shifters on the same bike. So for a good, specialist bike, use good, specialist products, suitable for the conditions. For something low performance and cheap, any oil is better than none. 

Assuming that's not a carbon frame (I don't dare go near them) I would try to hang it from the frame near the saddle. I'm guessing with suspension forks and a rack it will probably balance just forward of the saddle. A nice wide (e.g. 200mm) single hook would seem to me to be the way to go - an S-hook but made of sheet material, or 2 S-hooks joined together with a spacer. A snug fit and/or friction around the pipe will make it easier to put in - both can be achieved by foam sheet in a flat solution, or pipe insulation wrapped round a hook. A pair of wall hooks could be bolted back-to-back (possibly bent a little further than as sold) to form S-hooks, with a sheet of plywood/aluminium between the held in by the same bolts to space the 2 hooks apart. Gary E's answer (+1) gives an idea of some products you might start from - browse around the Lowes link to find something wide enough for the pipe. This would give you a single lift with no strapping involved, but depending on where you live and who else has access it might be worth keeping a spare cable lock looped over the pipe to lock through the frame and deter casual opportunists. 

If you pump up the tyres and then let a little air out you might be able to smell it, at least if it's quite fresh. I haven't used it for a few years but remember quite a distinctive smell compared to the standard rubber smell you get if you let air out. 

These bikes are propelled by a running motion so it's important to be able to bend the legs. But you don't want the saddle so very low that they can sit down and waddle too easily without getting enough speed up to balance. To be honest though, confidence and willingness to get on is more important than "ideal" height, so you may well need to set it lower than you'd like. 

How about a top tube bag? I've had a couple of handlebar mounts and they haven't lasted long in crowded bike sheds. Even mounted quite centrally they're vulnerable to knocks and aren't very strong. A top tube bag with a clear lid works better for me. Do be sure to get one big enough though. It will take the battery pack as well and should do a decent job of keeping everything dry (even if you have a waterproof phone you probably want to keep water out of the charging socket). 

Steel wire is cheap (if it's not stainless). Even the outers aren't very sophisticated. So it's possible to meet the basic requirements for very little cost. For more money you get a lower friction lining and better tolerances, which are worth having in many cases (including beater bikes and BSOs with marginal brakes). On the other hand if you need to keep taking up slack in the cable, something is wrong. I'd expect to set them up, ride a bit, tweak and then get hundreds of miles before needing to tighten again (unless your pads wear very fast). If that's not the case, something is creeping, stretching, fraying or otherwise letting you down. After any work on the brakes, ride cautiously for a bit. Test for emergency stop rather than relying on it. For major work (like new cables or unfamiliar new pads) I like to do one brake and give it a good test before doing the other. 

The chances are this is an alloy bike. Cold setting is only for steel, which your vintage bike probably was. Even if the frame is steel, the OP would also need a new wheel and new set of shifters. That would Penally cost more than the bike is worth. 

Last night, commuting, I got lots of dirty water all over my back brake (Promax Render-r mechanical disc), as well as on most of the rest of the bike, and me. I wiped the rotors with a clean rag to get the grit off, because light braking made an unpleasant grinding sound. This morning I was about 30km into a rather long ride when I realised I had essentially no back brake. I don't use the back much except to hold back on descents, though I do normally take up the slack when stopping, so it was the first decent descent when I discovered this. I can only assume that the water was oily (certainly possible given the state of the roads and the deep puddles last night) and that I spread it evenly over the disc. So I ended up riding 250km with essentially no back brake. I would have tried cleaning the rotor with an alcohol sterilising wipe from my first aid kit, but they'd dried up. I did get a bit off slowing (not stopping) power from holding the brake on all the way down long descents, and cooking it, but presumably this just moved the oil to the pads and finished them off. I've ordered new pads (front and rear), which I needed soon anyway. I plan to degrease the rotor, put the used front pads in the back, and see what happens. Now I've had the chance to remove the wheel and pads, the moving pad on the rear is unevenly worn -- much more wear towards the centre of the rotor. It was seated properly; I checked after takling the wheel off and before taking the pads out. I don't know whether this wear was cause or effect, as I had the back brake on hard on most downhills for the little effect it did have. There are some scratches on the back rotor but not much more than the front (or the MTB) and nothing deep like I'd expect if there was a bit of grit preventing proper contact. The pads were by no means clean but not gritty either. But what could I have done at the side of the road? There were no bike shops around, but convenience stores and I could probably have found a pharmacy. 

Whatever you decide based on answers here I suggest you get a decent, dedicated spoke tool and print off or even buy on paper a comprehensive guide to truing wheels. You may have a multi tool with a spoke slot. Pretend you haven't. Use the brakes pads as a guide and hang the bike off a car rack or put it upside down, rather than spending a lot of money on tools which you might not use again. A spoke tool is cheap and handy for replacing the odd broken spoke. If all goes well, you've got true (or true enough) wheels and you've learnt a skill. If you get the wheels true, and they won't stay true even though you've relieved the twist in the spokes you've got your answer and you can buy new wheels. If you find you can't improve matters enough, you're back to choosing new wheels or taking them to the shop. But you'll be better placed to make that judgment once you've developed a bit of a feel for it. It sounds like they're bad enough for now that you can't make matters significantly worse. 

Edit - an alternative After reading something over the weekend, how about a trailer. This has the advantage that when you stop you can have all the gear in whatever bags you would like, as well as keeping the weight low and stable, and having room for tripods etc. Original I haven't been able to find anything suitable, though with the added requirement of comfortable carry off the bike (ride then hike). However I don't tend to ride far or fast with the camera gear, so ride with it in a rucksack (a Lowepro that doesn't seem to be made any more, but is max cabin bag size and slightly teardrop shaped so I can look over my shoulder, it also keep the main weight low and steady). I only have a 40D but tend to have my Sigma 120-400 lens if I'm riding, which is a bit of a beast. If I'm not carrying the big lens I can put the camera (+flash etc.) in a small case in my pannier as well as a netbook (the pannier takes big laptops). The camera with long lens would fit in the pannier, but without much room for anything else. I have carried a DSLR in a front basket, but really wouldn't recommend it - it's a lot of weight to carry upfront even with a light rig, and a lot of torque on the bars, plus, it's a long way for it to fall (as is a rucksack, of course, but that's more stable). If I had the time and the need I would consider modding something - basically pop-rivetting pannier hardware onto a suitable camera bag (as all panniers appear to be top-opening), reinforced with stiff plastic sheet inside. But I would give it a hard test ride with bricks or something in before putting anything valuable in there. You may want to check your insurance would cover breakage - I would if I had a 1D. 

If it's to get you home or to the bike shop, use the one that works and ride cautiously. You may have to walk down some things. Trying to fiddle with it at the side of the road or trail is risky - you don't want to lose a screw. If you're considering long term use it's a bad idea to run only one brake in most situations, especially as you know the ones you've got are prone to failure. As you're taking about full suspension I assume you mainly use it off road. I'm not a mountain biking expert by any means, but on loose surfaces you don't have much stopping power from the back as a side is both easy and ineffective. On the other hand a light touch on the back brake is very useful, and overheating can be an issue on a single brake. On road you have the same effect to a lesser extent but the consequences of your second brake failing can be more severe (an uncontrolled meeting with fast-moving traffic).