Note that, although languages may vary in the size and distribution of their lexical inventory (for example, some languages may have adjectives that behave very verbal and in which adjecties might not be seen as a separate class, or numerals which have more properties of a noun than of something determiner or adjective-like, or a rather productive and open-class set of adpositions, ...), the basic distinction between content words and function words, as well as the correponding word classes, is something more or less universal, and not specific to the English language. 

This results in a wh-word which is at the same time prepositional. It looks like "where" + preoposition, but as said, the "wo" has no local meaning in this context (that the "toy" example is about locality is only a coincidence; this is not indicated in the "wo" part), it behaves more like "w"+preposition where the "o" is only inserted for pronouncability, so I would guess this is exactly what you were looking for. 

Wiktionary is a great free resource for inflection, meaning, pronounciation, etymology and other information on a large amount of words from many languages, and provides a "Descendants" section containing exactly what you are looking for: 

Try Wiktionary. They have definitions, pronounciation, declension, etymology, ... for a fair amount of words in most major languages. You can also view the entries in languages other than English. 

The main point of Eleshar's answer and BillJ's comment seems to be that there is no explicit terminology because gifted is a modifier of the predicate singer rather than in direct interaction with Harry. This is true syntactically: 1 As expressed by the arrow labelled "amod" going from the NN singer to the JJ "gifted", gifted is an adjectival modifier of the noun phrase singer, which is itself the subject complement of the verb to be which acts as a copula between Harry and the noun phrase ("nsubj" = Harry is the "nominal subject" of the NN singer). The syntactic status of gifted is defined with respect to the predicate singer which the adjective modifies, but it stands in no direct relation with Harry, only indirectly via the "nsub" relation from singer to Harry. This is why it was said by others that there is no term for this kind of indirect relationship. 

First of all, recursion is the process by which a rule gets applied to its own output. To explain this in the context of syntax: Suppose we have a (very) simple transformation grammar: 

Although, as the other examples, originially inteded as a univeral language aiding culture independent communication, it is nowadays 

The only VP specifier in the tree is the DP he, since that one is a sister to V', of which a "null active V" is the head, and also the DP machtes the requirement of being an "external argument in actives", because that one is the subject and therefore the external argument of the active VP. The second VP doesn't have a specifier. The first sentence refers to "the specifier of a null active V", which must be he since the null V is the head of the VP you numbered as 1 of which the specifier is he. The second sentence says >this< VP, which sounds like it refers to the same VP as the sentence before. Therefore, I can't think of any other possibility than both 1 and 2 referring to the DP he as the specifier of the VP you numbered as 1, with the null V as the head. They don't need to refer to different ones just because 1 says it's the specifier of the V HEAD and the other of the V PHRASE - specifiers always relate to phrases, so it doesn't make a difference whether you call it the speifier of the phrase (which is syntactically a bit more accurate) or the specifier of the head (which might make it clearer what exact phrase is meant, since here you can make use of the terminal node's names, like in this example where you can disambiguate between VP 1 and VP 2 by referring to either the empty head or the eat head), but I see no possibility of this (admittedly confusing) wording being meant as referring to the - non-existing - specifier of the VP 2, and both sentences do refer to some V-related specifier, so it can only be the DP he. 

The rule is not allowed in T3 grammars because you have one terminal too much on the right (it should only be one terminal + one non-terminal, or only one terminal), so this is not T3, only T2. 

(The end of the arrow and the index are meant to belong to the VP, not to "gegeben". I couldn't figure out yet how to do this for non-terminal nodes in tikz-qtree, so just imagine the movement goes to the VP and not to V.) If we then wanted to move only the verb, maybe adjunction is really still the best solution, so: 

Taking economy into account as well, I think the problem doesn't come from the economist, but from economics: economy has stress on the second syllable. economist has stress on the second syllable too - hence, adding the suffix -ist doesn't change stress, like the site suggests. economics has stress on the third (second-to-last) syllable and is thus different. I assume this comes from the suffix -ics; this suffix is not listed on the site, but -ic is and my guess would be that -ics behaves just the same, changing stress from the the second syllable to syllable before the suffix (i.e. -no-). Therefore, the difference in stress between economy, economist and economics arises regularly due to the suffix -ics in economics, while -ist in econonomist preservers stress and is thereby equally stressed as economy. This reasoning obviously presupposes economy as the underlying form from which we judge changes in stress. If we took e.g. economics as underlying, then things would indeed look different. But it seems just more reasonable to me to assume the semantically more "basic" economy as underlying and the other forms as derived. Actually, to be precise, we should anyway start from the root (as econom-y has already undergone derivation and we can not just add a suffix, but most remove -y and then replace it by -ist or ics), and in the root econom- (if this is pronouncable at all - I assume you would find it nowhere free, I think this morpheme has the morphological status of a confix - a lexical morpheme which does not occur free but does not serve as an affix but clearly as a root, also e.g. fanat- in fanat-ic, so one can probably only judge the "standard" pronounciation intuitively and not from an underived form as such an underived form doesn't occur freely for such confix morphemes), stress should be on the second syllable as well - so neither econom-y nor econom-ist differ in stress from the root, like we would expect, while econom-ics does, like we would expect as well. Under this assumption the stress behaviour fits well with the site's claims. 

Second language acquisition is closely connected to first language acquistion, so let me go a little back. Actually, acquiring a language without explicit instruction is the natrual way to learn a language. When kids aquire their first language, no one would hand them grammar books or a dictionary either - they just learn it by constantly being exposed to spoken natural language and active interaction with their environment, and still they do pretty well. Although this seems such a normal thing to us, it is still amazing how well children do at this enormously complexe task (there are periods in childhood with rapid growth of vocabulary, sometimes several new words each day, as well comparatively fast acquisition of rather complex syntactic constructions, and only at a very late stage, usually not until they are 5 years old, they will begin to understand pragmatic issues such as irony). Since the mere situation of being to exposed to rather unstructered and often even false input can not satisfactorily explain how children accomplish to learn languages that well without any explicit instruction (this is also called the "poverty of the stimulus argument"), one can, I think, see some point in Chomsky's proposal of a "universal grammar" that was supposed to be interior to every human and already include all of the linguistic structure, where the individual then only has to set certain parameters in order to fully acquire a language. Then there were theories which stated more or less the exact opposite of Chomsky's assumption, mostly behaviourism, which essentialy claimed that there is no such thing as linguistic intuition at all, but that language is just behaviour and all human behaviour is acquired by simple imitation of what the environment (for children, most importantly the parents) do. Recent theories of language acquisition usually don't accept neither of those view in their most radical interpretation and assume both that not all grammar is already in our heads and we simply have to find out how to use it in a specific language, but that there most be some more to learning a language, but at the same time not that using language is just mimicry of what other people do too; rather, most researches assume that humans are born with some intuitive understanding of natural language which makes it possible to acquire a language without being explicitly told the rules, but that it might, to some extend, help or even be crucial to also have some active knowledge of how a language works - it must be a bit of both. Obviously, there are quite some differences between children acquiring a languages and adults learning a second langauge. Amongst others, children will be introuced to language in a more step-by-step way, e.g. parents teaching them simple words rather than talking to them about politics, the latter of which is more likely to happen to adults who come to a foreign country without haveing learned the language beforehand. Additionally, there are some biological conditions which promote the ability to acquire a language in early childhood way havilier than is possible in adulthood. Also, humans will, and in this point children and adults are not very different, learn a language in an order that is relatively universal and to some extend even very predictable. For example, they will both start out with simple words and phrases, mostly concrete (such as "ball", "table", "go", "hungry") or very frequent ones ("Hello", "stop it"), which they than use in one-, two-, three-word sentences, building up slightly complex syntactic constructions, expanding their knowledge (which is, at the beginning, highly erroneous) to more difficult grammatical structures, more fine-grained semantic differences and eventually pragmatic, often culturally influenced subtleties. The most apparent reason for this is simplicity: It is easier to get the connection between "ball" and someone kicking a round object than it is to fully coping with the more advanced concepts of e.g. wh-movement or passive contructions, so the former will be learned at an earlier stage than the latter. What adds to this are practical factors: Having expert knowledge in what a language can theoretically distinguish between by making subtle changes to a sentence won't get you very far if you don't know how to use those feature because you can not even deal with the most basic vocabularly or how to form simple declarative sentences. On the other hand, people will roughly understand you if you are at least able to from three-word sentences with a vocabulary of maybe 200-1000 words, even if those sentences lack perfect grammaticality or the most powerful lexical distinctions. And you will, after some time, certainly be able to pick out some buzzwords that are frequently used and important for everyday life ("I", "you", "go", "money", "toilet"), even if you might not understand yet why the word was inflected in that very way or what that preposition expresses excactly. This is why it is possible for humans to learn how to speak a language even if it is in total a highly complex system of lexical items, grammatic rules and pragmatic usage conditions: because they start out with the most simple and essential features and continuously expand their knowledge to more sophisticated expressions. Despite the enormous complexity of this task, acquiring a language just by being exposed to it IS possible, this is what children do all the time, and acutally learning a language by explicitly making oneself aware of grammatical rules or meanings of words is the unnatural way to do it. There is even a recent tendency in second language teaching design towards making second language learning more inutitive, i.e. focussing less on instruction and more on intuitive learning by hearing and using the language as it naturally occurs in everyday life, some even approach to completely do away with any explicit learning and rely solely on intuitive acquisition, as some researches argue that this is even more effective than reading grammar books and studying vocabularly lists. Fore the reasons mentioned above, this is by far not as simple for adults as it is for children, and personally I doubt I could learn a foreign language easilier by just being exposed to it; if you don't acquire it under the conditions you are in as a child learning their first language, it makes things way simpler to have some explicit knowledge about the language works, rather than having to find it out all by yourself with some vague intuition. This doesn't prevent the general human ability though, and if you are being exposed to sufficient and qualitatively appropriate input while also being attentive to the structures it might be involved and the meanings that certain expressions might denote, then it is indeed possible to acquire a langueage (rather than actively learning it) just by hearing and using it, even if you have never known those constructions before; simply because the human brain is made to understand language without actively being aware of specific grammar rules or word-meaning relations - in fact, this is even the more normal way to do it. 

Bresnan (1998: 13) further explains that "S is univerally available as an exocentric category having no fixed categorial head and projecting no higher category. [...] Configurational S consists of a subject constituent and an XP predicate. [...] A configurational 'internal-subject' language (e.g. Welsh [...]) would have S under IP, and VP under S." Assuming additional X' levels for the XPs, but without specifiers, the tree would look like this, along the lines of Bresnan (1998), (11): 

1 It's also partially redundant because e.g. derivational morphemes are always bound (except there are some very weird language where this isn't the case; in this case feel free to correct me). Maybe it would sound better if you switched the order and said "bound inflectional morpheme", because the latter implies the former and putting the more specific thing first and as a second description what is already implied anyway (like "inflectional bound") sounds a bit clumsy to my ears. But that's just hair-splitting. 

This is due to Pied piping: When wh-fronting an NP, you also have to move another element it goes with (like prepositions); this is often optional in English, but obligatory in German: