You can't really spot reduce. In other words, you don't have any control of where you'll lose fat. Chances are you have lost some fat all over, even if you haven't noticed visible changes. In fact, it's not a bad idea to make weekly measurements for this exact reason. You can actually measure your bodyfat pretty easily with a simple set of bodyfat calipers (instructions come with the calipers) along with a bathroom scale. Not only is it encouraging to know you're making progress, but you can even adjust your diet and exercise regimen accordingly if you determine that you're losing muscle, for example. If you're interested in changing your body composition, building muscle, and losing fat then I'd look into high-intensity interval training (HIIT) as demonstrated here. Some exercises done with HIIT may be more anaerobic than others and you can pick and choose your routine based on your goals. But whatever you do, be smart and track your progress with bodyfat measurements. It literally takes 2 minutes and you only have to do it once a week. 

Indeed the quantities to promote continuous muscle growth can be quite large. I was consistently eating around 4,000 calories a day for about a year when I was weight training and trying to gain mass. But then, I'm 6'5" and have an extremely fast metabolism so my body demanded those calories. It worked though, as I was able to gain 20 pounds of muscle that year. The best way to figure it out for yourself is to measure and track your progress and make adjustments accordingly. You can do this with a simple set of body fat calipers and a bathroom scale. If you can get in the habit of measuring your weight and body fat weekly, then you can extract from that gains or losses in LBM (lean body mass). Say for example you manage to lose 1 pound each week, for 3 weeks in a row and half of that is fat / half is LBM. Well, if your goal is to gain muscle you should absolutely eat more calories in this case. Ideally you should be making small gains in LBM every week while minimizing fat gain. And it's just a matter of finding the diet that'll do that for you. By the way, the reason it's better to measure weekly is that you can drive yourself crazy measuring daily due to small fluctuations and inaccuracies. In fact, as a rule of thumb it's usually wise to gather 3 weeks of measurements before making any major changes to your diet. 

Running is harder on your body that walking. This is a pro. It can also, if not addressed correctly, turn into a con. Running will push your muscles, tendons, joints, lungs and heart more than walking will. When you run, your feet will hit the ground harder, your muscles will contract faster and with more force, your lungs will need to supply more air, and your heart will need to distribute blood faster. Basically, your entire body will be working harder - which is a good thing! It will force your body to adapt and improve to meet the new challenge. However, if you've never run before, or haven't run in a long time, there is a danger of overdoing things, especially if you 'jump in the deep end.' Start off slow - maybe 1 mile at a time at an easy pace, and see how it feels. Don't just try to run 3 miles a day during the first week - your body won't be ready for such a drastic change. Make sure you have good shoes, make sure your technique is decent. Otherwise overuse injuries will inevitably happen. If you ever have pain that is not normal soreness, take a break. Don't try to fight an injury - this is counterproductive. Overall, I would say running is a great and logical next step after walking. Like I mentioned before, it will improve the fitness of all the parts of your body, more than walking will. BUT, remember to be smart about it, and listen to your body. Ease into it, and you'll be fine. Good luck! 

I've heard that hitting a heavy bag is taxing enough that it is easy to overtrain using it, especially for beginners. How much rest should the average person (i.e. NOT a boxer who grew up hitting things) take in between intense heavy bag sessions to let the muscles, joints, tendons etc. recover? On a similar note, what caution signs should someone look for to avoid injury/overtraining on the heavy bag? I know wrist pain is something to look for. Anything else? 

Eat 6 times a day, with protein in every meal. By eating smaller meals more frequently this will allow you to absorb more nutrients from your food. More than that, as you get used to it, this may even allow you to eat more calories throughout the day because each meal doesn't have to be so big. Aim for a 30% protein / 40% carbohydrate / 30% fat split with your diet. This is actually a lot of protein, but your body needs lots of protein when you're weight training. I'd suggest using this simple calorie calculator. Lift weights 3 days a week. It doesn't sound like much. And in fact modern bodybuilders will workout more often than this. But then again they also take steroids which reduces recovery time. Before the days of steroids, Steve Reeves was one of the more impressive bodybuilders around. He wrote a book called, "Building the Classic Physique," and in the book even he suggested a 3 day-a-week routine. In fact, the book is a good training guide even today. 

It sounds like you've reached the tipping point, and are possibly overtraining at times. Long training sessions will cause a rise in cortisol levels, putting your body into a catabolic state. This will make you feel tired and can even stunt muscle growth. Cortisol levels rise when the body is put under stress. Of course inconsistency plays a big part as well. Any inconsistency in your training will wreak havoc on your energy levels. A few suggestions: 

As asked in the comments, "how do I know that I've overtrained"? There are some indicators of this, such as a rise in your resting heart rate. But perhaps the most reliable thing would be to pay close attention to how you feel on the day of any given workout. If, for example, you still feel sore and fatigued from the previous workout, and you decide to workout anyway then make a note of your work capacity for the day. If you're not able to lift as much weight, or simply run out of steam faster then there's a good chance that's due to overtraining. 

I remember reading about this topic a while ago. I don't remember the exact articles I read, but the upshot was this: static stretching BEFORE strength/explosive movements is at best irrelevant and at worst actually decreases performance. Here is a page with a summary of a few different studies that seem relevant: $URL$ With that being said, I do think there is something you should do before any workout - and that is warm up - especially if we're talking about heavy lifting or explosive movement. Stretching seems to me to be a somewhat misguided attempt to 'loosen up' the muscles before working them, in the hopes of preventing injury, when what you really want is a good warmup. Here is a good article from Joe DeFranco on the whole subject: $URL$ Not exactly a scholarly article, but DeFranco trains some very strong people professionally and I think his thoughts are well-grounded in real-world experience. It's a bit of a contrived comparison, but if you think of your muscles as a kind of elastic material, like a rubber band for example, the whole warmup concept is a bit more intuitive. Would you rather put a lot of stress and force on a rubber band that has been taken out of the refrigerator 2 seconds before, or one that has been flexed gently for a few minutes until it is more pliable? I also remember reading that if you do want to do static stretching, you can feel free to do it post-workout - when your muscles are still warm (so you can actually stretch farther) and so that you don't have to worry about any performance degrading (your workout is over anyway). This blog kind of sums it up nicely: $URL$ 

Diet is a huge part of this, of course. When I first started my weight training routine and 6 meal-per-day diet in 2005 I was 6'5" and 140 pounds @ 7% bodyfat. Yeah, pretty skinny. I was a real gym rat for years before this but had very limited success. I simply hadn't figured out my diet, and I was working out way too much and not allowing sufficient recovery time. So anyway in 2005 I began my new approach. Now, I have a ridiculously fast metabolism. This I know. But I hadn't really counted calories to determine what it would actually take to gain weight. Well I found that I needed around 3,500 to 4,000 calories a day to gain weight while working out 3 days a week. So as it turned out, a big part of my training was simply building my appetite to handle that much food. I was consistent and managed to put on 20 pounds of muscle and 10 pounds of fat in the first 10 months. I gained a bit more fat than I would've liked since I ate a little too much fast food, but nevertheless those results were by far the best I ever had. 

I agree with BenWillkommen's suggestions. I have two more which don't require a gym with a squat rack... 

Are you forefoot striking? Forefoot striking places more load on your calves than a heel strike would, and could explain the soreness in your calves. And forefoot striking is a good thing as it tends to prevent more serious injuries. In addition to this, one might think that eventually your calf muscles would catch up. But this depends on the distance you're running and of course nutrition. It'd be easier to build muscle in the areas that are lagging behind with shorter/faster running sessions. This is apparent when you look at long distance runners vs sprinters. The sport shapes the athlete, so to speak. I remember when I first started sprinting a few times a week. I was amazed at how every single muscle in my legs were sore the day after. And all I did was sprint about 100 meters three times with a little rest in between. Running hills as Sarge suggested would be another high intensity workout which would be great for the thighs.