No, a preorder relation - aka weak preference relation - or, equivalently, a strict ordering plus an equivalence relation suffice to talk about "more" or "less". Not all such relations can be represented by a "value function" and even if they can the value function is only ordinal and such a representation is still considered qualitative even though it involves real numbers. (The term "value function" comes from normative economics, where also sometimes "utility" is used, though the later is often reserved for values undr risk; I don't know how mathematicians would call it. It 's just a function v: D→ℝ from some domain of objects D to the reals such that v(a)≥v(b) ⇔ a≽b) For quantitative method, you likely want to measure intensities of "more" and "less" directly and compare distances such measures, which under normal circumstances would correspond to a cardinal utility function. That's all a bit vague and fuzzy; a fellow mathematician who knows some measure theory could give you more details and representation theorems. Or did I misunderstand your question? 

Mathematical definitions are useful and if at all only refer to 'mathematical reality' (in the sense of Platonism), not to the physical world. You seem to suggest about mathematics what Frege called "Pfefferkuchenarithmetik", it has been suggested before but didn't win a lot of followers. I can infer that 1+1=2 from a set of axioms I have set up, e.g. the Peano axioms. Whether that's useful or not is a highly subjective notion. I believe it is. Take the following example. I ask you for 1 dollar, and later I ask you for another dollar. Wouldn't it be useful to know that in total you'd loose two dollars, even if you decided to never give me anything? Do not forget that there are no completely perfect mathematical objects in physical reality - no points without extension, no perfectly straight lines, no triangles made of perfectly straight lines, and so on. Yet we need mathematics not just for understanding the world in the first place, but for all kind of intelligent planning where not all considered alternatives are realized. 

Oh no! Turns out I was communicating with a reflection! This must mean the reflection is conscious, right? Well, no. What is really means is that I was mistaken about the exact physical form of the girl I was talking to (guess that cute little birthmark is on her left cheek, not the right), and her exact location. Because really, the signals from my brain were causing signals in her eyes via the mirror, and it was her brain that was processing those signals to communicate back to me via the same mirror. In this case, it could make sense to say the reflection is just part of the girl I was talking to. I wasn't talking to a reflection; I was talking to the girl herself. Example 3 In one of your comments, you say 

The context of the statement is critical. What viewpoint are we looking at? To some people, unicorns are literally metaphors for something unattainable. To others, they're literally a horse-like being that probably doesn't exist. And there are probably thousands of other equally-valid definitions. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, so it's almost guaranteed that for any unicorn considered beautiful, another person considers it homely, if not outright hideous. If we're taking the entire set of all things considered unicorns by any person, then asking each person who has considered one of those unicorns whether said unicorn is beautiful, it is highly likely there is at least one instance of a non-beautiful unicorn. Of course, "highly likely" is undefined in strict Boolean-style logic, so your proposition breaks unless it allows for fuzzy truths. (I'll help you out here though: I did not consider the unicorn in Oblivion to be beautiful, which means the above set definitely contains at least one counter-example, so the statement must evaluate to false.) On the other hand, we can apply any combination of definitions of both unicorns and beauty, which means we can come up with sets for which the proposition definitely evaluates true, and other sets for which it is definitely false. At the end of the day, this is one of those many "yes or no" questions for which neither "yes" nor "no" is a valid answer. 

Provability logic will probably do the trick. Basically, provability logic takes the box in modal logic to represent provability in some system S. So you'd read S as the strongest foundational system you accept (ZFC or whatever). And you'd read "p is true" as "Box p" and "p is false" as "Box ~p." I don't know if this is a terribly principled way of going about things, but I'll leave the motivation up to you. Edit: I do want to encourage you to relax the requirement that "undecidable statements are neither true nor false." If there's one thing we've learned over the past century, it's that truth and proof can come apart. And it's no better to tie (truth-or-falsity) to provability. 

Many organized religions don't take God to reward those who believe in God for pragmatic reasons only. So it's not clear that belief in God should be assigned high utility. 

It's not clear that it's to cause yourself to believe in God as a result of Pascal's wager. Many people think you can only believe what you take the evidence to support, and you don't (by hypothesis) take the evidence to support the existence of God. So Pascal's wager might just be an argument that you should take steps to change your cognitive dispositions, exposure yourself to biased evidence, etc. to increase your willingness to believe in God's existence. (But these steps might have significant disutility). 

Good question! Nothing too deep here ... it's just that counterfactuals with true antecedents are rather boring. On most semantics, counterfactuals with true antecedents just collapse into material conditionals, so there's usually no point in writing them as counterfactuals. But you can write out any counterfactuals that you'd like if the fancy strikes you. 

This is false, because the person in the mirror simply reflects the behavior of something else, which is not the behavior of a conscious human, but that of a reflection. Approach 2 - (5) is false. But there's a different way of approaching it. 

There are two ways to deal with this. First, let's assume there's a robot in Ecuador while I'm in the United States. The robot duplicates all my movements, speech, and mannerisms as exactly as it can. In this case, we'd probably say the robot isn't conscious, and that it's not me. It's really just a (real-time) recording of me. If some giant alien spaceship starts doing stuff far above Earth, it's possible both me and my robot are looking at the spaceship at the same approximate angle, giving the impression the robot is actively perceiving things and reacting to them. But if a guy in Ecuador walked up to the robot, the robot would pay him no mind. It wouldn't react to being hit, beaten, stabbed, thrown off a cliff, etc. It would just keep attempting to play out the recording. This is clearly not a robot behaving like it's conscious. Example 4 This starts like Example 3. We have a robot. But this time, the robot has some kind of high-speed connection to my brain; I'm plugged in like some kind of Matrix simulation. The guy in Ecuador walks up to my robot and says "Hi" (or "Hola" or whatever they say down there), and I say "Hi" back. We have a conversation. I react and interact with him. We could now say the robot is behaving like a conscious entity. But that's because at this exact moment, the robot is really just me in a new body. So it's not just behaving like it's conscious; it is conscious. This, again, comes down to a delineation between "robot" and "human" and whether we're separate entities. If you want to say we're distinct entities, then the robot isn't me, but it's not behaving like it's conscious either, because it's merely a reflection of me. Otherwise it's behaving like it's conscious, but only because it actually is conscious. There's no meaningful way to define this such that the robot is both behaving like it's conscious and not actually conscious at the same time. Of course, the guy in Ecuador might not realize that high-speed connection exists, and might then tell his friends "I met a conscious robot!!!!". From here we could say the robot seemingly behaves like it's conscious even though we know it's not conscious, but it's rather silly to jump from there to "p-zombie". Because we've arbitrarily defined the unconscious robot as the hunk of metal in Ecuador, while ignoring the all-important WiFi signal that's actually driving it. In this case, if our Ecuadorian friends brought the robot to Mars, they'd notice that it has a 40-minute lag time, and probably just shuts down completely, which would tell our Ecuadorian friends that something on Earth is controlling it. 

Let's start lower down. By the incompleteness theorems, PA (first-order arithmetic) can't prove its own consistency. Do we have to worry that PA is inconsistent? Fortunately not: we have a stronger system (ZFC) which proves the consistency of PA. But that's not much help -- if you doubt the consistency of PA, this just means you should doubt the consistency of ZFC as well. What we really want to say is: we have very good reason to believe that PA is consistent. Namely, we've been working with PA for many years and uncovered no inconsistency. And the axioms seem to be saying pretty common-sense things about a class of objects (the natural numbers) whose existence most of us take for granted. Now move up to someone who doubts the consistency of ZFC. I could point to some higher system (say, ZFC + "there exists a strongly inaccessible cardinal") which proves the consistency of ZFC. But again, that wouldn't help, since if you doubt the consistency of ZFC you doubt the consistency of the second system. It's much better to say: we've been working with ZFC for a long time and uncovered no inconsistency. And ZFC seems to be saying some pretty common-sense thing about a class of objects (sets) whose existence most mathematicians now take for granted. 

Your presentation of Pascal's wager takes there to be two states the world could be in relevant to the utility of taking the wager: "God exists" or "God doesn't exist." But we should probably break each of these into many sub-states. "God exists" becomes "The Christian god exists"; "The Jewish god exists"; ... and many other possibilities, each of which has its own sub-possibilities. That won't sink your argument, even if some of these don't take God to reward followers. But the "God doesn't exist" state should be broken into states like "an evil demon exists who will punish people for believing in God." And depending on the credences we assign to these states attaining, Pascal's wager might have negative utility. 

I wave at her, and she waves back. I write something on a dry erase board and she laughs. I write something else and she sticks her tongue out at me. She pulls out her own board and we start chatting back and forth. After several minutes of this, I conclude that she must be a conscious, intelligent person. Then the curtain is drawn back. 

The mirror image is you, and you've already asserted that you are conscious, therefore it's illogical to assert that the mirror image isn't conscious. The Difference The difference between these approaches is simply in the delineation between "a thing" and "its reflection". Neither is more valid, and each is more useful in certain circumstances. Example 1 If I walk up to a lake and look in, I see my reflection. But I say my reflection isn't me because if you punch my reflection, I just get a little wet, but otherwise feel no pain or discomfort. (We could do the same with a mirror, but I'd rather not take you to get stitches or clean up all that broken glass.) I also see that the reflection is distorted by the waves, your angle of viewing, etc., but yet doesn't appear to feel any of these things. In fact, the reflection doesn't seem to feel anything except the things I feel. If I sneeze, my reflection sneezes. If I laugh, so too does the reflection laugh. The reflection's actions are clearly caused by the stimulus acting on me, not it, while my actions are unaffected by any stimulus acting on the reflection. This tells me the reflection is not a part of me, and that it doesn't behave like a human. Example 2 This time, let's say I'm standing near a dark curtain. I look past the end of the curtain and see a beautiful girl smiling at me. 

Let's rephrase the doctrine a bit, because Geometry is a tricky case due to the study of consistent non-Euclidean geometries. For example, in spherical geometry you can construct a triangle with two right angles. Since the doctrine in question was espoused before the advent of non-Euclidean geometry, let's give them the benefit of the doubt and rephrase it. Suppose the idea is that even God can't change logical facts. Then you might say that even God could not make a claim simultaneously true and false (unless you go in for paraconsistent logics). Suppose the idea is that even God can't change mathematical facts. Then you might say that even God could not make induction false over the natural numbers, or true over the reals. Or maybe that even God couldn't make it the case that 2+2=5. (This is hairier, since as in the case of geometry this can be false in some arithmetic-like models, i.e. the integers mod 2, but here we take ourselves to have good reason to say that those aren't the natural numbers.) The justification for these claims is that it's unclear what it could even be for God to change such facts. What would it be for God to make it both true and false that I have two hands? Or to make it false that (p and q) entails p? Or that a mathematical property could be had by 0, and passed up from each number to the next, but not be true of all natural numbers? (we have a good understanding of how this property can fail, but not how it can fail over the natural numbers). Edit: Realized I didn't directly address the questions at the bottom. Most (not all) philosophical views about mathematics don't take geometry to be describing physical objects or tie the truth of propositions about triangles and the like to the existence of suitably related structures in the world. They could think there are real shapes corresponding to geometrical objects (one example of this view would be Platonism), but think this in the same sense that there's a real object corresponding to, say, any given function, algebra, splitting field, or the like. So they definitely don't think the subject matter of geometry is visible things (any more than the subject of arithmetic is collections of pebbles). Depending on your ontological views you might think there are objects (i.e. collections of spacetime points) corresponding to particular geometrical objects, but the truth of mathematical propositions is not taken to depend on their existence. A notable exception is nominalism, which holds that for propositions about triangles, well-ordered sets and the like to be true there must be concrete physical objects (broadly understood) in the world corresponding to them. And here geometry plays a major role, i.e. Field's famous nominalization of Newtonian gravitational theory cashed-out notions from mathematical physics in terms of the geometry of points, regarded as concrete objects.