... i.e. maybe the offering-of-dhamma wasn't "to all" ... and instead only the kampī (i.e. the stillness or compassion or whatever that means) was "to all beings" ... maybe the text could be read either way. This latter way might be more compatible with other suttas: e.g. he was teaching "those with little dust in their eyes" and so on, rather than everyone. 

Do any Buddhist traditions teach anything in that regard? I don't know, but I doubt it. A lot of Buddhist law is monastic, with something of a line drawn between the sangha and lay society. There are ethical rules or guidelines for laypeople but (IMO) they tend to be brief or broad (e.g. the five precepts), rather than detailed. I think there's no Buddhist law that regulates marriage, for example. There may be cultural rules (but I'd suspect they're cultural or national rather than "Buddhist" and timeless). If you want to pursue this question, the one thing I can suggest is this: 

I guess it's possible that most people practice Bhavana by visual imagination, but that some people could do it via other forms of imagination. For example is it easier for you to identify people by sound instead of sight? You're supposed to pervade kindness and so on in various directions -- maybe that means you can use your sense of proprioception. 

Buddhism as much as I know is based upon transference of souls to other living entities Birth or rebirth yes, but maybe no "soul". See existing topics tagged rebirth and anatta for more on this topic (perhaps including this one). I guess that part of the doctrine is that consciousness is conditioned by contact (e.g. conscious of a sight when seen), and so there's no kind of separate, independent soul; but once you get into trying to describe it, it's hard to stop -- it's a thicket of views: 

According to my understanding of the Pali canon, that (i.e. "Where does he/she go?") might be a tricky question to ask of the Buddha even when he's alive (or have an unexpected answer): see for example the topic, Why is the Buddha described as trackless? Also a classic understanding is that birth is equated with suffering, and enlightenment is equated with no further birth (see for example the comment about the "house builder" on this page): so maybe there is a concept of an after-life in Buddhism (see also Samsara) ... but not for the enlightened Buddha! On the other hand, Nirvana itself is described as Deathless. Canonically there are several unanswered questions, of which the one you asked is one: see the Kheme Sutta (SN44.1), 

So if the first explanation above (sense experience and perception without contact) is difficult to accept (because it doesn't fit the doctrine of the 12 nidanas), I think the definition of the sixth sense (e.g. contact with "mind-objects") is broad enough to include the phenomenon of dreaming. 

However I don't know any story phrased exactly like the one you quoted; nor any suttas in which the Buddha teaches people about 'the speed of light' inasmuch as that is understood by modern physics. 

See also the topic How are 'conceit' and 'identity-view' not the same?: where people talk about the difference between a fixed/permanent "view", and a temporary/transient "thought, feeling or emotion". 

The various historical theories seem to me plausible (or well-argued and widely-agreed by experts given the archaeological evidence ... but not, so far as I know, very relevant to Buddhism), e.g.: 

In summary there are Christians who are also Buddhists, i.e. who study and who practice Buddhism. As it's possible to be an ordained teacher/minister of both, it's even more possible to be a lay person. It's also feasible to answer "No" to this question i.e. to answer something like, "No true Buddhist could be a Christian nor vice versa". In reply, to that, I would mention the "No true Scotsman" argument, and that sometimes Christians don't agree on what's Christian, nor Buddhists agree on what's Buddhist. What are the similarities and contrasts between Buddhism and Christianity? There's a Wikipedia article Buddhism and Christianity which summarizes similarities and differences (which I haven't read and don't recommend). I think there are also books that I haven't read. Similarities are innumerable. For one example, there's a version of Buddhism which depends on faith-in-having-been-saved (see this answer), similarly I think that's a tenet of most Protestant churches. I guess my point is that there's such a wide variety of doctrines in both religions that there are innumerable places where they overlap, as well as where they might appear to be contradictory. Charity, confession, temples, rituals, private practice, scripture are all associated with both religions. All of these (except charity perhaps) are omitted from other forms of both religions. Some sources have identified "God" as being the greatest contrast between Buddhism and Christianity -- on the other hand many Christians are perhaps agnostic about God (maybe God is meant to be a subject of "faith" rather than "knowledge"). I don't want to go on at length about Christianity because that's not on-topic on this site, but three more examples: 

You might try compassion for the person who hurt you: understand that they were trapped themselves, by their own circumstances (and, maybe, ignorance). I guess that's part of the message in The Moon Cannot Be Stolen (where I think that the moon is a symbol representing enlightenment). Another possibility might be reconsider your theory that they hurt you. Verses 3 through 6 of the Dhammapada say that "those who harbor such thoughts do not still their hatred" ... so, taking that to be true, maybe you need to let go of those thoughts. For example if the person hurt you by not doing what you wanted, or not doing what you expected, it might help to see "what you want" and "what you expect" as impermanent, non-self, and non-satisfactory, and maybe to disassociate "me" from them, or abandon them -- maybe in favour of another less harmful theory, a theory that doesn't involve "me". See also the answers to questions about "identity view" (for example answers to this question) ... this (suffering as the result of not having forgiven a hurt) might be one of the myriad ways in which identity view leads to suffering: so "purging" that view might be a way to "purge the thoughts from my mind and the negative connotations that come with them" -- not just purging a symptom but a root cause. 

Given that things happen as a result of "conditions", I think of kamma as a "condition" of things happening. I don't have a precise explanation of karma so I didn't want to say much about it. I think that one important thing to know about karma is that Buddhism is down on (i.e. it argues against) the two extremes of "eternalism" and "nihilism" ... one example of "nihilism" might be the belief that actions have no consequences (and maybe that therefore nothing matters) ... whereas Buddhism teaches that such nihilism is wrong view and that (on the contrary) actions (and intentions) matter and have consequences. If you look at the second factor of the eightfold way ("Right Intention") part of the definition is, 

So far as I know there's no free/electronic copy of the book. The summary of the book on Amazon says, 

In summary perhaps they're 'not mine' because (or if) you choose to disown or not identify with them. Also, perhaps such thoughts do happen to other people? The Dalai Lama for example says that he likes to see himself as being the same (composed of 5 aggregates) as every one else. 

An "ideology" is a system of ideas (on any topic, but often used in the context of "political ideology"). Buddhism is an ideology, but it's more than just an ideology: e.g. Dhammadhatu said it's also a "methodology". I think an essential characteristic of "religion" is obligation (e.g. "you are obliged to pray because God commands you to"). Buddhism can seem like or be interpreted as a religion (e.g. "you are obliged to believe and to accept, to have faith in, everything that's written in the suttas"). But some people don't interpret it like that, and might instead say something like, "I accept (only) what makes sense to me", or "I choose to practice this or that for my benefit", instead of seeing it as obligation i.e. as a religion. I don't know how to define philosophy or way of living ... with my background I might also be inclined to call it a science, which is a form of knowledge. This comment said, "I wish it was made clearer to people that Buddhism is NOT a religion or philosophy, but actually the antidote to being enthralled by those". 

It's not clear how (or by whom) such a "foe" can ever be helped or cherished. In summary if someone is a genuine friend (helpful, constant, good advice) then cherish them; if someone is a false friend (costly, a friend in word but not deed, a flatterer with bad advice, dissolute) then avoid them as perilous. 

In other words he studied with various teachers, and successfully learned what they were teaching, but wasn't satisfied (and therefore went to another teacher, etc.). 

You presumably know that the Middle Way suggests you don't get too heavily into asceticism. On the subject of "rice and beans" here's a recipe I use: 

You can observe that the above (forms, sensations, perceptions, etc.) are impermanent. You might think of your "self" as permanent (e.g. that you are the same person you are yesterday); however, observations suggest otherwise, and suggest that none of the above are your permanent self. In fact the marks of existence are (together with Dukka or suffering, defined above), "impermanence" and "non-self". Your question complains that if there is no self, then how can there be enlightenment? Well, if the "self" doesn't exist, is there suffering? However, simply pretending that "self" doesn't exist does not make your suffering, your vulnerability, go away: for example, If nothing exists ... Buddhist practice is to "realize" this. 

I found two that are similar, but not identical. The Kalara Sutta is similar, in that it's Sariputta talking about Dependent Origination. However, in that sutta, it's the Buddha who is asking the questions; Sariputta has no disciples; and instead of asking whether the world is eternal, the question is whether birth is ended. This could perhaps be the one you're thinking of, because the Buddha asks questions like, "But, Sāriputta, if they were to ask you ..." Or there's the The Greater Discourse on the Elephant-Footprint Simile, which starts with Sariputta addressing the bhikkus as "Friends", and ends by repeating that "He who sees dependent origination sees the Teaching; he who sees the Teaching sees dependent origination." 

Also I think that Buddhism expects that there will be lay people (lay society) and monks. Everyone needs various basic "necessities": especially food and medicine, maybe clothing and shelter -- not to mention intangible and social goods like education etc. Lay people are expected to engage in some form of livelihood, to everyone's benefit (their own, their family's, their teachers', their employees and employers). One of the Buddhist ideals is a "Middle Way" between sheer hedonism and consumerism on the one hand, and asceticism and starvation and so on on the other. 

There's a Zen story that may be topical, here: Is That So? Not producing, but at least caring for children. I suppose the children benefit (from your care), and you get to do the right (caring, virtuous) thing. I suppose there may be down-side to it too: if that circumstance prompts you to be selfish, aversive, grasping, cruel, etc. 

The above (which also describes Beauty, Happiness, Status, and Rebirth in heaven as welcome, agreeable, pleasant) is addressed to a householder. Dharmafarer's introduction to MN 70 talks about untimely eating on pages 1 and 2: it mentions "health" and also other reasons, and says that the rules (or prohibitions) were phased in gradually to let the monks adjust gradually. Also I think it says (on pages 2 and 3) that the monks being addressed in this Sutta were monks but not very good monks: who were eventually expelled from the Sangha. Perhaps, who knows, "health" is mentioned in this sutta because it's appropriate to the audience, i.e. of several reasons (for skipping dinner) the Buddha chose one (health) which he thought had the best chance of appealing to this particular audience. 

It has been said that all phenomena are conditioned, not intrinsically real When you asked that, you were quoting an answer of Yeshe Tenley's. I think the Pali doesn't say "all phenomena are conditioned", but it does talk about "conditioned phenomena" (sankhara) ... and refers to Nibbana as "the Unconditioned" (and other epiphets) ... see also What are conditioned as opposed to unconditioned phenomena? I think that the doctrine which Yeshe Tenley was explaining says that Nibbana too is "not intrinsically real". There's an example of that in this answer and its comments; and maybe this comment is a reference to detailed explanations: 

I think it's similar to the theory of cause-and-effect: if A causes B, then the origination of B depends on A. It may be a little vaguer than cause-and-effect (and for that reason I think it may be more useful or more true than a simplistic view of cause and effect): sometimes I find it difficult to answer, "which is the cause and which is the effect?" For example, is fire caused by heat, or is heat caused by fire? IMO "inter-dependent" avoids committing itself to a specific distinction between cause and effect, and lets you say that "the origination of fire depends on heat" as well as "the origination of heat depends on fire". Heat and fire can be said to "co-arise" i.e. they arise or occur together, or depend on each other. A simple example might be, as Suminda mentioned, in the four noble truths: the second noble truth says that the origination of suffering is craving, which means that suffering has craving as its condition (the existence of suffering implies the existence of craving, or perhaps they co-arise). The third and fourth noble truths state the converse of that relation, i.e. cessation of craving and of suffering. I think it's meant to be a useful theory: for example fire depends on fuel, so you can extinguish fire by removing it from its fuel. Understanding the cause[s] of existence (e.g. of suffering or of non-suffering) is a kind of science. I think it also relates to ideas of "impermanence" and of "emptiness" and "non-self". A theory of self might say that there's a "me" that's not only permanent but also independent of other things (e.g. if I had an eternal soul then that soul might presumably be independent of impermanent or transient things). But the theory of dependent origination might disagree and say that the body depends on various things (birth, food, etc.) and that various aspects of the mind depend on things (things, senses, contact between things and senses, consciousness of that contact), and that things which arise dependent of some condition do the opposite of arising (i.e. they cease) when those conditions are no longer applicable, hence "all put-together things are subject to decay". 

As an abstraction -- "Praised by the wise" is synonym of "wise", "criticized by the wise" is a synonym of "unwise" (e.g. "these properties are unskillful, blameworthy, unwise"). I also read it as being, possibly, a rhetorical device (e.g. "the wise criticize it, and you want to be with or like the wise, so you should criticize it too"). As companions -- "The wise" are ... well I think you're supposed to know who the wise are, within your community. If you don't know, maybe your parents or teacher or best friend can tell you who they are, or the introduction suggests how to judge whether a person is wise. As self -- "We" are supposed to be wise. The sutta says, "When you know for yourselves that..." As Buddha -- In context, "the wise" are (by definition) whoever agrees with (and practices) what the Buddha is saying.