Coal, which is essentially pure carbon, slowly oxidizes, it is the same reaction as it burning just much slower. This is the major source of heat for self-heating of coal. Many things that will burn will also slowly oxidize under normal temperatures, it is just not a sustained chain reaction that a fire is. Since this is weak slow process there is a large variety of oxocarbons that can be produced from this, some of which can contribute to more rapid heating the right circumstances. 

Yes they can reform even if completely melted and they done this have in the geologic past, you just need to get the planet cool enough again. You only need two things for ice caps on earth, continents in the right place (near the poles) and a low enough temprature. The current antarctic ice caps formed about 34 million years ago. 

over that short a time there would be very little change in the land itself, all you really get is a sea level change due to changes in the ice sheets, continental movement is barely noticeable. such measurements and maps already exist. here is the earth 12,000 years ago. 

The continental crust and shelf of new zealand is one peice that has a fault running through it due to it running over a boundary between two oceanic plates. Continental crust cannot really* subduct due to its lower density so if forced onto a subduction zone they will actually slide over it onto the other plate. It helps of you remember oceanic crust and continental crust can exist on the same plate but have different properties. Something similar has/is happening in North America the san andreas fault is caused by part of the north american continent running over the old east pacific (farallon) plate and spreading center, so now the portion attached to the north american plate is being dragged in one direction and peice sitting on/in the (west) pacific plate is moving in a different one. it is slowly pulling the continent apart and eventually may create an island like new zealand. Here is more in depth discussion of strike-slip/transcurrent plate boundaries. 

tectonic plates are not completely rigid they can bend, flex, and in the case of oceanic plate, get pushed under each other and melted back down.The plates move by sliding under each other, melting, or bending Take a toffee-bar candy, hang most of it off the side of a table and put something heavy on the other end to hold it in place, wait a few hours, just under its own weight it will bend 90 degrees. However bend it fast by only a few degrees and it will snap. Rock behaves in a similar fashion, do it slowly enough and with enough force and you can bend it. Basically all solids behave like this to a certain extent. tectonic plates are not rigid on the large scale. bending rock leaves behind traces like this and this bend it to fast and the rock breaks creating a fault lines like this and this plates pushed down get remelted, it helps if you think of oceanic crust as exposed mantle that has been cooled into a solid, while continental crust is much less dense and sort of floats on top of the more liquid mantle. that's why continental crust does not subduct but oceanic does. In essence there are huge gaps between the the permanent plate material, it just cools when exposed forming a hard surface skin called an oceanic plate. 

CO2 and methane both have natural feedback loops that can cause increasing temprature to release more of both, which in turn causes more warming which causes more release and so on and so forth. This is one of the big worries about human caused greenhouse gasses, that they will trigger these feedback loops causing far more drastic warming. Negative feedback loops also exist so making it colder can trap more or release less of these gases. I will give a few examples of those feedback loops. Methane hydrates, A lot of the seafloor has methane hydrates trapped in the sediment, if you warm that material it releases methane gas, a lot of it. This material builds up very slowly but can be released very quickly, so there is plenty available to warming water to release. Higher pressure can mitigate this but the temprature has a stronger effect than pressure from rising sea levels. Of course if you cool the sea more of this methane is trapped as hydrates reducing the amount in the atmosphere. Permafrost also contains methane hydrates and other organics, the cold and ice keeps them inactive and trapped but warming it triggers the release of both methane and trapped carbon (which is released as CO2). so as the polar regions warm the release out these stored gasses, if they get colder they trap more it. Biology, there is a really interesting feedback loop in microbial life, ocean and wetland life in particular respond to warmer temperatures by releasing more CO2(or absorbing less), how much is difficult to estimate but that they do increase CO2 has been repeatedly confirmed even if weak on a geological time scale this will quickly add up. This effect is much stronger in wetlands and wetlands have the additional effect of releasing more methane with warming temprature at the same time, Methanogenesis. additionally they also convert CO2 into methane and how much is based on CO2 concentration and temprature, so increasing CO2 will result in more methane directly. Ocean circulation, warming the planet changes ocean circulation patterns, and the current pattern with a lot of mixing due to wide differences in temperature. is really good at absorbing methane and CO2 into sediment and microorganisms. warmer oceans result in less mixing which means less gases released by other means getting absorbed. On a geologic scale the movement of continents can affect all of these, so that adds one more thing that will tend to change both in the same ways. 

Impression are just that, an impression, an imprint of the fossil but the fossil that created it is gone (or just separate) such as this impression of a ammonite. Pseudomorphism is just a new term for a natural casting it can be a cast of the fossil or a cast of the fossils impression, again the shape is preserved the the original fossil is seperate or has dissolved and been replaced, for instance the natural casting of the braincase of hominids can be used to reconstruct missing parts of the skull. This snail shell is also a pseudomorph, the entire thing has been replaced with agate. In true fossilization some component of the original material is still present this can preserve internal structure. With bone for instance a ture fossil of a bone often has some of the original calcium/phosphate with pore spaces around it filled in with other minerals. Of course like anything in nature pseudomorph and true fossil are not completely discrete but ends on a spectrum, partial replacement is the norm. 

The rivers are generally fed by water that percolated into the ground, it takes longer for that water to work its way down to the stream so the streams and rivers keep flowing long after the initial rain. $URL$ 

I don't know if it actually gets warmer. I've never seen evidence for it, so a source for the claim would be nice. But I have heard the belief that it does. It often FEELS warmer for two reasons. First because rain and snow are caused when warmer air meets colder air so at least 50% of the time it is actually getting warmer. And secondly there is sudden drop in humidity caused by precipitation, and cold dry air feels warmer than cold humid air because it transfers heat slower. Although this effect tends to only be be noticeable if the air is above freezing. Add both of these together and sprinkle in some confirmation bias and you have the common belief that it always gets warmer, when it doesn't. Now transforming water vapor (a gas) into a solid releases energy. The same thing happens when it rains. In both cases the effect is minor and would not be felt at ground level. 

The dark one looks like chert, there are known deposits in New Zealand (click on the dark variety). the white is washed out by the light making it hard to see, it could be limestone or marble but it could be white quartz or a dozen other things as well, without a better picture it is hard to say. An acid test would be the best way to check. 

Pay attention to how the bedding planes move relative to each other notice how they begin to double up in both forms of reverse fault, while in a normal fault sections begin to disappear in the middle, being lost from hypothetical drill core entirely. In the reverse faults if you drilled down through the blocks there are areas where you would drill through the dark central bed twice while in the normal there are places where you would never hit it at all. 

Lead and uranium have completely different electro-chemical properties. So as David mentioned it does not matter how much uranium the sample had (as long as it is enough to measure) what matters is whether it contained any lead when it formed. Uranium and lead do not form the same kinds of bonds with other elements, so what you do is look for a uranium based crystal or uranium incorporating crystal. Crystals have a very regular bonding pattern, so you know when the crystal formed it was uranium and not lead, becasue lead cannot form those types of bonds with the smale materials uranium can. So when you find lead locked in those crystals you know it is because when it crystallized it was uranium and later decayed into lead. Most samples used are crystals for this reason. We pick materials that could not normally include lead, by doing this you can add up the total amount of lead and uranium and that will tell you how much uranium there was originally. Zircon is especially common for this becasue it will readily incorporate uranium but strongly rejects lead, so even if there is lead present in the solution (molten rock) in will not be incorporated into the crystal, because it is actively repelled by the crystal surface, thus insuring any lead you find came after the crystal was already solid and the repulsion could not push it out.