It seems as if your support for classifying Nagel as a panthesist is to take him at his word in regard to his claims about his beliefs without exception except when it comes to his claim about his atheism. I don't see any reason to carve out this exception or to assert Nagel is using "atheist" incorrectly based on the evidence provided in the question. Therefore, no. 

If the scope of the question allows for philosophical answers then it is clearly philosophical. If it can only be answered acceptably from a scientific standpoint then it clearly isn't. To put it another way, if the questions premises preclude the possibility of Kantian subjectivity regarding knowledge of time and space, ordinary language analysis, feminist critique, etc., then it is perhaps not philosophical. If Plato and Hume and Nietzsche cannot possibly bring anything to the discussion, the question might be more physics than philosophy, so to speak. In the end, if the question is premised on the same set of assumptions about the world that one uses in the scientific investigations of physics, then as philosophers we should be on guard. One feature that distinguishes philosophy is the questioning the foundations if our world views. 

What he's saying here is that deductive logic alone doesn't let you discriminate between sense-data events and events in the external world. That is, you can't take your brownish, chair-shaped visual experience, somehow apply deductive logic to it, and get the conclusion that there's a chair in front of you (if there is) or that there's no chair in front of you (if there isn't and you're just deceived). OK. So, deductive logic alone doesn't help us infer from sense-data to objects in the external world. Russell needs something else. He needs inferences that aren't logically valid, but which are still reliable enough to underwrite the inference from 'brownish, chair-shaped experience' to 'there's a chair in front of me'. So instead he's going to use inferences backed up by laws of nature: 

This is not something I think you want to happen. If we did only accept what we know to be empirically true, and nothing else, then we would have to abandon mathematics, logic, ethics, and a whole host of other non-empirical areas of knowledge. Simply put, there are more things that we can know than there are things that we can know empirically. 

Political sanction: there are no official state superstitions nor high priests of superstition. [at the one sentence level of question and answer and analysis]. 

Legally a corporate body may be a person. Philosophically, neither it nor its board is a moral or ethical agent. The individuals who sit on the board are the relevant moral or ethical agents. A corporate body may have rules that define what constitutes a conflict of interest and ethically obligate those agents toward certain actions. Or the corporate body may not. Operationally, a board depends upon people with an interest in the corporate body which the board oversees. Where one person may see a conflict of interests, another may see alignment. And the appearance of a potential conflict of interest is not in fact an actual conflict. 

No. Kant just considers plain old unadulterated pure reason. He does not look at pure reason plus now with bacon. Perhaps that's because by "pure", Kant means pure and non-human reasons are experienced as phenomena. The only reason we have access to as a ding an sich is human reason. Not requiring a super natural being to keep the world in order while not falling into radical skepticism is the cornerstone of his insight. 

Yes. Some philosophers give pride of place to deductive power. Here I've got someone maybe from the Dummettian inferentialist tradition in mind. By their lights, what logic is for is formalizing arguments (at first-order). Given this goal, semantic incompleteness is undesirable, because it means that some entailments cannot be captured by your proof system. These philosophers will regard a failure of semantic completeness as problematic (as in the case of second-order logic, as Mauro points out), because their project requires a tight connection between logical entailment and deductive validity. Other philosophers, however, give pride of place to expressive power. Mathematical structuralists are an example here. By these philosopher's lights, what matters is that we pin down structures - of the natural numbers, say. Since you can only do that at second-order, you have to give up semantic completeness to do it. These philosophers won't regard second-order logic as having 'failed', even though it's semantically incomplete, because it does precisely what they want it to: precisely characterize structures. 

It's hard to give a once-and-for-all answer to this question, because what exactly materialism and idealism amount to depends largely on the historical era you have in mind. That said, here's one way to cash out these notions. Materialism is the view that material objects exist. Idealism is the view that every object either is, or depends for its existence upon, mental entities. Note that, as stated, these aren't opposing views, for it could be that material objects are either identical to or depend upon mental entities for their existence. (Edit: upon reflection I decided to redact the bit about Berkeley.) However, anti-materialism sits pretty naturally with idealism, because if you deny that material objects exist you'll need some account of what objects are, and it looks like idealism offers a neat answer to that. 

Agree or not, the famous computer scientist's position illustrates how slippery the proposition "X has beliefs" is when we attempt to grasp and hold it. 

Yes Kant was right about space and time (and no he was not wrong about knowledge) where being right about space and time and not being wrong about knowledge are epistemological claims. Critique of Pure Reason is a response to radical skepticism. It offers the comfort of legitimizing the existence of facts in regard to empirical phenomena. The price is that the these facts are always subject to the caveat that they are mediated through and limited by the natural limits of human experience. We can talk as if the results of an experiment confirm facts about space and time, but we're simply committed to a convenience. Humans can wonder What is it Like to Be a Bat, but it is an error to assume there exists some bat so Nagely as to wonder what it is like to be a human. There is no legitimate basis for a claim that bats can wonder at all. To say that "Kant was clearly wrong" is to misunderstand the problem he was tackling. For millenia, the best philosophical responses to radical skepticism required Descarte's gods and proofs thereof. After Kant, it was still about two hundred years until G.E. Moore's offered a simple god free response to radical skepticism. However, the horrible price for Moore's stance is any claim to being clever. 

You may want to re-examine this belief. Most contemporary philosophers are compatibilists about free will: they accept that some kind of causal determinism is true, but that this has no bearing on the issue of free will. You will find this link helpful: $URL$ $URL$ 

We can utter sentences without endorsing the propositions expressed by those sentences. Similarly for what we think. So not everything we think or say is an opinion. For instance, suppose I utter "it is raining outside," even though I believe that it is not raining. I can say it, but that doesn't mean I endorse/believe it. 

There are a number of positions that advocate for the existence of objective moral facts. This is typically called 'moral realism', and is a conjunction of a number of claims: 

One standard way to deal with this sort of situation is to distinguish between explicit and implicit beliefs (See Gilbert Harman's Change in View, Ch.2). Say that a belief is explicit if one possesses a mental representation whose content is that belief, and say that a belief is implicit if it is not explicit, but is (easily) inferable from one's explicit beliefs. Thus, we can say that you implicitly believe each member of the given set as long as you explicitly believe, say, the Peano axioms. 

Sometimes it can be a case of "moving the goal posts". Other times it is "no silver bullet." It largely depends on the rhetorical context and can be nothing more than Randell Monroe's [of xkcd] "Someone is wrong on the internet": ie. no more than being argumentative. 

In practice, we would tend to have a strong logical presumption that is not identical based on one being called "a" and the other called "b" because the difference in names implies a spatial and/or temporal difference in the conditions under which each is encountered. The burden of proof falls on those claiming "Hesperus is Phosphorus." The premise that classic philosophic logic has some strong principle of identity is a bit suspect in itself. The Ship of Theseus has been an important paradox since the early days of philosophy. The real problem is that "the same" requires disambiguation if we're talking in a logical context. Thus formal languages in computing often have multiple predicates for sameness [e.g Lisp's , , and ]. Pierce's pragmatic maxim perhaps points the way. is not identical if and only if the effects of are not identical to the effects of . 

Typically (though not always), philosophies of X, where X is some discipline or domain of enquiry, ask questions about the epistemological, metaphysical, or conceptual foundations of X. These are distinct from questions investigated within X. For instance, mathematicians study things like numbers and their properties, mathematical structures, sets, categories, and so on. These types of questions are distinct from questions about our knowledge of mathematical truths, or about the metaphysical status of mathematical objects. Philosophy of mathematics concerns itself with questions of the second kind. This also gives us a neat answer to your second question: we don't call philosophy of mathematics 'mathematics' because the two are distinct disciplines, concerned with different questions. In principle a mathematician could successfully go about her career without considering questions of the second kind. She can produce interesting results without considering either the nature of her knowledge of mathematics, or the nature of the objects with which she works. None of this requires knowing of the conceptual/metaphysical/epistemological foundations of her discipline (though it couldn't hurt!). Similarly, a philosopher of mathematics could successfully do philosophy of mathematics without doing actual mathematics. This suggests an answer to your third question: a mathematician practices the philosophy of mathematics when she investigates philosophical, and not mathematical, problems. 

Like many philosophical concepts, one need look no further than Plato. The Delphic maxim γνῶθι σεαυτόν or "know thyself" is oft used by his protagonist, Socrates. 

Having been a companion to dogs throughout my life, I don't generally suppose that dogs are not self aware. Unless one defines 'thinking' as only encompassing the way in which humans think. In that case, the answer is "No dog's cannot think." Another consequence of that would be that computer's cannot think. A third would be that if there is a god, it does not think. Otherwise, there is no more basis for believing that a dog can think than that another person can think. Likewise, there is no more basis for believing that a dog cannot think than for believing that a person cannot think. 

For Kant, we can only see objects that take up space because space is an a priori condition of all human experience of the external world[1]. For Kant, space does not exist independently of human experience. We might say space is the medium of our experience of the external world. Experience of the external world without space is as sound in a vacuum, for Kant it doesn't exist. Kant's point is metaphysical (and perhaps psychological). Wittgenstein's point is about language. Pictures have borders, we are only confusing ourselves and perhaps others if we talk about the part of a picture that isn't on the canvas. [1] For Kant, time is the a priori condition of all inner experience. 

One way to view functionalism is as a response to the problems discovered with the mind-brain identity theory. The identity theory says (very roughly) that each mental state is identical to some brain state. There are well-known problems with this, notably Kripke-style counterexamples which employ a posteriori necessities. We can try to avoid the problems with identity theory by saying that mental states aren't correlated with particular brain states, rather they're correlated with particular configurations of physical systems. This is enough to avoid at least the most obvious of the Kripke-style counterexamples. You should also note that functionalism is a species of physicalism/materialism. This is because it doesn't posit new substances/properties over and above the natural properties we already know exist. (Granted, it does posit functional properties, though functionalists will say that we already recognize these in other domains). So functionalism is just a version of the physicalism you're already familiar with, albeit a more sophisticated one. 

This view obviously avoids Lewisian modal realism. Even if 'external things' exist and are the semantic values of certain expressions (I trust this is what you mean when you say that "external things are what give propositions meaning"), we're not thereby committed to thinking that the external things in question are Lewisian possible worlds. They could simply be abstract objects like numbers or sets or universals. Of course, this view is still a 'modal realist' view insofar as it accepts that possible worlds exist; but it departs from Lewis when it comes to their nature. (Could you be an anti-realist about possible worlds yet go in for possible worlds semantics? Maybe. But you'd probably have to be some sort of error-theorist or non-cognitivist about modal expressions. I don't know of any particular views in this neighbourhood, or why you'd be motivated to accept them). Does anyone hold this kind of view? Yes; Robert Stalnaker comes to mind. And similar sorts of views are clearly possible, each with their own tweaks - the literature on philosophical semantics is replete with them. Now, it's worth pointing out the Lewisian will deny that you can correctly capture the truth-conditions of all the sentences you want to capture on the above view. He's going to say that you need possible worlds, in his sense, to do semantics. The Stalnakerian, say, will disagree; the Stalnakerian thinks we can do the semantics we want without committing ourselves to Lewisian possible worlds. None of this should be surprising; whether or not modal semantics need Lewisian worlds is something of an open question. The point is that philosophers are very resistant to Lewis's conception of possible worlds and have gone to great lengths to preserve the benefits of the possible worlds semantics while eschewing Lewisian worlds. As far as references go, you should really check out Robert Stalnaker's work. He's been writing about this stuff for ages. In particular, check out the first part of Stalnaker's Ways a World Might Be as well as his Mere Possibilities. The third chapter of Ways a World Might Be contains a very nice little dialogue between a Lewisian and an anti-Lewisian that you might find helpful. 

The question presumes that we have epistemic access to objective causality, or at least that we believe we have such access. However, any non-skeptical theory or law of causality presumes that causes and effects exist with the price of avoiding that presumption being utter incoherence. Philosophically speaking, one must either have their cake or eat it. An argument based on causality can't serve as the rational basis for raising concerns over how anything can exist. Logically speaking, if one's cosmology already admits the supernatural - perhaps in the form of a beginningless and endless pure being that arranges all things - then requests for evidence are not asked within the spirit of scientific enquiry. Not that there's anything wrong with that, only that one must accept the the character of inputs determines the character of outputs. That is to say that deducing a contradiction means that at least one of the premises is false. For example, a contradiction derived from the original question means that "There is something which exists that was never created" is false.