My opinion? Given the stated scenario, magical males would be culled or heavily controlled upon first use of their powers. Why? Firstly, we must address a few issues: 

If you are looking for scorpions as a psychological formation breaking tactic and as a way to deal with armor, I would say that it isn't the poison that is important, but the piercing strength of the tail. In a fantasy setting, you could make them be bred to exhibit extremely strong tail motions, enough to pierce through armor. Perhaps their bodies are covered in a carapace that allows them to survive the toss, and efficiently sink their legs into the armor. This idea is super cool, and one idea that seemed interesting was a calming oil; you could calm them, position them into a straight, laid out position, and then aerodynamically fire them over the shields and into the centers of the formations. 

Even if there were such a crop that could allow humans to survive, I only have to think of the Irish Potato Famine to see how bad an idea this is. At least in reality - in fiction it might add a lot to your story, but I wouldn't plot it this way. Depending on a single food source also means that anything that hurts the food source causes famine. The Irish Potato Famine, or the Great Famine occurred between 1845 and 1849. About 1,000,000 people died and a similar number emigrated. If there is magic, then perhaps this magic could be used to cleanse the toxicity from other crops for the vitamins and minerals that the main non-toxic crop can't provide as well as providing a back-up food source. Mankind has survived on toxic food in many places. Sometimes it is prepared with specialized cooking, such as boiling it multiple times to remove the poisons. Sometimes such as the Fugu fish in Japan chefs are trained to cut out the poison glands, however people still die from eating these fish, and much as I like seafood, I think I'll skill this particular fish. 

Just an idea that occurred to me – if you wanted a world that was geologically plausible on a planet similar or identical to Earth, you could always use the geography of Earth at an earlier time period, or even Earth with a higher/lower sea level. This doesn't allow you to "alter it in any way you wish", unfortunately, but it would allow you to browse the various continental configurations throughout the Earth's life and choose the one you like the best. Geography is a fairly different concern than geology, and you have a lot more freedom in this regard. You can probably draw a political map any way you like, as long as you account for certain reliable factors from human history such as civilisations liking water, political borders being demarcated by natural geographic features like rivers and mountain ranges, and powerful states having a preference for controlling their whole local landmass given the opportunity (e.g "Manifest Destiny" in the US, various attempts to "unify" Europe) Some resources: 

Your question sounds like the gunsight in the movie Eraser. The plot revolved around an attempt to sell a number of these guns to a foreign power for a rather low price. The sight alone would have hospitals salivating to get ahold of one of them at ten times the price asked per gun. :) They were utterly unbelievable at the time, and even today they would require large sensors to do a fraction of what would be needed. The problem is that currently, nothing works that way at a distance from a small sensor (yet). It is conceivable that in the future a sight that sees through walls could be built around radar. It might be that it would require multiple devices spread apart to get a good signal resolution. (Neat sci-fi movie scene: sniper sets up and activates his system, and a dozen small anti-gravity drones fly off to either side to give him the resolution. We see his screen start out as just static, and getting more clear as the drones get into place.) Of course, one of the main problems of any active gunsight is that they could be detected once they are common enough to be used. For example, with radar or x-rays, a simple machine the size of a cellphone should be able to detect that such sights are being used against them. And then, of course, even if you can see clearly through a brick wall, you still have to have a bullet powerful enough to go through that wall without being deflected so that you hit your target, but I suppose that is another question. 

There's always the archaeological angle — ruins buried under or overgrown by the swamp, which could be attractive for purely material reasons, such as rumoured/actual solid gold idols/sarcophagi, as has already been mentioned by fi12; or if you're going for a magical angle, devices of incredible power or caches of forgotten knowledge. For a less pulpy feel, it could just be the ruins themselves that are of some deep significance — an ancient holy city (because we know all too well that these tend to cause conflict), or the ancestral capital of a nation gripped in some hysteria about former imperial glory — consider the stories of Saddam Hussein developing an obsession with the Babylonian empire. While confirming that connection I also learned that Saddam Hussein did actually drain a marsh, only for much more mundane reasons: either to reclaim arable land, or to divert the water towards some people he felt like persecuting. 

The first thing I thought of is that the creature is the ground. Assuming that the sky is infinitely high and the ground infinitely low and the x and y dimensions are also infinite, then the ground occupies half of the universe. By the definition of infinity, half of the universe is still infinite. The head could be somewhere in a cavern where beings go through the dangerous way to consult the infinite being's wisdom. 

If you want the characters to age or de-age, then it is purely fantasy under most circumstances. People age based on the time that they have experienced. If I have been raised in universe A where time travels (for me) normally, and then I visit universe B where time travels 50 times faster, nothing should happen to me upon my entrance to B (assuming that I survive - I expect the time difference might cause problems with the gateway, but that can be handwaved away in a fantasy). Then I spend one year in universe B (at my subjective time) and then go back to A. Now it is 50 years later in A, but I am only one year older. And this was gained through the normal one-second-per-second aging rules. 

In terms of answering the questions regarding economy and politics, it is dependent upon the magical system. Unless magic is a finite resource with limited applications, the normal rules of economics would no longer apply. In the event that agricultural magic is available, there would realistically be no shortage of produce, and specialization of labor would be quickly achieved. If a mage can operate a machine at little to no cost, then labor also approaches a negligible value quickly. 

First, off topic: His best weapon would be a recurve bow. With a strength so many times better than that of an average human, he could kill from effectively 5x the distance of a normal archer. On topic: I agree with the statements that shield would be the way to go, but if we are stating that the strength can be translated to speed I would say something long and heavy. The kanabo, a japanese weapon mostly associated with oni, would be something that could maximize his reach, speed, and destructive output. Additionally, another good weapon for him might be a spiked chain of some sort, since his increased strength could make up for the shortcomings of distance that long range melee weapons suffer from, and could be used to deal with large groups of people. The final truly medieval weapon I would recommend would be an axe. The size and weight of the weapon would accentuate the destructive power of the superhuman's swing, while the sharp point focuses the force, allowing for dealing with shields or armor quite effectively. 

Standard poodles are also very intelligent and were used for hunting. I will admit that the silly "snowball" cut for their fur would look ridiculous in a TV adaptation. Though most standard poodles are rough-cut. And they are fairly large dog. The major problem that I see is that poodles don't shed, so the owner would need to trim their fur. 

As I see it, the main problem with ramming another ship is that both ships would have to slow down enough to allow one of them to ram. The reasons for this are two-fold. First, it's extremely difficult to ram another ship that is just in a stable orbit going at orbital speeds. This is due to orbital mechanics being extremely complex and spaceships being very small compared to space. Second, if both ships were going at orbital speeds, then one of them hitting the other would destroy both. Not a good outcome for either of the crews. :( And when I'm talking orbital speeds, I mean everything from Earth orbit, to the various solar orbits needed to get from planet to planet. To help in imagining the damage a ramming space ship can do to itself and the other ship, just look at the accident reports on an interstate highway during icy conditions. Often times both cars involved in a collision are totaled, along with the people inside them. 

Cooperative Casting If the setting contains an option to allow multiple persons to work together to complete a spell, it diminishes the importance of strong individual casters. To justify keeping a strong individual mage, this option would need to be removed from the table entirely. Comparison of Power We need a comparative ratio of female mage to male mage power. Without putting out the math as the previous posts have done, I will make this argument: the ratio point where acquisition of male mages is so extraordinarily high that it is not optimal to seek male mages, as I will cover in the next part. Risk versus Reward Analysis Let us say that a male magician is powerful enough to justify expending resources to acquire and retain. I would argue that there is no commander who would willing depend on such a figure. Justification: 

Since it seems like you're looking for constraints to help construct your language, I thought one helpful approach would be to lay out exactly what sounds you have to work with. I've taken a chart of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) from Unilang.org and annotated it to indicate the sounds which are impossible without lips - crossed out in red. 

Psychology is both a taxonomy of individual experiences and a system for comparing experiences to a baseline. We observe a set of behaviours which differ from the observed norm, and we infer that these behaviours are brought on by stressful experiences, and so the concept of PTSD is created. But (and keeping in mind the distinction between psychology and neuroscience) we are talking about a discipline which deals in fairly subjective data, and tends to arrive at conclusions which are predicated upon a set of unexamined assumptions received from broader culture. So, in an attempt to work all of that into a "hard science" answer to your question, I agree that evidence shows that to experience terrifying events causes a certain set of observable consequences for those involved. In that sense, you should expect PTSD as we define it to appear in any society which is likely (in the context of their culture/psychology) to have the same basic worldview as ours. However, I see no "hard science" reason why ours is the only possible worldview, so you could maybe tell a psychologically interesting story about the kind of society that does not have a concept of PTSD.