The short answer is NO. The players were asked to select the team before the start of CLT20 and Sangakkara chose Maroons team. So he will not be able to reverse his decision in the middle of the tournament. Also from the cricinfo news: 

One reason for this is, it is a tradition and is the ideal wood for this. Normally all the cricket bats are made of english willow and they are still following that tradition. As per Wiki the other reason is, it is very tough and shock-resistant, not being significantly dented nor splintering on the impact of a cricket ball at high speed, while also being light in weight. In 1979, Australian cricketer Dennis Lillee used an ComBat aluminium metal bat, but after getting the complaints from English team, Australian captain Greg Chappell asked him to revert to the wooden bat. Later Kookaburra released another type of bat that had a Carbon fiber-reinforced polymer but that was also banned by ICC. 

Yes, it is still counted for his career stats. Just because a match is called off doesn't mean that the stats wont be recorded for that match. It will be still recorded as "abandoned due to rain" and any runs scored or wicket taken will be added to the stats of corresponding players. The proof can be seen in this stat page of Lumb. You can see that in the innings by innings list, his score of 2 is also added and the total scored by him in that series is shown here as 31(29 + 2) at an average of 15.50. If it was not included, his average would have been 29 from the first match. The same applies for your second scenario as well. If a batsman scores 250, he will get the credit for it and it will be added in his career stats. 

It is not unlawful to field between bowler and side screen. In fact there is a fielding position for that and it is called straight hit. 

The IAAF doesn't have a formal editorial style guide for the relative use of these terms, so in practice they're interchangeable as Ben Miller answered. I'd be interested to see if there are similar synonyms in French and Italian, as French is also an official language of the IAAF and their primary statisticians are English and Italian. As terms of art, the two words are often used to distinguish when an athlete appears on e.g. an annual list multiple times: Bolt might have six performances in the ten best for a given year, but for other athletes down the list, only their best mark is listed. In other contexts, e.g. a field event which is ongoing, an athlete might have three existing marks "on the board", but their performance will be the best of those marks when the competition is completed. But I wouldn't want to suggest either of these as rules which are followed rigorously. 

I'm thinking specifically of two classic races, San Silvestre de Vallecana and the Corrida Internacional de São Silvestre, but those are far from the only such races. What is it about this saint that gets road races where others don't? Is it as as simple as New Year's Eve being the saint's feast day and also a convenient day for road racing (in the same way that Thanksgiving is a big day for road racing in the USA)? Or is there something particular to associate the saint with running? 

For the track events, you've nailed it: the 200m standard indoor track means races of the same distance (e.g. 800m) can be notably different from races on a standard 400m outdoor track. In the sprints, the tight banked turns can significantly change the athlete's approach to the race, and some events (e.g. 60m) are only held indoors. For the field events, the reasoning for different records is more tricky. In the throws, e.g. shot put, the implements are different (size and weight). For the jumps, though, the differences are entirely environmental: lack of wind (either supporting or impeding) and different runway surfaces, mostly. In these events, competing indoors can actually be easier (although long jump and triple jump may be limited in the length of their run-up - I'm not sure if that would help or hurt an athlete). 

Theoretically it is possible to score as many runs as possible since none of the cricket laws are putting a limit on that. So the answer is infinity. And yes, what you have mentioned is possible. But if a fielder throws the ball after picking from the ground it won't be a six, but a four. So it will be 9 runs. 

The short answer is NO. Home team is not supposed to set the boundary as they wish. Some rules are applied for boundary setting as well. Even though the home team is responsible for setting up the ground. As per ICC Standard Playing Conditions, the minimum and maximum size of the playing surface. Law 19.1 of ICC Test Match Playing Conditions states: 

They can set the boundary as long as they follow the above rule. But the above rule doesn't give the freedom to reduce the boundary a lot. It should be a minimum of 65 yards and max of 90 yards. So the chances of setting a boundary as mentioned in question is very less. 

The amount paid to the players are based on their availability for the matches. If a player was available for all the IPL matches, then that player is eligible for the full amount. If the players were not available for some matches, then they are paid on a pro-rata basis. In the above case, Ponting and Maxwell were available for the entire season. Missing a match due to injury or benching is not considered as unavailability and hence they should be getting the full amount. There was a rule that if a player was available for a certain no of matches and misses only a certain no of games, they should be paid the full amount. Not sure if this rule is still there. Also note that the amount offered to the players vary based on certain other criteria as well. For eg:- if the team didn't qualify for CL, players will get only 80% of the auction rate. Players also might get some % of amount if their team wins the IPL or finishes at 2/3/4. However there is no clarity on this and it depends on the team. Players also have to pay the income tax in India for the money they earned. Source: News, read somewhere 

The first difference is generally considered to be an advantage to the runner on the inside, i.e. lane 1 has the most advantage and lane 8 the least. This is generally why people consider Van Niekerk's lane draw remarkable. The second difference, on the other hand, is mixed. The inner-most lanes (1, 2, and sometimes 3) are considered technically more difficult than the outer lanes, which have gentler turns; the wider sweep of the outer lanes means an athlete can put more energy into moving forward instead of turning their momentum. Individual runners' physiology and form can mitigate this problem; for example, Usain Bolt's long stride would theoretically be hampered by the inside lanes, but Bolt has also compensated for this by apparently developing very good form for the curve. So in theory the inside lane is disadvantaged and the outside advantaged by this, but in practice it varies. (This is why tracks with a full 9 lanes will run sprint races in 2-9 rather than 1-8.) (This, incidentally, is also why 4x100m relay teams sometimes put their fastest runners on the 1st or 3rd legs rather than the last, "anchor" leg - because starting from the blocks and running the bends are very specialized skills, and teams can pick up some advantage by putting runners who excel at those skills on those legs rather than on the anchor.) So with Van Niekerk as one "exceptional" lane 8 runner, it's worth also remembering two similarly exceptional lane 1 runners: both Angelo Taylor and John Akii-Bua won gold medals in the 400m hurdles from lane 1, with Akii-Bua, like Van Niekerk, setting a world record. Regardless of lane, however, it's clear that Van Niekerk is an extraordinary talent with excellent coaching and support to enable such a run. If the 2016 gold-medal run is not the peak of his career, I can't imagine what he will do to top it. 

I can speak to athletics/track and field, the sport I sometimes cover. Most events at a professional level and NCAA events at the national level require athletes to pass through a "mixed zone" after competition. This is (usually) a divided space with athletes on one side of a barrier and reporters on the other. This is where post-competition interviews happen. At major international events (e.g. World Championships, Olympics) there are distinct sections of the mixed zone for TV, radio, and written media. This often means an athlete like Usain Bolt will have done multiple TV and radio interviews before arriving at the written press mixed zone. In cases like this the athlete is often removed to a press conference room to answer questions in a larger setting. In smaller meets, it's up to the reporter to buttonhole the athlete they want to speak to, although there is often a meet media manager on hand to make sure reporters speak to the athletes they want. There are no formal requirements of the athletes, although talking to the press is an unwritten aspect of professionalism and good agents/sponsors will encourage their athletes to do so. The athletes, who have just completed a sometimes-grueling competition and are sometimes disappointed in their performance, can be unmotivated to talk and will escape if they can. On the other hand, there are classy athletes who respect the role of the press and will stand and talk as long as there are questions, regardless of their disappointment and/or fatigue. And winners are almost always easy to talk to. I've almost never run in to an athlete in this sport whose etiquette while speaking to the press is questionable, but that's not to say it doesn't happen. 

These codes refer to the draw size of various aspects of the tournaments. For each category of the tournament, the number of participants in the main draw (the main tournament) is listed. 

The Baseball Hall of Fame inductees are voted on by members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA). Once a person has been an active member for 10 years, they are eligible for the Hall of Fame vote. They can continue to be eligible to vote even after they are no longer an active member if they achieve honorary lifetime member status, which is generally granted to members who have been dues-paying members for 10 years and are no longer active writers. To be an active member in the BBWAA, you need to be a writer covering major league baseball for a newspaper, magazine, or major web site. So yes, if you were an active member of the BBWAA during 1999-2009, you would have received a Hall of Fame ballot in the mail. Sources: 

After the service, you do not need a free hand. There is no rule prohibiting holding the racket with two hands. The ITTF Handbook for Match Officials (PDF) makes it clear that it is permissible to switch hands during a rally: 

It is not really possible to lose points that you have earned in a table tennis match. If you foul during a serve, then you don't earn the point that you would have gotten if the serve had been an ace, and your opponent gets a point. Sometimes you might hear this referred to as a point deduction, but it's not really a point deduction, since the server never really earned the point. In the ITTF rankings, you earn points for wins, and lose points for losses. But these are ratings points, not points during a table tennis match. 

There is a cross-country skiing event this year at the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics called the skiathlon. Apparently, this is a race that was formerly called Pursuit. What differentiates this event from other cross-country ski events, and what was the reason behind the name change?