You have a medical reason not to. It should, in principle, merely require you to provide evidence of this to your managers and HR to justify closing your door as a norm. This is the direction you need to take, IMO. 

Ask management for a simple partition be be placed at the side of your desk because people going around the corner crowd your desk and it's distracting. This is a very sensible use of partitions - to create a distraction free environment (in relation to your field of view). 

Unfortunately not everyone makes allowances. You were unable to learn skills they take for granted (but also had to learn when they were younger). You may or may not accept this, but you can become an expert at this. It's a matter of willpower and openness to the ideas. 

In view of your edit I feel it's important to make a particular suggestion. Get counseling aimed at learning the importance of social interaction. This would be of immense benefit to you, not simply in work, but outside. 

Really silly thing to say. You've now got direct evidence that they are threatening to fire you if you don't do unpaid work. I don't know employment law in your area, but to see if this helps you you need to speak to someone more expert -union, lawyer, that kind of group. And what is "a valid reason" ? I bet it's "nothing". So what to do ? If you want to fight this you need to get legal advice. There may be agencies that give cheap or even free legal advice to part time works. If you have a union (teaching ?) you may get advice there - even if the union is not recognized by your employer, as long as you're a member. If fighting sounds like a pain the other solution is to get a new job. Honestly, I'd strongly suggest looking for a new job. The fact the owner is now taking such a direct role instead of normal management may be a sign they're in financial difficulty. Owners usually don't get involved at this level unless there's a problem. They'll talk to management and management will work out the details. I'd call this intervention as a "sign of distress". Certainly it's clumsy and I'd bail if possible simply because this is probably going to get worse (how the company is operated). Note : I have a cousin who was a teacher (recently retired) and there certainly is a lot of homework and prep done after hours - lots of hours. However your employer seems to be pushing that envelop a lot more and as you're also part time ( not regular full time staff ) the events as well seem pretty rough. 

In larger organizations, hiring managers generally don't know how an application was submitted. In the vast majority of cases applications are vetted by an HR department and then passed onto the manager. Therefore the manager often won't know (or care) which avenue was taken to submit the application. In your case, I think you're better off using an option that allows you to attach a cover letter if one exists. This may be useful background for the hiring manager if your information makes it that far. 

In the comments, you imply that it's a family decision. So tell them that. "I really appreciate the opportunity to apply for this position. I am extremely impressed with everything that I've heard about both the company and the position. However, after talking it over with my family, this is not the best time for us to relocate. This was not an easy decision to make, and I hope you can keep me in mind if a similar position opens in my city." This is one of those situations where honesty really is the best policy. No need to embellish the truth - as @teego1967 says in the comments, people change their minds about relocating all the time. An additional benefit to telling the truth is that, should they call you back in several years, you won't have to try to remember what you told them. 

You'll set yourself up for more disappointment You'll engage in future discussions which will highlight why they can't pay more You may become a target, if so, its not likely that you'll know. You'll find out after the position has been approved and several interviews have taken place. They'll find opportunity to re-work your job description, potentially including your peers as well, in order to get more from you FOR FREE. 

So without going into great detail, I've spent approximately 8 hrs of my time meeting about a potential "jump up" (as stated by the hiring manager) in my career, simple department change in the tech field. This began in late March/early April. I feel as though I was being groomed for a position yet to be posted, and I was correct. To date I have spent at least one hour of nine individuals workdays in the pseudo-interview and formal interview process. The hiring manager was absent for the formal interview for medical reasons but encouraged me to attend regardless. The interview had only a few red flags but I feel they were big ones: near total lack of concern for tech related questions, asked if I was on drugs (seriously, this wasnt provoked), asked my age to which I had no problem answering confidently though I am young. All that said, after all these hours spent I haven't heard yes/no/we'll follow up/you did good/you did poorly... nothing whatsoever. The formal interview was just over one week ago. I'd like to know, from an HR perspective, is this acceptable? i.e. questions you technically aren't allowed to ask, hiring manager being absent for interview, lengthy drawn-out process with no communication channels. 

Should personal qualities be included information in a resume? No. A resume should detail the applicant's experience, not his/her personal qualities. It may be desirable to highlight certain personality traits in a resume, but that can be done much more effectively by carefully wording the entries related to work experience. For example, let's say you want to transition from team lead to development manager. Which of these better shows leadership? 

I'm with you, Matthew - this would be a red flag for me as well. As long as you handle the situation tactfully and respectfully, it's always OK to end an interview quickly. In this case, it's best not to mention the alcohol. You could say, for example, "Thanks for your consideration, but I don't think this is going to be a good fit for me. I don't want to waste your time, so it's probably best if we cut the interview short." The interviewers probably won't ask for details, but if they do, just politely say that the position isn't what you're looking for, and leave it at that. You don't owe them any other explanation. 

This would be a yellow flag for me. Client A hasn't even hired you yet, and they are already looking at this as a one-sided deal. They are looking out for their own interests and explicitly disregarding your own. Think about what this implies about your work life at Client A after you have actually taken the job. I would thank Client A for their interest, express your own mutual interest, and tell them that you intend to honor your commitment by attending the second interview before making a decision. This does several things for you: 1) It increases your apparent value to the first company 2) It shows that you are a person with integrity who honors his commitments 3) It lets them know that you are not a pushover, and that they are entering into a two-sided relationship with you, not a one-sided one Of course, there is a risk that they will withdraw their offer, but if your future prospects for employment are otherwise good I would advise taking the risk.