(δάκτυλος; dáktylos). [1] Measure of length The daktylos, Latin digitus, as a measure, is the term for the fingers' width, with four dáktyloi constituting a palm (παλαιστή; palaistḗ, Latin palmus), 16 daktyloi a foot (πούς; poús, Latin pes) and only in Greece 12 daktyloi making a span (σπιθαμή; spithamḗ). In Rome however the daktylos can also, according to the duodecimal system, be equated with the uncia and be counted up to the as (= pes). The guide for the daktylos is the foot that measures between 29.4 and 35.4 cm. It therefore fluctuates between 1.84 and 2.21 cm. Smaller distances are measured in fractions of the daktylos. Square and cubic daktylos were not in use. Measures; Palaiste; Palmus; Pes; Pous; Spithame Mlasowsky, Alexander (Hannover) Bibliography F. Hultsch, Griech. und röm. Metrologie, 21882, 28f., 74f. O. A. W. Dilke, Digit measures on a slab in the British Museum, in: The Antiquaries Journal 68, 1988, 290-294. 

“Victorian” makes sense within the boundaries of the United Kingdom (as you say), but also within the boundaries of the British Empire. Remember that Victoria was “Empress of India”. Outside of the British Empire, for example in the USA, it does not really make sense, though lots of Americans do talk about the “Victorian era”, mainly in the context of discussions of sexual prudishness. 

Some cities have been around for a very long time. Alexandria (in Egypt) and Damascus (in Syria) would certainly come out very high on your list. 

Some villages had histories and thus names going back to Ancient Roman times. A case in point is Matreium in the Austrian Alps, a small village then and now. So the statement that medieval villages didn't have names can hardly be true in an absolute sense. As to whether villages were frequently innominate (as the verbatim quote claims), I'm not sure. As there were yet no national postal systems to speak of, there was perhaps no purpose in uniform naming of a domain's each and every village. But place names must have been in use by individuals: it seems just such an obvious concern for basic human discourse (e.g. "Where are you from?", etc.) 

This week's episode of In Our Time on Epicureanism suggested that Epicurus and many of his followers could be valid examples of "atheists" in "polytheistic" ancient Greece. According to one guest Epicurus' atomic theory (which build on Democritus') insists that each and everything, and thus including gods, is made of material atoms. Now whether this supports or rejects a belief in the existence of deities, as in atheism, is perhaps a question of interpretation. (Lucretius' On the Nature of Things certainly contains many references to "gods".) However, one of the books on the accompanying reading list (Catherine Wilson: Epicureanism at the Origins of Modernity) includes the following description in its summary: 

Large ancient empires, such as the Roman Empire, must have seen similar situations very often. (E.g. the emperor makes decision X in Rome on day J, but it's yet unbeknown to the governor of a remote province when he partially counters it with decision Y on day J + 1). How did the Romans and others deal with these situations? Was it completely ad-hoc or did they also have special applicable rules in their legal codes? (Although I'm referring to an emperor in my specific example and emperors may not have been constrained by legal codes, relevant situations must have also occurred e.g. in private business across the Mediterranean.) UPDATE This week´s Economist carries an article about the economics of interstellar flight which makes for interesting related reading. It cites an early (perhaps tongue-in-cheek) paper by Paul Krugman who even came up with two fundamental theorems of interstellar trade :-) 

What about World War I, and specifically Britain versus Germany? Both were parliamentary democracies with robust opposition parties, a relatively free press, rule of law, independent judiciaries, but in both cases with a superimposed hereditary monarchy. 

The answer to your question is: no, there are no surviving unmistakably Ebionite sources. What we know about Ebionites comes entirely from hostile Christian sources. There is however an early Greek book called “The Homilies of Clement”, a fictitious autobiography of St Clement of Rome. As has been recognised for a long time now, many of the doctrines expounded in this voluminous work have a clear affinity to those which the polemical sources attribute to the Ebionites and other so-called Jewish-Christian sects. Some scholars have maintained that the pseudo-Clementine Homilies (or rather their underlying lost source “G”) are an Ebionite work. However, we do not really have enough reliable information to assign the (proto-)Homilies to any one particular Jewish-Christian sect, or indeed really to know what the difference was between Ebionites, Nazoraeans, Elchasaites and other so-called Jewish-Christians. What we do have is evidence for a wide current in early Christianity which, among other things, maintained the continued validity of the Law of Moses even after the coming of the Christ. PS.: I have intentionally refrained from giving links to Wikipedia and other such “resources”, as the “information” found there is mostly pasted together from out-of-date and unreliable works. What I have given is a very brief synopsis of current academic discussion. 

I further imagine that individual soldiers (and their leaders) could be pragmatic about adding other garments or furs for extra protection when available and needed. Maybe our stereotypical picture of Roman soldiers in tunics and boots stems partly from Roman re-enactment societies, which probably prefer sunny days for their activities; and who could blame them :) 

The German daily FAZ recently ran a positive review of Irish historian Brendan Simms' article Against a ,World of Enemies‘: The Impact of the First World War on the Development of Hitler’s Ideology in the journal International Affairs. The article is said to contain an early summary of Simms' next scholarly book. According to the review Simms argues that World War I and other experiences caused Hitler to turn hostile to the anglo-saxon world first. His hatred of international capitalism and even his antisemitism broke through only at a later time as secondary effects from this primary cause. Some of the comments on the FAZ site are quite skeptical about this thesis: they e.g. argue that Hitler was initially friendly to Britain and that a large portrait of Henry Ford hung in Hitler's office at party headquarters. The review author, German historian Thomas Weber judges that while the thesis must be further sketched out before publication of the book it is bound to modify the way we think about Hitler in a dramatic and seminal way. Since the book is not yet out and the reviewed article is behind a paywall I a wondering what else is currently known about this thesis. Is it a new one or is Simms building on other established work? Is there any reason to believe that the particular reviewer could be biased e.g. because of close academic ties? 

The mongols, when at their best, were unified and powerful. At the time, Russian city-states and kingships had little to no unity, and as the mongols were the top dogs of their time, they easily dispatched the little true resistance they were given. Plus, much of Russian land is plateau. The mongols were given a big boost with this as their horses and archers achieved maximum results under these conditions. Mongols were also very self-sufficient and never lost troops easily. There have been (true) stories on how one scouting party sent by Genghis Khan nearly annihilated all of Eastern Europe and West Asia. They could survive in near intolerable conditions like Russia and Mongolia due to generations of living off the barren land. They also picked up new troops nearly everywhere they went as the Khans were very tolerant of caste and religion, as long as one also worshiped the Khan. Many great Mongolian troops and generals were farmed of conquered villages and states. In hindsight, it may be confusing to some people seeing Russia as the big power it is today, but Russia was just groups of weak states at that time. 

It sets at night-time everyday. In all seriousness, the Sun has not set on the British "Empire" yet as it still has holdings across the world and remains a major player in the world socio-economic system. If we were to use the analogy of the Sun Cycle in real life, the British empire would be in that 5 o' clock phase: After the Peak Hours of Noon, but still a few hours before the Sun sets. Tea-Time. I believe the English call this Tea-Time. The Once Shining British Empire is in its "Tea-Time" phase right now. 

Since some people did not like my last answer I will reformulate it. The German Democratic Republic was a member of the United Nations and was recognised by most countries in the world, including the USA. In 1990 it disappeared from the map and was incorporated into the Federal Republic of Germany. It was not conquered militarily by West Germany, but it was annexed by it. 

I do not think that Noah Feldman knows anything about the history of Islam. Islamic law was “codified” in numerous manuals, beginning with the Muwaṭṭaʾ of Malik in the 8th century, followed by similar law books of the various schools, all long before the rise of the Ottomans. 

Greek script was used to write Bactrian, an Iranian language spoken in what is now Afghanistan. That is about as far as you can get from Greece. 

If with Mesopotamia you mean the ancient civilisations in Babylonia and Assyria before the Persian conquest (that is: before 535 BC), then we need to say that there were no coins at all. In a Mesopotamian context, a shekel is a unit of weight, not a struck coin. The first coins in the world were minted in Lydia around 600 BC. In Babylonia, coins began to circulate during the Persian (Achaemenid) period. 

The general term in Ptolemaic astronomy is kyklos (cycle), which encompasses the epikyklos, the ekkentros kyklos etc. 

Since you have changed your question I will reply directly to the question you have posed. The oldest fragments of manuscripts of parts of the New Testament are not older than the first quarter of the second century. 

As a beginning student of Chinese I am also learning a bit more about Chinese history. As such I am more-and-more impressed by the quality of thought that has been left behind by Chinese philosophers from the Hundred Schools of Thought period (770 to 221 BC) during the Era of Warring States , i.e. Confucius (551–479 BC), Laozi (6th century BCE), Zhuangzi (369–286 BC), etc. So many main lines of concemporary philosophic thought seemed to be alive and mature already at that remote time. Pre-Socratic and later Hellenistic Philosophy began in Ancient Greece also in 6th century with Plato (428-347 BC), Socrates (469-399 BC), Aristotle (384-322 BC), Epicurus (341-270 BC), Zeno (c. 334 BC – c. 262 BC), etc. What do we know about possible historic influences from China on developments in Greece (or the other way around). I am aware of one book (Thomas C. McEvilley: The Shape of Ancient Thought: Comparative Studies in Greek and Indian Philosophies) whose title and table of contents seem relevant to influences from India, but have not read it yet. I would also be interested in historic influences for religious thought (from Buddhism, say). 

For academic books that have reviews (rather than reviews of any academic book) a good informal starting point is Danny Yee's book reviews. He is a perceptive autodidact who in over 20 years has built up an impressive corpus of approx. 1,200 book reviews on many subjects. I am e.g. inspired by what he shares on books covering China and Chinese history. 

No, hasdruabal went, not by the order of carthage, but because hasdrubal and hannibal were talking and making their own agenda on how to win the war behind the cartaginians backs. Hannibal and hasdrubal were both loyal to carthage but realized carthage was not as into this war as they were due to their long-standing hate of rome, and decided to win on ther own terms. It might have worked if Hasdrubal was not cut off as hannibal was only 2 miles away from rome lying in wait. Carthage did not send more troops to hannibal because hannibal had failed to secure a port for the Carthaginian reinforcments to dock in. This, coupled with the tiring of Hannibal and the carthaginians resulted in defeat. 

No they did not. The romans, I suspect, never came up that far north. They did, however deal with the similar goths. 

There was the Indus, the Mesopotamian, the Yellow, and some might even say the Yangtze. Also, there is a debate whether the Nile civilization counts as an independent invention of civilization because people don't know for sure if they created the civilization themselves or if people from the Mesopotamian civilization migrated there as the Nile civilization appears to have formed a full 300 years after the one in Mesopotamia.(A long time to migrate south). Also, some as well consider the Mesoamerican civilization as being one of the early river valley civilizations. --Overall, there might be 3 or 4 or 5. It all depends on which professor you ask.