I need a mailing address so that if you leave the company I can mail you various forms I have a legal obligation to give you. These include tax forms and something called a Record of Employment that is relevant for unemployment insurance. I don't have an application form, but I do ask for this information after a person is hired and I ask them to keep it current. I don't care where you live, I just need to be able to send you stuff. However, since I am human, I may wonder about a long commute and ask you if you're sure you're ok with it. I did interview someone who told me they really hadn't realized how far away we were until that moment, and wasn't ok with it or willing to move. Now, I understand not all employers are me. The ones demanding this may be using it to hire only those who won't have moving expenses, only those with short commutes, or only those from certain backgrounds. I doubt anyone checks you live at the address on your application. In fact many places probably have it out of no more than habit and never use it at all. If this is a real issue in your life, look into a mail drop with a an address that doesn't include "PO Box". They are typically for microbusinesses - they use Suite 102 to mean Mailbox 102 but you could put Apt 102 and I'm sure it would work. Online forms can mean huge volume of applications, and dropping you for a PO Box is super easy to do. 

In some workplaces, there are hours-long meetings with well written agendas that force people to be in the room even though what's happening doesn't matter to them. In those places, doing other work while you wait for your turn is not considered disrespectful. Such places are the exception rather than the rule; if you see many other people working in the meeting you will know it might be ok for you to do so. However if you've been invited so that you can listen and learn, doing anything other than listening is disrespectful, so don't. 

Surely as a developer you are already familiar with the concept of someone who knows what they want and what's not right, but cannot articulate a set of clear and obvious rules that describe it. The irony of your QA lead not being able to write requirements for these comments on a status change is rich, but it doesn't help you do your job. I suggest you approach the coworker and offer to (ask if it's ok to, suggest that the two of you) add a number of good and bad examples of comments to the wiki that was started. Suggest working on them together aloud before the wiki is updated. Since you dislike content-free rubber stamp comments, you can include some of those ("ready to test", "coding complete", "as discussed in scrum today") to the bad side, and with any luck your QA lead will suggest some for the good side that address issues the new rule is trying to prevent ("moving to test even though categories are not alphabetical - customer has agreed we don't need that", "back to code because customer now wants all columns centred") or has liked in the past. You should come out of the meeting with 

Your title suggests it's #3, but I would recommend that you not try to let the company know your assessment of them. Many teams, companies, and people who are not good at their jobs reject criticism from others, especially from inexperienced others. They are likely to reply "that's just an angry and bitter response from someone who didn't do well here." If you then turn your attention to #1 and #2, instead of complaining to the company, you can complain to your academic institution. There is probably some sort of co-ordinator or liaison officer you can talk to about this. If you start mostly by talking about #1, and wanting to spare other students the chaos, disorganization, and physical difficulties you experienced, you may find that #2 is taken care of along the way. Or, you may find that your expectations of what a job should be like in your industry were wrong, and your advisor can help you to understand which of your problems were due to flaws in the company, and which were due to skills you still need to develop. This is one of the goals of these "work while learning" programs - that you will learn to navigate the workplace. That includes dealing with disorganized or rude coworkers. I don't know what level of scheduling and planning is normal in your industry or whether your expectations are right or wrong. But I expect that the person assigned to help students with their work placements does know. This person can advise you or can advise the company to change their ways. This person may even stop sending students to the company in future. Start with this person and don't correspond directly with the company about their behaviour. 

You are likely to get a positive response. You may get an angry threat to lower your mark. I suggest reacting as though this would be awful and enquiring whether this would mean only an A instead of an A+, or perhaps even as awful as a B? Don't smirk or look relieved. Look like your mark really worries you. But if you are going to pass this course by getting parts 1, 2, and 3 done then you don't need to do parts 4, 5, and 6 to get an A - it's enough to pass. You already have a job lined up! Nobody cares what your actual marks were in grad school after your first job. They are telling you they won't do anything to help you hit your deadline. So you need to. You need to keep tracking yourself against your goals and against how much time is left. You need to set aside perfectionism and see that being finished is important. Don't encourage them to look for every tiny tweak either. When Part 1 is done, tell them that Part 1 is done and you're moving on to Part 2. If they want endless changes and do-overs for Part 1, ask them if they want those so badly that it's ok not to get Part 3? Yes, they may say your work is poor and you should do everything, but then again they may not. You won't know until you ask. 

I presume there is a laptop and projector already involved in the meeting. Before it starts open the email that has "the topics to be discussed" - that is the agenda. In another window open the wiki. Run the meeting from the agenda. When someone asks a trivial question that is in the wiki, open the wiki page and highlight the answer there. They may say "that was kind of hidden" or "I didn't realize that applied to all the reports" and you can adjust the wiki then and there or assign someone a task to do so. Or they may say "thanks" a little sheepishly. Since these people outrank you, never say "as you would know if you had checked the wiki before the meeting" or "as it clearly shows in the wiki" or anything like that. Just start answering the question out loud while you flip to the wiki, as though you were using a visual aid, and select/highlight the answer like using a powerpoint. They may decide to read the wiki first after a few meetings prove there is valuable information there. You may realize the wikis are nowhere near as clear as you think. You may also have to accept that senior people may refuse to read ten sentences if only one matters to them, and would rather come to the meeting and make five people listen to the one sentence being read out loud. One way or another the meetings should improve. 

Note: the specifics of the employer's policies and the university's workterm policies are not the subject of this question. They will be followed. As well, the immediate "I'm calling from the hospital I won't be in today I will let you know when I am released" has been done. A co-op student with three weeks left on a work term has just had an appendectomy (after a rupture) and will be unable to work for a week or two, and then unable to lift anything over ten pounds for a month. The technician job this co-op holds involves lifting equipment many times a day. Assuming the co-op returns and works a week or two before the term ends, what advice would you give about dealing with coworkers, setting limits on lifting things (for example, specific wording for asking others to help lift, or declining a task that might involve lifting), and generally sticking to "modified duties" in a very short term situation? This employer generally expects each co-op to "hand off to" or train the incoming co-op for at least a few days. If the university offers an opportunity to just stop doing the work and spend the last three weeks of the term recuperating, do you think that's a good idea, or that showing the gumption to go back to work after surgery is a good story to be able to tell later?