The optimal skin track angle is a subject of much debate in the backcountry skiing world. There are generally two schools of thought on skin tracks. The steeper the better 

My 2 Cents: Winter camping requires two pads, one inflatable and one foam. The reason for this is that not having any pad at all looses a lot of heat into the ground if you are camping on snow. Even the warmest bag will be uncomfortable without a pad camping on snow. While inflatable pads are really nice, they all eventually fail, particularly in the presence of crampons. You can survive the night with any of the standard selection of foam pads. A good inflatable pad plus foam pad will extend the range of your sleeping bag and provide comfort vs survival. In my experience people underestimate how much heat gets lost into the ground. The other advantage of having a foam pad is that you can use it quickly during the day during rest stops. Being able to sit without losing heat makes a big difference as the day goes on. Managing two pads is kind of a pain, those large elastic straps with the Velcro ends help in keeping them both under you. 

I have the Gerrig system and for me the primary advantage is the ability to spray water. In really hot weather sometimes the most effective use of water is to spray it on you, rather than drink it. This is easy to do with a standard cycling water bottle and next to impossible with most hydration packs. Doing 8 hr MTB races, I have problems with muscle cramping late in the event. Spraying water on my legs helps a lot. With the Gerrig system I don't need to carry both a water bottle and a hydration pack. It's also quite useful in muddy conditions to alleviate the gunk in the drive train. While the pressurization is a nice benefit for actually drinking water, I don't think it's enough of a benefit on it's own to balance the trade off in extra weight and complexity. Having said that the system I have works really well and outside of the extra weight has no other drawbacks in over 3 years of use. 

I wear hats and try to cover most of my body when going through thicker brush. I personally don't like when burrs, pricker bushes, or any of the other a-hole plants out there lash out on my head. Hats allow me to charge head first into some of those in order to help shield my face from them as well. Plus, depending on the climate, hats are good for both keeping me warm and keeping sweat out of my eyes. I also prefer brimmed hats for sun protection since I don't often wear sunglasses while trekking through the woods. Then, there are a select group of people who always wear hats. As in, they never go anywhere without one on. Whether they just like the feeling or they're trying to cover up some balding, they're a group of people manufacturers aren't likely to forget about. 

I find bows are more challenging. Plus, in Ohio for whitetail deer, the archery season last from end the of September through February. The gun season lasts only a week and then an extra weekend. So comparatively, there is a lot more time you can spend in the woods if you're an archer. For the pricing bit of archery vs guns. Well, my bow (Matthews Z2) cost me 2x what my shotgun (Remington 870 express) cost. Of course, my buddy just bought a turkey shotgun that dwarfs my box cost so that part is all a matter of preference. Arrows themselves are probably about 2-3x the cost of each sabot shotgun slug. Then you need to tack on another $10-20 for broadheads for your arrows. Now yes, arrows can be reused where slugs cannot. Accessories are probably similarly priced for each item when all accounted. I personally think it is all a matter of preference and how long your seasons last. Plus, it is fair easier (and cheaper) to do more target shooting with a bow than it is with a gun. Even if you're reloading rifle ammo, you're still gonna surpass the cost of arrows rather quickly. People may be recoil sensitive so they may go archery instead. Others may be felons and not able to buy a gun. We have background checks for guns, but you can pick a bow off the shelve here. As for the noise part of it, should you really be looking to fire multiple shots? Guns make it easier for multiple since they're quicker (mostly), but I don't think you should go into it with the notion that you'll want to fire multiple shots. 

A lot depends on where you live and where you ski, but unless you've got solid enough skiing skills to manage ungroomed terrain at a resort, you'll struggle a lot backcountry skiing in a typical situation where AT or telemark gear would be used. There is an entire range of gear from relatively light XC touring gear to full on Alpine setups that can be used for touring in the backcountry. The trick is to pick the gear that most closely matches your current skills and the terrain you plan to ski. Without knowing more about your situation, I'd suggest spending a season focusing on improving your alpine skills and then maybe look into getting an appropriate AT setup. Learning on AT gear is not really a great idea. The release mechanisms aren't anywhere as near as reliable as regular alpine bindings and the gear is built around the idea that it's for relatively expert skiers who don't fall often. While it may seen cheaper to just get one AT setup, alpine gear is often much cheaper. New AT bindings often twice the cost of basic alpine bindings. It's also much easier to get used alpine gear that is still in good shape. If you decide to stick with it, you can later have AT bindings put on your alpine skis. Or even get a plate that will allow you to switch bindings easily. This question is almost impossible to answer without a lot more details about where and when you are skiing. It's also very important to get some appropriate Avalanche education if you are venturing into the backcountry. 

Here in Ohio we allow both rifle/shotgun and bow hunting. I think part of it comes down to the power in each of the two items. We have 40 pound minimum draw weights on the bows here for hunting. So these bows should be able to pack a bit more of a punch when they hit. Couple that with a larger cutting surface, and the game should go down after a while. Now, this after a while bit is probably where compassionate lawmakers disagree. Hitting a whitetail with a bow has many different recommended times to let the deer scamper off and bleed out. I think the minimum recommended time to go chasing after it is approximately an hour. In that time, the deer may be bedded down and bleeding out. Some people may cringe at that thought. Now let us transfer over to the gun part of things. Guns pack a good bit of power in them. I have seen a well place shot drop a whitetail in its tracks. From initial stun to death in mere seconds. I am not saying that 100% of the time gun will beat out bow though. It is all in the hands of the hunter. We assume everyone will be ethical about it. Let's not try a bow shot of 100 yards or let's not try 200 yards on a shotgun. Both can be made, but not by all hunters. I think lawmakers take that into account somewhat. I would assume the terrain would also play into it more as well for safety reasons. For example, we're only allowed straight-walled cartridges in Ohio for hunting. We are not as isolated though and a 30-06 round might end up going a bit too far for safety reasons. Lastly, another reason to only allow bow/gun or gun could be related to hunter safety. I don't particularly mean hunter shooting hunter as anyone donning the blaze orange knows that is a distinct possibility. I am meaning when hunting predatory game like bears. I have seen YouTubers do it, but I would not want to try to take a bear with my bow. I can guarantee that if I shot a bear with my bow and angered it, I would not have enough time to get another arrow and draw before its upon me with all its fury. Of course, there are others different than I, and they would gladly accept that challenge. These are just reasons off the top of my head why one might allow only certain items for hunting. The main thing to remember is that laws apply to everyone, regardless of skill. So, you really need to take that into account like the lawmakers hopefully did. You might get lucky and be able to find some write up by the legislative or judicial bodies as to their justification in certain laws or decrees. 

These are generally known as glacier glasses. They are rated as Category 4 on the CE scale and you aren't supposed to drive while wearing them. Sunglasses in Category 4 only transmit 4-8% of available visible light. Hidalogos sunglass guide has a very complete list of the different factors in choosing sunglasses. Category 4 come in a wider range of styles than in the past. Julbo in particular makes several models that don't resemble the classic leather side flap models. I can recommend their Zebra photochromic lens, but that may not work for you. Category 3 might work for you as well, most standard sunglasses are only Category 2. You need to buy "sport" sunglasses to get Category 3 level glasses. You can get prescription versions of some versions of these sunglasses. 

Steamboat has some very nice tree skiing. In general open tree skiing in Colorado involves finding an aspen or similar hardwood grove and those don't occur at the very highest elevations. So as a rough first guess, I'd look for resorts at similar elevations to Steamboat. I can't think of any similar evergreen groves like those at Heavenly, but it has been 20+ years since I skied Summit County. 

I have mostly commonly heard those two terms used together in skiing. Frontcountry is lift served skiing inside the resort boundaries verses backcountry skiing where you ski up the hill first before you ski down it. (i.e. the front of the mountain is where the lifts and trails are, the back is where they aren't. ) Frontcountry is a relatively new term compared to backcountry. Backcountry in general implies a more remote setting and one that you reach only on by self-propelled means. I would expect nothing in the way of facilities in a backcountry camping site. I have never heard the term frontcountry applied to camping. But I guess it makes sense as an antonym to backcountry. Backcountry camping would generally imply that you carry in everything you need on foot and there isn't anything setup for you when you get there. So in general frontcountry would imply some kind of facility or access that somehow make it "not backcountry". 

In addition, it isn't only the gun itself you should worry about with steel shot. For instance, my turkey plug is only for lead shot. I believe my shotgun can take either, but the specific plug I am using for turkey specifically said no steel. For additional maintenance, I don't think there would be as much extra lead residue in your barrel (obviously), but you will probably find more residue from the powder to get the higher pressured shot out. Check with the manufacturer of the gun to see what they recommend for that particular model. If is it really old, then definitely consult a gunsmith or someone whose job it is to know more about guns than us common folk. 

Similar to what James Jenkins said in his answer, it is illegal in Ohio to hunt over bait unless it has been some period of time. I think it is something like a week or 10 days. That being said, I do know people who readily bait large tracts of their land in order to bring in game. I am talking like 10ft away from their tree stand with a clear shooting lane bait. Most of these people are lifetime hunters and a fair amount of them are trying to stuff their freezers with game to last through the year. So in some respect, part of it is slightly survival, but I think the majority of it is to bring in more trophy game. From my perspective, I would prefer the challenge of going without bait. Of course, hunting a turkey over corn vs hunting a turkey over a soy field aren't too different of a thing. About the latter, you have to first find said field, then find their entrance/exit routes into the field for feeding, and you need to hopefully not spook them while getting into position. There is something more about learning where your game lives, moves about, feeds, and runs to for safety that adds a little bit of a challenge. It really comes down to what you want to do and what is legal in your area. I don't get many days to go in the woods so it would make sense for me to try to stay over the baited areas I know about. However, I would rather try my luck the other way. 

I've hiked all over the USA and the general rule is that on public land, you can hike anywhere you want, unless there are specific rules for a given sensitive area. Generally these rules are posted at least at the trailhead or in any wilderness permit you get. The one place where there aren't posted signs, but that you should "STAY ON THE TRAIL" is making cuts across switchbacks. This damages both the trail and any nearby streams. It's one of the primary reasons why "Stay on the trail" rules get created. There is a real difference between making your own route, and wandering just to the side of an existing trail. The first is generally much more acceptable since it's unlikely anyone will be following your tracks. The second can cause real problems in high traffic areas. As the population grows, more and more areas are becoming high traffic areas, and the rules will have to change if we want to preserve both access and habitat. The other caveat is that it isn't always clear when you are leaving public land. Some trails only have a narrow right of way for public use and any wandering puts you on private land. Access there is up to the landowner. There are no "wander right" laws in the USA. 

Breaking Strength The rule of thumb for rigging is that the breaking strength of the rope should be roughly 15x the static load. That's something in the 1300 kg breaking strength range. Probably overkill for a hammock over a soft surface, but if you plan on pitching over rocks or in more precarious locations is worth investigating. Also, the tighter you rig your hammock the more the load on the endpoints is magnified. Stretch The standard nylon cords available stretch signficantly under load and even more when they get wet. Even "static" cords like paracord can stretch. For a hammock, even a little stretch can be a problem.