Descartes teached that because he thinks therefor he is. But did he tell something about the question whether there are gaps between thoughts? So probably we could not exist between those gaps? Or wasn't it possible not to think or was thinking just a quality a human posesses? 

In the early days, atoms existed according to Democritos. I think Democrites just hypothesized this to build up his world view. Probably there would have been also philosophers who claimed that everything was divisible to infinity (was perhaps Aristotle such a person?) But when asking in nowadays physics it is said that elementary particles can't be divided anymore, because the just decay in certain given other particles. But is this view of nowadays physics the truth? There are muons electrons quarks and neutrino's which can't be divided anymore. But why should this be true? Why can't a particle be split into infinity? Ok, it is probably hard to do so, but is there a more profound 'law' which does state this view? 

I think it is a kind of idealism like that of Berkeley. But can this statement also belong to phenomenology of Husserl or of the philosophy of Kant or is there perhaps a better philosopher for this? 

For a lot of feelings it looks clear to me that a thought preceded it. Like when I think of the possibility of war I get afraid. But imagine the case when it is very cold, is the feeling of having cold preceded by the thought that it is cold or could you feel cold without thinking about it? 

Hegel explains in his works how the Geist is evolving during history towards a kind of consciousfreedom. It seems to me initially that in the end our own minds has evolved to a rational God, but I'm not sure of this. But in what religion is the interpretation of a God similar to the definition of Geist according to Hegel? 

I think Kuhn is just wrong about the nature of daily scientific progress. Just because you're not invalidating the germ theory of disease each time you do an experiment in lab, it doesn't follow that basic progress isn't essentially falsificationist (or castable as falsificationist) most of the time. For instance, most findings are backed up with statistics, and most statistical tests have a "null hypothesis" which you're ruling out, and that ruling out is essentially probabilistically falsifying the simpler hypothesis that nothing's going on. But, happily, we needn't settle that discussion (even if it does make it easier) to judge the examples you gave. If we're to take Kuhn's position seriously (or perhaps an overly-strong caricature of his position), then indeed, one can do puzzle-solving from within the framework of Creationism or Lysenkoism. However, both of these are (and were when they were proposed) deeply in "crisis" mode, where data is explained poorly, and further inquiry only deepens rather than resolves the problems. In practice, in both cases, what ended up happening is that "researchers" did not follow the normal process of science so that they could avoid having to face the crisis. And in any case, the two were not bringing theory and observation into closer agreement in any meaningful way (mostly the opposite--new observations would raise further troubling discrepancies), which Kuhn also requires for normal science. So both fail as normal science on one count--agreement between observation and theory is not, on the whole, increasing; and as science on a second count--crisis has been reached and is long overdue, but revolution has not occurred. 

There are a number of recent (by philosophical standards) works by people such as Marc Hauser and Jonathan Haidt on this topic. In brief, morality appears instinctive (and is evident as a sort of proto-morality in some social animals), and rather ad-hoc. (E.g. in an out-of-control car you should swerve to hit only one person instead of two, if you can; but you should not throw one person who would not be hit in front of a car in order to prevent it from hitting and killing two.) As far as I can tell, the source of much (maybe all?) morality is these instincts, and we're then left to rationalize and organize matters as best we can.* More detail (and an interesting read) can be found in Jon Haidt's recent book The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion. Unfortunately, I don't think moral philosophy has adequately caught up with recent findings in let's call it moral sociology or moral evolutionary biology, so there's not yet a classic source to turn to to answer your question, on either the "let's abstract away from the detailed moral answers and come to a universal-like understanding of morality based on evolutionary constraints of social animals" or "starting from all these evolutionarily-instilled intuitions, let's build a logically-consistent-as-possible framework for moral behavior and reasoning" fronts. *Just because the instincts are the source of morality doesn't mean that they dictate morality, just as our instinct to eat doesn't dictate cooking. Nonetheless, ignoring those instincts when discussing morality is probably about as wise as deciding that one can avoid eating because one doesn't like cooking. 

Some people like to live in the moment, or in the now. That is possible a more psychological way of interpreting a moment. But physically seen, does this contain a time lap? So is it actually possible to live in the now? Or is the Planck time (5.39 × 10 −44 s) the time lap which defines 'now'? Or when it is 17:00 h, does that moment has a time lap? Perhaps mathematically it could have a now, because 17:00 seems to be very exact. But in practice, regarding special relativity, a clock can't indicate the time precisely 17:00 because that would also imply that there is an infinite number of decimals which due to all motions can't stay zero. Or can they? 

Socrates was finally sentenced to death because his judges declared that he spoiled youth by his teachings and that he learned other Gods. But what precisely did he teach? 

Using mathematics a lot of 'laws' of nature are discovered, like the Higgsboson gravitational waves Diracs anti-matter etc. But if something like mathematics can predict how nature or reality 'should be' and is what does it say about the nature and reality. I sometimes think that if mathematics is usefull than the reality is perhaps symmetric and in balance or something like that. But is maths just putting a model on nature and you will find what you are looking for with the instruments and maths you use or does it really say something about nature? 

With levels I mean different 'perspectives' on a subject/happening. For example, all things have color. When we see a green tree we say this tree is green. So from this level the tree is green. But for a physicist the tree has no color it only appears as a color but in fact they are waves reflected by the tree are 'mentioned' green. So for a phycisist only waves 'are'. Now there is a mathematical physicist and says, no that are no waves that are fields and vectors and a string-theorist says that the tree is a bundle of strings. And perhaps even a synesthesist would say the tree is color 6. Perhaps you could go on and on. The question is now whether these 'beings' are valid or not. Can 'beings' who are not really contradictory be all true in their own field/level or -is- there a real being what prohibit the other beings? See also min 34 $URL$ 

What is the probability that men vs. women will go to a party shrouded and ask random strangers questions about their sex after revealing that they have a brother? What fraction of people identify as some gender that is different than their biological sex? 

Since we do not yet have a comprehensive scientific account of human cognition and emotion, the problem is not solved. There is no particular reason to believe that we will never get there, but we're not there yet. Since belief in religion appears to not be a wholly rational position, it is unlikely that philosophy (or any other analytic framework with little reference to experimental data) will provide answers. We'll have to wait for the engineering-level details about how humans think and feel. So, we need more time to really answer those questions--we probably won't even have a comprehensive account in our lifetimes. I agree that they're important ones, and we have some educated guesses to make on some. But mostly we can't say for certain. In the meantime, there's lots of interesting neuroscience and/or cognitive science to do (or support). 

Humans and other animals need to recognize favorable conditions and partners distinct from immediate prospects for obtaining a reward. It is likely that a sense of beauty is what accomplishes this. Although there are many cases of nonfunctional beauty, as long as they don't distract us too heavily, we will end up with partners who are less likely to be unable to help provide food etc. or be heavily burdened by parasites, and will be in an area where animal and plant foods are relatively abundant. Here, for instance, is a relatively lengthy essay on the topic: Welsch, "Animal Aesthetics". In Contemporary Aesthetics volume 2 (2004). Although I do not agree with everything in the article (e.g. it is far too focused on Darwin) it seems to be a pretty good introduction to how one should think of beauty from an evolutionary perspective. 

Robots can become very intelligent. So suppose in future they are there and looks and behave a bit like humans. What question could be asked by which you can decide whether it is a robot or not? 

Because God wants us to be totally involved. So human have free will, can talk, behave and act; God wants our cooperation, because for a relation two persons are needed. Nevertheless God can give us something that we did't ask for, but this isn't always the case. 

There is time as an interval between two events but you could also state that time itself has a certain duration (it passes). Now in physics it is not always very common to see time as something that has a duration. ' So to make that statement solid one should find a way to work it out that it is an illusion but how can you do that? 

Perhaps more a physics question, but there is also a philosophical question why physics validate all measurements as the same. Of course one could ask why should one particular measurement be the only 'real' one. Of course this is all about special relativity. But a bit in line of Ockhams'razor one could also suggest that the measurement with the less variable parameters should be the most right one. But if one measure the length of something with a ruler just laying it besides it, it should be a more accurate measurement of the length of something than of the measurement of a observer in motion relative to that length. But in physics both measurement are equal in validity according to SR. Only light is absolute. So the question is, isn't a measurement with less variable parameters not more accurate than one that is depending on the observers'conditions? 

You seem to be discounting the value of the type of knowledge that we can actually have. I know, for instance, that hitting keys on my keyboard in the appropriate context results in a message that you can read. I also know not to walk into walls, and that I will starve if I don't eat. Even if the "true" state of affairs is a sensible concept, it is nonetheless enormously problematic if you walk into walls and starve even if you have no idea whether these things correspond to your actual physical state. So ignoring our physical state is apparently a bad idea (or is a vacuous commandment if everything that happens to us forms part of our "immaterial experiences" also). In any case, you're revisiting heavily discussed and debated topics in epistemology (albeit with a rather unusual conclusion). Locke and Hume (on Wikipedia first, I suppose) are good places to start when considering the consequences of having uncertain knowledge and yet trying to build a reliable model of the world and perhaps even do philosophy. (Also, incidentally, I'm not sure it's universally accepted that a child born from drunk and criminal parents is just as valuable as any other child, so this is a questionable premise to adopt--it at least requires some argumentation to support it.) 

Various branches of cognitive science (psychophysics especially, but not only) have demonstrated that we can be profoundly misled in our subjective interpretation of an experience. One of the most profound: when you look around, it seems as though you're seeing things the whole time. You're not. The visual stream is effectively blanked during a saccade where your eyes jump from one local target to another. Given this scale of error, we can't conclude very much from reports of meditation except possibly that people tend to give consistent reports (or not, if they don't). You can't get off the ground scientifically with meditation alone because it is in a regime where almost every introspection is likely to be misleading. It's not even reliable enough to falsify scientific theories unless there's a strong prediction of what people ought to report (which basically never happens--we don't know enough to even attempt such a thing). However, it's perfectly okay to use meditation to alter your state of consciousness and then study that (using methods which are less subject to prediction, retrodiction, observer bias, and all the other things that our brains do automatically for us to provide an interpretable (if not always accurate) experience). Asking someone to meditate is not really any different then asking them to imagine a picture of a dog or to do any other internal mental task. Knowing how our subjective assessment of our state of consciousness ("I feel hyper-aware") maps onto activity patterns ("huh, anterior cingulate, and...") is a big part of what cognitive science should deliver to us, at least as a first rough draft of how consciousness works.