What does this mean for a low tech population trying to build space-worthy vehicles? It means, they are screwed. They need to contain liquid fuels, some of which need to be pressurized, within a container that is only allowed to weight about 1/8 of the total fuel mass. It is quite hard even for us today to build such light-weight structures that are still strong enough, and we have lost rockets as recent as 2015 (Falcon 9 launch failure) due to structures that did not hold up under the forces exerted on them. Low tech means, you need to include high safety margins to avoid catastrophic failure, and high safety margins mean much more fuel, and much more rocket to hold that fuel. The lower your tech level, the larger the rockets need to be. We need rockets that outweight their payloads by a factor 25, just to get some small payload into space. How big will that factor be for your low-tech people? Can you imagine your low-tech people building significantly larger rockets than the ones we build today? If not, I'd say, any space-faring society needs to be at least at our level of development in the middle of the 20th century, when we first started sending rockets into space. And all this does not even include any potential for fighting battles in space... 

Pro steel: The material strength of titanium is less than that of steel. This means that it would be the titanium sword that gets the dent when it clashes with a steel sword. After a fight, the elves would need to remake the edges of their titanium swords. Pro titanium: The lower weight of the material would allow for greater length of the swords than steel, allowing the elvish fighters to score hits before their opponents can even reach them. Pro titanium: The lower material weight would also allow the swords to be thicker than their steel counterparts, actually allowing the titanium swords to be stronger against breakage than their steel counterparts. So, while it would be the titanium swords that gets the dent, it would be the steel sword that breaks. Which one do you prefer? 

Scientific background: Tiny errors in reassembly would be indistinguishable from the errors introduced by an X-rays or radioactive radiation: Almost the entire body is entirely unaffected, but at some points, an atom is missing from a place where it should be, and instead running loose somewhere else. So, the cumulative long term effects would be the same as those of excessive exposition to X-rays or radioactive radiation: Increased risk of cancer. Also, heavy teleporting in a very short time would cause radiation sickness. This would, of course, only kick in if you teleported like every five minutes for a whole day. Another effect of this is, that teleportation of electronic devices would also be affected: Any stored data may be corrupted by some bits getting flipped due to the reconstruction errors. This includes permanently stored data as well as data in working memory. 

Have you ever seen a TV show called sparticle mystery? It was a British TV show so maybe not. It explored this question exactly over three series. Those in the cities would be the most heavily affected, no animals or farms to culture in the future they'd run out of food and help soon. Walmart has a lot of stock, but how much can be eaten without being cooked? it doesn't take long for the food they can eat to go off and thing in the freezers would disappear almost instantly. Plus there are a lot of kids having to eat from this limited stock. So, most children would eventually migrate the countryside. They'd probably try to mimic governments in real life. They'd have groups and one would naturally be the leader. Some places would probably vote on a leader like how one votes for a group leader. They wouldn't have no leadership since it'd be confusing and there's always that one kid who likes to do things their way. Farm kids are common in England and they'd probably be the best off with meats and plants. Smallscale farms and would house animals that could be easily kept and provide food, think fewer cows and more goats and small herds of sheep. Food (especially sweets) would probably become currency or trading tools. Large farm animals would most likely be let go or starve since there's no one to buy cattle feed from and only a few kids to tend to them. Guns and other weapons would be sought after and either locked away or used wantonly. Groups would be formed; farm boys or the girls from a private school, for example, all trying to preserve their way of life. Things such as internet and electricity might work for a time but without adults that know how to work and fix them they would eventually break. The same with cars they'd be able to be driven (probably not well they're children) but after time petrol stations will become be dry and they'd have to go back to moving with horses or by foot. 

Background: My settings world has sentient life around the space-faring level. The problem is that the planet itself has very few natural resources available, they’re too deep down to harvest or simply not there. My current idea was this: Even though they’re incredibly advanced the lack of resources mean they rely heavily on the world around them. Using things like woods, stone, or mud to build houses/weapons/tools since what we build those from need to be used more sparingly there. EDIT: Most metal ores (iron, brass) are extremely hard to mine and even so there's probably around half as much of it compared to Earth. There's also a lack of good sand and rare earths for ceramics and certain electronics. But there's a heavy amount of precious gemstones; rubies, diamonds, and quartz are all exceptionally common. (For spaceships, while they may have them they're from other species, traded to them for the rare gemstones.) Question: What would their cities/communities look like? (Please tell me if the question seems too broad or could be improved. Thank you in advance.) 

How to explain gigantic subs: Well, you obviously need a reason for large subs. As a matter of fact, subs are relatively poor at actually controlling an area (or water volume). To do this, it might be necessary to use a large fleet of small subs. However, small subs cannot use nuclear reactors, as those have a certain minimal size. So, the small sub fleet would have to do with battery power. But how can you reload your batteries when you are on the other side of the planet, and want to avoid surfacing for whatever reasons? Enter the big sub carrying sub! It would work a bit like aircraft carries today: You have one really big vessel, which contains at least a dozen small vessels, which are the big vessel's eyes and arms. These small vessels patrol the area that is to be controlled, and they strike against any enemy they find within their action radius. Once their batteries are down, they return to their carrier for a battery charge, remunitioning, and some fresh supplies. The carrier sub itself would be huge by todays standards. It would likely contain several powerful nuclear reactors, large ammunition storage areas, and have several places for the small subs to dock. The parts that need to be at atmospheric pressure would all be contained within a number of long cylinders, each no more than five meters in diameter for structural efficiency. This pack-of-thin-cylinders design would go quite well with its purpose of being a carrier of many small subs, I think. The big sub itself would not have much defensive capabilities itself, relying on its fleet of small subs to defend it, just like aircraft carriers rely on their air force to defend them. The big carrier sub might contain a few big offensive missile type weapons, though; weapons larger than the small subs can carry. Such a carrier sub would really be able to control a certain volume of the sea, which is hard to do with the modern subs which are mostly built for offensive strikes on the surface. The modern subs are built that way, because we humans are most interested in controlling the earths surface, for obvious reasons. A civilization that mostly lives underwater would have much different priorities: They would desire to control either water volume, or areas on the bottom of the oceans, so I think, big carrier subs would suit them well. 

If the four diagonal beams are held in a 45° position by the support rope and each other, there will be no bending forces on the structure whatsoever, and the anchoring will be next to trivial. 

Possible story related effects: The consequence would be, that teleportation would need to be strictly rate limited to allow the body to regenerate from the damages, and to keep the cancer rate down to a tolerable level. "What, you want to go too? Sorry, you've already teleported ... times this year, I can't allow that!" No matter how well such rate limiting is enforced, it would not suffice to keep bad teleportation machines from generating too many reconstruction errors. This would easily go unnoticed, if it is not regularly controlled for. The effect would be like excessive radiation exposure, of course. Such bad machines could lead to inexplicable increases of cancer incidences among groups of people regularly using the bad machines. This would lend itself to the-corrupt-powers-that-be-hush-it-all-up story lines. It's also not unlikely that professional teleportation users would be required to wear dosimeters when teleporting as staff in nuclear plants needs to do. As I said, the "radiation" from teleportation would also affect electronic devices, especially storage devices: "Sorry, the data on your USB stick seems to be corrupt... How often did you teleport with it?" The fun part is, that active devices like laptops and cell phones could experience any kind of software error. Of course, the most likely results would either be a crash immediately after teleportation or silent data corruption on their hard drives. However, any software misbehavior could be explained that way. For example: