It sounds like you are dwelling on the past. I'd suggest that you treat him like a regular employee. If he does his job, then fine. If he does not do his job or want to do his job, you replace him. If you can't replace him due to nepotism, then that is where you have a real problem. At that point it becomes him or you. In addition, during the 3 years that you have been general manager, what has this boss's friend done? Has he remained the same, or has he turned his life around? Unless you know the answer to that question in detail (and it sounds like you may not) I feel you should be giving this guy the benefit of the doubt. 

If you are using your personal vehicle for work related tasks always record the mileage that you drive in a dedicated diary. Even if you company doesn't reimburse you the (full) IRS rate you can still claim it on your tax return at the end of the year. (And I bet your company is only paying you cash in hand for the gas!) I would inform your VP that you are expected to make trips on the companies behalf but you know that that your insurance will not cover you in your personal vehicle. (This opens the company up to a lawsuit from you if you have an accident and that hopefully should scare the VP a little.) And I would mention that you are being put in an uncomfortable position when requested to do so. From the sound of it your Operations cars are not effectively road worthy. I would definitely raise that with your VP. Especially the hygiene. (It would also be good if you suddenly came up with a severe allergy to smoke :D). If those cars are as bad as you say then the company would also be open to a lawsuit if you had an accident in one of them when off site and/or interest from OSHA. (Also typically operations vehicles aren't registered for road use). Invite your VP to inspect what you are being asked to drive. 

Some good things others have covered: take some time to break down the task into smaller chunks that you're more familiar with; give the best estimate you can; update as soon as you know more. I'll add something I haven't seen yet: give a confidence interval. Think of it from the other end. As a PM, I have to ask people for estimates all the time. My org is growing and we're not collectively used to formal project management - so people often refuse, which drives me nuts, because I have nothing to work with and no idea when something will be done, so I can't make status reports or tell if we're on schedule or need to reprioritize, etc. So, it's understandable that your third PM's eyes are bugging out when you don't answer, even if they're not handling it that well by making up numbers and putting more pressure on you instead of helping you through the process. And I get it, you won't really know until it's done. But if you think about it, you probably know at least a little bit more than the PM - five minutes, five days, five months? Here's what I do when I'm the technician and I have to give an estimate: give two instead. 

I've been searching for a new job as a software developer in the last few weeks and have noticed that in every single one of the interviews there's a pattern. First, there's a "get to know you" interview with a HR representative, where I'm asked things like who do I live with, what do I expect of the position I'm being interviewed for, which were my past professional experiences and things like that. After this interview with HR, there will most likely be a techinical interview. The problem is that I'm searching for a job in a specific part of town. To get there, I have to leave earlier (and lose almost the whole afternoon) and come in later (and lost most of the morning), since my current company is kinda far from where I'm interviewing and I need to use public transportation. So, would it be unprofessional, impolite or come off as if I didn't want the job that much if I ask if there really is a need for an in-person interview or if we could use the phone or skype? Edit: I work as a web developer in Brazil. 

If other employees from other departments do it, and if it is allowed/encouraged by the company, then go for it. You might get some "funny" comments from your colleages the next day, but at least you had fun and did what you wanted. 

However you still need to fall under one one of the defined categories. From the job description I think you might fall under: 

As such I would mention this situation to your boss. It may be in the best interests of your company for you to continue working on this task, or it may been the best interests to let the other dev complete it. In either case you need to let go of your anger. I understand that you have invested considerable time and effort to complete this task, but work is a team effort and your anger seems to be rooted in keeping this work to yourself. 

A long time ago, in a company far, far away when I complained about not being happy about doing business trips my boss said that I should consider them "character building". In hind-sight what he said was actually invalidating my feelings and me as a person. While the work was good, being in that sort of environment is eventually soul destroying and not good for you long term. 

You are probably not covered by workers compensation. So if you are injured on the job you will be SOL. There is no paper trail of your wages. Thus you have no proof that you have been paid at all (or even the correct amount) for your labor (and/or that the correct deductions have been made). You are now screwed by any situation that requires you to show proof of income and/or taxes. When your employer ditches you, you would not be able to collect any sort of unemployment benefit. If you continue to work under the table it could reflect badly on how future employers perceive your integrity. At the end of the year you will be responsible for paying all the taxes that were not with-held from your wages. Unless you are very strict with your budgeting you will find it hard to come up with the needed cash at tax time next year. You are also not paying into Social Security, so you can nix that when it comes time to retire. 

As you stated in your comment answering mine, he makes offensive comments face-to-face during work. First, do as keshlam says. Unfriend him. He is a toxic person, avoid contact as much as possible. After that, go talk to your manager. It surely will have no positive effect talking to the offender, so you have to talk to your superior. Explain what is happening and ask him to deal with it. In many places around the world such offences are against the law and might get the offender and the company in trouble. Wait a few days. If it doesn't stop, ask the manager if he talked to the offender. Depending on the response, go to HR. 

I see three options: 1 - Ask the company to buy one, so everybody can use it 2 - Raise funds with your colleages to buy one (we did this with the coffee machine here) 3 - Bring your own, but be prepared to see people use or eventually break it. Anyway, ask your boss or HR first to see if it is allowed to bring your own stuff to the office. 

If your boss is a person worth not cutting ties with, a simple "Thanks for all the help and opportunities, but I'm off to new adventures" is enough. 

Note that I am not qualified to give legal advice on Visas. But if the recruiter suggests that you work under an inappropriate visa then I would walk away from the offer as the penalties for visa fraud can be very strong. EG Up to 10 years permanent ban from the USA. I would suggest consulting a Visa specialist not connected to the recruiter in order to evaluate the eligibility of your application. Note that part of the eligibility of this visa category is that you have: 

Standard hardware and software load makes things easier for IT Not mixing business and personal usage makes security more robust. Better integration into networked based services. Probably better insurance coverage for the hardware. 

Being laid off was not your fault. That was a business decision beyond your control and you have the references to back up that you are a good working so that is nothing to worry about. For the second job I was in a similar position a few years ago. I joined a company, busted my gut, saved the project but got fired for the privilege. I kept that 6 months of work on my resume because it was for a new set of technologies that I hadn't previously worked in and help round out my skill set. When people asked me about those 6 months (of which I deeply wished to forget working at that company) I simply told them that the position wasn't a good fit for me. And from my point of view it wasn't because I really didn't want to work for a company that would throw me under the bus the first chance they got. So keep both jobs on your resume. Leaving both of them was out of your control and it seems that you didn't fail at either one of them. 

All the companies I interviewed for so far didn't try to actually run the code, AFAIK. They just wanted to check the quality of the code. So, as long as your code is good, censor it. Maybe tell them why you censored some of it when you send them the code. 

If the company wanted to fire you, it would. No matter what you said, no matter how much you cried. That said, leave whenever you want. Specially if management doesn't give a crap about what you think, as this seems to be the case. This is bussiness. 

What do you expect from this? What do you think would change? What random amount of time do you think would make your quitting less unprofessional? 

I've been through this once. Dreaded going to work. Had to do 2 hours of overtime almost everyday and sometimes work during weekends and holidays. I dare to say that there's no "nice" way to say you're tired of overtime. At least, I didn't find one. You can say to your boss something along the lines of "my productivity has gone downhill in the last weeks due to overtime. What can we do about it?" and see how he responds to it. I believe he won't care. Be it because of lack of business process, or your incompetence, he thinks you HAVE to stay late. And I doubt he will change his mind. Then it's up to you to decide what to do next. I can tell you that after I left that job my quality of life has increased a lot and, after I got a new job where I'm forbidden of doing a single minute of overtime, I'm much happier. 

First of all .. if you are such storing sensitive information, it is most likely that you must conform to some sort of external regulation regarding how to store that information. In such a case you can simply say to management that you don't conform, and point out the penalties for non-compliance. You shouldn't have to explain the nitty gritty to them as they are paying you to understand that part for them. Secondly, if you aren't in a regulated industry (but it sounds like you should be) then you can't teach management technical details as after all, if they found technical details all that interesting then they wouldn't have pursued management. You only recourse then is analogy, the simpler then better. After steps 1 and 2, if management still doesn't want to listen then you have to make a judgement call as to how you feel about working there. 

Suspicious is one thing, proof is an altogether different thing. I am not condoning vandalism, but unless you have proof that it was done at work then involving HR is the wrong thing to do as it establishes a baseline of 

She was browsing jobs based in Australia, and I'm Australian and still had never heard of this term. 

Right now my job includes a lot of different duties - customer-facing tech support, back-end desktop management and software administration, project management, documentation, training, communication, answering the doorbell for the loading dock... Having to do so many different types of work, each with a different pace and type of focus required, has me feeling pulled in a lot of different directions. The department is doing some workforce planning that will likely result in at least some reorganization, and we've all been asked for our input. So, I might have at least a bit of influence over where I end up and what I end up doing. (I'm one of half a dozen people in the same position, so it would be relatively easy to divvy up the tasks differently.) My problem is... how do I know what to focus on and what to try to drop? I generally like each of these tasks by themselves, but it's super frustrating trying to write a script or a project status report while my inbox is filling up with people who want help getting into their e-mail, and vice versa, which obscures the question of what I'd be most excited about under ideal conditions. What's a good exercise for sorting out which parts of your job are the most satisfying? 

Depends on your industry. But, since your boss said they dress casual, I'd say that wearing a suit will do no harm nor good. I, as a software developer, have never cared about over/under dressing. I've worked in start-ups, small companies(50~150 people) and big companies (2000+) and in none of them someone said anything about the way I dress. In all of them it was casual. I always go to work with jeans trousers and a T-shirt. But in all interviews I keep the jeans trousers and change the tee for a polo. I noticed that anytime someone overdresses, people make light jokes about that. But, if you work for a bank, for example, you might have to wear a suit and tie. 

You should make it clear to your employer during interview that you haven't had contact or don't know X product or technology. Then it's up to the employer to hire you and wait a little time for you to get up to speed, or just don't hire you. If they happen to hire you and you didn't warn them about this during the interview, it might be very bad to you, because you ommited very important information. Anyway, you have experience with Unix, it won't be very hard for you to gain some knowledge in Windows. Most things are easier to do on it than on Unix. Unless you are apllying for a SysAdmin role, then I suggest you study a lot before hand instead of trying to learn on the go.