This really comes down to how you define derivation versus inflection. The line between these two categories tends to be incredibly fuzzy and difficult to determine. For instance, if your definition is that derivation changes the category of a word, and inflection doesn't, then how do you handle participles (inflected forms of verbs that act like adjectives)? There are problems with most of the nice clean definitions of inflection and derivation, and the best that I've seen is "derivation makes native speakers consider it a different lexeme". In this case, I'd say that "longish" is a fundamentally different lexeme from "long", so I would consider it derivational. But others might disagree. So the best answer I can give is, "the dichotomy between inflection and derivation isn't as clean as intro ling professors make it seem, and isn't particularly useful in practice". 

It didn't. ...maybe. Everything we know about PIE is to some extent an educated guess. But some modern linguists say there were two distinct roots here: 

For any specific property you suggest, there's probably a counter-example somewhere. However, the big one that's most often considered universal is recursion. Every known human language (*) has recursion: some way of embedding one clause into another one, to an arbitrary depth. In English, you can use relative clauses, like "I saw the man who saw the woman who saw…", or complementizers, like "I told Alice that Bob told Claire that…". And while the exact mechanics differ, every language has some way of doing this. (*) There's one often-cited counterexample, Pirahã. However, the work claiming that Pirahã lacks recursion is…controversial. Nobody except the original researcher has been able to check the evidence, and Pirahã is claimed to have quite a lot of properties that are unlike any other language on Earth. It seems more reasonable to treat it as a bad data point. 

Classical Latin had a system of ten native vowels + two foreign vowels + two important diphthongs, for a total of twelve (a, ā, e, ē, i, ī, o, ō, u, ū, y, ȳ, æ, œ). This is quite a lot of vowels to keep straight; for later Romance speakers, it was too many. In the precursor to Spanish (aka "Late Iberian Vulgar Latin", the Latin spoken in Spain right before it became not-Latin-any-more), this twelve-vowel system simplified to seven: a, e, i, o, u, ɛ, ɔ. (ɛ and ɔ are phonetic symbols; they were never actually written that way at the time. ɛ is the vowel in English "met", ɔ the vowel in "hot".) 

The name is properly spelled Erdoğan, with a "soft g". The "soft g" in Turkish doesn't have its own sound per se; before a consonant (or at the end of the word) it indicates lengthening of the previous vowel, and before a vowel it indicates that the two vowels are separated. So the president's name is properly pronounced /ˈeɾdo‿an/. 

Speculated, yes. Accepted, no. Most linguists agree that there is no relationship between these two languages. Greek is Hellenic which is Indo-European; Arabic is Semitic which is Afro-Asiatic. And while many people have posited links between the IE and AA language families, the idea has never gained widespread approval. The most common form of this is called the "Nostratic Hypothesis", and also posits links to the Kartvelian, Uralic, Dravidian, Altaic, and Eskimo-Aleut families. But again it's a very fringe theory; I've never met a linguist who actually believed it. The evidence is scarce at best. And even if the Nostratic hypothesis were true, the relationship between Greek and Arabic would be distant enough that any apparent cognates are more than likely coincidence. Sound changes would have long since erased any similarity at the surface level. 

Usually the final forms weren't designed intentionally. They arose over time through, effectively, sloppy handwriting. Up through the mid-Hellenistic period, sigma's various forms (from the same root glyph as "Ш", "ש", and "ش") evolved into standard Σ. This shape was used in inscriptions and important writings. But scribbling Σ over and over gets tiring, and the left side needed to be relatively flat to avoid confusion with Ε. So in quick, informal handwriting, it ended up looking more like a Ϲ, the "lunate sigma". In cursive script, then, the shape would be connected to the letters on either side. If there was a letter immediately after it, the Ϲ was rounded off into a circle, with the top emphasized to keep it distinct from ο: thus, σ. If there was no letter immediately following it, the line just trailed off: ς. Then during the Renaissance, printers typesetting Greek text began imitating the conventions that had arisen for other languages: using uppercase and lowercase letters to break up words and sentences and make reading easier. For uppercase they used the classical inscription letters, and for lowercase they tried to imitate cursive handwriting. This gave us the three modern forms of sigma, Σ/σ/ς. There was no real reason to distinguish σ from ς any more, but at that point it was what readers were used to. Much like capitalizing the pronoun "I" in English, the reasons for it are long gone, but tradition and inertia keep it in place. EDIT: My information about Hebrew was incorrect, so I won't weigh in on that case. 

When the verb is transitive, there needs to be some way of marking which noun is doing the action, and which is having the action done to it. In English, this involves the placement of the nouns: the noun doing the action goes to the left of the verb, and the noun it's done to goes to the right. In Latin (and German and Japanese), this involves putting different markers on the two nouns. The question is, then: what sort of marking do you put on the noun attached to an intransitive verb? Is it doing something, or having something done to it? In English, we treat it as a doer. Which makes a certain amount of sense. 

Hawaiʻian. The Hawaiʻian language is known for its very small consonant inventory: there are only eight generally-accepted consonant phonemes, each with its own letter in the orthography (P, K, H, M, N, L, W, and ʻ). The ten* vowels are also represented unambiguously in the orthography. Each short vowel (A, E, I, O, U) is given its own letter, while the long vowels are marked with macra (Ā, Ē, Ī, Ō, Ū). Thus, each grapheme designates exactly one phoneme, and each phoneme is designated by exactly one grapheme. On the flip-side, this doesn't mean it's always clear how a word should be pronounced. One side effect of the small consonant inventory is a LOT free variation; free allophones of /k/ include [t], [s], [d], [z], [ts], [c], [tʃ], [ʃ], [g], and [x], for instance. So when place names and loanwords are borrowed into other languages, they tend to be written more phonetically than phonemically. * (This number is not entirely agreed-upon. It comes down to whether or not diphthongs and geminated vowels are phonemes. Since diphthongs are still formed productively, some linguists consider there to be only five vowels in the underlying representation. Others count the long vowels as separate, giving ten. A third camp categorizes each diphthong as its own phoneme, for a total of 25. Luckily, these different interpretations agree that the orthography is phonemic; they disagree on whether or not digraphs are necessary.) 

Unfortunately, there is no "DARPA phonetic alphabet", at least not in widespread use. From the comments, you found the term here, and Microsoft's table seems to be giving examples of the ARPAbet, or ARPA phonetic alphabet (no D). I wonder if they care about errors in their documentation. Wikipedia has a very nice table of ARPAbet and IPA correspondences. You want the two-letter codes; Microsoft is giving them in lowercase, separated by spaces. So a simple dictionary lookup can convert your text to IPA. Translating in the other direction is usually possible, but not always: the IPA contains all sorts of symbols that the ARPAbet doesn't (since they don't occur in the specific dialect of English that the ARPAbet is designed to transcribe). But if you limit yourself to the subset of IPA that the ARPAbet can recognize, then another dictionary lookup is all you need. EDIT: Looking at the examples in Microsoft's documentation, it seems like there's one other thing to keep track of: Microsoft's version of ARPAbet marks stress at the end of a syllable, while IPA marks it at the beginning. This complicates the process slightly, but only slightly, since the stress markings also divide the word cleanly into syllables. (By-book classic ARPAbet marks stress on the vowels, which means you have to divide up the syllables yourself.) 

In general, cases tend to "appear" in the following order, in that the later ones usually aren't found without the earlier ones. But there are lots and lots of exceptions to this; it's more of a general guideline than a rule. 

Since all of the text is written entirely in the Greek alphabet, a direct and straightforward transliteration is possible. There is a widely-accepted standard for Greek transliteration based on the methods the Romans used, which is the most common way for Ancient and Koine Greek names to be Romanized nowadays. 

English is called a nominative-accusative language, because it treats the noun on an intransitive verb as the doer. Languages which make the opposite decision are called ergative-absolutive. Some languages, however, don't want to choose one or the other. They use one system in one circumstance, and the other system in the other circumstance. The noun attached to an intransitive verb is always marked with the "direct case". And with a transitive verb, one of the nouns is marked as either "thing doing the action" or "thing the action is done to", while the other is "direct". So you could have: 

It is generally accepted nowadays that φ θ χ were pronounced as aspirates in Classical Attic. But this pronunciation didn't last long: as early as Aristophanes θ had become a fricative in some dialects (his stereotypical Spartan characters frequently substituted σ for θ, which was probably an attempt to transcribe a dental fricative using the closest available sound). And in some graffiti from Pompeii, φ was transcribed into Latin with f rather than ph. By the first few centuries CE, the transition to fricatives was complete, and has remained in Greek ever since. So until fairly recently, most scholars used the same sounds when talking about Ancient Greek. We know about the historical aspirates now through a variety of means. But since English distinguishes fricatives and does not distinguish aspirates, Greek learners in America still tend to use this "Erasmian pronunciation". Similarly ε/ει/η, ο/ου/ω are seldom given their reconstructed Attic sound values. 

Because it's the closest unambiguous sound. Belarusian also has a /ɡ/ sound, used mainly in loanwords. Some speakers follow the convention of Ukrainian and write this sound with <Ґ ґ>, though this isn't official. Since there's both a /ɡ/ and a /ɣ/ phoneme, the latter is usually romanized as <H h>, again based on Ukrainian. 

As Michau said, it depends on your use case. User6726 and Michau have provided a good overview of scholarly/lossless transcription systems. But since you mention specifically transcribing for English, there's another option. If your goal is to have the word pronounced (something vaguely like) properly by English-speakers, or to use a name in an English work, then using common letters might be more important than being able to reconstruct the original Arabic from your transcription. In this case, you could use a lossy transcription, merging similar letters together and using familiar English digraphs. For example, both د and ض are very close to English "d", and it takes significant practice for English-speakers even to tell them apart. So for an English-speaking audience it can be easier just to write them both as "d" rather than introducing and explaining "ḍ". If you want to go this route, I'd suggest: 

Look into the Bantu languages, such as Swahili. Tense, aspect, and subject agreement are all marked at the beginning of the verb. 

So the distance from "voiced bilabial plosive" to "voiceless bilabial plosive" is 1, to "voiceless bilabial fricative" is 2, and to "voiceless labiodental fricative" is 3. This certainly has its flaws: /u/ and /w/ are significantly farther apart than they probably should be, for instance, due to vowel and consonant articulation places being stored separately. A better feature set might take that into account and give them a distance of 1 or 2; this is left as an exercise for the reader. 

Several languages also use a Latin alphabet with fewer than 26 letters. In Classical times* Latin itself had only 23 (lacking J, V, W), and two of those (K, Y) appeared only in foreign words. The 26-letter convention comes from English, since early computer encodings such as 7-bit ASCII were designed only for English usage. *excluding the reign of Claudius, because nobody liked his new letters