No it wouldn't make a difference unless you moved it near another star or body. If it was moved such that something was close enough to exert significant gravitational attraction it would have an effect on our solar system. 

Amazon has solar film sheets if that's what you're looking for. It is sold by Amazon for Thousand Oaks Optical. Amazon sometimes has next day or 2 days delivery. 

This has not been confirmed so whether it is legit is unknown at this time. A recent report ($URL$ calls into question the original analysis that leads to the initial report of planet nine. The report that fueled initial interest is given below. (EVIDENCE FOR A DISTANT GIANT PLANET IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM Konstantin Batygin and Michael E. Brown Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA; kbatygin@gps.caltech.edu Received 2015 November 13; accepted 2016 January 10; published 2016 January 20) 

Globular clusters vary in size quite a bit. They contain from a few hundred thousand to over a million stars. Probably best way to determine size is to measure its extent across the sky by telescope and then calculate that distance in km. One could also model the size by assuming the number of stars, the average size of the stars, and the spacing based on this size. One could build a globular cluster of 300,000 stars or so and determine the approximate size. You ask if 120-150 ly is the average diameter of such globular clusters. I'm confused by exactly what you mean but you have sampled a small range of sizes considering globular clusters can be well over 300 ly in diameter. 

So while it is mathematically possible that two observers of a perfectly spherical illuminated body might see just the tiniest bit more and less than than a 0.8% crescent due to parallax… in reality, the precision by which we make these observations is far, far less than what can be reasonably determined by the human eye or the margin of error due to the irregular surface of the moon, deciding what's "illuminated" in the twilight regions, etc, etc. The discrepancy in dates is typically due to differing decrees of when the criteria have actually been met rather than any observational differences due to their position on the earth. [I'm certain I saw a religious authority dispelling such differences in a Q&A interview; but I cannot find the link, so perhaps someone can find a reference.] 

We express when events are going to happen (or have happened) in our observed time frame. For example, we say SN 185 went supernova in the year AD 185; but it didn't. The star actually physically exploded about 9,100 years earlier. When we say the sun will set tonight at 8:07 PM ET, that is when we observe the event. But our actual position relative to the tangent from the sun will have already passed about 8 minutes 20 seconds earlier (plus several minutes due to atmospheric refraction). So when you say Betelgeuse is predicted to explode sometime in the next million years, that's how many more Earth years are expected to pass until we see it happen… from here. From Betelgeuse's point of view, it would have happened about 642 years earlier… or it may have happened already. 

The gravitational is radial only. That means if you tried a different shape then you would have regions, like hills, where a change in the angle would experience a much less attraction towards the center. This region would, over time, be attracted to a different angle with a greater force of attraction. Or spherical. This results in a spherical-like shape. 

It would look as shown below. And yes it would resemble a globular cluster except the stars move differently. Elliptical galaxies have an approximately ellipsoidal shape. Globular clusters are often associated with galaxies. The Milkey Way contains over 150 identified globular clusters. Shown below are globular clusters. 

Yes. There is a chance of one or more solar flares or CME's occurring during the eclipse and these would be noticeable during totality. There are actually two NASA jets equipped with telescopes and high-speed cameras to film the Corona and any such event. The plane will track the eclipse throughout its duration. 

Earth didn't get here before GW's. GW's have been around since the early universe. We have just recently developed the technology to detect the large gravitational waves associated with very massive disruptions in the fabric of space-time. We also know that our sun is not a 1st generation star, so much of the matter used to create our sun and planets came from a much earlier super-nova explosion. 

Searching for the definition in dictionary.com you can find this under the word origin and history section: 

Now to address your point if we can ever know if a parallel universe exists exists. Opinion: Possible but unlikely. I don't think that we are close to achieving this. 

How they have concluded that there could b.e a subterranean ocean on Ceres is by Spectralscopy. Spectral Signature can be summarised to like this: 

As you said it is easier to find meteorites in snow because it is white and contrasts with the usual colour of meteorites. It would be very hard to try and distinguish those small particles with the normal soil on Earth. As for finding one randomly in a concrete building... the chances are very low and it possibly would have done some noticeable damage to the building. A rather simple experiment to prove that yes you can find it anywhere on earth, follow this example. This is to search for micrometeorites. I have done this before and I found it to be particularly inefficient as it is rather wind in my area, but hey you might find it different. You can attempt to search for meteorites somewhere else but just don't expect to see large chunks of it lying around. 

Venus is actually warmer than Mercury because of the thick carbon dioxide atmosphere causing runaway global warming. So it isn't simply the distance from the sun that determines the average temperature of a planet. 3. There's only ONE aphelion/perihelion The closest point of the Earth's orbit (perihelion) and the farthest (aphelion) only happens once per year; not twice. That is because the elliptical orbit of the Earth is such so the sun is at one of the foci, not the center (as illustrated below). 

Your question is a bit oversimplified because there are many types of supernovae based on the size and configuration of the star. But I can answer your question about "why iron" by considering what keeps a star from exploding in the first place. In the simplest terms of star formation, when material from an interstellar nebula starts to collapse under its own gravity, the pressure and temperatures involved will become great enough to eventually start fusing hydrogen into helium (it's a bit more complicated than that, but I'm speaking in generalities). If you were to consider the helium atoms created by that process, you'll notice that each helium atom weighs just a bit less than the two hydrogen atoms that formed it. That bit of extra mass is given off as energy which is produced in great quantities as the hydrogen continues to be fused into helium. During the star's "main sequence", the release of energy by the hydrogen-helium fusion helps counteract the weight of the star's gasses pushing inward. Material presses in; energy pushes out in perfect balance. This balance of gravity and energy output continues until the star uses up most of its hydrogen. It's at this this point (when there is no hydrogen to fuse into helium) that the fusion reaction stops and gravity will resume to collapse the star further. As this star collapses, it will quickly become denser and hotter until the temperature and pressures of the interior are great enough to start fusing helium into heavier elements… and the process continues. That is, until the star starts fusing elements into iron… The fusion into iron is the first element that does not create more energy than it takes to produce. The effect is that there is no net energy being produced to counteract the gravity pushing inward. So the outer layers will quickly collapse into a much denser and smaller ball causing the remaining star material to undergo fusion all at once, causing the supernova. So, in that sense, iron is not the cause of the supernova, but its presence marks the inevitable end of this star's life cycle… in this particular scenario. But understand that this is an oversimplification to illustrate the process you asked about. There are many other sequences of a star's life cycle. Our sun, for example, does not have sufficient mass to keep collapsing down with sufficient pressures to fuse heavier elements into iron. Without getting into other pathways for the production of heavy elements (even in smaller stars like our sun) — once our sun starts creating carbon and oxygen, the fuel starts to run out and the core will simply collapse and rebound as it swells up into a red giant, before losing its outer layers as a planetary nebula while the core shrinks to become a white dwarf (and eventually cooling into a black dwarf). 

Because scientists are now certain that dark matter exists but the exact nature of it is still being investigated. Its extremely important to understand dark matter if we hope to further our knowledge of the universe. Dark matter makes up such a significant part of the total mass of the universe that it must be accounted for in simulations and models of galaxies and other large scale structures in space. Money spent on dark matter research is certainly NOT wasted. 

You have to remember that the alignment for an eclipse is a very rare situation. It's not as simple as the occurrence of a new moon. The planet and the moon have to align just so in relation to the sun for an eclipse to occur. Sorry, no numbers here but just trying to emphasize that several factors have to occur between 2 fast moving bodies. 

We have seen galaxies around 13 billion years old. Since these galaxies formed so early in the history of the known universe, are there observables about these galaxies that are apparently different from much younger galaxies. I suppose all current physics laws had condensed out by then but was just curious about the formation and 'aging' of such old galaxies. 

This is referenced to a paper written in Yale university: "Frontiers And Controversies In Astrophysics Transcript 9", although that's a dead link. By linking so, I believe that it is a reliable source. This got me thinking that is there a black hole that doesn't suck in surrounding matter? And is there a star that don't take in surrounding matter? 

The primary source of comets for our solar system comes from the Oort Cloud, a smaller amount coming from the Kuiper belt. The Oort cloud is thought to have originated from the remnants of a proto-planetary disk. This paragraph explains this better: 

As a star runs out of hydrogen fuel, the fusion slows, causing the gravity to overpower the outward force of pressure, thus contracting. Contraction of the star causes high temperature and pressure, to the extent that it is enough to fuse helium into carbon, then the energy released is stronger than the gravity, increasing the size of the star into a red giant. The following paragraph from an article explains this: 

Wikipedia has a nice table located here, and here. Maybe of further use is the list of references associated with these tables. There is also a nice illustration depicting the rotational axes of other planets shown here. 

The file you had linked as 'Detailed NEO Data' lists all the orbital parameters needed to determine the position of the object as a function of time. It lists these parameters for the objects orbiting the earth. This should be just what you need. They are located at bottom of file. There are routines to convert the orbit in orbital parameters to cartesian coordinates. This may be easier to use. You can google on orbital parameters conversion to find these routines. I think I have a copy in Fortran but not many people use Fortran now. 

To add to the excellent answer by berrycarter, there are 2 planetarium-like codes, that I know of, that run on a mac and would make excellent tools for viewing certain astronomical objects. The codes are Stellarium and Celestial. Both turn your computer into your own planetarium where you can search and view objects in space.