However, even though the episode has attracted a lot of interest from historians (summarized and exemplified here: Richard R. Johnsn, "Ancient and Medieval Accounts of the 'Invention' of Parchment", California Studies in Classical Antiquity, Vol. 3 (1970), pp. 115-122, paper is behind a paywall, sorry.) the details of this episode should not be taken serious since this chapter (book XIII.21) also contains a ridiculous amount of bullshit that we know to be false. (He claims that Alexander the Great (356-323 BCE) invented papyrus, that Eumenes invented parchment, that Egypt did not yet exist in Homer's lifetime etc. etc.) Letters and other sources Skeat (T.C. Skeat, "Was papyrus regarded as 'cheap' or 'expensive' in the ancient world?", Aegyptus, Anno 75, No. 1/2 (gennaio-dicembre 1995), pp. 75-93, paper is behind a paywall, sorry.) has a very insightful chapter on the price of papyrus. 

tl;dr There was no hyperinflation in Germany during or after World War 2. There was a degree of inflation which was dealt with by rationing basic consumer goods (starting even before the war), but no hyperinflation as seen in the case of 1923 Germany or Zimbabwe. This is mainly because Germany in and after World War 2 had rationing and price controls and a much more controlled economy than in 1923. The connection of inflation, hyperinflation and government spending To finance expenditure, governments theoretically have multiple choices (and traditionally employ a mixture of them). Among others: First, they can raise taxes and pay with the tax income. Second, they can issue bonds, which are basically loans to the government, sold to primarily banks. Governments promise to repay them and pay interest on them. Third, they can have the central bank issue more money to pay for government expenditure (unless they have an independent central bank as most Western countries do today). This what is referred to as ''print money'', but does, in modern economies, not typically involve literally priniting anything. Inflation can arise - among other possible causes - from issuing quantities of money beyond the capacity of the economy. Specifically, if the quantity of money used to pay for goods exceeds the amount of goods, either the price of those goods will increase (as is the case with inflation) or some of the demand will not be served (as is the case with price controls and rationing). However, it is a bit more complicated since the money supply is not identical to the quantity of money used to pay for goods. The economy may have a lot of money without actually trying to use it for things that are not there. Among other things, this depends crucially on whether people believe in the stability of the currency. If they suddenly do not, they will - frantically - try to get their savings into alternative forms of investments. In such cases, demand for money (people wanting to sell something else for money) erodes to zero while supply of money (people wanting to buy something else for money in order to get rid of it) skyrockets. With this, the value of money collapses as well. Once an economy reaches this point, it is very difficult to recover from this situation; in most cases only a currency reform (in order to restore confidence) helps. Hyperinflation in Germany after World War 1 Germany ran a huge deficit during World War 1, which was mainly paid for by government bonds that would be due after the war. As long as victory seemed conceivable, and with it the possibility that the France or Russia or whoever might pay war reparations to Germany, these bonds seemed like a sensible (and patriotic) investment. Germany also ran a deficit after the war, caused by the collapse of the war economy, unemployment, social turmoil, and reparations Germany had to pay to other countries. Only this time, the case for buying government bonds was a lot less convincing; so they needed to find an alternative way to pay for this. They increased the money supply, they kept doing this beyond the capacity of the economy, confidence in the currency collapsed, and you get the inflation scenario described above. Instead of instituting a currency reform, they kept increasing the money supply to pay for domestic expenditure for some time; this was the driver of hyperinflation. After allowing this to go on for some time, they resolved the issue nicely with a currency reform. Note that while this also eroded confidence in the government and the German economy and led to poverty and to social turmoil, it solved at least one problem for the government: Wartime bonds from the first world war were not an issue any more since they were officially worth practically nothing now. Also note that the government was under a lot of pressure internationally (French and Belgian troops occupied the Ruhr area when they temporarily ceased payments of war reparations) and domestically and may not have had any other choice than letting the hyperinflation take its course before they were able to resolve it. No hyperinflation in Germany after World War 2 The economy of Nazi Germany was based on a Ponzi scheme. They again issued bonds, MEFO bills that were ostensibly bonds raised for a private entity ("Metallurgical research association") that never existed. This helped the government run a huge deficit to build up armaments for the upcoming war, while all this being off the record and under the radar of the international community. The effort was scheduled as a 4-year plan with the first bonds becoming due in 1938. The aggression against Czechoslovakia in 1938 was intended as the start of the war; it surprised the hell out of Hitler and everyone else that the international community simply allowed this to happen. The failure of the international community to respond allowed the German army some more time to prepare for the war, but it also brought the German economy to the brink of collapse, since, of course, they could not pay for the bonds that became due. The central bank president resigned and the bond holders were kind of forced to exchange the MEFO bonds against government bonds. In August 1939, they nevertheless saw the need to ration basic consumer goods. Note that this was before the start of the war and the invasion of Poland. Also note that this is the other possible way to react to an oversupply of money besides allowing inflation to happen (see above). They were able to do this, since German society and economy was completely under their control by then. During the war, they further transformed the economy into what was practically a centrally planned economy similar to the ones in the Soviet Union and the east block states, even though it was privately owned and the individual firms were privately managed under government supervision. This economic system, labeled command capitalism allowed the Nazis to transform the economy completely into a war economy. Slave labor (war prisoners, concentration camp inmates, civilians from occupied countries) and what was pillaged from occupied countries (machinery, money reserves, raw materials at extremely low prices etc etc etc) was brought in as the economic needs of the war effort gradually increased. This intensified especially after the failure of the Blitzkrieg against the Soviet Union and after the US entered the war. After the end of the war, the currency predictably collapsed. Since rationing remained in effect, the collapse did not lead to hyperinflation in the same way it did in 1923. However, the black market in Germany immediately after the war used (American) cigarettes as money, not the official currency. The following currency reform in West Germany had socialist characteristics (with small amounts per capita being exchanged 1:1, funds beyond a certain threshold being frozen and later cut by 70%) and was supported by massive financial support from the US. In East Germany, the economy was simply transformed into a socialist central planning economy which had price controls by design. 

Later king names With regard to the kings in the time after the end of Josephus' list, they are probably a bit better substantiated and (as listed in the annotations of the list mentioned above based on a variety of sources. A note on ancient names It is generally hard to identify the exact identity behind let alone the pronunciation of proper names in ancient documents. Take Abi-Milku as an example. We know his name from the El-Amarna letters that were compiled in Akkadian Cuneiform even though this was neither the the native language of the Phoenician author nor that of the Egyptian recipient. Wikipedia lists the full text of letter EA153 in which the name is given (in line 3) as IIa-Bi-LUGAL, LUGAL being the Akkadian Sumerian word for king, indicating the cuneiform character for king, hence presumably read as Melek or Milku (actually MLK) in Phoenician. Or perhaps not, who knows - especially considering that these letters (and a few others) are just about the only written sources we have about Phoenicians of that time. Note: Pritchard here refers to James B. Pritchard (ed.), Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament with Supplement, Princeton Univ. Press, 1969 

Why the idea of Khufu being a tyrant is common Herodotus said so, in his "Histories", Book II. The fulltext is here. The section concerning Khufu is the last quarter of the book or so, starting with the paragraph "Till the death of Rhampsinitus ...". According to wikipedia, Diodoros Siculus made similar claims about Khufu, but Diodoros, living 400 years after Herodotus would have been aware of Herodotus' claims. Now, when it comes to ancient Greek historians, writing about things they could not possibly have known, I would urge extreme caution. Both of them, Herodotus and Diodoros, lived more than 2000 years after Khufu died, literacy was less common at the time than in the last 2000 years and they would have known much less about Khufu's time than we know about events 2000 years ago (e.g. about Diodoros). Being ancient Greek historians, however, they adopt a paternalizing tone and attempt to lecture us about anything and everything. What was Khufu really like; what did his subjects think of him? Impossible to know. He was a well-established king who oversaw many great building projects including one that would remain the tallest man-made building for almost 4000 years. Presumably, his subjects thought that he was the king (actually, the Pharaoh, hence a living god) and that it was appropriate for them to follow his orders. There is no evidence that he was particularly cruel (for an absolute ruler), especially not in the ways that Herodotus etc. detail. According to wikipedia, Khufu had a more extensive mortuary cult than his immediate predecessors and successors, suggesting some level of popularity. It even seems to have been revived later, in the New Kingdom. What is wrong with Herodotus' account? Several things: 

Pliny on papyrus and parchment People in Roman times did not regularly record prices for commodities. They were more concerned with the deeds of gods and men than with such mundane issues as the economy. Luckily for us, they did occasionally write sales receipts and letters about mundane issues so that we can infer a bit. Also, Pliny the Elder (23-79 CE) had the idea to write an opus about how the world works - in 37 volumes no less - his Naturalis Historia. And he lets us in on a few of his insights on papyrus, mostly in book XIII. Pliny specifically details how papyrus is made etc. and, more interestingly for us, 

TL;DR: There is no good answer to this question, because (1) we are missing reliable sources, (2) because there was no market price for any certain commodity, not for one and the same time and certainly not across four centuries. Evidence points to a price between 2 drachmae and 5 drachmae per roll (seems to be 10000 cm²) of papyrus, whatever that may mean. In any case parchment takes longer to produce and was most likely almost always more expensive. Ancient economies were different from those today: 

Interpretations of the Maya calendar that the world might end on date 13.0.0.0.0, Dec 21 2012, were often roundly dismissed as having no historical basis and being inconsistent with Maya beliefs. See the wikipedia article for a summary. The wikipedia article cites the lack of direct evidence for doomsday prophecies for that date and the occasional mentioning of later dates including 9.8.9.13.0 + 10.11.10.5.8 = 19.19.19.18.8 (Oct 21 4772) and a date more than 10^31 years into the future. However, there may have been different opinions about when the world would end and two dates hardly prove that notions that the world would end on 13.0.0.0.0 would have been seen as ridiculous. The date of the creation of the current world is written not as 0.0.0.0.0 but as 13.0.0.0.0 (as explained here), which sure as hell indicates that the previous world was destroyed and replaced by the current one on a date 13.0.0.0.0 (in 3114 BCE). Note that according to Maya mythology, the world underwent several cycles of creation and destruction of worlds before the current one. Further, their entire thinking placed great importance on regular cycles. Is there any reason to believe that they felt the current world would not be destroyed? Is there any strong evidence suggesting that it would last longer than the one before (longer that 13.0.0.0.0)? What are the main arguments for why the end of the world date 13.0.0.0.0, Dec 21 2012, would have been inconsistent with Maya mythology? Edit/Clarification: I am asking about the classical Maya; those that actually used the long count; the ones that flourished until ca. 900 CE. I am not talking about modern esoteric receptions, adaptations, conspiracy theories, or opinions. I am not even talking about modern descendants of the classical Maya (i.e., contemporary Maya). I am not suggesting that the world did or could have ended in 2012. I am asking if, from the point of view of the historic classical Maya, it would have been conceivable that the world would end (and the next world would begin) on 13.0.0.0.0 (i.e., in December 2012). And I am asking what historic evidence we have for this.