must remain in balance. Note that your sex hormones do much more than erect your penis, and your growth or "repair" hormones do much more than allow young people to grow. In short, if your insulin level is too high, in fact your sex hormone level must be too low. If insulin goes up, your sex hormones (and/or growth hormones) must go down. I direct you to Leben Ohne Brot or in English Life Without Bread by Dr Wolfgang Lutz. As soon as the book arrives from Amazon, turn to page 22 and study the chapter on hormone balance, and then the following chapter on insulin resistance curves (interestingly enough some of the charts therein are time series ECG charts, which you will appreciate given your profession!) 

If your aim is purely to burn calories, an exercise bike is fine.1 Thought: consider a rowing machine, which is much tougher and burns even more calories. Regarding the accuracy of calorie calculations: quite simply ALL calorie calculations have a very high margin of error. For instance, if you ride a bike, or indeed go jogging, for X hours, the guess of how many calories burned is very much a guesstimate. Really I'd say the calorie guess on a exercise bike (or a gps watch, or using a formula) is "reasonable". Regarding the relatively unimportant question of which of an exercise bike versus real biking "burns more calories". At some level of comparison, real biking is more irregular, and hence, burns more calories. (Same with jogging versus treadmill.) However, exercise bike is a far more consistent exercise experience. If you go out on a real bike (unless you're a real pro, as SeanDuggan suggests) you're messing around a lot: if you sit down on an exercise bike and actually do it for 30 mins, that's 30 real mins of exercise. (Again, consider instead a rowing machine - perhaps alternate each day?) As long as you stick at it, exercise bike is one of the great basics of aerobic exercise - calorie burning - so sure, go for it. Your question is quite abrupt so I've attempted to guess at what you're really asking. Cheers 

I experienced quite bad stitch when I first started running, and after some casual research discovered my problem was coming from: 

It has various studies to back it up but from experience is a bit of a pain to clean - you have to buy baby milk bottle sterializer to clean them with. 

4 exercises I was given by an osteopath when I had fairly chronic muscular lower back pain were all leg related: 

Avoiding alcohol is the other obvious way to lose the belly fat. If you drink 2-3 pints of beer three times a week, being alcohol free for a week will lose you 0.25kg. 

The advice they give you at runner shops: 6 months (I wonder why?!). Obviously it depends on how many miles you run per week, but you will notice the difference if you change them at least once a year if you do a lot of treadmill running, which is like rubbing them down on sandpaper. 

The secret to feeling full is combining protein with carbohydrates, which also gives you the added benefit of aiding the transport of the increased Tryptophan from the protein. There's a tonne of studies to support this, to quote one: 

I've never managed to get below 46 minutes for a 10k because there is actually quite a big fitness and training gap with just those two minutes. As Rhea points out it's down to miles per week and then raising the tempo from 4:36 km/minute to 4:30 (I think) or using another strategy such as increasing the tempo post 5k. Increasing the weekly mileage will make shaving a few seconds per minute off easier, however the speed training is important for the races as you're rarely able to keep one consistent pace with a lot of runners. I've linked it a few times on the site but the Runner's World Smart Coach can really help, and also doing the speed training on a treadmill. I realise that as someone who hasn't done a sub 45 minute race my advice is really just anecdotal, however I believe enough miles per week turns it into a breeze. 

Max, you hit on the nature of the debate between the "low-fat" theory (proposed by some departments of the USA government for 20 years or so) and the "low-carbohydrate" theory which was normal science for 200 years and is now promoted by basically all popular books on eating and diet (Carpender, Lutz, Heller, Mackarness, Taubes, Atkins, Eades, etc etc etc). For example, with myself, I eat only a very modest amount of carbohydrates each day. I simply don't eat "new" foods like potatoes, white bread, sugar. I eat an enormous amount of meat, cream, fats, eggs, and green vegetables. (I mean ENORMOUS - for example I eat at least six eggs a day, just for starters.) My caloric intake would be some huge number if I bothered to measure it. But again, ALMOST NONE of the calories come from carbohydrates (sugars). The calories come only from fat and protein. In my case, the weight is just falling off me (easily one KG per week). So you ask "Will simply managing calories be an accurate method of weight control?" In fact no, calories have no connection to weight control. You have to slash or indeed eliminate carbohydrate intake to see the weight come off you. But then again, many people disagree with "pro-fat" (ie, low-carb) thinking, they believe in the USA Government concept of "anti-fat" thinking. So before the question can be answered, you have to decide which camp you are in. the two camps have absolutely opposite beliefs so it's a difficult question to answer. Consider reading the book "Why we get fat" by Gary Taubes. (To get "one side" of the situation.) Hope it helps in some way! 

Regarding aerobic exercise (jogging). (i) If you do an enormous amount of jogging (say, two hours a day) that will use a very small amount of calories - i.e., you will be able to additionally eat a small amount of food equal to "that many" calories. However (ii) exercise makes you hungry (far, far in excess of the "amount of calories extra you can eat"...) so exercise is pointless if your aim, as such, is to eliminate body fat. 

Another exercise involves using the elbow to massage the back, with a fair amount of pressure - obviously you'll need a partner/friend/willing house mate to do it though, and it hurts. 

What weight training exercises can I do with dumbbells that will benefit me most for running 5-10ks? Are stomach crunches/sit ups worth doing too? 

40 km per week sounds like enough training miles to do a 1/2 marathon comfortably, but 30km doesn't. Could this just be a case of not doing enough miles of training before the main event? Or alternatively you're running too many miles the week before? The general advice is to reduce the mileage to the short-run amount during the final week, and skip your final training session, replacing it as rest. $URL$ is showing a week between each training session. Is this correct? If so that is not the recommended* way of training for long distances. It should be atleast 3 sessions per week (short, medium, long), or 4 if you're going for PBs. The long run should eventually be around 11-12 miles in the final week before the race. * Recommended being Runnersworld.com and this book 

The evidence for post-workout protein shakes increasing your performance for running isn't conclusive, so this is somewhat anecdotal advice. I've been running for about 4 years regularly and in the past 6 months tried protein shakes after the long and mid runs. I've increased my speed from 8.1mph to 9mph in that time, and up to 9.5-10mph for 5k runs. I've also lost weight in that period from the eating less via the protein shakes, A 500ml serving keeps you sated for an hour or so later until a main meal, and is about 120 calories. The protein powder I used is by Bio-synergy, which is whey powder (basically dried milk). The cheaper stuff you get at a discount seems to be missing not only taste, but some amino acids and bulked out with soya. The one chose is also targeted at lean muscle growth rather than body building/bulking up, which helps. It's an easy and fairly cheap experiment to try, just be sure to stick with a good brand that is carb free, and avoid the soya shakes. 

It could be an anti-catabolic cassein protein that is combined with other stimulating ingredients like creatine, caffein, etc. But I would not advice you to eat right before a workout. It's not natural and your digestive system takes away a lot of your energy. As long as you don't post the full ingredient list I can not give you a full and correct explenation for your question. 

Your cardio vascular system does NOT benefit. Aspecially your heart gets the subject of icreased pressure which can dammage the cells on the heart wall. More info about this in this lecture by cardiologist James O'Keefe Repetitive movement always is detrimentel for your body. Habit becomes anatomy. Try to avoid repetitive motion as much as you can by taking obstacles during a run or try to put a little play into a running session by balancing on some obstacles or crawling under one. 

However it's a good thing that your kid wants to go for a run so embrace it. Just do it in reasonable amounts... 

In my experience I would say none. A tennis elbow is an inflammotory injury of your tendon that needs to rest. Keep it could and make shure you rest enough. You could also take a five day cure of an inflammation blocker while you are resting. If you will not rest with this injury, it will only become worse... 

Like Tsvetan says, you can't cure tireness. BUT you can cure the stress you get from work type stuff... My advice to you is to put some PLAY in your training. Make it fun. Don't just do boring routine repetitive movements, but try to add some game characterestics to it. Winning should not be your main goal here. PLAY itself is. It brings your MIND & BODY in the here and now. This relieves your body from the stress you bring home from work. After a training of play you will feel a lot different and more relaxed. I do this kind of training when my clients are to stressed out for a normal personal training session and it works very good. If you want more info on how to put more play in your usual training methods take a look at these names on the web: -Frank Forencich -Mark Sisson -Erwan Le Corre -Ian O'Dwyer -PTaGlobal Play Another option is running a 3km run barefoot. This also takes your mind completely of work for some time because you have to be 100% alert for sharp rocks and stuff. It also improves your running technique so that's two for the price of one if you ask me :) 

In my (limited) experience I would recommend using the Smart Coach to set yourself speed goals. The tool speeds you up gently over a 12-16 week period (or less amount of time if you're feeling like a challenge). It gives you an indurance run, a gentle run and speed training each week. I only use it for 10k running so I can't speak for half or full marathon running, but it really improved my pace a lot - down to about 46 mins from 50+ mins. 

Use a running track. Sprint 100m as fast as you can, then jog the rest. Repeat 5 times. Treadmill version: 20 second sprint, 60 seconds jog. "Enjoy a metabolism increase of 40%" 

The advice I was given by a professional physiotherapist was to concentrate on stride length, and landing on the back of the foot/heel (I pronate though, so this was probably foot shape specific). It may have been very generic advice and not something an Olympic champion would care about, but it helped my pace/lap time quite a lot. Squats and glute exercises are worth considering too, especially if you are increasing your mileage fairly quickly, both help if you suffer from shin-splints. 

The Alexander Technique may be something to look into, it's used (at least by the NHS in the UK) for rehabilitation of spinal injury victims. However, it does concentrate on posture rather than muscle building exercises. 

What type of exercise? If it's short burst exercise such as the anaerobic exercise of body building, then simple carbohydrates are better: baked potato with cheese. For long aerobic exercise such as marathon running, slow burning complex carbohydrates work best - pitta breads, pasta. This book goes into a lot more detail: