I know the key behind weight lifting and strength training is giving your body time to rest, recover, and build muscle. So you can't go back to gym or even biking the day after. What about the day before? Can I do heavy aerobic exercise on Monday and lift weights on Tuesday? 

What should I look for in a coach? How do I find a good one? My goal is an occasional check up to help me with my form - price prevents regular sessions. I'm considering finding one of the Starting Strength coaches - the ones certified by the authors of Starting Strength. What's been your experience with them? 

I'm following Starting Strength, but don't want to give up my aerobic program. I'm especially confused about the nature of recovery: I know you need to recover, yet, at the same time, SS says "don't worry about training while sore". If my muscles are tired from the weights when I swim or walk, is that good, bad, or neither? 

When lifting weights (squat, bench press, deadlift, whatever) is it better to do the motions as slowly as possible or fast and explosive? I've heard both opinions. Please support your answer. Note: Or, the answer may be: do X fast and Y slow 

I'm doing barbell squats as described in Starting Strength. When I get to a certain depth, I feel my thigh bone (femur?) pinching up against the inside of my pelvis, and feel like I can't go any deeper. Is my form wrong? Do I stop there? Or do I somehow go deeper? Note that I didn't feel these before, and was going very deep. But observers told me (correctly I believe) that my knees would go forward too much, or that my hips were going up and down, not back and out. Fixing that (now my squat looks like right) has caused this pinch. 

try simple approach. Cut physical activity by 2/3(volume) , but keep the weight on the bar. Cut calories to 800 Cal a day(200g protein from lean meats). Add I pill of multivitamin and 10 grams of fish Oil. any number of green leafs. For 2 weeks . It is usefull if you are low-carber paleo eater, in this case it would be easy. you may loose up to 10 of weight this way, and about a half would be fat. This diet is not easy , but very effective . For 2 weeks. the actual diet is $URL$ 

I second on Tabata protocol , note however , that the (very good) endurance increase is subject to 2 issues: 1) you should be pretty fit to doing tabata 2) the gains will stall after 3 weeks (or something like that), so you could expect 6 to 12 good training sessions , that will do you good. after that you will gain nothing. 

Note that is is virtually impossible for a human body to generate glucose from fat. And vice-verse. If you overeat pure sugar, there is no chance the sugar would be converted to fat. However it is extremely hard to loose fat in this condition. 

Progress is easy, given you train regularly and have sufficient nutrition and rest. For a beginner. When you become advanced and your achievements much better then those of untrained people , you need to plan cycles , as progress is possible only in specific part of the body or one skill at a time. When you become elite, ie world class sportsmen say olimpics, world championships, national level .... At this stage your life is organized around one specific event (or say season). Hardly you are an elite as in this case you would have a coach/trainer. So i assume you are a novice. In this case you could try to change one of 3 variables: You train too hard too often. You do not get enough food to recover. You do not have enough sleep/rest to recover. And there is a possibility that your training is not intencive enough to shift the homeostasis. 8 minutes look too short to me , however if you do Tabata protocol , for example it is even too much , especially every day. Try to think of it and change one thing at a time , observe the results over 2 weeks period and then decide . 

I'm getting into strength training, following the Starting Strength program, and they advise strongly to buy some weightlifting shoes. (Currently, I'm using some tough hiking sneakers, and don't feel any problems.) What's a good shoe for a beginner? My needs: 

I'm following the Starting Strength program, and I find that I'm fine the next day, as long as I warm up each lift as he recommends. But, I find that immediately after lifting, even though I'm not in pain, simple daily lifts, like picking up a child or reaching in to buckle a car seat, can be very painful. And, if I do it anyway, I really do get hurt. (It's mainly lifts that involve turning.) This vulnerability goes away after a number of hours. Does anyone else experience this? What causes it? How should I prevent it? 

Reading the Starting Strength book, he throws around a lot of anatomical terms. Yet, surprisingly, there's no diagram or chart or glossary explaining what all these are. What's the best way to learn the basic of anatomy, the names of bones and muscles and what they do and how they work together? Not as a study in its own right - just enough so I can lift properly, and understand what I'm reading. UPDATE: I need to make clear: I'm looking for an explanation of why and how, not just a vocabulary list. Although I'd like something brief, I need to understand why. 

When squatting, my back is too horizontal (forward). The bar goes forward of my toes. What should I do to correct this? Is it due to not keeping my lumbar tight enough? Also: I haven't checked this, but it feels that when the bar is heavier this is less of a problem - as if the bar is pushing itself down where it needs to be. How should I handle this? 

Well , muscle memory cannot be maximized. The effect is in a number of cell nuclei. During initial training the number becomes higher and then remains the same "forever". The new nuclei are taken form stem cells. $URL$ So, by now you have all the memory you need. Just use the most efficient muscle building program and eat and sleep well and you could gain your muscles back very soon. Depending on your genetics and AAS usage status it may take a year , or a month , see $URL$ 

IMHO Quit drinking too much coffee. It helps. Also low carb diets reduce sleep hours and fasting as well. But generally , there is no reason to sleep less in order to sleep more. Heavy workout effect is much longer then 1 day. 

The real answer is oxygen debt during the set. It is the same effect as with sprinting all-out. $URL$ 

The main idea is to have two phases. Short period of carbs restrictions to lower insulin production and thus heightened lipolysys. At that time high protein content of the nutrition along with weight training must pre-serve muscles from wasting even despite lower caloric income. Then in the second phase carb refeed comes in raising metabolic rate, hormones production and improving metabolism. This is the idea. detailed discussion may be found in UUD2 book by Lyle McDonald. Personally i found this approach to be too difficult for the results. However the diet (UUD2, which is a detailed plan based on carb cycling combined with very special training) is quite effective to minimize fat gains during bulking or maintain muscles during fat loss. 

Usually people overcomplicate things. While it is possible you are an exception, but chanses are you just doing your training and nutrition wrong. I would suggest getting training/nutrition coaching from some of good online coaches. This is the most cost/time effective way to improve, Really. Let me point you to $URL$ or $URL$ In no way i am associated with the coaches. BTW maximum gains over 2 year period would be about 36 pounds. So i'd say you did pretty well. 

Some books recommend a gentle bounce when bench pressing or squatting. This feels wrong to me. It feels safer and more controlled to come to a complete stop, then start up again. What should I do? 

After much urging, I bought some Wei-Rui weight lifting shoes. But I found my deadlift in them became much worse, not better. A friend told me that the high heel in them ruins the deadlift. He told me I was better off deadlifting (and squatting, for that matter) bare foot than in shoes with a heel. (He said the heel is good for olympic lifts where you snatch. I'm just doing general Starting Strength squat, deadlift, press, and bench). Is he right? Should I get rid of the Wei-Rui and just lift barefoot? Or get a different pair? How should I find shoes that work for my (beginner's) program? 

I did my first "real" deadlift today, and, it's a very different feeling. Unlike a squat or a bench, where I clearly feel myself pushing against something, when I deadlifted (135 lbs, about what I'm squatting), I just kind of stood up. When I was done, I was sweating and exhausted, but I didn't feel the push-higher-higher I do when doing other lifts. Am I doing it right? What is a deadlift supposed to feel like? 

What's the right to squat: Focus on driving up and down, or on sticking one's backside out? From what guys at the gym say, and many pictures online, you need to be sticking yourself out. Yet from Starting Strength's instructions: focusing on tightening lower back, chest up, hip drive - it seems to be more of an up down motion, without as much protrusion. Which is correct? Does the backside need to protrude? 

I find it hard to load and unload plates when the bar is on the ground for deadlift. When the bar is on the rack, it's easy to put the 45 lbs on and off. But, when the bar is on the ground, it's very hard to hold the bar up with one hand, hold the 45 lbs plate in the other, and bend down and around and put the plate on. Bending to the bottom seems to ruin all my leverage and ability to use my back muscles to hold the plates. (The bars in my gym are nicked enough that the plates don't just slide - you have to work them on.) When I'm done, getting them off is even harder, esp. as I'm already exhausted. Today I dropped the bar on my foot trying to do this! What's the best way to get the plates on and off a bar on the ground for deadlifting?