You should definitely not implement two versions of the function. You are writing code for your company, so writing code which won't be used is a waste of not only your time, but also the company's money. 

This should do. Don't overthink this. You seem to be worried that the boss may get "offended" for pointing out his mistake, but that worry is unnecessary. This isn't a big deal, your boss will most likely send you the attachment with a comment, "Oops, sorry I forgot to attach it", and move on as if nothing happened. Alternatively, you could ask the boss over phone/IM or just walk up to his office, but there really is no problem with sending the email. 

This is one of the few scenarios where you should not do what the boss asks. However, you should respond with a "positive No" by not only providing a good reason, but also offering alternatives. Ask him why he cannot take the test, and suggest ways to help him solve that problem. If he finds the material too hard to follow (due to not having the relevant background, for example), offer to teach him or provide self-study material. If he doesn't find the time to study, offer to take up some of his less critical responsibilities for a few days. If you are not senior enough to do that yourself, suggest that he could consider assigning those to a senior team member. 

Polite and direct is the best. Don't try to beat round the bush or try to put a "diplomatic" spin on your follow-up request. That only wastes everyone's time and confuses people. 

The appropriate response is to look for instructions to fill the form, and when not available, to ask the people who gave you the form. This also applies to every other scenario where how to fill a form is not clear. 

As nvoigt points out, your "extra salary" reflecting in your salary slip could be important for things such as your home loan eligibility, insurance premiums, or credit card eligibility and limits. However, I personally don't feel strongly enough about this issue to quit your job, especially not right away when you seem to be doing well. 

Personal anecdote that led to this idea: While there are no coworkers in my team that "help" others in this manner, it does often happen that someone has already analyzed part of a task while working on a closely related previous task. The first few standups at the start of iteration usually make that clear, and a fair amount of reassignment of tasks happens as a result. 

The client agreed to pay you $200 for getting the job done, regardless of whether you use any "clever" tricks. Just charge the agreed amount and be done with it. 

If it isn't broken, don't fix it. Your colleagues have been working with the customer longer than you have, and if the customers are okay with the imperfect English, then you shouldn't meddle with it too much. You have shared your knowledge with them, let them decide if they want to consider your feedback or not. Be aware that every person has their own priorities, and improving English might not be your colleague's highest priority. You also need to assess the benefits of the so-called improvement against the efforts required to achieve it. Would the improved English significantly benefit the customer, your company or your colleagues? The answer is probably no. Focus your time and energy on something else which benefits them. 

You don't need to explain the true reasons for rejecting their request. In fact, you should actively avoid it if you only have negative things to say about them. Give them a polite and intentionally vague response like the above and be done with. 

If I want a friend to give me a reference, then it is my responsibility to ensure that the friend has all the relevant information required to give me a good reference. It can never be the friend's responsibility to figure out what I do and how good I am at it. However, I would suggest you ask your friend to provide you the required data in case someone contacts you for reference in future. That said, however, the future employer should probably not be asking you about your friend's technical skills in the first place, if they know that you haven't worked with him. They are much better off asking your friend's colleagues or manager. Most companies ask the candidate for names of people who could be contacted for reference. Even if they don't, your friend could perhaps tell them that they should contact their current colleagues, and not a friend, to obtain a reference for their technical skills. 

There is also nothing you need to explain here. You could simply tell them that you are willing to spend no more than a certain number of hours on their test. Be aware though, that they too could simply tell you they don't want to consider you further in the interview process. While you probably have genuine reasons for your irritation with the pre-screening tests, you should also realize that the companies have their own reasons for those tests. You may not agree with those reasons, but if you want to work for such a company, you don't have much choice other than to follow their interview process. Of course, you could just restrict your job search to companies without tests that annoy you. 

Be genuinely interested in knowing the problem and what the person is trying. Convey your help as suggestions or questions. 

From a legal standpoint, putting a suitable disclaimer stating that the views do not represent the company may be sufficient to keep the company away from consequences. However, that depends on local laws and often also on what exactly was said, and can best be answered by a local lawyer. The general public, though, may not care about such disclaimers. People rarely compartmentalize things like those based on logical rules. In fact, it is nowadays more common for controversial statements to be dragged out of context to suit one's personal agenda or to score political points. If the CEO of Acme Corporation says, "I absolutely hate X group. All X group people should just die in hell. Of course, this is my personal opinion, Acme Corporation is always delighted to serve X group people.", I cannot imagine group X people thinking, "Oh right, that's just his personal opinion, so no problem, let's buy a lot more stuff from Acme to delight him." 

The right answer here is perhaps "just ask them", and their answer to that would most certainly be "no, you cannot do that" but I want to add some insights on why you would get that answer. This sounds like a textbook example of conflict of interest. How would you ensure that your exposure to the social media business gained at work will not intentionally or subconsciously spill over into your personal project? More importantly, how would you defend it in court, if you are asked to? The side with a deeper pocket usually has better chances of winning a lawsuit. Facebook and Google certainly have much deeper pockets than you. However, if your project becomes far more popular than theirs and generates your truckloads of revenue (and not "some" revenue, as you say), you may not have to worry about that. I am just using the following example to explain the point: your project gives users the option to broadcast a live video to their group, with the user comments being prefixed with a timestamp. You came up with this idea either independently or in following up on a similar idea discussed at work, but try defending it as your own idea in court against Facebook attorneys. 

You started your job search because you were unhappy with the salary. This is probably going to be the cause of your unhappiness at the current job in the near future. You need to making your resume look good is worth the trouble of bearing that unhappiness. 

I posted this as a response to OP's comment on JohnHC's answer, but it became too long, so converting it to an answer. If you keep worrying about all possible interpretations of every word you say, you will never get anything done. People can always misinterpret anything that anyone says, even things that are black and white (see what I did there?). If someone objects to what you say, hear out their objection. If they have a valid point, apologize and move on. 

Multiple thank you mails sent with the exact same content may be annoying to the recipient, who might think that you are sending the thank you mail just because you should, but you do not really mean it. However, other than the above, I have never heard or seen anyone complain about receiving too many thank you mails, if you put some thought into "personalizing" it. Write one or two lines about something that happened specifically during the third interview, such as some information you learned about the company/team or a unique interview question. Don't write an essay about it though. Moreover, if you are sure this was the final interview, you could also thank them for the overall interview process. 

While every manager strives to lead their team by persuasion/negotiation, sometimes a manager has to use their authority. You being John's second-level manager might be required to use that authority in this case. Call John for a "quick word" in a meeting room, and ask him specific questions: 

If you submitted your resignation before the bonus payment date, you are not eligible for the bonus. The only case when resignation date is the last working day is when you resign with effect from the next day, and your manager/supervisor lets you go without serving the notice period. 

You most certainly cannot list the client as your employer, because they are not. Instead I would suggest you explain your situation to the school loan program's contact person, and ask them for the document(s) you could submit to fulfill their requirement. The documents required would depend entirely on the rules of the school loan program, and in particular, on whether they are interested in your "employment" with the state-run agency or in the work you did there. They could ask you for a letter from your temp agency stating that you were deputed to work for the said client, with the deputation dates mentioned, or they could ask for a so-called letter of recommendation from your client manager. In some cases, a simple phone call with either your agency manager or your client manager could do. Be aware though that the agency and/or the client may not be able to cooperate with you if there is a confidentiality clause to that effect in their contract. 

Don't make it an issue of "your" criticism of "my" code, or "your" non-use of "my" script. Don't bring up how "others" don't have a problem with "my" code or "my" script. That only creates problems and doesn't help improve anything. Your goal should be to understand and address his concerns. This would lead to one of the following scenarios: 

1 One of my employers asked to submit a copy of the relieving letter within 60 working days from the date of joining. My previous employer sent me the relieving letter by registered post 15 days later. I immediately asked the new employer's HR how they want me to send them the copy, but they just shrugged it off and asked me not to bother with it. 

I personally know a few people working in HR departments of reputed Indian companies (including the Indian subsidiaries of US-based MNCs), and I know from word of mouth that they follow the practice I have mentioned above. Over the course of my rather short 7 year long career, I have been asked for salary slips and earliest joining date by 6 different companies, and I have ended up receiving an offer every single time. (That I did not accept any more than 2 of them is another matter.) Also, in cases where I have not been asked for salary slips, I have not once received an offer. 

As for the table though, I don't know if it could be "recycled" in the same way as cardboard boxes, and if the desk belongs to your company, neither you nor your colleague should dispose it on your own. On that one, it is okay to ask your Boss what to do. 

Discuss your approach with the boss. Do not make it sound like your approach is better and you are disregarding his approach. 

You need not play the "nice guy" all the time. Sometimes you need to push back firmly but politely. For trivial issues like these, I wouldn't go running to the manager and HR. I don't want my manager to perceive me as the guy who brings trivial issues to his notice, instead of the more pressing problems at hand. If X approached me with a request to be the "messenger" between him and Y, I would tell him this, with a neutral (if not deadpan) tone, and leave it at that. (Switch X and Y, if Y approached with the request.) 

Personal anecdotes: 1 I have lost count of the number of times I had a conversation with someone from another department which ended up with one person saying either, "Hey, about that Foo issue you told me about the other day, in my department, we deal with it using the Bar approach, would you like to see if it helps you as well?" or "Hey, it looks like if we can get our Baz tool and your Qux framework to work together, it would save us both a lot of grief. Do you think we should give it a shot?" 2 We once had a guy who spent a whole week figuring out the solution to a problem that he knew a colleague in the next cubicle had already solved just two weeks ago. He did not ask for help because he found that colleague "too bossy", and the manager was also on vacation that whole week, meaning status meetings were mostly not taken seriously. 3 I swear I am exaggerating this only a little bit ... in that there was no tree! 

I am not an instructor that receives calls from students, but that is irrelevant. I too have a certain situations that require me to separate certain calls from the others, so I just use a dual SIM phone, with the second number being used exclusively for such "secondary" purposes. Another alternative would be to use a "cheap" second phone for the second number. For additional flexibility, I choose a prepaid subscription for the second number, which means I can use it on a "as needed" basis, without having to spend monthly subscription charges on it.