Path 4: Inheritance becomes an obsolete concept as mankind becomes semi-immortal. Inheritance in the real world is governed largely by culture, and stems from the fact that people die, and then there's stuff left behind that used to be there's. The solutions to the problem of what to do with that stuff are as varied as the breadth of human cultural experience, with a particularly common option being that the firstborn son gets everything (with lots of fiddly bits if there isn't one of the appropriate age). However, modern egalitarianism combined with western tradition has lead to a state of affairs in much of the world where default inheritance can and is frequently overridden by an explicit Last Will and Testament. While subject to different laws and stipulations, a Will is nonetheless effectively a sort of gift on the part of the dying to some number of successors. Because death is so frequent, these kinds of gifts are also very frequent and have grown a lot of culture around them. Without death to keep inheritance at the forefront of the minds of the populace, and with tricky bits to sort out if the institution is kept around, and with growing widespread distaste for the kinds of inequality fostered by large inheritances, it seems likely that the institution would not stay around long. One solution that seems likely is that governments would just lay blanket legal claim to the possessions of any person who is rendered dead. Another solution, less likely because of humanity's multimillennial obsession with death, would be that people just don't deal with the stuff belonging to dead people and it gets sorted out the same way as stuff that's abandoned, since death becomes so rare. 

I am trying to write a sci-fi setting in a not so distant future in which analog signal (brainwaves, in this case) processing is one of the main points of the plot and pretty much required to explain some of the mechanics going on in the universe. Thing is, analog to digital conversion is expensive, and it may compress data into a easier to handle finite set of values that would, in exchange, make it drop some information in the process. This is something I don't want, since some of the mechanics required to develop the plot require subtle differences in a person's brainwaves (in this case, used as some sort of biometric key). This last part can be avoidable by just throwing more resources at a regular digital computer, but that's lazy and something I don't want, as an analog computer could allow for more interesting details and implications. Just how viable would it be for the world to go back to analog? In the past we had analog computers, but we changed to digital because apparently they weren't designed with programmability in mind (as in, they were like ASICs) and soon digital became better than analog so there was no reason to try to improve a deprecated technology. Likewise, most of our telecommunication devices operate on waves and analog signals, but they are translated to digital at some point of the process (ie. the modem) and lose all the properties an analog signal has. DARPA tried to build an analog "cellular neuronal network" CPU (project UPSIDE) for computer vision back in 2012, but there is not much information about it. Apparently, it allows for much faster speeds at a lower energy cost, at the expense of some errors from time to time and what has been described as requiring a much different way of tackling problems. Problem is, it says nothing about how programmable it is (which it apparently is, but it doesn't mention if it's Turing complete by itself or not). In addition, it seems to be a hybrid analog-digital computer, which is the concept I initially thought about including in my story. In the future, could we see the following things? How superior would they be to their digital counterparts? Would they have any limitations? 

And, in non-Catholic language, this is talking about how the priests and other priest-y people exist to operate in a role of service to God and their community, how they are each individually in charge of carrying out God's will and doing priesty stuff and can do that stuff all the time without needing permission or anything, but also how they are a group and need to talk to each other and such, and should take the counsel of the body of which they are a part very seriously, especially the Pope, who's, like, special. So that's how the Church says things are supposed to go, on its end. On the laity's end, we have: 

Edit: to be more specific, the context and usecase of this technology is that user input is now handled through some sort of a matrix of electrodes implanted into the brain, capable of reading the user's brain activity/thoughts. The software handling the output of this matrix already tries to transform brain activity to some sort of "universal brain language" that covers up the differences between human brains, but still requires an analog/real numbers/wave signal for fine precision (not as in error-free, but as in descriptive) and high throughput. Analog signals were chosen because the brain can easily recover from small errors and discrepancies and because it is more similar to the way the human brain works, but due to limitations of the feedback system, "lag" and slow transmissions is something that you would generally not want to get in your wetware, which is why digital signals were discarded: the electrodes array requires a continuous stream of data, so buffering and processing something to compress it and send it over the network would make the brain "halt" waiting for the next signal, essentially damaging your psyche on the long run (think of becoming deprived of your senses or getting mind-frozen in place every two seconds, which is what the digital transmission could do, compared to seeing some static in your viewport every few seconds, which is what you could get when on analog). This is also the reason computers perform operations on their continuous output analog stream concurrently, to reduce the time the user waits for a reply. It is also the reason all algorithms that directly read from the user wave are also concurrent: it is better to update the wave late than to halt it until the answer is processed. In addition, due to the nature of the brain, a thought or sequence of thoughts can be read and predicted as it is being formed, but can't be confirmed until it is fully formed. This detail is extremely important, as the plot device is based around this fact. Think of the exchange of information between a computer and a human as a regular conversation between two humans (it would be more like telepathy, but for simplicity's sake, let's assume they are just speaking). 

"[demons] encourage acts such as murder, torture, theft, and other things society deems reprehensible." -- the Church teaches that demons seek to drive men to evil, death, and ultimate destruction, and that their influence doesn't have that sort of 1:1 correspondence with 'societally unacceptable'. For example, the Church advocates for theft as a superior moral option in certain extreme circumstances, and thus the idea that demons would encourage persons to commit theft in such circumstances is kinda off from Church teachings. Furthermore, subverting evil social discourse and promoting good social discourse is pretty important in Catholicism. Basically, the Church says Society, even when in communion with the Church != Good and thus counter-social stuff might be irrelevant to the evil of demons, while socially ellipsed issues might, in fact, be really important and targeted by demonic influence. If the world worked more like what you were saying then the demons in corrupted lands would operate kinda strangely, since once murder is normal it no longer is something they can push for. "The soul of the individual cannot be saved, and is sent to hell to suffer excrucitating (sic) torment for all eternity" The Church teaches that God ensures that this only describes persons who die in a state of fundamentally rejecting God. While that might be along the lines of what you are suggesting, the spiritual mutation and such make it sound more like this a possession-type thing, and possession is definitely something the Church says is reversible (c.f. Jesus's exorcisms in the Bible, and the exorcism performed by Tobit as instructed by the angel Raphael, and possibly Paul in Acts 16:18). The immutability here implies that something about your possession process involves voluntary destruction of the will on the part of the possessed, which is a little weird. " Faith in christianity, specifically catholicism, is the strongest weapon used to prevent corruption." -- The Church teaches that faith in God is vastly more important. Presumably that's what you meant, because changing that would make the statement self-contradictory ("Belief in and adherence to A greater than belief in and adherence to B is the best means of salvation. A is (stuff) and greater adherence to B than A"). "This particular religion is the only one known to work, as all other nations with alternative religions have fallen to corruption." -- almost but not quite. The Church's position on 'other religions' is pretty complex, but this is close enough I don't think there would really be necessarily any impact at the level of accuracy we're functioning at. "Demons tend to prey more on those with weaker will." -- tradition, in my understanding, holds that it's those with stronger wills and faith and such that are more demonically tempted. The weak-willed don't really need any encouragement to go commit sins, and as long as people are persisting in a state of mortal sin the overall goal of evil is served. This difference is kinda a big deal, because it would mean that the Church's particular relevant ministries would need to be reorganized to serve a very different demographic. 

Constitution Very similar to Erik's 'Attunement', but a different take on it. The ability to effectively use a lot of powerful magic items is unwieldy. This has a direct physical analogy: warriors don't use a bunch of weapons. It's true that people only have two arms, and those are the best candidates for holding weapons, but historically even dual wielding isn't done. Video games and movies make it seem wonderful to dual wield swords and daggers and all manner of weapons, but in reality you don't gain much. The same could be true for magical items. Splitting your thoughts between fire, ice, necromancy, lightning, healing, etc would surely become unwieldy or inhibitive just like dual wielding swords. Insanity Kind of in-line with the previous one. Wearing too many items, and trying to control too much magic, drives people insane. Affinity Perhaps magical practitioners can only utilize one niche of magic. Or, more accurately, they can practice all types of magic, but they're just completely inept at everything except their favorite. Combined with the next item, diminishing returns, there would be a functional limit to what you would want to wear. Diminishing Returns Sure, you could have 20 rings, 7 amulets, and carry some magical daggers in concealed locations, etc, but would it offer any benefit? In video games and RPG settings a lot of times the effects are simply additive or a percentage boost. "Wear this ring, +20% fire damage". What if the reality of it meant "Wear 1 ring, and you get a 50% boost. Wear another ring, and get a 50.1% boost(in total...so the second ring is adding 0.1% to your abilities)." It would be immediately obvious to magical practitioners that you could continue adding more and more, but the increase in magical abilities would quickly interfere with things like dexterity. Even in our world, I don't understand how some people walk around with a bunch of rings on their hands. I've seen some people with 5+ rings on a single hand... I can barely wear 1 ring before I feel restricted. 

Invade with an army of time travelers from the future, and establish an apartheid regime via superior firepower and surveillance technologies across the world. Punish people not for the crimes they commit, but for the crimes you claim they would have committed had you not intervened. Blame the holocaust on political dissidents and Hitler's 'suicide' and Germany's defeat on your intervention. Use your access to the short-term future to conduct impossibly fast and thorough searches of all publicly accessible information networks to ensure that you effectively control all communication all the time. With the advent of perfect or psuedo-perfect human behavioral prediction machines, you can even avoid completely exterminating the intelligentsia (if you feel like not killing them) by ensuring that those smart people who will not be misbehaving are not killed. Manipulate the global environment as necessary to prevent revolution. By ensuring the obedience, isolation, and poverty of all 'primitive' humans, you can also ensure with complete confidence that they will not have access to nuclear weapons, nor the kinds of governmental representation that would be necessary to effect the sort of nuclear brinkmanship you are talking about. We can take this further, and minimize the number of lives lost in the transition. To do so, we record, before our intertemporal invasion, the whereabouts, habits, etc. of the 'key players' in global affairs at the time, and note the sort of unexpected security breaches that inevitably frequently occur all the time. When we time travel, we assassinate each 'key player' and replace them with a loyal agent. Using our acquired political power, we replace everyone important with our army over the next few years. Japan surrenders to the US because we run the President and the Senate, and also the Emperor and his exceedingly well armed bodyguards. Once we effectively control everything, we can either end the charade and reveal ourselves, or just let people think they live in a discordant world while we in fact run everything from the shadows. Suggested reference material: I, Robot (the movie, not the book) Metal Gear Solid: Sons of Liberty 

You start with the sci-fi trope idea of planetary defenses, but then you restrict the problem immensely. I doubt you'll get meaningful answers for "is it plausible[having planetary defenses]?" In sci-fi that has planetary defenses, the reason is due to FTL travel capabilities - usually justified through warp drives, sub space, hyper space, etc. The problem with such spaceships in such sci-fi is that it usually comes with the caveat that you can't attack someone in hyper space, sub space, etc. That is to say, you can't have solar-system level defenses(missiles, rail guns, nukes, space mines, etc) that can destroy enemies before they show up on your doorstep. They just pop out of FTL in orbit around your planet. That is why you need planetary defenses in those pieces of sci-fi(typically, this is very generalized of course). You need planetary defenses when your enemy is able to transport a formidable military presence to your planet. But you restrict your problem to sub-light speeds...not even relativistic speeds...I don't know how fast we travel to Mars but I think it's somewhere around 20,000-40,000 mph....not very fast at all. You also require meatbags to be in the payload. If Earth B is interested in wiping out intelligent life on Earth A, and Earth B is in a higher orbital than Earth A, then the simplest approach is to de-orbit tons and tons of 'stuff' into Earth A's orbital. With our current tech, NASA is already planning to move a 4 meter asteroid into lunar orbit. Earth B, given the same tech, could move a much larger asteroid and just try to ensure it impacts Earth A. Earth A might be able to nuke an asteroid or two - if they even detect them, which is not guaranteed with current tech - so you just throw a couple hundred down at them. By moving down in orbit, these asteroids are effectively converting potential energy to kinetic energy just like a ball falling off of a table. Earth A would have no hope of stopping these things...and they would cause impacts far more powerful than nuclear weapons. The problem with current tech space-wars as you've defined is that establishing a beach head on another planet is almost impossible with what we have available to us. You're going to expend a huge amount of your GDP just building the rockets, fuel, and containers to carry your meatbag soldiers, and getting them in orbit around another planet. Then you have to not die while in transit and while in orbit, then land on a teeny tiny chunk of land, and start killing billions of Earth A natives on their home field with a force that's likely in the thousands or millions at best. There's no hope for victory in that kind of scenario...literally impossible. Earth B would lose even if Earth A didn't have planetary defenses, because Earth A could carpet bomb Earth B's landing site(s). It actually makes things easy for Earth A because there's no ethical/moral dilemma to wiping out the entire enemy population - they're all soldiers...no civilians whatsoever...blow the whole thing up. Given current tech there's no way Earth B has also transported anti-air, tanks, helicopters, fighter jets, etc - those things are way too heavy - so they have no way of obtaining or maintaining air superiority. The only thing they'll have(given your spec) is infantry. It would be a massacre. 

Computer is just patiently nodding as the human talks to it, representing continuous feedback Human: Del... Computer predictions: I am 85% sure Human is going to ask me about deleting something. Human: Delete... Computer thinks: Deletion command confirmed. Human: Delete file... Computer predictions: I am 70% sure Human will ask to delete a single file. I am 30% unsure about Human asking me to delete a whole filesystem instead. Human: Delete file /home/myUser/delt... Computer thinks: File deletion confirmed. 52 files fulfilling the FILEPATH=/home/myUser/delt* criteria detected. Human: Delete file /home/myUser/delta.bwave Computer thinks: Filepath detected. Request for the deletion of file /home/myUser/delta.bwave confirmed. Initiating deletion. Computer continues nodding for a fraction of a second before replying Computer: File successfully deleted.