Thomas Larkin, wealthy merchant of Monterey, California in the 1840s, was the consul of the United States. He was also a secret agent for President Buchanan who sent to Washington 78 microbiographies of the "principal men" in California. In a systematic fashion, he described the influence and politics of these men; the text is reproduced in the Larkin Papers. I want to know why this information was interesting for the U.S. government. Did Buchanan or his proxies directly request this type of report? Did the U.S. do anything with the biographical information that Larkin sent? Sources: Thomas O. Larkin: A Life of Patriotism and Profit in Old California by Hague & Langum, and Founding the Far West: California, Oregon, and Nevada, 1840-1890 by Johnson. 

In 1821 Agustín Iturbide formed a ruling junta for newly independent Mexico that excluded his prominent fellow revolutionary officers. Near the end of 1821, Iturbide imprisoned several that may have been plotting against him. Among these was Mexico's first president, Guadalupe Victoria. Victoria was elected to Congress while imprisoned. As his lawyer prepared a defense based on his status as a congressional deputy, two other deputies helped him escape from prison. He stayed in hiding for months waiting for a pardon which never came. Iturbide ordered Santa Anna to detain him, but the order was ignored. By December 1822 Victoria and Santa Anna were working together to overthrow Iturbide. Their Plan de Casa Mata succeeding in bringing about the emperor's abdication. A triumvirate including Victoria came to power and Victoria's own term of office followed. Where and for how long was Victoria imprisoned? Principal source: Guadalupe Victoria: primer presidente de México, Lillian Briseño Senosiain et al, pp. 43-46. 

The Fort Ross Conservancy published a roster derived from censuses taken at Fort Ross in 1820, 1821, 1836, and 1838. It shows three individuals who may have deserted to Mexico from Fort Ross: Moliavin, Volkov (possibly Terentsii Volkov), and Stepan Kornilov. A few more details on runaways are in The Khlebnikov Archive. In the 1822 section, Khlebnikov refers to a deserter named Shebalov. In the 1824 section, he names Prokhor Egorov and Rodion Shebanov as authors of another escape attempt, both of whom had at least previously been at Fort Ross. Deserters are also mentioned in The Visit of the "Rurik" to San Francisco in 1816. Otto Kotzebue acknowledges receipt on his ship of "three Russian deserters from the establishment near Bodega", identified as Ivan [Strogonoff], Yakov, and Grigor. Since the censuses predate Mexican independence, Sannie Kenton Osborn's annotation of "Mexico?" would refer to the Viceroyalty of New Spain, not the independent nation. It seems unlikely that the men were able to desert from Fort Ross to Mexico City. These data may not contain the full set of desertions but I predict it's as close to an answer as I'll get. 

Nikolai Rezanov was Russian's envoy to Japan in 1804, sailing there in Russia's first circumnavigation aboard the Nadezhda. This originally English ship was outfitted for the voyage at government expense (Lensen, pp. 133). The captain's cabin was divided in two to accommodate Rezanov on one half (Moessner, pp. 68). As an Active State Councillor (rank 4), he far outranked Captain Krusenstern (rank 9). Ambassador Rezanov had six men in his suite, including a Lieutenant of the Guards, an Adviser, an Artist, and a Doctor. In all 85 men were aboard, including two natural scientists, an Astronomer, another Doctor, and six officers (Moessner, pp. xxviii). Rezanov quarreled so badly with those officers that he retreated to his cabin for a portion of the voyage (Lensen, pp. 135); the imbroglio was censored by the tsar (Moessner, pp. x). How big was half of the Nadezhda's captain's cabin? Did Rezanov's suite stay "en suite" with him? Did the doctors and scientists get a cabin or did they have to bunk with the sailors? 

Presidio soldiers were appointed to manage the ranchos (Life in Presidial California by Lothrop and Herczog). Sargeant Miguel Espinosa was in charge of the King's Ranch of Monterey (Memorias sobre la historia de California by Amador). Without doubt, the bulk of the field labor was done by natives; whether they were Mission neophytes on leave, or exempt from missionization, I don't know. 

I'm reading about current events in 1850s and 1860s California and want to check several newspapers' reporting on the same events. Which newspapers? In addition to the paper local to wherever something happened, I'd check large newspapers that did their own statewide reporting, probably dailies. The major ones I have found so far are the The Sacramento Daily Union (1851-1899) and the Daily Alta California (1849-1891). Were there any other California papers at the time as big as those two? 

In German and several Slavic languages it is called the "British-American War". In a cursory look I didn't find any alternate names used by the combatants. 

The teeth were decorative trade items and the ambergris was used in perfuming. Potorochin's station also supplied whale oil for lighting. What was the use of the barrels of brains? 

In the beginning of the 19th century Agustín Fernández was chaplain of the naval base at San Blas. Records in the colonial section of the Mexican national archive, summarized in all caps, refer to his role several ways: 

Captain John D'Wolf II (1779-1872), member of a prominent slave-trading family of Bristol, Rhode Island, was the uncle of author Herman Melville (1819-1891). D'Wolf informed Melville's view of life at sea: he appears in "Moby Dick" (1851) as an experienced ship captain. In his twenties, D'Wolf was the first United States citizen to cross Siberia. In his eighties, he wrote a fabulous book called A voyage to the North Pacific and a journey through Siberia more than half a century ago (1861). Melville is not mentioned in the text; Melville's biography says that D'Wolf made him a gift of a copy, supposedly one of an edition of only one hundred. I wonder if an ancient ship captain could write a first-class travelogue like this without the support of a professional author. Did Melville help D'Wolf with his book? 

After the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, in the early 1850s, the U.S. Congress created a land commission to review claims of land ownership predating California's accession. Hundreds of claims were filed. Many denials were appealed to the federal courts. One such case was Meader v. Norton, decided in the Supreme Court in 1870. How many California land cases were eventually decided by the U.S. Supreme Court? 

Confronted with lack of permission, Americans sometimes reflexively claim that "it's a free country". Obviously, the truth is more nuanced, with degrees of freedom, competing definitions of freedom, and so on. Where did this meme come from, and what was it first used to justify? 

I've not been able to verify this story anywhere else. Did Japanese sailors really reach Spanish California? 

After Mexican independence, Emperor Agustín I took power. During his short reign he understandably sent a representative to the Californias to procure and check on their loyalty. The representative, a priest named Agustín Fernández, accompanied by a report and an entourage of Californians and Russians, had not yet returned to Mexico City when Iturbide was forced to abdicate. When he arrived, he was charged with treason. This may have been Fernández's only foray into national politics. Fernández was a drunken gambler dandy who happened to be the uncle that raised Mexico's orphaned first President, Guadalupe Victoria. Despite their collaboration in the Army of the Three Guarantees, Iturbide quickly imprisoned Victoria, giving him little influence. (While in jail Victoria was elected deputy from Durango, along with Fernández's boss, the Marqués de Castañiza, Bishop of Durango.) Why did Iturbide choose Fernández for this sensitive role? How did he justify sending this wild character with no diplomatic experience as his representative? 

David Weber's The Mexican Frontier (1982) suggests that the best English-language source on the Mexican conflict with northern tribes is a 1963-1972 series of articles by Ralph A. Smith in the journals Hispanic American Historical Review, Arizona and the West, and Arizoniana. For a Spanish source he likes Carlos J. Sierra's book Los indios de la frontera (1980). 

Yes, absolutely. Such an animosity or resentment is sure to develop when one regional dialect becomes elevated above others as a prestige or national language, as has happened with Mandarin, the speech of Beijing. Compare to southern India's distaste for Hindi. Business Insider mentioned "fury" and "demonstrations" in response to Mandarin requirements. The Economist called their imposition "contentious". The BBC reported that some people were "refusing to speak" Mandarin. 

With some exceptions, candidates up for election are usually natural born citizens that are native speakers of the government's language. With the exception of the first generation of leaders in Israel, when revived Hebrew was almost nobody's mother tongue, have any immigrants learned a local language as an adult well enough to be elected to a governmental office using that language? 

I am researching the LYDIA, a brig of 200 tons, built of teak around 1800. I think it had a crew of around 20. (Details on the ship are in Judge Howay's "List of trading vessels in the maritime fur trade"). Not having found any drawing or diagram of it yet, I'm wondering whether another similarly-sized brig of the same era would have been substantially the same. To what degree would they have looked alike? Could LYDIA have had any unusual features or would it have been built to a well-known pattern? 

One other possibly useful entry in the bibliography, despite the alarming question mark, is Güttner, W. History of the Hearing Aid. SRW Nachrichten, No. 21, 23-24, 1966(?) [sic]. EDIT: Several uncited texts online claim that Alcmaeon of Croton constructed an ear trumpet, and an answer establishing that would be better yet. 

The Spanish empire and its agent José de Gálvez founded the port of San Blas, Nayarit in order to communicate with the Californias. However, the site is not particularly favorable and it did not remain an important port. The empire had better Pacific ports at Acapulco, Guaymas, and Mazatlan. What made founding a new port at San Blas seem better than expanding one of those? 

Many ships were abandoned in San Francisco during the California Gold Rush as their crews and passengers headed straight for the gold areas. Some became semi-permanent buildings and some became landfill. Their local value was less than their value in other ports, presumably because of the lack of available labor to sail anywhere else. This would have been terrible for the sellers of ships, and great for anyone interested in buying ships. During this period, how much did the price of sailing ships drop in San Francisco? 

Estanislao was baptized on 24 Sep 1821 by Father Buenaventura Fortuny. The father baptized at least 108 natives during 1821, and over 2300 in total. He had officiated for another Estanislao earlier in the same year, on 26 Apr, and another one back in 1816. Since he went through names so rapidly and regularly, he was bound to repeat them; there were 28 Josefas, 7 Policarpas, 5 Quincios, 3 Estanislaos, and 2 Estanislaas among about 680 unique names he gave to native converts. On this basis, I suggest there was no explicit link between the saint and the recipient of his name; at most the latter's behavior or interests might have reminded the priest of the saint's martyrdom. Source for mission records: Early California Population Project. 

The WP article on the history of surfing presently describes several historic traditions and a documented episode of Hawaiians surfing in California in 1885. Obviously, being propelled by a wave on a floating board had already existed for a long time. What is the earliest primary evidence of the practice of surfing? Was it mentioned by Captain Cook or another early visitor to Hawaii, or elsewhere? 

Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky is a port city on the Pacific Ocean. The indigenes in its location were Itelmen (Kamchadals). Today its population was dominated by ethnic Russians, but in the mid-18th century only men arrived from Russia, such as Cossacks, soldiers, and monks. If any of the Russian men had children there, it was with women of native or mixed heritage. Petropavlovsk wasn't an ostrog, but the place was more of an army outpost than a town. There weren't enough townspeople to support a church [Витер: Петропавловск (историческая справка)], as there were barely any families in town [Krusenstern, Voyage Autour Du Monde, II:519]. By 1804 two dozen women of unspecified ethnicity were living in Petropavlovsk. [Moessner: The First Russian Voyage Around the World, pp. 325]. Who was the first ethnically Russian woman to live in Petropavlovsk? 

The meaning of "barso" is clearer than its origin. Samuli Kaislaniemi analyzed it in his PhD thesis Reconstructing Merchant Multilingualism : Lexical Studies of Early English East India Company Correspondence, pp. 256: 

Governors of Mexican Alta California granted ranches to well-connected petitioners. One such piece of land near Elkhorn Slough was called Rancho Moro Cojo (Lame Moor Ranch), granted in 1825 by governor Argüello to María Antonia Pico de Castro. Later, it was only part of Rancho Bolsa Nueva y Moro Cojo (New Hollow and Lame Moor Ranch). On the diseño digitized at OAC appears the name "Bolsa del Cojo" (Hollow of the Lame One). Bancroft mentions "the Negro Bob", a man of African descent left behind from a British ship and already living in central California at that time. There may have been a few more Black men in the province but I have no information identifying any of them as North African. Was Bob the lame moor, or is it a Biblical or literary reference, or what? 

A positive attitude complements the study of history. Without contradicting Mark Olson's excellent answer, I think Charles-Edwards was demonstrating an appropriate optimism about his fellow historians' promise. To claim that nothing more will be known is not only likely to be wrong, it's a downer. 

Carlos III of Spain was a Catholic, but an anticlerical one. After riots in Madrid, he expelled the Society of Jesus (and was followed in this by Pope Clement XIV). The same year, 1767, the first lodge of Freemasons was established in Spain. Letting the Masons compete ideologically underscored Carlos's antipathy for the Church as an organization. Some of Carlos's ministers were Freemasons, so he was aware of the group's interests. Did Freemasons or Masonic organizations directly influence Carlos's decision to expel the Jesuits? Addendum: one article whose authorship is unclear blames Carlos's Masonic minister Conde de Aranda for intriguing against the Jesuits. Wikipedia suggests that the minister Campomanes was responsible for a research result that justified the expulsion, but I'm not sure if he was one of the Masonic ministers. Benimeli held that Carlos himself was anti-Masonic. 

Who was the Irishman? One prominent Irish immigrant in Northern California was Timothy Murphy, previously known to buy liquor at Fort Ross; nonetheless, as a mission administrator and rancho grantee, he seems unlikely to have mined in someone else's party. 

According to H.H. Bancroft's "History of California", in 1796, English convicts stowed away on the Otter in Botany Bay, and were forced ashore in California at gunpoint. Governor Borica was ordered by the Viceroy to send the stowaways back to Spain. Against his own will and interests, he shipped the ten men and one woman off to San Blas, Nayarit, supposedly en route to Cadiz, Spain. According to Davis's "Seventy-five Years in San Francisco", on October 6th, 1797, the "American ship, [of] Captain Dows forcibly put on shore eleven foreigners from his vessel". Did the stowaways ever make it onto a ship on the Atlantic? How did their odyssey end?