If you're a robot who founded the robot's liberation army, that most likely means you've got robots of varied talents running around. Not everyone is a rough and tumble human fighter. Surely we have robot "shop keepers" (possibly more like robbers who can bring you important goods and maybe a little intelligence?) So, why not have deep infiltration robots? Non-combatant agents who dig deep behind enemy lines, and set up counter-jamming to provide our hero(es) a place to back up before things get out of hand. Assuming every assault on an important human controlled asset is a well planned operation, you don't even necessarily have to answer for why the humans didn't shut down the counter-jamming: it only just happened when you got there, and by that time their resources are more focused on stopping you than killing your save point. EDIT (Per question author's request): Outside of the "robot" theme Theme agnostic, another reasonable idea that might fit all scenarios - especially if we leave the standard RPG fare of infinite amounts of random battles - is that the save point is right before the boss room because the hero(es) have defeated all of the enemy forces and now have a chance to rest before opening those massive doors or heading up that long flight of stairs. Here our protagonists can take the time to eat, write a journal log just in case this is the end of the line, or depending on the scale of the battle, set up shop in this area. "Setting up shop" is basically how the Fire Emblem or Wars series handles saving - saves are only done after skirmishes when key assets have been captured, such as a fort or a castle, or after the enemy has been beaten back from what was already well fortified. 

Bonus: Would it be possible if the person from another world is not human? Obviously someone who's visibly non-human, like a lizard person or a winged humanoid, would most likely be whisked away for study. But Inu Yasha can pass for human if you hide his ears and claws - would someone like him, who appears mostly human but isn't, be able to successfully gain legal status? 

Assuming a modern urban fantasy setting (thus, the world is "ours" in the present time, with the known continents, cities, technology, and general environment), what would happen if a supernatural EMP-like event were to knock out all electronics around the world at the same time? For plot purposes, I need an event able to disable or destroy all manmade satellites (and thus a lot of communication), take down the power grid for (preferably) days, and render communication via cell phones and computers virtually impossible for the forseeable future. Other effects optional! Would an EMP-like event be the best way to do this? If so, what would happen to these specific devices: a) How would cars - from old, non-computerized models up to the Tesla - react? Would they be disabled, and if so, for how long? b) How would hospitals react? Would an event capable of knocking out power on this scale temporarily or permanently disable their backup generators, or would they be able to switch over with little to no disruption? c) Would Internet cables and/or landline telephones be affected, and if so, how? d) If the event acted like an EMP that successfully (and permanently) disabled all manmade satellites, including communications satellites, what would the effect be on cell phones, Internet availability, and general global communications? Would something that behaved like a real-life EMP be able to knock them out for days or weeks at a time, or would the supernatural event need to have a bit more, er, supernatural to get that effect? d) Are there any other major side effects, either on manmade structures or on the environment? e) Bonus: Would this be theoretically achievable with an appropriately-sized EMP or solar flare (thus giving the in-world government a plausible explanation to reduce panic)? 

Persona 4 uses the greater arcana to name various "personas" (demons that are essentially strong helpers for the characters who have mastered calling upon them), but the theme ends there, since the magic attacks are Shin Megami Tensei series staples. JoJo's Bizarre Adventure Part 3 names many of the "stands" (spiritual energy beings that are basically what personas in the Persona series are based on) after greater arcana cards. Their abilities and appearances are often not based on any percieved meaning of the cards themselves, however. In the end, like @MichaelK said, there is no real world "canon" to what the trumps of a Tarot deck actually mean. All of that stuff has been cooked up by mystics and charlatans to make a quick buck off of gullible people, and no doubt it varies between person to person. @a4android did a good job putting down the most common spiel on mystical Tarot. It may be best to just come up with magical associations to the Tarot deck yourself, as most people who want to play or read the lore of an RPG aren't going to demonize its creator for having "improper" ideas of what power each spell named after a card would have, or what powers the card would bestow upon a user. 

To start, there are few insects that don't have that long abdomen, and that's really what receives support on something like a mantis. I assume we want to keep this feature, as it really is the visual indicator of "insect". If we want that to be supported by two legs, they have to be bulky like on a cricket, but probably not made for jumping, as they'd need to be long, too. Walking upright with that configuration seems to me as if it would require the mantis' thin upper body, as well. I have a little bit of an issue wrapping my head around the idea of specialized "arms" that double as "legs", though. It doesn't seem like the kind of thing that could happen. It really depends on the kind of arms/hands you want these creatures to have. I think instead of running on all legs at a greater speed, I would suggest having the back legs be extremely good for running, and joint them in such a way that the insectoid can lean forward for maximum aerodynamics while running. The upper arms, in that case could be used to counterbalance the otherwise lightweight top. 

Being at Anime Expo last weekend got me thinking about all the "trapped in another world" anime I watched as a kid: Inu Yasha, Fushigi Yuugi, Escaflowne, etc. The general plot of these is that a high school girl from "our" reality is magically transported to an alternate reality/time, where she's usually stuck and must perform some great task in order to return. Sometimes, when she does manage to come back, one or more of her new friends (or enemies) from the alternate reality come back with her. In most of these stories, the alternate reality is a fantasy/medieval world with feudal kingdoms and very little bureacracy, so the girl from our world doesn't need any paperwork to go about her business. But the opposite case, when characters from the alternate world come to ours, seems like it would pose a problem for any extended stays. (All the anime I can remember dodged the question, either by having the stay be too short to matter, or by getting a god involved.) A character from an alternate reality who gets trapped in ours would quickly find themselves limited in the same ways as most illegal immigrants, unless they could find a way to somehow get the appropriate paperwork. Would it be possible for someone from an alternate reality to successfully apply for and receive some kind of legal status in our world? If not, what would have to be different in our world for that to work? I'm aware there are already processes for illegal immigrants to become legal residents; however, they're from our reality and have roots that extend prior to their arrival in the new country. I'm curious whether it would be possible to do the same thing as someone who literally did not exist in this world last week. Clarifications: 

The comments do a great job pointing out just how fast a bullet from a sniper rifle is, so it's probably not within the scope of realism in your narrative for the vampire to hear the shot and be able to react, especially at a close range. When you say sniper though, I don't often think of the action movie cliché where someone with a high caliber rifle is across the street on top of a parking garage - that's honestly a waste of the potential of the gun, not to mention (even more of) a hazard to bystanders. If the sniper is acting at near maximum range for the weapon, like in a war zone, there are lots of variables that could make him miss his mark. Long distance sniping is like trying to launch a spacecraft - everything is your enemy in the pursuit of precision. I can't speak for the possibility of hearing a sniper and his spotter setting up shop from a mile or so away, but if we were to say our "hero" had some insider info that the victim was about to be sniped, redirecting the bullet through use of force would probably be a better option than just setting up a force field to stop it or catch it. If we're following the action movie cliché, though... @Schrodinger'sStat probably provided the best answer. Noticing the gunman setting up shop would be within the realm of possibility, assuming victim, vampire, and gunman are all close to each other. 

I'm not an astrophysicist, but I'm not sure why either of these options would limit the other. First, Phobos, one of the moons of Mars, is probably going to collide with Mars in ~30 million years. Maybe... speed up that process and not waste an asteroid? Assuming all we need to mine these asteroids for is solar panel materials, we shouldn't have too hard of a time telling which are prime targets for such use, and which simply do not have any valuable resources on them - at least, valuable to us now. So, mine the useful ones, slam the empty ones into Mars - best part of this is when you do want those resources back, you can find them on Mars. If we truly must choose one over the other, I'd have to say make a Dyson Array first. The energy you get back from it is more valuable in both the short and long term than another Earth-like in the same solar system. Even if you're suffering over population, the self powering space colonies you could form on the parts of the array solve that problem. If you still need to terraform Mars, you can easily do it in the future thanks to all of the solar power you've farmed.