But this is in contradiction with 4. Hence, the assumption in 6 was incorrect, and therefore it must hold that ¬∀x(¬S(x)). 

If you live near a good book store, you could also go there and ask for a book on philosophy 'for the masses'. 

Arguments against dualism What about emotions? Surely a human is more than this? Does a human not also exist of his mind and body themselves? 

Sets and predicates They're the same, really. Defining a predicate Lx is implicitly defining a set L = {x | Lx} (all x for which Lx is true). And defining a set L is implicitly defining a membership predicate Lx = x &in; L. 

The intuition is that if there is something (y) that is equal to everything (x), then everything must be equal to everything by transitivity of equality. 

But Abraham hasn't seen anything of this yet, and is being asked to offer his only chance on more descendants (he is already old) on the altar. 

However, then Berkeley wonders (paraphrased): how is it possible that when I go to work, and come back to my home in the evening, my house still exists? There must have been some moment nobody perceived it... That's the point that God enters Berkeley's philosophy: because God always perceives everything, matter can still exist even though there is no human being to perceive it. Do keep in mind that this is just one opinion, and other philosophers may or may not think different. 

There are really so many way to do this and which one you choose largely depends on your personal preference. Here are some: Predicate 

Some background, skip it if you know it already: According to Kant, all human beings work like this: 1. There are two types of phenomena: space and time. These are like they are in themselves, and we cannot know them. The eye sees them but cannot understand them, so we cannot know them. 2. These data from the senses will be passed to the categories or concepts. This happens a posteriori. The concepts form the "administration system" of the soul. 3. After combining the phenomena and the concepts, we can know the things. However, because of step 2, we do not know the pure phenomena. We only know how they look for us. As a side note, this is why he says: 

Now, let's see what Kant would say about this. Kant Kant's famous categorial imperative says, in the first formulation: 

I wouldn't use x=L, because different leprechauns are different. L can be the set of leprechauns, or the predicate of being a leprechaun, but not simply 'a leprechaun'. Because then we could say that x ≠ L, however, x = L2 (another leprechaun). 

Wikipedia isn't necessarily an easy collection of texts. There is a version of wikipedia in simplified English available at simple.wikipedia.org, however, its contents are very limited. See for example its entry on Plato, compared to the normal English entry. I have found the book Sophie's World by Jostein Gaarder a great book for an introduction into philosophy. It walks through the history of philosophy from the presocrates till modern philosophy, in a mix between fiction and text book. By implementing an important philosophical question in particular in the fictional story, the author teaches the reader partially 'by doing'. 

is not what's written there. The verse consists of a statement/claim/fact ("We love") and an explanation ("because He loved us first"). Also, the "we love" is not about us loving God. It's about us loving each other (1 Jn 4:7; "Beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, ..."). So your claim 

First of all, the post technically doesn't claim that formulation is humanistic. It only claims it's more humanistic than 'the other', which you didn't quote, but here it is: 

As has been pointed out, h is debatable but the rest is correct. Also note that the definition of B is ambiguous, since it doesn't differentiate between the two underscores: does Bab mean that a is better than b or that b is better than a? 

But proofs like this aren't intuitive for most people. The other formulation gives a much more intuitive proof (and to have an easy proof I'll not take into account lying for the other's sake): 

You are correct. The answer from the book is a statement that is true for any set with at least one element. 

With the trivial negation ¬ T ≡ ¬ (#{b : b &in; B, D(b)} ≥ 2) ≡ #{b : b &in; B, D(b)} < 2. Translating that back to natural language you'd get "Less than two of my library books overdue" (this was your first guess). Note: this method is the same as what Alf does in his answer, with N = #{b : b &in; B, D(b)}. First order predicate logic In first order predicate logic, you could formalise the sentence in a different way. We could say: 

So indeed, this is stating the obvious, or, 'formalizing an intuition'. So why is this important? I'm guessing here, but I think it has to do with chronology. Before, the notation P(A|B) was only used when A would be an effect of cause B (and thus, B would occur before A). Now Bayes' rule, talking about hypothesis and evidence rather than cause and effect, says that it also works the other way around: we can also use P(A|B) when A is an hypothesis which implies B (and thus, in some sense, A would occur before B). Bayes' rule teaches us that conditional probability is independent of time. 

This argument is valid; it follows from the Modus Ponens. If the premises are true, we know for sure that the conclusion is true (this is the definition of validity of an argument; see above). However, now consider: 

In questions like this, the easiest is to give a counterexample. Take A = N (i.e., the natural numbers: (0), 1, 2, 3, 4, ...) Then, some As are multiples of 10. All multiples of 10 are multiples of 2. However, not all As are multiples of 2 (take e.g. 37). 

In your first proposal (∃x[F(x, h) ∧ ∀x∃y(D(y) ∧ O(x, y))]), you're assuming Harry has at least one friend, which may not be the case. If he has no friends, the statement is true (see vacuous truth). Also, you're using x both as bounded by ∃ and as bounded by ∀, while the latter is inside the first. This is never allowed. In your second proposal (∀x∀y[F(x, h) ∧ D(y) ∧ O(x, y)]), you're saying that everyone is a friend of Harry, that everyone is a dog and that everyone owns everyone! Here are some hints to get you started (since this looks like homework I won't give you a complete solution): 

You seem to assume that if something is true, everybody would believe it. However, in ancient times, people believed the earth was flat. Now, we believe that the earth is round (like a pancake). Clearly at least one of these two ideas must be wrong. This is in contradiction with your premise that if everything is true, everybody would believe it. 

A belief forms rules for ethics. According to Nietzsche, these 'moral beacons' aren't used anymore: everyone does as he wishes without looking at what's wrong or right1. This is what he means with "God is dead": we don't use the rules of a God anymore, so we killed him. The next step is to become an Übermensch - this is a being that gives himself new moral beacons. 1: Note that this is time-specific, and Nietzsche lived from 1844-1900. 

Furthermore, if you read the context, this post not only claims the other formulation is more humanistic, it also claims it's less formalistic. Which means: 

I have an idea of perfection An idea of perfection has to come from something perfect I am not perfect Then there has to be something else perfect (=God) 

Aquinas' five ways are heavily criticised and can certainly not be considered solid logic proofs; nor were they meant that way. Especially the sentence "Therefore, if there be no first cause among efficient causes, there will be no ultimate, nor any intermediate cause" is very, very debatable. I am not aware of any proof for or against eternal existence.