Sleep is something that you need to manage personally, and even though companies like Google may have 'nap pods', they are by far a rarity and should not be considered the norm. It would likely be a bad idea to cite them as an example. Your Arguments: You can have 37 points on why your company should expend resources on a place for employees to nap, but the fact is every one of your reasons is mostly personal; "Hectic schedules and stress"; Is your personal life stressful? Then it's personal. Is your work too stressful? Then they'll question if you can handle your position - nonetheless consider you for promotions. "Caring for a toddler at night"; Intensely personal. It has nothing to do with your workplace. It was your decision to raise a child, your company won't accept child-rearing as an answer to sleeping at the office. If your child keeps you up at night, move its crib/bed away from your bedroom, or if you can't purchase $2 earplugs. "Waking early for a long commute"; Again, personal. Look at moving or seeking more geographically appropriate work. Also, they might just say "Get to bed earlier" if you need to wake up early. It's not their fault you live far away. For reference, my office employs 3 people who live at least an hour away; none of us complain about sleep. "Using too much caffeine, especially close to sleeping time"; Again, personal. Learn to manage your caffeine intake. If you're drinking coffee in the afternoon, stop. It's like asking your office to install dimmer lights because alcohol gives you a hangover. "Waking up too soon and not being able to sleep quickly again etc"; Also personal. Additionally defeats your argument for sleeping quarters: If you can't fall asleep or wake up quickly, how will a 15-minute nap fix this? It's just a bad idea Not to be harsh, but your arguments will get you laughed out of the office. The fact is sleep is an intensely personal thing, and very few companies have the type of culture which will try to accommodate its employees on that personal a level. Simply put, if they aren't already doing it - it's highly unlikely they will ever start. Additionally, even if you supplied the furniture, the company would need to set aside space, abide by hygiene laws & stipulations, and divert resources which could otherwise be spent elsewhere. The "Nap Area" could have easily housed another employee or storage area. When it would be a good idea: For the sake of completeness, there are some office situations that may benefit from 'nap pods'; Industries with overaggressive work hours are the biggest example, such as game development studios which may see employees work double-time during crunch periods; in this case on-site sleep to prevent overexertion may be needed. Companies which may have remote offices; For example, research stations may be several hours away from 'civilization' or have unreliable transit. Situations like these routinely run shifts which span days to make the travel worth it, so sleeping quarters are included. There are other valid examples, but generally speaking sleeping quarters are an extreme rarity, and usually only brought in when absolutely necessary. Companies like Google only do this because their employees are so highly prized they have to do incredible things to keep them; some of their engineers literally invented the fields they specialise in - that level of rarity in employees means their workplace scales to accommodate. Other Factors Other factors might be impacting your ability to work; check around the office and see if more cost-effective measures might benefit everyone; 

What is IQ on a resume? IQ on its own is a meaningless figure, at most a crude indicator for potential. I would never advertise my IQ on a resume or any IQ related communities which I subscribe to. Unless they specifically ask, don't share your IQ. If you're exceptionally smart, they will pick up on it without you needing to mention it. What do Employers Want? What employers want is execution and drive - not potential. Employers want accomplishments that took effort and perseverance. You can be Steven Hawkings mental superior but it doesn't matter if you don't do anything with it. If I were an employer and I was choosing between someone average but driven against someone brilliant but unmotivated I'd pick the individual with drive. If you're employer expressly expects high-IQ individuals then they will weed people out as necessary - they can do it on their own. If they don't expressly expect it you'll be flashing your feathers for nothing, even worse they might see you as a high risk of leaving to greener pastures. Don't Advertise Arbitrary numbers, Advertise Accomplishments In all honesty paired with your lacklustre academics employers might read you as saying "I'm exceptionally smart, but I have so little drive I did poorly in school". Even if that's not how you'd frame it - that's how employers will. Instead of approaching this and saying "I'm smart, hire me", list things you've done that impress people; I've listed things like sophisticated programs I wrote in public school (it's an excellent interview conversation when you are accused of stealing college-level work at age 12), focus programs, extracurricular classes, etc. You don't need (or want) too many, even one or two is enough. If you don't have any accomplishments that indicate your intelligence then frankly you should lower your expectations and accept you need get points on that resume, and that your academic missteps might cost you a few years while you carve out real achievements. Are you a good programmer? Work on a complex open-source project and list it on your resume. Amazing artist? Build a portfolio. Gifted at science? Write a paper and get it published. Build real career-specific accomplishments and you'll have a resume with much more meaning than having the bullet point "I'm really smart". If you do really high-profile work you might even be approached. Hard Numbers At the 98th percentile there's still 2 people out of 100 who could be as smart or smarter than you; ~140,000,000 people globally. Every classroom of 50 students statistically has one other student as smart or smarter than you and I. Also, there's plenty of 'average' people who will intensely focus on the same field as you - and can very well beat you if you butt head-to-head unless you put in equal effort. Jobs may often require some sort of on-the-spot test or entry submission - and IQ will count for nothing when someone with laser-focus outperforms you. Personal Notes Remember that IQ signifies capacity and not usage; just because you have a big library doesn't mean it's full of books. Falling on the high side of the standard deviation isn't an accomplishment on it's own, and shouldn't be treated as one on a resume - all it means is that you can learn and comprehend something faster with less effort, and doesn't automatically give you the 'complete package'. Reading over your question, it sounds more like you're concerned about how you can cut-corners and skip the line by using your IQ. Saying you deserve extra consideration because you're smart is meaningless because it sounds like you haven't applied any effort to deserve that consideration. If you really want to succeed in the long run, you need to accept that you have to put in real effort to earn your mental stripes and stop trying to coast one one single number you feel makes you exempt. 

First, if you go cut down on coffee expect a slight dip in productivity while your body adjusts. Otherwise, this comes down to either a matter of personal responsibility or a larger health issue. For the most part, eat healthy (WebMD, Yahoo), eat throughout the day, get proper sleep at night, and if you can improve the lighting in your workplace. Exercise will dramatically increase your day-to-day energy (Huffington Post, Wikipedia). Overall, it just comes down to living a healthy lifestyle; most people mistake feeling unenergetic as entirely a sleep issue, but if you live poorly no amount of sleep will correct energy issues. As an example studies have shown that children in school do better in the class directly after gym, being more alert and less prone to distraction. If for some reason healthy living doesn't fix your energy, then it's a sign of a larger heath issue, and you should consult a physician; but don't go straight to the doctor if you aren't already living a healthy lifestyle. 

If a potential employer brings this up (why there is a gap in your history) they are probably more interested in a position you may have held, attempting to find out if you are hiding an employer with an unfavourable opinion of you. In that respect, saying you took an extended vacation because of burnout isn't that bad. That being said, don't just say "burnout" and close the conversation: let the employer know that you've fully recovered (and that you aren't entering the field against your will for, say, financial reasons), it's a field you enjoy, you are eager to "get back to work", and highlight any personal growth done during your break ("I learned how to X") if it's relevant to the position. Also let them know you learned from it, and will be able to avoid burnout in the future. Make sure you let the employer know that you can now handle it, and you strongly feel you won't burn-out again. With all that said, your previous burnout won't be a liability but a valuable asset since you know how to deal with it, and that since you're recovered you will have that 'new employee excitement' but with years of experience to back it up.