Unless you are particularly heavy, I would not worry about size - not that much difference in load carrying between a 2.1 and 2.4 that it will cause a blowout. Blowouts are caused by a tire failure of some description (bead failure, not seated on rim properly or cut to tire are the most common causes). You say "old tire and tube" - how old and what condition? If your choice is ride on the 2.1 or not ride - I know what I would do. 

The short annswer is not at all important. People trained and got fit for decades without heart rate monitors. Current thoughs in some camps is to dump heart rate altogether. For someone just wanting to get fit and loose some weight, heartrate monitoring is usually an interesting distraction. The drive for it comes down from pro level sports to trainers and manufacturers selling 'extras'. Unless you know you maximum heart rate (The 220-age formula is wrong as often as its right - do not use it), a monitor gives little useful information, and is more likely to put you wrong. You also need your aerobic threshold for it to anything more than marginally useful. Its very hard to establish aerobic threshold without knowing average heart rate, but you also need to know a lot more than just average..... You should use the watch during training to ensure you are in your target bands- just look at the watch occationally. The proviso is that you can accurately establish the correct heart rate bands. If you have a trainier, averages, time in band etc might help them tune your training program, but if you had a trainer, they would tell you if this is needed. 

Neither system is better than the other. In some situations, 1x is better, in others, 2x is better. As cassette range expands, effectively because the largest cog is getting bigger, the advantageous of 2x (or 3x) are decreasing. (SRAM just released a 1x12 with a 10-50 cassette, which is probably the nail in the coffin of 2x in the top end gear sets on MTBs). As a rough starting point, if you are regularly using you lowest gears, and other times your highest gears, a 1x is probably not for you. if you ride flattish terrain, or are a strong rider who climbs well, 1x is a candidate. The NX and XT cassettes are 11-42 giving a gear range of just 380% vs a typical 2x of 11/36 and 24/36 giving 470% (although 11-46 are available giving 420%) A large reason for popularity of 1x in Mountain bikes comes from full suspension frame builders. By loosing the front shift, they free up space around the already crowded bottom bracket area. This is a very high stress area of the bike, throw in pivots for full suspension and life gets difficult. Removing the derailleur and it goes from 'impossible' to 'nearly impossible' to make a better frame. Manufacturers love 1x as it lowers the total cost and complexity of an installed drive train, and marketing love it because is something thats clearly 'new' and therefore must be 'better' Meaning there is cost saving to be had, that does not need to be passed on to the consumer as it can be sold as an improvement. If we put those two aside and consider just an upgrade of an existing frame 2x Advantages 

I had the same problem with my current MTB - I talked to the guy at my favorite LBS (I have a number of specialist but large chain bike shops close by, hes a small operator), and told him what I wanted (He stocked the brand, not the model, and it was end of season so stocks were short supply). I had seen it on the internet for a significant discount, told him that. He made a few phone calls and said "I cannot get one, and even if I could, I could not get close to that price. I am more than happy to assemble it for you if you need (clearly he was meaning for a charge)". The LBS makes money from selling bikes, selling spares and servicing bikes. If you want to support your LBS, (as already suggested in the comments) ask him if he will order one in, and tell him what you have seen at what price. If he cannot or will not order a bike in, he should be more than happy to service it for you and will still sell you parts and accessories. 

I suspect the advise you have been given is in your interest as much as in the interest of the bike shop (but cannot be certain your not being ripped off)). In their situation I would advise the same. You can always ask another bike shop if you don't trust the one you are using. The chain and cassette wear together. If the chain was very worn, and you put a new chain onto an old cassette, at best it will wear the new chain faster than it should. At worst it will not engage properly and can skip or you may get poor shifting or even break the new chain. You can see if a cassette is badly worn, but one that is not worn as much, but worn enough to affect the performance of the new chain can be hard to detect (there are tools and techniques I won't go into here). Its recommended to measure the chain for wear, and when it gets past a certain point, replace it. The cassette should be replaced every second or third chain. However, this is just one strategy of many. Another is to ride until its unusable and replace both cassette and chain. In you specific case we cannot tell if how worn the cassette is, however because the chain broke, it is more than likely due to excessive wear. If the bike shop replaces only the chain, and it skips and does not change gears well or breaks the chain, they have to fix it, and stand to get a bad reputation. 

Annual improvements in bikes tend to small and incremental. They have been doing this for over 100 years, unless someone comes out with something revolutionary, its hard to see how they can make a big difference. If it is revolutionary, it won't be the same model name (and it wont be 105). For me, a grand in the wallet makes the 2013 a better bike. In a year, the 2014 will be a grand cheaper and in two years the same price on the second hand market as the 2013. If I wanted to spend $3000, I would buy the 2013 model of a $4500 bike. Only you can decide if small incremental improvements are worth the money to you. 

Another option is the "Hook Turn", under other names in different places. It is legal for cyclists in many places, but not all. I personally consider a far safer option then crossing lanes of heavy traffic and riding in the left hand lanes. Essentially you remain in the right lane (US) and stop in front of the cars waiting to go across the intersection (in the direction you want to go). As soon as the lights turn green, you move off. 

Its not as simple as that. The difference between 1x with narrow wide and and 2x is both should not be dropping chains, ever. Most people I know who fixed problems by going to 1x said something like "My new 1x is a vast a improvement over my x years old worn out drive drive line, ho ra for 1x hail the 1x....." (Followed no longer after by something along the lines of "Shut up about the 1x already"). These people also largely forgot they when their bike was new they never had issues. Upgrading to 1x means a completely new drive line so of course it will work. Upgrading just the rear derailleur means just a new rear derailleur, so it might not work depending on the state of the drive line, especially the chain rings. If you 2x is dropping chains, something is not setup ideally - worn components, adjustments or bad chain line. Upgrading to 1x will fix the worn components, but is most likely to make the chain-line worse unless you take great care or the BB has been changed on your existing setup. IMHO provided you chain rings are in good condition, an XT clutch with new chain (and cassette if needed) will outperform you current setup of clutchless Deore. If you need new chain-rings, a 1x would cost a bit more, but would be a better way to go. The question you need to look at is cost - you could upgrade a few components to say XT level and keep the 2x, or deore level on 1x for similar money - which is the better drive line. 

I would be surprised if any quality frame does not have a serial number. Many manufacturers warn against frames with no number, or numbers scratched off, so your concern is somewhat valid and you should follow up on it. Also reading $URL$ suggests the frame should have come with a warranty card. Photograph the frame with the receipt and send it to them, specifically expressing your concerns. They will confirm fairly quickly if its genuine.