As I said above, the only way to produce tidal heating is to have changing tidal forces. These planets are likely synchronized and always present the same side to the star. It's marginally possible these planets aren't perfectly tidally locked, but rather have some higher spin-orbit resonance. That is, their spin orbit resonance might not be 1:1 (as it would be if they were tidally locked) but instead could be something like 3:2 (which is what Mercury has). I'll ignore that complication though and just assume 1:1 resonance. So if they're tidally locked, they can't experience differing tidal forces through their own rotation. Instead, the differential tidal forcing comes from the orbit's ellipticity. Sometimes the planet will be closer and sometimes it will be farther, causing a differential tidal force on TRAPPIST-1b from the star as it orbits. This is exactly what occurs in the tidal heating of Io. Let's calculate $\Delta F_{tide,*-b}$ by using the varying distances TRAPPIST-1b will have from the star. I found that TRAPPIST-1b will orbit between $0.0101\:\mathrm{AU}$ and $0.0119\:\mathrm{AU}$1. This means the differential tidal force is: $$\Delta F_{tide,*-b} \approx 4GM_bM_*R_b\left(\frac{1}{(0.0119\:\mathrm{AU})^3} - \frac{1}{(0.0101\:\mathrm{AU})^3}\right) = 1.8\times10^{23}\:\mathrm{N}$$ Is planetary tidal heating non-negligible? The back of the envelope calculations show that the differential tidal force on TRAPPIST-1b from TRAPPIST-1c is about $0.2\%$ of the differential tidal force due to the star. Whether you consider this negligible or not is up to you. I'd personally consider it a pretty small effect and say that most of the tidal heating these planets experience comes from the star itself. Could the inter-planetary tidal heating still contribute to the tidal heating of the planets enough to heat the interior? This is a remarkably hard question to answer and I can't even really do a back of the envelope calculation without making wild, unjustifiable assumptions. The calculations above simply determined the maximum tidal force variation over time. That doesn't tell us anything about how much tidal heating this may induce though. That requires knowing more about the planet itself, in particular the planet's Love numbers which define the rigidity of the body and thus how easy it is to stretch via differential tidal forces. You can vary your tidal forcing as much as you want, but if your planet is pure iron (and thus very rigid) you're unlikely to have as much of an effect as if it were primarily silicate (and thus much less rigid). The paper produces the plot below which defines the potential constituents of each planet. This would be a first step in determining the planet rigidities, but as you can see from the error bars, it would be highly uncertain. 

There are two separate points of interest you're looking at so I'll separate this into sections. Sudden Drop at Day 1559 As near as I can tell, this is the result of a quarterly roll of the satellite, specifically the end of quarter 17. Every 90 days, which NASA calls a quarter, the space craft does a 90 degree roll to optimize the solar panel efficiency. What this means for the data is that when this roll occurs at the end of the quarter, the photons from the star now fall on a different CCD channel which is calibrated slightly differently, causing a slight discontinuity in the data. You can read about "Quarter Stitching" here. I've extracted some relevant text and an image for posterity. 

This will be hard to track down. I'd suggest looking at something like SATVIEW Time Machine. I've entered the location and time you provided (I had to deviate by a few minutes to find something so maybe your time is not 100% accurate) and I can see there were a few satellites flying overhead. With enough work, you may be able to figure out which one was most likely the one you saw based on the Alt-Elev information detailed in the table. There's plenty of other online satellite tracking websites out there, but keep in mind, most of them aren't going to have everything. And possibly, what you saw is in no database because it's a classified satellite in which case you probably won't find any record of it. 

I think you'll have to live with an incomplete answer. It appears this was taken by an amateur astronomer using a simple 4.5 inch telescope. You can find, on the ESO website, a collection of many images taken during the 2004 transit. On this page, is the image you are asking about (along with some other images by the same person). The credit for that image is given as: 

When one asks the question, "How is a year defined?", there are actually a few different answers one can provide. What you're implicitly asking, even if you don't know, is how one defines a Sidereal Year. In effect, the Sidereal Year is the time necessary to complete one, full, 360 degree revolution around the Sun. This is opposed to the Tropical Year (or else the Solar Year) which is the time necessary to travel just slightly less than a full 360 degrees (due to things like precession and the definition of the Tropical Year). So your question boils down to, how is a Sidereal year determined? In practice, this is often done by choosing a specific starting point and noting where the Sun is with respect to the stars in the Sky. Then, it will be an entire sidereal year (and a 360 degree revolution) before the Sun returns to the same position as previously observed. Once you've observed the Sun in the exact same position you know a full revolution has occurred of the Earth around the Sun. It should be noted that the motion of the stars over a year is almost completely inconsequential. The stars are so immensely far away compared to their own motion, that their apparent motion (otherwise known as the proper motion) is basically nothing over a year. In this way, we consider the stars "fixed". 

From here, the simulation is run forwards with positive and , starting from the same contrived scenario as above. Note how chaotic and unstable this system is. The entire system only remains a 3-body system for less than 6 years. Before that the three masses are separate and doing their own thing. They "coincidentally" meet (because I set it up so they should), orbit around each other for a little less than 6 years, and one gets ejected, resulting in the other two continuing to orbit one another. Contrived Scenario with $m_1=m_2=m_3$, $|v_1|=|v_2|=|v_3|$, and all positions $120^o$ from each other 

There are numerous other factors for what helps define whether a planet is habitable, be it by us or in hosting new life. The list could go on and on, but these are the major points I think. 

The reason that moon image looks wrong is because it is wrong. It is not a real image of the moon $-$ at least the terminator is not real. The original article you cite has a link just below their image indicating the source of their image of the moon. That source is the night sky planner, hosted by JPL. You'll find the same image on that website, albeit slightly darker (it seems the NPR people lightened up the image a bit). If you do some more digging, you'll see that the night sky planner got its image of that moon from someone else. Within the html code, they have the image defined as: 

Realistically, no, that cannot happen. Most meteor showers that we experience on Earth - the most famous being the Perseids and the Leonids - are a result of comets passing roughly through our orbit and leaving behind debris that was burned off as the comet passed by the Sun. We then come along, sweeping through this debris and from our perspective on Earth, we see a shower of meteors raining down on us. That implies two important things. First, we primarily see meteors as we sweep through the debris from comets. They are not objects which have made a trajectory for Earth and hit us head on. Second, we only see meteors when we're on the side of the planet facing the orbital direction of the Earth. That being said, for the sake of the story, one could envision an alien race of sufficiently advanced technology surrounding our planet with asteroid and comet debris and subsequently "dropping" these meteroids on us from everywhere all at once. I'm not sure if aliens are involved in the story you've linked, but aside from third party intervention, there's now way you're going to see meteors from every place on Earth all at the same time. 

You can go back and reference the paper published on this telescope. Specifically it is Culhane et al. 2007. This paper talks about the overall telescope, however the paper describing the optics is Korendyke et al. (2006). Unfortunately this optics paper is behind a paywall. Within the Culhane paper, in section 3, the describe the slit mechanism as 

Your best bet for finding relevant information on this is to look up actual published papers. I'll walk you through my research process to help in the future, as well as provide the results I found. Step 1: Google Scholar is your friend I start out using Google Scholar. This is much like Google, but rather than returning any old website, it specifically returns published papers and other scholarly articles. Part of this magic is of course knowing what to search. I went with "multiplicity of stellar systems". Immediately I found two sources which seemed promising. Stellar Multiplicity and the Initial Mass Function: Most Stars Are Single (Lada 2006) A Catalogue of Multiplicity Among Bright Stellar Systems (Eggleton & Tokovinin 2008) I've lucked out because both articles happen to be free so I can see the full contents! Step 2: NASA ADS NASA Astrophysics Data System is a very large catalogue of just about every astronomy (and some physics) related paper published in any journal. What's even more amazing, very often the papers here are free, even if they aren't free on the journal's actual web page. If you ever run into a paper from a journal that only gives you an abstract, try looking for the paper here. It was already free on the journal's webpage, but I was able to look up and find the Lada paper I cited above. I specifically point you towards ADS for a few reasons. 

You also do mention the Moon Illusion, where a Moon on the horizon appears larger than it really is. The cause for this is debatable, but it is a known optical illusion. I believe the reason for this effect is that near the horizon, you have points of reference that allow you to judge the size of the moon different than when it is high in the sky, far from other comparison to other objects. You can attempt to view the Super Moon as it is rising so as to take full effect of this illusion, but try to do so in an area that isn't flat and devoid of structures (e.g., don't watch the Moonrise over a body of water). As for your father, possibly he saw a Super Moon near the horizon which maximized both the optical illusion and the moon's natural size variability. Possibly he his memory also became exaggerated over the years so he remembered a Moon which was larger than it really was.