So, here's the thing. If you're planning to change the file system anyway, you're going to have to backup your data at some point in this process regardless of whether your external drive is accessible after you disconnect it and delete the Storage Space. So, I think the smartest route is probably to back up your files, make the necessary configuration changes you need to make, then restore your files from your backup location. But to answer your specific question, I think it's probable that the files themselves will be OK on the drive, and the PC will probably treat it as an external disk and mount it like any other. They'll just still be in ReFS. But again, I'd back up to a different device before doing anything. Why risk your data? 

In many cases, enterprise storage frames actually employ three different kinds of disks- SSD, SAS and SATA (or LSAS drives which are SATA with a SAS controller), with the goal being to optimize the data being stored with the I/O it actually needs. In other words, data accessed frequently ends up living in the highest speed areas (flash) and data accessed very infrequently lives on lower speed drives (spinning media), all connected to the same array. Should a file suddenly become highly in demand, the storage frame moves it to a higher speed section of the frame to assist in user access. When demand dies down, it slips back to the middle tier or the archival tier. Part of the reason to do this is cost savings on expensive fast drives, but also it simplifies storage management and helps to provide better service to your end users. 

The most important difference I can see between the two services is that App-V enables you to virtualize almost any application in-house and deliver it to your users, whereas Jump Box is a collection of 50 pre-chosen applications you can use in your environment. These applications are varied and when I flipped through I saw PostgreSQL, some blogging platforms, and a few other things. So, really what matters is if the prepackaged applications Jump box covers the needs of your users. If you need to applications not offered by Jump Box, then it's not your tool. 

According to this article "This can occur if Windows Management Framework (WMF) 3.0 is installed on Hyper-V host without also applying update 2781512." The Microsoft article goes on to advise installing hotfix 2781512. 

The way I'm reading your question, it sounds like you're just using GPP to to turn on the ID & Print requirement for secure print. Have you tried setting up ID & Print on the device itself? According to the manual I found you can turn it on with the device by accessing the "User Authentication /Account Track" screen, then "User Authentication Settings" then "Administrative Setting" then "ID & Print Settings". Page 13.4.8-13.4.9 (239-240/311) of the manual I linked to walks you through the various specific settings you can choose from in order to appropriately configure it for your users. 

Update 2 I have done some research into NTLMv2 and the settings that are required as the whole thing was getting to me. I stumbled upon the following information:from the following source: 

In 2008, you can see who is logged into RWW by typing in the command prompt but I am not sure if it will work in 2003 as I can't try it. I also happened to find some interesting information about a user who figured out how to track users via the event logs 

There are two options for this to work you will need to bind both apache and nginx to their own IP address. So for instance in the httpd.conf file you will need to list a specific IP such as The article listed below explains how to bind both nginx and apache as well as explains using nginx behind apache by setting up virtual hosts For more information check this site out 

You didn't give me much more information as some commands are specific to the type of nas you have but shot in the dark. Manually enable the encryption on this replacement drive with the existing KeyID that is on the assigned storage controller, by running the following commands: 

For KDE you can put a symbolic link to an executable in the directory home/username/.kde/autostart For GNOME just go to 

From here you can see the Name and Description of each snap in. You then can verify against another computer or your own knowledge of what you expect to see. 

Try typing in the start menu search bar, does anything come up? This should be the users startup folder. Otherwise there is a great article located here on how to recover your "Startup" 

is suppose to resolve all dependencies and download the packages also resolves dependencies and downloads them My guess is that repotrack is downloading all the dependencies for any architecture since it doesn't appear you specified the architecture which could account for the difference in what you see downloaded. I believe you use the switch to specify your architecture 

We know this password to be correct, but since these two domains (Win2000 & Win2008) do not have a trust setup what authentication account needs to be used? One that resides on the Win2000 hosted domain? 

I have heard some hosts will block countries that have a high level of malicious activity claiming they are protecting the customer. This however, seems ridiculous to me as well. Most will block IP addresses and not the entire country so it seems a little overkill to me. My recommendation is find a new host as they do not have the right to say who can or cannot visit your site. It is also possible it is something on your end, it is possible for yourself to block out a country using GeoIP 

This post probably belongs on SuperUser...Hopefully this can point you in the right direction, this card is made by Hawell a Chinese Manufacturer. Their website is found here. Good luck. 

I also installed and . is a Preference Pane. The problem is, whenever I attempt to start/stop MySQL from the Preference Pane, System Preferences just hangs. It runs at about 50% CPU forever, eventually I have for force quit System Preferences. The same thing happens if I toggle "Automatically Start MySQL Server on Startup". Basically the MySQL Preference Pane is not functional. Note that I have no problem starting MySQL from the command line: 

I have my own domain name but do not want to manage the email. I'm looking for a web-based email client (similar to Gmail) but able to use my own domain. The main requirement is reliability. I've tried Google Apps (Premium, $50/year) but the reliability based on my personal usage is way too low (up time around 90%). I'm willing to pay up to $100/year. Any suggestions? Follow-up: The errors I see with Google Apps Mail are: 

When installing MySQL 5.1 on a Windows machine, is it possible to specify where the Data Folder should go? The installer doesn't give an option for changing the Data Folder location, it defaults to "C:\Document and Settings\All Users\Application Data\MySQL\MySQL Server 5.1\". I'm installing MySQL 5.1.34 on Windows Server 2003. Follow-up: I ended up manually editing and pointed to the desired location. I just wish the installer had an option to change the location. 

When I get these errors, they last for about 15 minutes. This happens at least 10 times per day. So 15 minutes times 10 = 150 minutes. 150 minutes downtime per day (1440 minutes) = 10.4% downtime. I have also have a free Gmail account which works great. It's just that my Google Apps Mail has a constant server related issue. This might be an isolated incident, but it's very real to me. It's been going on for a week know. Okay, I just did a search and it's not so isolated. Seems others have the same problem. link, link and link I've created a trouble ticket with Google Apps support, but they have yet to fix the issue. Maybe they'll fix it someday, but reading the various Google Help Form posts doesn't give me a lot of confidence. As for Google's Service Level Agreement, it's not very valuable. They define a service outage as 10 minutes or more. The compensation is not to exceed 15 days of service for the service term, which for Google Apps is one year. So you get 15 frees day added to one year, which isn't very much. See this article for an analysis of Google's SLA. I don't want this to turn into a Google bashing thread. I would love for Google Apps Mail to work for me. Since it isn't working for me (currently), I'm investigating other options. Follow-up 2: The intent of this question is to inquire about reliable email service. I really don't want hear about how reliable Google Apps Email is for everyone else so somehow my experiences aren't valid. I'm looking for suggestions on reliable email services, this could include Google Apps Email but I'd like hear what else exists. 

You should check out this link: $URL$ it provides a matrix of what is supported in each version. Standard has many more advanced features than Web such as the edit and design tools as well as not being able to duplicate data between more than one database, though there are some free options you can use to make up for what Web lacks. 

For security reasons, we need to "lock" some of the preferences in Mozilla Firefox. We are running Windows XP and the latest version of Mozilla version 14.0.1. In particular some of the security preferences such as . If the user were to do , we would like the particular options to be greyed out so they cannot click on them. I have read that this can be done by adding the following in: 

We have run into an issue with one of our machines which keeps the GPO settings after removal from the Domain. We must connect this machine to the domain to receive updates from our WSUS Server. After running the updates, we remove the machine from the domain and reboot. However, the GPO settings are sticking after removal which prevents the machine from functioning properly. This machine is located in a closed environment. Any ideas how to rid this machine of GPOs? Running Windows 2008 R2 

The best way I learned Linux was being thrown into it. I was given a project on a non-production system which required learning many different steps both basic and advanced system administration work. From there I was able to use the wonderful world of Google to learn much of my tasking as well as reading "A Practical Guide to Fedora and Red Hat Enterprise Linux" This was one of the most helpful books I came across. Personally at this point it became what I was going to make of the learning experience. I may have spent more time than was needed to complete the project but the general point was the learning experience. This of course is my own opinioin, remember that people learn differently than others. Some can read a book and simply "get it" while others need to get their hands dirty to really learn. I highly recommend asking the individual how they best learn so you may set them up for success. You could also set him up with VMPlayer and load up a few different flavors of Linux which you may use in your area. 

We have around 300 RHEL servers that are currently connecting to a Puppetmaster server. However, we have noticed some performance bottlenecks and it is the point of failure in our system. I am fairly new to puppet in general and I am considering creating a decentralized puppet architecture instead of having Puppet clients connect to the Puppetmaster server. Aside from what I would suspect to happen such as performance gain and lack of signing and exchanging SSL certs for new machines, what are other pros and cons to setting up a decentralized architecture? 

There is a website located on this blog that was developed to test WinHTTP. The link directly to the site is here.