However, that's not to say that aerobic exercise is the only way to relieve stress. Again, from the ADAA, 

Assuming you have no physical limitations, your problem seems to be a lack of motivation. Rather than doing things you don’t like, you should find an activity that can keep your interest for a minimum of twenty minutes or more. Setting achievable goals may help with improving motivation. Ask yourself, “What do I want out of exercise?”. Once you’ve answered that question, set several small goals to help you achieve what it is you want. There are many ways to improve motivation. One of the best is to work out with a partner. Finding someone who shares the same goal(s) can add a dimension of fun and responsibility to your exercise program. Lastly, if you truly feel unmotivated, you should ask yourself why that is. The benefit you receive from regular exercise is going to be directly proportional to the effort you expend. 

There’s a myriad of exercises that you can do to train your legs and glutes with just dumbbells. However, I would caution you that changing the exercise may not alleviate your knee pain. For a change, you can try: 

What you described sounds like a case of trigger finger. It’s a pretty common overuse syndrome and may have some wrist involvement. From the Mayo Clinic... 

There’s a common perception that DOMS is a valid indicator for muscle hypertrophy, and, is a desirable goal for muscular gain. It’s generally accepted that DOMS is not caused by lactic acid build up, as was originally thought, but, actually occurs due to connective tissue micro trauma. It’s a byproduct of EIMD (Exercise Induced Muscle Damage). Exercises that emphasize the eccentric phase (lengthening or stretching of the muscle) have a more likely chance to result in DOMS. However, muscles tend to adapt to DOMS by preventing future muscle damage and soreness if the exercise is repeated in the same manner. So, even if DOMS was a valid goal (which it should not be), you would need to alter the stress placed upon the muscle (eg. Different exercises, more weight, different angles, etc.) in order to cause a DOMS reaction. Current research indicates that there is no causal relationship to assume that DOMS/EIMD is a valid indicator for muscular progress (hypertrophy). As a result, I would suggest using a different indicator for your progress. 

I think you may be under the impression that bodybuilding training is all about isolation movements. It is not. Bodybuilding training is about learning what you need to work on to sculpt the best physique you can. In a sense, you’d be an artist constantly critiquing your physique. If you need more mass on your deltoids, you perform heavy lifts for deltoids. Same for any other body part. Isolation movements typically come into play when preparing for competition. They are yet another “sculpting” tool that can be utilized to add a “finishing” touch to your physique. There’s no one “best” program to lose weight. That’s because you can’t pick and choose where it happens. If you want to pursue a specific training methodology, go ahead. But, if your eventual goal is to stand on stage, there’s no reason why you can’t adopt a bodybuilding lifestyle now. That would mean working on improving your weaknesses and watching your diet. Lastly, in the early days of bodybuilding, there were no training methodologies. Guys just went to the gym and lift heavy and ate right. Guys like Arnold, Frank Zane, and Dennis Tinnerino were able to build phenomenal physiques by constantly adjusting their training to improve their weaknesses while following a sound nutrition plan. 

(Examining Variations of Resting Metabolic Rate of Adults: A Public Health Perspective ) Bicycling, as a complimentary activity, can assist in further burning calories, as well as, providing the many benefits that can be achieved from cardio exercise. Many gyms offer various cardio equipment including bicycles. In the end, whatever path you decide, your weight loss success will be directly related to consistent work, sound nutrition (as Alec reminds us), and a long term commitment to exercise. 

There are plenty of formulas for calculating required calories. Some are even based on science. However, since every individual has different requirements based upon lifestyle, etc., I find that the best way to control and monitor calories is to become knowledgeable on serving sizes and food content. So, to answer your first question, I would not use a specific formula. Rather, I would keep a food journal that tracked the amount of calories and nutrients being consumed over a baseline period of time (say two weeks for example). With all things being equal, if you are able to maintain your current weight during that time, that should provide your maintenance calorie and nutrient totals. Now, for the second question. Having loosely calculated your maintenance calories, it's easy to make small (eg. 250 to 500 calories) adjustments to raise/lower your calorie intake based upon your goals. I would repeat this process on a regular (6 month?) basis, again, based upon your specific goals. The most important concept to grasp is do not guess at what you are consuming for nutrients. Most people guess on the low side and underestimate their calorie consumption. 

Looks like you've got a strain in your trap and rhomboid muscles as a result of a muscle imbalance. The first thing I would do is not arch my back when doing bench presses. Try keeping your legs up on the bench with your feet flat. Also, make sure you are lowering the bar to your sternum and not the upper chest. Otherwise, you may be offloading the workload to your upper shoulder/neck area. As for shoulder presses, I would not perform the press from behind my neck (if that's what you're doing) until you've worked on strengthening your traps. Try performing the shoulder press from in front of your neck. 

There are a variety of triceps exercises you can perform. However, if done incorrectly, some of them can impact shoulder problems. To lessen any potential problems, I’d suggest you warm up by doing some light shoulder stretching, and, use relatively light weight to begin. I’ll list a few, but, if they cause discomfort, you should stop immediately.