Stop that immediately. Not only does that incur a lot of legal problems for you and the company (for example you are not covered by their insurance if you are officially not working), it also sends the completely wrong signal. You are sick. Not fit for work. Saying that you might indeed be able to work nonetheless is counterproductive. It makes them think you are not really sick. You are. You got the papers to prove it. So stop working. I can understand your need to be helpful, but if you want to do that, prepare everything at work so that somebody else can pick up where you left as easy as possible. and every evening. Comment a lot. Communicate a lot while you are at work, so people know what needs to be done when you are out. You actually do have duties to your employer while you are out sick: to do everything you can to get well again as quickly as possible so you can be back at work as soon as possible. That means stop working and do whatever helps. 

I would take it as a signal that you got along well with your old employer even after you parted ways the first time. That's a good thing. If you had quit or had been fired from your current job, I would be afraid the same might happen with my company and you will be back with the old company as your fallback at the smallest problem, but a contract running out is a good reason to change employers and I cannot find anything bad about that. I would not consider it a red mark. But hiring people is not exactly hard science, other people might think different. 

There is no clear cut advantages or disadvantages. It depends. It depends on your working style, your customers, the product you sell and probably a few other things. Would you buy insurance from a guy in shorts with a nerf gun? Probably not. Would you buy a "fun app for android" from people in suits who don't look like they even know "fun" if it hit them square in the face? Probably not. The only thing actually important is: where do you want to work? Which style do you prefer? 

There is no harm in sending out applications now. Make sure you mention your starting date. You cannot know what companies consider a good starting date, but I have not heard of anyone having a blacklist for people that applied to early. Worst case, they don't hire you right now. You can always try again later. Germany As you have tagged this Germany, let me add some specifics for Germany: It's not uncommon to have 6 months notice period. It's not uncommon to take time off between jobs to do the things you'd never be able to do while employed (for example a trip to Australia). As long as you state your starting date clearly, you will be fine. As an employer, I will not get anyone earlier, simply because for the job I'm offering the people need experience. You only get experience by being employed for a long time and being employed for a long time means your employer is eager to keep you and you have a 6 months notice period. The only way to grab someone earlier is if another company goes bankrupt or the person is leaving his job for personal reasons (for example long-distance relationships that marry and move in together where one of the partners has to leave his or her city and likely employer) where his ex-employer may agree to shorten the notice period. TL;DR: Apply now. State your start date. Worst case is they pick someone else. But that's the same result as if you had not applied at all, so go for it. 

Unlawful discrimination happens when you discriminate based on an attribute that the person cannot change and that is not relevant to the job. Like Age, gender, skin color, religious belief (you could argue this, but...), disabilities etc. A language is a skill. You can learn a language if you want to. Companies are allowed to discriminate based on the fact that somebody can or cannot program in C++ and they are allowed to discriminate based on whether someone can speak a language. I see no easier test than having the job ad in said language. 

In less politically correct times, they would have asked if you have any disabilities that the company needs to prepare for. For example, do you need a ramp for a wheelchair, are you blind or deaf, do you have any other problems that you need to attend to. Maybe you are a diabetic and need to get a punctual lunch. Maybe it's not the smartest move to invite the guy with a broken leg to an interview the same day that the yearly elevator maintenance is happening. Those things. Obviously now it's "gifts" and "challenges". It's still asking if you have special needs the company needs to know about. 

"Agile" does not mean everybody manages himself. It means that the team manages the team. You need meetings where the team decides what needs to be done, you need time for the team to do it and you need meetings where the results will be presented. Make sure people estimate their own work and present this estimation. This way, they will feel honour-bound to actually get it done. A manager can tell you he needs it by friday. That's his problem. But if you said it's done by friday, it's your problem. That's a huge difference in motivation. Don't underestimate the will to not look incompetent in front of the group, even for lazy students. Managing is not easy, but from my experience, every group needs management. Because management will solve problems. As soon as people realize that your actions solve problems, you will have no problems managing the group, whether you are officially appointed or not. If your actions create problems (stereotypical would be adding work to create a status update for the manager. This solves no problems, except the managers problems) then you will not be accepted, or only accepted because external forces say so. Summary: you need management. Agile might be just right. But make it Agile. Agile is a method like any other, it's not chaos or "everybody does what he likes". Follow the methology and it might work great. Or use another. But you need management. And you need to show your group the consequences of their actions. In Agile for example, you'd have a burndown chart that would clearly read "FAIL" right now. That's something to work with. 

That depends entirely on the industry you will be working in. CS is not a field of it's own in that regard. You will always be working for someone who wants more of their manual labor optimized and replaced by more computers. And that someone will decide what the company as a whole looks like. If you employer is a bank for example, you can expect to adjust to suit and tie for everyday life, while online shops in the fashion industry are probably the other extreme. Any company will have it's own dress code, you just need to find the one that fits. 

There likely is no correct answer. The recruiter expects you to have a reason why you did it. It may be trivial like "because it was more fun" or more complicated. Any reason is a good reason, there is no right or wrong here. Explain it. The only wrong answer would be "I don't know, it just happened." Recruiters like people that know what they want. 

In addition, do not just "move" the meeting slot if people are late. If your meeting is supposed to end at 12:00, let it end at 12:00 sharp. Because if you end it late, you are the cause for the next meeting to start late with the very same problems you just described. Use time boxing for your meetings. If you are lucky, people will notice the positive effect and apply it in their meetings as well. If you make the consequences of being late visible (man hours wasted, purpose of meeting not accomplished in time) people will stop being late. 

A performance review is for performance review. It's hard to say if shakiness, flushed face and nervousness impact the employees performance. It depends. If it's Alice from Accounting, who turns red like a lobster and is terribly nervous when spoken to privately in her lunch break, then NO. This has nothing to do with her accounting job. If it's Marc from Marketing, who was a nervous wreck at the main press conference where he was to present the new product model? YES, that was not his best performance then. You will have to figure that out for yourself, depending on the job in question. 

Unless you have proven without doubt that the error is within your compiler tool chain, you should assume it's your mistake. Either in coding or in using the tools of your toolchain. 

I generally agree with Kates answer, but I'd like to add a twist: You will read everywhere that you should not talk negatively about people. So don't. If you need to pick one, think about why you had liked the other 4 better. Talk about your great teamwork with the other four and conclude that as you would really like to work with those four, you would have to pick the remaining one, even though you cannot say anything negative about him. 

Well, then you lied to them. Work history is supposed to be starting after your education, and "Ausbildung" is your education. They will probably see you in a very different light when you tell them your "work history" is actually the first two years of an apprenticeship. 

I have never been hired or not hired nor have I hired or not hired someone based on their Github profile or other OSS contribution. I do ask questions in interviews that with the skillset demonstrated on a github page should be trivial and boring. Why? Because a link to a github page proves exactly nothing. It proves you can take a file and upload it. Yes, testing a candidate is sometimes boring for a candidate. But if you are the interviewer, you sit through countless interviews where candidates cannot answer those pointlessly boring questions. And you wonder how they managed to tie their laces this morning. But they could still have a github profile. Having a github profile is nice. It's a bonus. It won't make me drop any questions. If the candidate is really that smart, the 30 minutes questioning will be done in 5 and we are both better off knowing for sure what his skill level is, instead of taking a guess based on an internet link. 

This is a letter to you personally, residing at the company. The company is not allowed to open it on your behalf without your agreement. Please note that the company secretary might not know or care and just open all correspondence. She was hired for her organisational skills, not legal. And people might not care. That still doesn't mean it's correct to open your letters. 

You should either have or get a additional contract what to do with your company phone. It should detail where you are allowed to store it, how you can use it etc. Normally, company phones are issued so you can be reached when you are out of the office, so leaving it in the office is missing the point. You need to talk to your supervisor about this. Ask him when you are expected to be on call and what the details are (reaction times, pay). If it turns out to be "just a phone" and no on-call duties ask if it's okay to leave it at the workplace when you leave for the day. If it's not okay to leave it there, just shut it down when you leave work. 

No, there is no such law and no other regulation. You can state any number you seem fitting as your expected salary in negotiations. Unlike other countries, your current salary is not a measurement of your future salary in Germany. You are not required to give your current salary to anybody. Most likely, your current contract contains a clause that makes sure you don't. Although those clauses do not hold up in court, people in Germany are used to the fact that they are not supposed to talk about their salary and most would consider it rude even to be asked. What you make now is irrelevant. The only thing that counts is what you want to make in the position discussed.