Of course, in the example above, it would be far simpler (and more efficient) to simply issue an statement that would double every employee's salary. 

You generally don't want to rely on implicit conversions of strings to dates. That only leads to pain and suffering since different users will have different date formats. Either use ANSI date literals or use the function with an explicit format mask 

That should work so long as the application isn't doing a into the table. Of course, it's a hack upon a hack so it's definitely not going to win any awards for clean code. 

You can issue multiple DDL statements in a single transaction using the command though you are limited to just the , , and statements. 

Is there a shortcut? If you're using a recent version of Oracle, you can use the procedure to estimate the size of a table. There are a couple ways of doing this. The first option is to pass in the size of the row. Using our 56 byte estimate, that yields a table size estimate of 64 MB with 63.52 MB used which is pretty close 

It is the alias used to reference the derived table. In the outer SELECT if you fully qualified the column references they would read 

The space consumption for statistics on Teradata is not significant enough to qualify as a disadvantage. For example, the statistics for a single column is retained in a 16KB VARBYTE column on DBC.TVFields The rule of thumb has always been 10% change in the data which you have statistics collected or if they are stale. Unfortunately, stale has never really been clearly defined. Teradata 14.10 will introduce a more automated mechanism for maintaining statistics to help reduce the cost (CPU and IO) associated with the collecting stats using a homegrown maintenance schedule. This enhancement will be supported through Viewpoint. Teradata 14 also introduced some changes with statistics that have to be taken into consideration from previous releases. Carrie Ballinger has done a good job of capturing these changes in her articles on the Teradata Developer Exchange found here and here. Your stats maintenance schedule will be driven by the size of your environment, your ETL schedule, and manner in which your ETL maintains the target tables. We have multiple streams that maintain the same set of large target tables. As such we have moved the stats maintenance for these target tables to an external process instead of within each ETL stream. 

Realistically, the requirement is crazy. Like all great crazy ideas, however, it is probably based on a nugget of potential reasonableness taken far out of context by people that have no understanding of the underlying rationale. It can be reasonable to design a database schema such that no values are allowed. If you do that, however, you are committing to a level of normalization where every non-required element is broken out into an separate table with an appropriate foreign-key reference back to the parent. It's not often done in practice but in cases where it makes sense to do, there can be benefits. If you are going to design a database schema such that no values are allowed, it makes no sense to allow let alone require magic values to indicate that something is unknown. That introduces all the problems that allowing values has plus it adds additional code to check for the magic values that has to get repeated all over the place. It makes no sense to develop an API that requires magic values to be passed in regardless of the database design-- if you're going to hobble your code with checks for magic values, you really ought not let that insanity propagate out to other systems. 

For constant scans there is an article here which may help explain Constant Scan in Execution Plans. The estimated number of rows is just that, an estimate. The Query Optimizer attempts to use past executions in order to guess how many rows are going to be returned by any given operation. If you're using something like a restore to practice query tuning then odds are that after your restore operation you did not perform any database maintenance. Statistics helps to determine things like estimated rows, and index maintenance will help to both intelligently query the data and provide better information for those statistics. If updating the statistics doesn't work, it's probably because there are not very many queries that have been executed against the database. Running that query a few times will give it some better information, but if the execution time is excessive other options need to be considered to help the optimizer. For making this query perform better you need look no farther than the worktable in the I/O statistics you've returned. IO Statistics is a great option for getting an idea of how much processing you're really doing on your data. The work table shown here means that the optimizer is saving the dataset then reviewing it multiple times. This can be reduced drastically by condensing the three subqueries shown here into one statement as follows. 

There are a multitude of factors that go into determining which Teradata platform and the configuration of the platform that will suite your needs. Teradata has spent untold amounts of money on intellectual property and decades of experience working with potential customers to help them properly size a configuration that not only meets the immediate needs of a customer but provides them capacity for which the environment can adequately grow and evolve. I would strongly suggest you reach out to Teradata directly and engage them in a pre-sales capacity if your company is considering their technology to meet the needs of your data warehouse environment. For a sandbox environment, you could may be able to get away with using the one terabyte version of Teradata Express on an adequately sized server or consider using Amazon EC2 to stand up a instance of Teradata to complete a proof of concept. It should be noted that either of these options should not be used to gauge the performance of a production environment for service level agreements but whether or not the technology will accomplish what you are trying to do. 

But how big is the actual table? The most common measure is to look at the size of the segment which is 72 MB. 

Depending on the version of Oracle and whether you have the appropriate privileges (FLASHBACK ANY TABLE) and if the change was relatively recent, 

I'm reasonably confident that there is no optimization in the Oracle client libraries for repeating data. If it is, it's below the SQL*Net trace layer which would surprise me. There are definitely cases where it could make sense to do the join in the app server rather than in the database. But it would be exceedingly rare that you'd have a table structure like this where you would also want to display the result of joining A to B to the user. If you don't want to display the data to the user, you'd just make sure that the results were being processed in the database so that neither A nor B had to be sent over the network. I have had one or two cases where I needed to get highly denormalized results to a client where it made sense to use the CURSOR function rather than doing a straight join solely in an effort to minimize the amount of data being sent over the network. Of course, that requires that you're selecting a substantial amount of data from table A (DEPT in this case) so that the duplication of data actually becomes problematic. 

Teradata's optimizer quite possibly will re-write Method 3 to the same query plan as Method 2. Method 1 will result in an INNER JOIN because the qualification on the table shouldn't be in the WHERE clause but the ON clause of the condition. If you were to place an aggregate step such as a DISTINCT or GROUP BY in the derived table of Method 3 you will find the optimizer will likely satisfy the derived table as an individual step without re-writing the plan. I would suggest that you run the EXPLAIN for each query and compare the output. 

Most data models are lacking in a good DATE Dimension and thus force developers and report developers to rely on date arithmetic to find date boundaries that are relevant to the business model. (Fiscal Year, Fiscal Quarter, Fiscal Period, Calendar Quarter, etc.) A good CALENDAR table would go a long way to making your life easier. A simple EventDate BETWEEN SYSDATE - 458 and SYSDATE risks truncating dates out of your oldest quarter. Take TODAY as an example: SYSDATE - 458 yields 2010-09-28. If my math is correct the 3rd Quarter of 2010 started on July 1, 2010. You need roughly 548 days to make sure you are covering the entire range of current quarter plus the previous four full quarters. Trouble is that when you this will cause some overlap as your current quarter is partially complete. So you are faced with some additional logic to truncate out the fifth oldest quarter that you don't wish to include. My PL/SQL isn't the sharpest right now to write that logic but I hope the explanation helps shed some light on the approach you will need to take. 

SQL Server will never ever ever give back any memory that it uses unless pressure is exerted on the service by the operating system. It's designed that way intentionally to do as much processing in memory as possible to prevent disk I/O. In the comments above there's a linked article to A Sysadmin’s Guide to Microsoft SQL Server Memory which contains some good information explaining the specific use cases and behavior that you can expect. Generally though it's best to remember that the structure of data held in the SQL buffer cache is based on performance, not resource conservation. Make sure your maximum memory is set appropriately for your environment and needs. If you are running SQL Server in a virtual environment where you are trying to reduce the amount of memory on an ongoing basis then you will need to use a balloon driver or other utility to exert memory pressure on the instance. For performance purposes if you are seeing a sudden flood of complaints it's possible that the SQL instance is running out of memory and is paging to disk, which will result in a very significant performance hit. There are multiple recommendations, but my personal preference is to not use a page file at all which will result in certain crash dumps not being returned in the event of a windows fault.