My belief is you have every right to formally report any behavior to HR that gives you reason to be treated unequally or that seems out of order in relation to company rules. Checking his time account is a responsibility for HR. The fact that you used your heightened credentials is a breach of confidentiality and I would guarantee it would have consequences. As stated in 1. you have the right to formally report something. However this does not make you the person to judge or take action. Also it's none of your business anymore once the incident has been reported. 

I'm unsure whether other reactions are originating from a different culture but here are my thoughts from Dutch soil, which is closely related to Germany in terms of employment. 

The age issue is totally irrelevant. The boss in question made this offhand comment .. "There's grown adults here making less than that." Again it's just an offhand comment - it means nothing. That person could have made any of a zillion offhand comments about how they don't want to pay you more. It's just negotiation. What you have to do now is learn to negotiate hard. It sounds like you're on your way to a successful life, so this is a fantastic opportunity to learn this lesson. And there's only one thing you need to know about negotiation. You have to be prepared to walk away. If so, you have all the power. Here's all the language you need: 

I recently got hired in a company as an information security specialist who should find vulnerabilities and send recommendations to the IT team so they can fix it. X is a member of the IT Team and he is the only responsible for Networking which makes him my only interface to do changes in the network so he is the only one who can give network architectures and other stuff, But X is an arrogant person who wants to always feel superior because of his experience in the enterprise and he doesn't want to accept recommendations from anyone, especially from the young fresh recruit. 

"Bosses are great!" You mention you've already "asked for advice". But wait. Have you really expressed to your Bosses, everything as clearly as you put it in this QA? Make a couple notes on an index card, get two minutes of your boss' time, and REALLY explain your situation. Discussion tip, always ask questions - what would you do boss, were you ever in this situation, have you had other staff like this, what should we do next etc. Bosses are great and will do a lot for you, but you have to really get in front of them. This might sound granola but I would actually go see a counsellor or therapist. (Naturally, btw, have your company pay for that.) The fact that you say "feeling vastly overwhelmed..." is a red flag. (I mean - you're only making software. What's the big deal?) Top sportspeople have a team of sports psychologists as well as physical specialists. Anyone who works with their mind - and software is the ultimate - commonly needs counseling. "feeling vastly overwhelmed..." is definitely a red flag - go do it, you'll love it. 

I hate working in my company, the managers were really stressful and the environment was really dark so i had some problems with them: once the manager started yelling at me for no reason, the scheduling is always overloaded and with such environment i couldn't work properly but i have tried my best, the salary is weak, the type of work is bad, when i leave after finishing my 8 hours they tell me that they are not happy with it, ... So i have started searching for a new job and i found one in a big operator, unfortunately the manager figured out where i was going and they blocked my candidature (it doesn't matter how i knew, but i am 100% sure). And now i got recently hired by another company, i have signed the contract and i will start working next month. They gave me a form that includes a field "contacts of your previous bosses" and i preferred to not fill these fields because the company that i was working with is hell and it's bosses are so mean that they could do anything nonhuman to make you suffer because you decided to quit. 

Now that the school part of your life is over, nobody much cares any more about your academic (or even in a way technical) skills. You'll either be wealthy or not in 10 years due to, in a word, your "business skills" or perhaps "business sense". The primary ingredient in that is: communication skills. I'd encourage you, particularly, to go to as many interviews as possible, each one of which will vastly improve your skills and experience in that area. 

Couldn't be simpler. Do you think for half a second he'd waste time thinking about ......... anything else? No, he'd say the sentences above. You can too! 

so they told me "this is a formality that should be done, you can write us a mail telling the reason why you don't want us to contact them now and may be we will ask them a month after" what should i do , i am confused ? Thanks 

After that they called me asking for the contacts , so i tried explaining that my boss tried questioning me many times to know where i was going and i didn't wanted to answer until i got fed up and told him that i am going to study in Europe so it wouldn't be a good idea to contact them and ask them about me. this could influence their behavior with me and they could not give me my last month's payment i told them also that this company already did cancel my friend's application in another company (but as i told you this really happened to me) 

It's not even worth going in to the details. Stating that a "one-man, whim" type of startup is a fiasco, is as obvious as stating that apps flop, politicians lie or hookers charge money. Just walk away. Over and over, explain politely that you honestly feel he is just wasting his money, and you honestly don't want to take part in that. And leave it at that. It's only 8am in Cali. as of writing, you'll have a new gig by lunchtime. The guy won't even remember you in 120 seconds, he'll be on to some other completely confused business "venture". 

You may be thinking, "oh if I learn to say 'I'm busy' like that damned guy suggested on the SO site, they might sack me..." So, that's inconceivable. But in today's market, if it happened, after you had a giggle you'd have a new job in a half-hour. Indeed, you'll have your choice of new jobs in a half-hour. Without trying to be deep, if you think about it the only thing your post is about, OP, is "fear". Without trying to sound like a Richard Bach book, everything you are describing - all the pain and annoyance - amounts to fear of being sacked if you say "I'm busy". Just let go of all fear and say "I'm busy". Your total outlook on the job will likely change: you'll find yourself intensely and enjoyable working on the task at hand. All of the noise will just become background noise. Enjoy. 

my superior (who is a nice woman) says that he is nice guy but he always do this and we should accept him as he is and talk to him carefully. I am capable of attacking him when he does this but as a new recruit i don't want to make trouble. I want to find a solution with a minimum damage.I think that either i go hard on him when he does this or i be nice to him till i get the information that i want. what is the best solution ? Edit i think that everybody here thinks that i am a young kid that doesn't know a thing about professionalism. I have one year of work experience and i know a lot about co-workers relations. As i said this man doesn't only do this to me but to my boss (the information security officer) too and to all other workers who want need something from him so don't try to put the blame on me, i am the one who need help here not him ! 

The one and only way to negotiate is to be able to walk. It's AAA+ fantastic that you had another offer. But, imagine if you had 3, or 4, companies all ready to hire you. Your position would be incredibly strong. Your story is a "success story" based on the dictum, "The one and only way to negotiate is to be able to walk". After your nice success, you'll probably be telling people that having even more counterops would be even better again. Enjoy! 

The phone call is fun and interesting and you learn what's up in the industry. Keep it brief. You should have a hot cv on hand at all times. Just click the button and send it to them. (If you don't have a hot cv on hand, you should - so it's good "motivation" to keep that organized.)