I bought a riser bar (Easton EA30) and I want to buy grips and brake levers to put on it. I know the clamp diameter is 31.8mm, but how do I figure out the bar end diameter? I don't have a caliper to measure it and it's not written anywhere (box, instructions manual, ...). As suggested by one of the answer, the grip size is likely going to be 22.2 What makes me not sure is the fact that Easton (the same manifacturer of the bar) only sells grips of size 30 and 33 (Ref: $URL$ 

In fact, using a cloth to wipe clean the bike dirt are quite eco-friendly. You might use less water if doing it properly. It also reduce the risk of splashing water into bearing,etc. For heavy dirt like mud, first use gardening spray lightly spray to wet up dirt in order to remove them. Just be careful when dumping the waste water, toilet bowl is a good idea compare to bathtub drain. For greasy part, spray grease removal/solvent and use paper towel instead of cloth. Don't feel bad about "saving the tree" on the paper towel. Though cloth are "reusable" ,you will waste water and pouring those greasy dirt into your drainage, which is more harmful to the environment. 

I suspect the specs on the track hubs refer to the lockring threading instead, because that's the only measure I can find through a Google search that actually corresponds, see $URL$ If I am right and that's the case, what's the threading on the track hub I should assume for the actual cog? 

Notice I am assuming the size of the frame and height of the rider is fixed here, so I am only talking about the lenght of the seatpost that's hidden inside the frame. The only thing I could think about is that a longer seatpost is subject to less torque. 

Stationary stand on the pedal to lighten a bump is a different story. While standing to pedal yourself up to the hill is a bad idea. Sheldon brown has write something about Standing while Cycling and how to fix it or avoid it. Putting too much pressure on the knee is how people getting sport injuries from bicycling. I just want to add one more point : knee injuries are difficult to heal. The knee Meniscus are not renewable. You need to checkout explicit instruction to train to use the muscle and tendon around the knee. 

from $URL$ However, in most other cases, the compatibility is not specified. Should I assume 7x9 is compatible by default with any seatpost or not? Edit Follow-up Note: I happened to notice that some manifacturers offer the options of clamps for different size of rails, this is from the Thomson page, for example: This seems to suggest that there is some difference between the clamps I have to pick. 

I am about to buy a new seatpost and I am wondering what's the ideal length. The one I have now is 33cm long, even though it only sticks out of 10cm from the frame (measured from the seat collar to the saddle rail). Because of that, I thought a 25cm seatpost would be a better match and I would save in weight. The question is: 

Under suboptimal condition, tyre will lost traction and slide even under slow walking speed (4km/h) when you apply brakes. Ironically, you need to release the brake in order to regain traction, quickly re-apply it to slow down. And this is how Anti-lock Braking System(ABS) works. Few people are trained to deal with rear wheel slide : most of us went panic and apply the front brake, cause both wheel locked up and the weight shift just throw us out. Unfortunately, "ABS simulation" is not an easy skill to acquired. What we can do is slow down to walking speed to reduce the impact damage. 

If the chain is too long then in some gear combinations (e.g. small/small) there will not be enough capacity in the dérailleur to pick up all the slack, so the chain will be loose. At an extreme case, the chain could sag and come into contact with the chainstay. If the chain is too short then in some gear combinations (e.g. big/big) there will not be enough chain to span both gears and go through the dérailleur. In this case it might not be possible to change to this gear, or doing so could damage the rear mech/mech hanger. In a bike with rear suspension, there also needs to be sufficient extra chain to compensate for chain growth when the suspension compresses. Running too short a chain could mean shifting to big/big is possible, but compressing the suspension when in this gear damages the rear mech/mech hanger. Typically there will be a range of chain lengths in which the gears will function correctly and if the chain is only a little too short/long problems would only become apparent in poor combinations such as big/big and small/small 

Since you mentioned fast and comfort, it seems a mid-drive motor pedelec ebike fit you requirements. It also help you to train and maintain your cadence. 

Grease itself does has various characteristic depends on application. Unless you are going to submerge your bicycle and keep cycling, otherwise general purpose grease will do the job. Just a plain copy and paste : 

Material fatique does happens, it is not caused by time, but due to excessive stress on usage, and/or manufacturing process and/or design fault. If all done under optimal condition, no over stress(e.g. a 120kg person ride it without suspension and under inflate tyre), a aluminium bicycle may last forever. A bang, a fall, can generate impact that stress the frame weak point. If you are not using it for long time, then the stress is little to none, discounting the stress from introduced from bolts/screw/welding joints/mounting temperature contraction/expansion. If you search around stackexchange on the same topics, there is advice that you don't put your bike under the snow : i.e. a concern about welding material contraction different than the frame. But this shouldn't be an issue as long as you didn't move the bike from very cold place to very warm place (i.e., temperature different ~ 20 degree Celsius). Consumer association with loaded funds, such as the German Stifftung Warentest, does indeed test consumer bicycle from time to time, especially for Ebike, due to ebikes are more susceptible to weight stress (the additional motor and battery weight). As some report I read, in 2013, series of ebikes are not satisfied due to the stress test. However, in 2016, many pass the stress test, with exceptional of one bike that with a cracked aluminium seatpost. So it is all about how the manufacture learn to build the bike better. In addition, it is a myth that titanium will fair better when put on stress : it is all about manufacturing process and design. 

On some full suspension mountain bikes some of the pivot/linkage bolts can be reverse threaded. Manufacturer dependant though. 

As I was changing a set of brake pads today, I was reminded of this question and realised that there is a safe way to change the pads and reset the pistons without removing the wheel and that is to unbolt the brake calliper from the fork/frame, reset the pistons and then bolt it back on. How much hassle this is will depend on the mount required to fit your calliper. If the rotor size/calliper mount is such that the calliper bolts directly to the fork/frame without any adaptor, it should be relatively easy. When remounting the calliper you'll have to re-adjust it to be centred around the disk, but you might have to do this after changing the pads anyway. However, I do think removing the wheel is the simplest and easiest way to do this. 

About the "metal deteriorate issues" - A proper maintain steel frame will not rust. Lube and oil them, you will never see the oxidisation - Alluminium "rust" will stop when oxidation form on the outer layer. In addition, steel frame WILL NOT rust, if you maintain it properly. 

Compare to a torque wrench, Bicycle torque sensing are quite tricky. Checkout wikipedia torque sensor Torque sensor need good material QC, electrical measurement component and good sensor, AKA : expensive. And it is difficult to make a DIY kit to install it properly. But the benefit is a direct feed to your motor, increase output when torque feedback are high = smooth pedal assist, save power when low torque sensed. Pedelec that use torque sensor will also use speed sensor to cut off the motor when it reach the "legal limit". OTH, speed/cadence sensing is much easier, you just need a simple feed : use a magnet or reflector to measure the gap and timing. So it works reverse : power always on, power cut off when the speed goes above the limit. "Power assistant output level" is pretty important here to save the energy.