Is it true that has a rule, a language where subject and object aren't explicately marked will always have SVO or OVS order? I've been thinking that it may be possible to get away with having no marking for subject/direct object in a verb-final language. Well, one that relies heavily on coverbs anyway. Just to demonstrate my point, I was thinking of a 'primitive' conlang that had a lot of unusual features. One of them being complete lack of any sort of abstract 'grammatical' particles. Every verb in the language is a coverb that can only take ONE argument (typically a direct object). A 'subject' may stand alone at the start of a sentence, though some intransitives can take an agent as its only object (the language has ergative alignment). Of course, my conlang isn't meant to be spoken by modern people. Its my own speculation on what an early proto-language may have looked like. I figured a language like this would be the next stage after an 'improvised' grammar that relied solely on an agentivity heirarchy (like a direct-inverse language) to differentiate subject from object. Simply a single hominid may realize that it could guess which role an object performed in an event based purely on what it is. It wouldn't be 100% reliable of course, but it would serve some benefit that individual to be able to decipher everyone else's babbling with some amount of certainty. Anyway, I diverged a bit. But I was wondering if there was any known language that demonstrated zero-marking with either a verb final or verb initial order? 

This is something I was just trying to study, but can't seem to find much information online. In a nom-abs, or 'marked nominative' language, the nominative case is more marked than the direct object. For example, in Icelandic masculine nouns take -ur in the nominative case, but the direct object has a null ending. Obviously, the nominative is still used for intransitive verbs, otherwise it would probably be called an ergative language. But do nom-abs languages work somehow differently from nom-acc languages, where the accusative is at least as marked as the nominative? I believe I read somewhere, long ago, about marked nominative languages that this system does offer some kind of practical advantage in certain circumstances, but I have no idea where I read that or how it claimed that this could be beneficial. 

There's a lot of rare phones. Its well-known that many phones are more common than others. I should note though that there are none that are universal. No one really knows the reason for this, just that it exists. There's speculation that it may be because some phones are easier to pronounce than others, but this is an argument you mostly see in the auxlang community. Still, it may explain why some phones are virtually universal (the sounds m p t and k occur in over 90% of languages each) while others are rare or in a few cases unattested (there is no documented language that has a lateral alveolar trill). Linguistics in general is more of an analytic study. We study how languages work, but there's little effort being put into why languages work the way they do. Its also unknown why most languages on this planet are subject/agent first. Or why grammar changes over time (its pretty well understand how sound change works, but little is known about how grammar changes). Similarly, we don't know why there's such a discrepancy in how common specific phones are. For all we know it may just be happenstance. There are trends though. For instance, front vowels are normally un-rounded while back vowels are rounded. Rounded front vowels and un-rounded back vowels are rare. As a matter of fact, the 'u' sound (a high back rounded vowel) is the most common phone on earth, while its un-rounded counterpart is the rarest. Non-sibilant fricatives (like รฐ) are also quite rare. Humans also seem to lean away from consonant clusters (languages seem to prefer simpler syllable structures overall, even if the language allows some rather elaborate consonant clusters). Also, all languages have at least one voiceless plosive. There is no other place of articulation that is universal. I guess it could be said there really is no answer to this. We can find patterns behind things like this, but we just don't know what causes these patterns. 

I've read that languages with the same word order often have similarities, even if they're not related, purely because some grammatical features will force a language to use others. For instance, if a language doesn't indicate case, it'll be forced into a verb-medial order (SVO or OVS) to differentiate subject from object. What I'm finding annoying is I can't find anything like this for verb-final languages. The only other language I know to any extent is German. I have tried to learn Japanese in the past, and more recently Korean, but I never got that far with either. I also find it annoying that you can't just find lists of grammatical features languages can have. Everything I can find just goes into excessive detail about one specific language rather than giving a general overview of languages that fall into specific categories. Japanese is pro-drop, and its common to leave out most noun phrases. Japanese tend to just leave it to the listener to fill in the gaps. That doesn't mean they never specify subjects and objects, they just don't bother to repeat them once they're introduced. And of course Japanese is topic-prominent, so its normal to assume that every sentence has the same topic until another is specified. But are all SOV languages like this? Personally, I find it annoying that you have to work your way through all the noun phrases before you get to the verb, which does most of the work in determining the role of everything in the sentence really; i.e. you can't figure out what happened to the direct object until you get to the verb. The only 'universals' I know of is they tend to be head-final and post-positional. That's it. Like I said, I don't know one myself to any degree (and yes, I know German sometimes uses SOV, but its primarily SVO, well unless maybe you count sentences with auxiliary verbs). 

As we know, most German vowels have a 'tense' (or long) pronunciation and a 'lax' (or short) pronunciation. Most of the time, which pronunciation should be used can be determined by the context that that vowel appears in. Long vowels are doubled, followed by an H, or followed by a single consonant. Short vowels are followed by more than one consonant. E is pronounced short at the end of a word. Of course, exceptions to this exist. In 'regnen' and 'Mund', the stem vowel is pronounced long even though the rules say it should be short. But I was just thinking: are there any minimal pairs for the lax/tense distinction? The German wikipedia article mentions spuken vs spucken. But all the other minimal pairs it mentions are for consonants. There is of course the Mann vs man distinction, but I can't think of any others. If there isn't minimal pairs for a vowel's lax/tense pronounciations, then why would they be considered separate phonemes? Without minimal pairs, they would be more akin to allophones, minus the fact that Germans are actually aware of the differences in pronunciation like they are for the different pronunciations of CH. German even has names for the two sounds of CH: the 'ich-laut' and the 'ach-laut' (Laut means 'sound'). 

I saw it on a game of dota 2 I found on youtube. Note that 'meepo' is the name of a character in the game. I don't believe I've ever seen a language like this, though 'ebst' looks Germanic to me. Everyone else in the game spoke English, so I'm guessing the person must be playing in a region where he would be on the American servers (which includes South America, I think). 

Yes we have, in English. Our prepositions used to be an open class (its why we have so many). New prepositions were derived using the suffixes a- be- de- and a fourth one I can't seem to recall nor find right now. So yes, it can happen. I admit though, I have no idea why it happened in English. All I know is that it did. Though come to think of it, the same thing may be happening to Chinese's pronouns. Thanks to communism, they've done away with their old system of pronouns, which relied heavily on their honorific system. Now there's only one word for I, one for we, etc... The older system is only still remembered because its used to stories taking place in the past, just for the sake or historical accuracy. 

Thinking about Esperanto's case system, if I saw that in a natural language, I would think it was rather odd. Esperanto only has two cases: accusative and non-accusative. The non-accusative, on is own, is a subject form, while the accusative is a direct object. With prepositions, either of these cases can be used. The non-accusative form is the default form used with preopositions, while the accusative form is used to indicate motion. For such prepositions, the non-accusative is used to indicate location. Example: en domo: in a house en domon: into a house This feature is of course not that unusual. German uses its accusative and dative cases the same way (though some prepositions always use one and never the other, you have to memorize which case each preposition calls for). The odd thing is that the language only has 2 cases. I have a hard time imagining how such a system could develop. Languages with such minimal case systems develop out of languages with more elaborate case systems. Over time, the various cases merge and you end up with a language that for some reason has a small number of surprisingly versatile cases. In the case of German, the reason they use the accusative for destination and dative for location is because these two cases merged with two other cases called lative and locative respectively. But imagining something like this happening with Esperanto is difficult. Why would the dative fuse with the nominative? There are languages with two-case systems, but the only ones I'm familiar with have one case for subjects and direct objects, and a second that doubles as a dative and possessive case. Is there really any natural language out there that uses a case system just like Espernato's? 

I'm not 100% sure of the proper terminology here, so I'm just using the one used in the LCK. What I mean by a sentential argument is an argument that is a sentence rather than a noun phrase. Case in point: 'That people still read that book annoys me'. Here, the 'subject' is an entire sentence complete with its own objects: "(that) people still read that book". But how do languages that mark nouns for case deal with this? You obviously can't apply a case ending to an entire sentence. Yes, I know some languages, like German, don't mark case on the noun itself, but what about languages that do? 

One nation came up with an order for their characters that ordered them going from back to front in regards to place of articulation (note that the k- syllables are listed before the other consonants). Most if not everyone in the east ended up using that order rather than coming up with their own. Its kind of like how the order of our alphabet was borrowed from the Greeks. They listed the letters based off of how frequently they were used. Also note that they came up with this order thousands of years ago. Its why the order looks so random and has no logical pattern to it. 

I've been thinking about how a people who speak a language without rhotics would perceive a rhotic sound. Obviously of course, this would depend on exactly which rhotic we're talking about. I thought about making this question about rhotics specifically, but I think it would probably be more beneficial to talk about how languages deal with foreign phonemes in general. From my experience, they typically just replace it with a native phoneme that overlaps with the foreign phoneme in how its pronounced. For instance, words with the voiceless velar fricative often have that phoneme replaced with the voiceless velar plosive in English. This can be seen in how the word 'loch' as in 'loch ness' is often pronounced, at least in the US. I've also seen languages that replace an 'f' sound with a 'p' sound. Humans seem to perceive alien fricatives as sounding as plosives. I have noticed that most Americans can't hear the difference between x and k, or a voiceless palatal fricative versus a voiceless post-alveolar palatal fricative (I personally can't understand how someone could fail to hear the difference between those two, but its surprisingly common). But some rhotics belong to unusual parts of speech. There's the alveolar flap for instance, and the alveolar trill. How do languages deal with phonemes that are part of a manner of articulation their language simply doesn't have? Personally, I suspect the most common replacements for an alveolar flap would be an alveolar approximant or plosive. They might perceive it as being somewhere between say 'l' and 'd'. And of course there's the extremely rare English 'r' sound. European languages just replace it with their own rhotic, obviously. But what about non indo-european languages that lack a rhotic? The only non IE language I know is Japanese, which does have a rhotic (a lateral alveolar flap, ironnically). The only 'manner of articulation' I've seen any language deal with are nasals, which people seem to like to replace with voiced stops (which makes pretty obvious sense). 

Some have speculated that a language spoken by an aquatic species would probably rely more on tone than phonemes. Also, lower-pitched sounds carry further through water than high-pitched ones. Whales can actually hear each other's calls from opposite sides of an ocean, at least the low-pitched ones. Though it would appear that only larger things like whales can produce sounds loud enough to be heard across the ocean. High frequencies are better for sonar though. Thus an aquatic species that had a highly tonal language may use high pitch for questions, because higher pitches give them more detail about things around them, so they may associate it with the desire to know something. Also, if they could produce infra-sound, then language diversity may be lower due to the increased range at which two individuals can talk to each other. It would be like everyone had cell phones as part of their natural anatomy. Essentially, they could form a question by singing in a different octave. In general, phonemes as we know them may not exist. We generate sound by exhaling airwhile changing the position and shape of our tongue to alter the resulting sound. This probably wouldn't work as well in water. Things that do generate sound underwater often use methods other than vocal chords. Also, to have a highly advanced brain, the species would need to breathe air. Water simply doesn't have enough oxygen in it to support a complex brain. Its why fish are incredibly stupid and mostly only aquatic mammals are intelligent. Though that doesn't mean they need to be an aquatic mammal. Some fish do have the ability to breathe dry air. But its mostly fresh-water species that often find themselves trapped in small lakes as the river systems dry up during summer (you see species like this throughout the amazon). So an aquatic species that was intelligent would need to breathe air regularly, even if they never had a land-based ancestor. 

If you're looking for a translation, you're probably better off going to a forum dedicated to the language. You can find sub-forums for dozens of languages on unilang and wordreference. Even if you don't know what language it is, I imagine someone who speaks Hindi would at least be more familiar with the Devanagari script and be more able to pinpoint exactly what language is it. 

Because, historically, when Hangul was first created, they did represent diphthong sounds. But over time, sounds changed and many evolved either into either new monophthongs or approximant+vowel pairs. The naming is outdated, obviously, but its still used obviously. Probably because, like people have said, the characters are all combinations of two vowel symbols. 

The fictional language Flaidish has this feature. But I recently found out about a natural language (Mixtec) where the present isn't the base form of a verb, its the future tense. I found this surprising. Flaidish is of course fictional, but I never thought that there would be a natlang where the simplest tense wasn't the present. Though in Mixtec's case, many verbs are identical in the present and future tense (though not all). In most languages of course, the other tenses are at least as complex as the present tense, if not more so (note how in English, past tense is marked with -ed or a stem change, while the present is mostly just the bare infinite, plus MAYBE the third person singular ending -s).