Russian always re-writes foreign words in such a way so that the new spelling to reflect its pronounciation according the Russian reading rules not dependent on the language of origin. At most it can preserve some spelling exceptions where different variants of spelling lead to the same reading, such as starting a word with я- or йа-, ё- or йо-, where the both variants are read the same, but one is more often to be met in foreign words. So, if a Bulgarian name is read differently than would a Russian speaker read looking at its original spelling (or contains non-Russian letters), it gets re-written. Note that even Russian slang or contracted words are likely to be written according to their pronounciation rather than etymology. 

In most Indo-European languages the forms of the verb "to be" had developed from at least two stems. bheua̯ti "develops into, becomes" e̯esti "is" 

Interestingly, in PIE we have: mee̯dos measure, treatment mee̯dodics who gives advice, medic ( dictis = instruction ) mee̯dhi̯os middle me̯trom lenghth, measure unit 

In PIE such construction would be conducted with a word, consisting of the root a̯ei̯- "always, ever, constant, the same" and a interrogative pronoun, like q̆oteros "which", with a suffix -i to form adverb (formerly, locative case): a̯i̯q̆oteri - either of the two (the English word either origins exactly this way, via Old English æghwæðer) a̯i̯q̆ea̯li - of whatever sort, equally etc. A̯i̯q̆oteri tua̯ pnta̯oi̯ e̯eisi u̯ici bheue̯si. - Either road you go, you will reach the village. Note that English word "whatever" also produced from the same roots: q̆od "who" + a̯ei̯- "always". 

One such feature is high divergence between the spelling and pronounciation as seen for instance, in English and French. 

In addition to the answer by Netch I would give some other examples of words whose equivalent does not exist in Russian: 

This is an expected consequence of creolization. English became a creole language due to Normann conquest, and it is expected process for creoles to lose cases. 

I wonder what is the etymology of the word sport. Vasmer says that it is from disport "amusement", a contraction from Middle English disporten from Old French desporter "to take away", "to distract from the work". But Starostin's Starling gives another etymology: Eng. sport < Old Eng. spyrd, Goth. spɔrd-s "racing" < Proto-Germ. *spurd < PIE *sperdh- "run competition" It gives as cognates Hittite ispart-, Avest. sparǝr- Old Indic -spūrdhán, spárdhate "competition" So who is correct? Note also that Vasmer connects Russian spor "dispute" to Avest pǝrǝt- and Old Indic pŕ̥tanā "struggle" so that the s- in PIE *sperdh- could be s-mobile. Also take into account the root *per- meaning "first", "in front", "against" and Proto-Slavic perdъ "before, in front of" < PIE *per-dʰ-o. 

The etymology of Slavic root is also unclear. Vasmer writes that Greek sources give the following versions of the names of Slavic princes: ᾽Αρδάγαστος, ᾽Αρδαμέρι, which are evidently the versions of Slavic names Radogostь "happy with guests" and Radoměrь respectively. This hints the root had something before the r-. Some link it to Greek root ἔρως "love" which in turn also has obscure etymology. If this theory wrong, then possible cognates (according to Vasmer) are Anglo-Saxon rǿtu "joy" and Old Islandic rǿtask. Note by the way, that PIE prohibited roots starting with r- altogether, a rule about which Vasmer (and Pokorny) could not know. 

English has: noun, pronoun, adjective, verb, adverb, preposition, conjunction, interjection, particle (yes, no, to), article. English has several forms of verb that can be considered parts of speech depending on viewpoint: present participle, past participle, gerund. Russian does not have articles, but has participle and transgressive. Both described as a form of a verb in English Wikipedia (English also has participles), but in Russian linguistics they are considered separate parts of speech. German language has another form of verb, known as "inflective". This can also be viewed as a separate part of speech depending on viewpoint. In Russian such words are considered interjections. Some languages (including English and Latin) have clitics, which are sometimes classified as parts of speech, but I prefer to count them as parts or word (morphemes) that come after ending (prefix(es)-root-suffix(es)-ending-clitic). In Russian clitics (-де) are classified as particles. 

Italian strano and Russian stranno, both meaning "strange" and totally unrelated. The English word "strange" is related to Italian one. 

Pronounciation is 100% known only for words whose sound was recorded. So all words for seasons about whose pronounciation we can be confident were used not earlier than mid-19th century when phonograph was introduced. 

All branches show in their most ancient form either SOV order or its traces. That said, the PIE had SOV word order as the default(unmarked) but being a highly inflective language its word order was mostly free. 

It comes is from PIE forms a̯ed meaning "to" and ğemtus meaning "act of coming" (root ğem-, it is also the source for English word "come") 

We have in PIE: e̯eitr way, pedestrian road e̯imos road e̯iera̯ year e̯eiti goes e̯iteros other, another, next I wonder whether the word for "one" e̯oinos alone, separated connected to the above? Note that the PIE word e̯oinos had clear meaning of "one alone", "one separated" contrasted with another word for "one", som which meant "united", "one together". There was also word for "thus", "ergo", "it follows that" which confusingly Mallory gives as e̯ita̯ while Beekes gives as e̯ei and analyses as locative case of pronoun e̯e "that". 

Some Russian linguists thus consider it a separate, "Numerative" case, which has special morphological forms for many units of measurement, soldier troop types, paired items and some vegetables. I think, in English this usage also can be considered a morphological case, even though English is usually considered not having morphological cases in nouns. 

Leiden school are people who propose some strict rules for PIE and strictly adhere to them. Strict root structure, no vowels except /o/ and /e/, three laryngeals etc. Their opponents are those conservatives who either skeptic about some of the Leiden rules or those who supports more loose rules (for instance, vowel /a/ in borrowed words, 4 laryngeals, some roots with two vowels etc). In short, Leiden is for extensive, numerous, strict, regular rules, their opponents are for less rules and more exceptions. 

Russian does not use "Oxford comma". It is considered a mistake. You can put a comma before "and" but only if it connects two phrases. If Oxford comma were allowed, it would create ambiguity (unlike English where it in fact disambiguates sometimes). We also do not put a comma before the expression equivalent of "etc" because in Russian it is a contraction of "and so forth", "и т. д.", something like "and s. f.". 

I can tell you that when I read professional linguistic literature, I usually face with ad-hoc transcription systems, without any proper description. The professional comparative linguists even when dealing with Russian that contrasts the two, often use "j" where there is no such sound! For instance, I often see things like "bjelo" when dealing with Russian, even though this field requires precision in depiction of phonemes! Below is an excerpt from Fortson's "Indo-European language and culture". All listed words are supposed to be Russian and used to analyze sound changes: But what??? How does he indicate palatalization? In multiple different ways! At the end of the words he uses apostrophe, except the word kakoj where he does not indicate it at all. In the middle of the words he either uses "j" in words that do not have this sound (knjaz', desjat') or simply does not indicate palatalization at all (čtenie has all 3 consonants palatalized, but it is not indicated by Fortson, dennica has 2 palatalized consonants, d and n). In word desjat' all 3 consonants are palatalized, but Fortson does not indicate palatalization at all in the first case, uses "j" in the second case and apostrophe in the third case. Three different methods in one word! How one can arrive at precise reconstruction of an ancient language if he does not distinguish different consonants in a living, widespread language, where these differences are phonemic and etymologically determined?! 

In some cases it can use capitalization with words like "President", "God", "Motherland" and some others to indicate definiteness. 

The origin of the English word for sin is believed to originate either directly (through e̯sentia̯, the existing, real) or through early borrowing from Latin from Proto-Indo-European e̯esonti "are" with "-ont" being a common present plural 3rd person verb suffix in PIE, from the basic verb e̯esti "is". 

What is the etymology of the names of the kings from the Iliad? Besides these two, I would be also interested in the etymology of the names of the other heroes from the book, such as Hector and Paris. Am I correct that Hector shares etymology with the word "sector", that is the one who cuts/strikes?