Axle diameter. 10mm is the standard, but you'll also find models designed for 9.5mm (3/8") and 14mm axles on BMX bikes. Dropout thickness. This is the thickness of the metal plate comprising the dropout when looked at end-on. The tensioner cups the ends of the dropout, so must be large enough to fit over them. Steel dropouts are typically 5mm thick, while aluminum frames can have 8mm thick dropouts. 

Unless your bottom bracket is giving you issues, you shouldn't need to replace it. Sealed cartridge bottom brackets have quite long lifespans. The link you provided indicates that the current crank is designed for a 113mm long spindle (that's the LL113 bit), which is a fairly common size. My personal favorite square-taper crankset with replacable rings is the Sugino XD-350, which is also designed for a 113mm spindle. It's basically a drop-in replacement for the cranks you have now. 

Worn derailleur pulleys (also known as "jockey wheels") will not cause excessive wear on a chain because they aren't made of metal. Eventually, though, the bushings inside will become worn and the outer teeth will wear down. Park illustrates the latter progression in their article on rear derailleur overhaul. As with many things in bicycle maintenance the only objective metric for replacing something is that it no longer works satisfactorily. Their failure mode might best be described as gradual rather than catastrophic. If the pulley bushing doesn't have much slop in it and the teeth are still capable of guiding the chain effectively it's almost certainly fine. If the rest of the drivetrain is in new condition and there are still issues with shifting it's probably worth giving them a look. As far as the practical matter of replacing them goes, in my experience for the most part you need to find the manufacturer specification to track down compatible replacements. 

As the manual itself notes, that is an extremely conservative number, but considering the hinge plate itself is a £4.00 part it seems better to err on the side of caution. 

For downtube shifters, I prefer to run as little housing as possible. Your best bet is to look for some new old stock (NOS) vintage parts. You need two bits: a chainstay-clamping housing stop for the short housing loop to the rear derailleur, and a downtube-clamping cable guide for making the cable bend at the bottom bracket up towards the front derailleur and back towards the rear derailleur along the chainstay. A quick search of eBay shows both available pretty readily. Several manufacturers make the chainstay clamp, but the Campagnolo 636 is representative. The best downtube clamp for both a front and rear derailleur looks to be the Campagnolo 626/A double guide, though Huret, Suntour and a few others also made them. 

On a Blue Pig MK1 you could probably use the threaded fender mounts to attach any normal rear rack to it, since the rear disc caliper is mounted out of the way on the chainstay. The upper rack stays can be attached to the seatstays with p-clamps. The Blue Pig Mk2 doesn't have any such mounting points, so it's more complicated. You could possibly rig something up with p-clamps or hose clamps around both ends, but the possible weight you could haul will be greatly diminished. You'd probably want to look at a rack that mounts to the axle, such as the ones made by Old Man Mountain. Alternatively, you could get your local framebuilder to braze on some threaded barrels to fit the rack of your choice - it shouldn't be too expensive, but you'll either need to repaint it afterward or deal with some ugliness. Depending on how much work you want to do in swapping the frame to "adventure" mode versus aggressive mountain biking mode you might look at a rigid fork, such as one from the Salsa Fargo or the Surly Ogre, and hauling front-end loads. Riding long distances loaded and with a 140mm travel suspension fork is in itself not going to be particularly enjoyable. 

Building a frugal dumpster/secondhand singlespeed or fixed gear is definitely one of those tasks that has become much more difficult with their growth in popularity. So, let's say you've found a frame that's in your relative size range. You've figured this out already by riding other bicycles and visiting bike shops and figuring out a rough range of acceptable seat tube and top tube lengths. And you obsessively carry around a metric tape measure (probably not that hard in Europe). The first thing to check when selecting a frame is its suitability for conversion. For a fixed gear or singlespeed without chain tensioner that means it needs to have horizontal dropouts or track ends. (Expensive options like an eccentric bottom bracket or sliding dropouts would work here as well, but those are rare to find on inexpensive frames.) The next thing to consider is completeness relative to your parts supply. A frame with fork is almost always better than a bare frame - finding compatible road forks, particularly threaded, can be annoying as there are a number of odd old sizes out there. If you've got no parts to start with, a complete bike makes a good base point. Singlespeeding a complete bike is relatively trivial - remove the chain, remove the shifters and derailleurs, and then shorten the chain and reinstall it over your preferred gear combination. As you find additional parts you like you can replace them piecemeal. As far as damage goes, the main stress points to look at are going to be where the rear dropouts meet the chainstay and seatstay and where the seatstays meet the seat tube. But give it a quick gander at all the joints to look for any obvious cracks. You'll also want to check just behind the headtube for any sign that the bike has been in a front end collision or roof rack crash. In general, any kind of bunched-up paint is usually a sign of a bent tube and a compromised frame. 

A simple alternative to a pannier is using a front basket - the basic Wald 137 baskets are a proven design, inexpensive, and almost universally available. You can then just use your current bag of choice and secure it in the basket with a cargo net or bungee cord. On the more expensive side, the CETMA cargo racks and other porteur racks can handle even more significant front loads. As enumerated by CETMA, some of the advantages to a front load are: 

The common Shimano Dynamo hubs don't actually use sealed cartridge bearings, see the DH-3N71 and DH-3D72 techdocs. Shimano dynohubs do use good seals, however, and should hopefully be maintenance-free for many thousands of miles. Alistair Spence has a good exploded view of an Alfine DH-S500, which is very similar to the DH-3D71. He also links there to a disassembly guide PDF, the original of which can be seen (minus images) in the internet archive. The steps are basically the same as a standard front hub, with the caveat that it is important to be careful to avoid breaking the axle wire. 

Yes you absolutely can commute bike year round. Even at it's worst the Puget Sound's weather is relatively mild. Though there are many cloudy and rainy days, the majority of them are a light drizzle and 40 degrees Fahrenheit. A good rainjacket, wool socks, and fenders on your bike are basically adequate. XC and trail riding is also definitely possible year round, but have to love mud. So much mud. 

It's perfectly okay to run different sizes, brands, and types of tires on the front and rear. As you note, rears will wear faster due to carrying more of the load. The grip threshold is largely irrelevant, since the front and rear will be exposed to different forces and grip requirements. The main concern is keeping within the range of a single tube size if possible, since otherwise you'd need to have twice the spares on hand. At the extreme end, there are 69er and 96er mountain bikes that mix and match 29" (622) and 26" (559) wheels on the same bike as well as Terry women's bikes with 24" (520) front wheels and 700c (622) rear. By necessity those run very different tires front and rear. 

Brake calipers designed for recessed nuts on the fork crown will typically have enough exposed thread to function as an externally-nutted bolt when used through the rear brake bridge. Get any recessed-bolt front brake and use your nutted hardware with it. 

External bottom brackets allow you to have both large bearings and a large, hollow bottom bracket spindle. A large hollow spindle can be designed to be as stiff as a small solid spindle for less weight. Smaller bearings reduce the longevity of a bottom bracket, so the typical bottom bracket design allows a narrow range of suitable spindle sizes and bearing sizes - to get the weight savings from a larger spindle you need to sacrifice durability. Moving the bearings to the outside effectively removes this tradeoff. There is an additional performance factor in situations where high stiffness is required in that the distance between the cranks and the bearings is reduced, lessening the torque on the axle. For commuting, errands, recreational riding and other "normal" purposes a cartridge bottom bracket is almost always going to be more than sufficient. If you are particularly concerned about durability, the SKF bottom brackets are engineered for 10 years / 100,000km of riding, but for the price a $25 Shimano cartridge will usually last what feels like forever. 

European ISO 622mm (AKA 700c) tires are often labeled as 28" tires. Confusingly, the very rare 635mm tire is also labeled 28". This is unfortunate and leads to much confusion. The common 27" tires are ISO 630mm, which means that you will almost always find that tires labeled as 28" are actually smaller in diameter than those labeled as 27". The sizing system for bicycle tires is a confusing mixture of "standards" from different companies and nations. The definitive Sheldon Brown tire sizing article has more detail than you'll likely ever need. If your 27" (630mm) tire is slightly too big for your rim, it's likely that the rim is 622mm. It's probably worthwhile to visit your LBS; there are lots of standards and when it comes to tires you definitely want to make sure they are properly fitted. Having a tire come off the rim while riding is an unpleasant experience. As commented above, the difference in sizes between the wheels is probably because the wheelset didn't originate as a pair and came from different sources.