I spent my highschool years on the wrestling team, which meant working out in multiple layers (2 sweatshirts was typical). Its been several years and the habit is hard to kick. Unless the temperature is scorching I always wear a sweatshirt when riding. But then again, I'm not particularly fast, and I'm big enough that the sweatshirt adds negligible drag (great for my cycling group because on a windy day, my wake is wide enough for them to ride side by side behind me). Of course, if its a pleasure ride then I wear comfortable clothing. The sweatshirt is something to maintain a good work out. 

I would say all three, combined with the fact that electric bikes are still somewhat of a niche market with few lowcost players. Consider that a cruiser/comfort frame standard bike like the ones for sale on the website would cost at £400-500 on their own. The battery (which is expensive for the capacity required to give a decent ride time), the mechanics especially (the clutch system is complicated and must be robust) all contribute to the production cost. Given enough demand I could see cheap knockoffs being available for half that price, but unfortunately that isn't the case. 

I've been riding seriously/regularly for about a year now, although like the majority of the worlds population I've been on a bike since I was a kid. When I was first starting out I had no real trouble on the downhill parts of my rides ( I live in the San Francisco Bay area so the majority of my rides are hill rides), I was even getting comfortable going fast even on steeper downhills (25-30MPH according to my tripcomp, which might not be that fast, but it sure seems so now). Unfortunately the honeymoon didn't last as I was in a few near misses and an accident with a car (his fault not mine, I wasn't hurt but pretty shook up) on my downhill. Ever since then I've been very wary of any downhill parts, I'm always on the brakes and I don't feel comfortable at all getting any kind of speed. Mainly I'm worried that I don't have enough stopping distance given my speed, and since I already know what happens to my bike when I slam the brakes, I don't want to experience tumbling down the road at 25MPH. I've essentially lost confidence in my ability to right safely on my road bike (even though its mechanically sound), I don't have this problem on my mountain bike (where the fat tires and disk brakes are very comforting). I've practiced all the downhill techniques, so it isn't a matter of being inexperienced (although I'm certainly not an expert, before the crash I was attacking the downhills pretty aggressively), I'm just physically frightened of letting go and riding down. I guess the good news is that my rides have gotten much more uphill-heavy, which has certainly helped my hill endurance. Anyway, what can I do to make my downhills fun again? 

Bicycle mechanical cables has not changed much since 1990's. The main difference between brake cables and shifting cables is in diameters. Shifters use 1.2 mm wire and brakes use 1.5 mm wire. Both types should also have matching housing. Brake cables have different "heads" types — barrel (for MTB) or a drop (for road). Make sure you use the same type of cable end as your shifter accepts. Some brake cables have both types of heads on different sides of the cable so you just need to cut it properly. Any decent cable sets will do. You can find complete sets of cables and housings sold together, along with small ferrules and other minor stuff that may or may not be useful for mounting them on a particular bike. Note that if you want to change parts of a drivetrain, it is better to be all its parts. It is well known that e.g. older chain and newer cassette work noticeably worse (read: noisy as hell) than an old chain and old cassette. The drivetrain parts are: front chainrings, rear cassette and chain. One can buy a complete groupset that may even include shifters, but it will definitely be more expensive than a 100$. Do not forget that number of front and rear gears may differ greatly on bikes, and so the shifters must match. Unless visibly damaged, your shifters may be alright, if a little rusty. It is the friction in the old cables that makes shifting hard. You should definitely look at the brake pads and change them. These things are cheap, and there are not very many types used with rim brakes, so you should easily find a substitute. That is, provided your bike has rim brakes. Overhauling the brakes is recommended in any case. The same goes with tires — if they look bulgy or cause a lot of punctures, they should be replaced. 

The Most Direct Route is Not Always the Best Or in other words. Your driving commute route is usually a horrible bicycling commute route. I purposefully avoid big roads as much as possible and take small residential streets or dedicated bike paths when available, an extra mile on a bike path can actually save you time over a shorter busy commute route, not to mention the savings to your health, safety, and the increase in your general enjoyment. If my commute reminds me of my sunday ride, then I know I have a good route. You are a bicyclist, there is no reason to endanger your life on the 50MPh express-way when the 25MPH residential street can get you there just as quickly. In California, residential streets are often extremely wide (Parked car + Bike Lane + 1.5Width lanes both ways) compared to dedicated expressways and can be orders of magnitude more safe and comfortable to ride (The pavement is often newer and less broken). If you are new to the area, spend a weekend or two just exploring local residential streets, hop on over to google maps and find the a way to use small streets to get to where you need to go (often this involves riding through the residential maze and with at least 5 or 6 street changes). Practice your route at least once and carry a printout of the route with you at least the first few times. I do have the right to a lane, even on the busiest streets, but the fact of the matter is that not everyone respects this right and not everyone is aware of this right. During Busy commutes, drivers are often distracted in many different ways (putting on makeup, drinking coffee, worrying about being late, etc.) and can be unaware of bicyclists, nothing will ruin your day more than an accident on the way to work. 

As you've only given one gear ratio, I'm assuming your bike is a single speed. Chains come in slightly different lengths but this isn't an issue, as you always need to shorten a chain you buy to fit your specific bike. You shorten it with a chain breaker tool, as detailed here - $URL$ To join the chain up, thread it onto to chainring and sprocket and take up as much slack as you can. You want it to be short enough so that you when you push the wheel into the horizontal dropouts you can pull the chain taut. 

The bearing you can see aren't the 3/16" hub bearings but lots of tiny little ones that were packed inside the freehub. I believe the other half of the freehub, the part attached to the hub by a hex key, is still bolted onto the wheel. The wheel is part of a bike from decathlon, which is still covered under their parts warranty. Would this damage be caused by a defective freehub or have I broken it somehow during my maintenance regime? 

I use Green Oil chain lube and it works just as well as dry lube/petrochemical oil/gt85 ever did. It smells much better too, like some kinda cooking oil. $URL$ 

I was getting my road bike out earlier and heard a clunking sound when I dropped the back wheel. I repacked the bearings in it ~200 miles ago, and the wobble felt like bearing play. However when I removed the wheel it was the cassette that wobbled, and when I removed the cassette the freehub moved from side to side inside the wheel hub. It was fine before I repacked the hub. What on earth could have caused the problem?? Perhaps degreaser somehow got into the freehub and wore something down... UPDATE I followed you advice mikes, although my 10mm hex key was too small for the nut. Furthermore, when i grasped the freehub body to inspect the amount of play, it came off in my hand! 

Other factors are less deciding. Inner tubes should be fine. There might be some extra muscle effort needed if you install tubeless-ready tires on a regular rim (or was it the other way around? cannot remember). If your fork does not accept wider tires, you can change the fork. If it is the frame that has too narrow rear wheel clearance, changing it equals practically to obtaining a new bike. Getting new wider wheels is easier, because you'll then have two pairs of nice wheels. Some people use 27.5+ wheels on 29-ers, but if bike geometry is not an empty sound for you, you might consider doing some calculations before going that way. 

It happened to me once that a V-brake pad that sat too low relative to the rim's braking surface literally wedged itself down into the rim at braking. To alleviate this, reposition both pad's position and angle. Always make sure that it clears the tire, because otherwise braking friction will destroy the sidewall in no time. 

The difference between handlebars, or in general body postures on bicycle, starts to show itself at distances of 50 km. For 5 kilometers a day, which I assume consist of two intervals of 2.5 km each (to work and back), it really does not matter. I would say gearing would play more difference than type of bike. 

If you are certain that it is the upper pulley that rubs against the cassette, you may want to explore these two options. 

These rims should be compatible with the original 26" × 1.75" tires. Note that you asked about frame vs wheel rims compatibility. You also mention hubs that you want to use; frame/hub, fork/hub and hub/rim compatibility issues are different question. In particular, the chosen rim should have the same number of spoke holes as the hub has, and that hub comes with hole counts varying from 28 to 36.