Having this 'right view' of 'katannukatavedi' also helps develop skillful means in the other relationships in life & can also help develop the higher Noble Eightfold Path because 'giving up' (vossagga) selfishness is a primary factor for developing meditation & the Noble Eightfold Path. When having such right view, the mind spontaneously arises in the 'human' (wise) or 'humane' (compassionate) state. If parents are not helped, when required, the mind is spontaneously born in the 'animal kingdom' (of ignorance & immorality) & probably eventually in 'hell' (suffering) due to wrong view. All people age, start dying & experience loss and those with wrong view generally are not able to cope with their own inevitable aloneness, old age & imminent death. The above said, sometimes parents can be very stubborn, even to the point of death, therefore we should not always expect we can help our parents, as we would like. 

This is not relevant & also is inconsistent with the claimed "scientific" or "secular" approach. Science generally believes there is nothing after death therefore why do not all psychologists commit suicide? 

The Buddha taught it is a 'vedana' ('pleasant or painful feeling') at the sense doors that the mind reacts to rather than a physical sensation in the body. For example, a pleasant feeling creates the reaction of love/lust/greed; an unpleasant feeling creates the reaction of hatred/anger/irritation; and mixed feeling creates the reaction of confusion. (Note: Sensations in the body are 'sankhara/thought/stress formations' rather than 'vedana'). To know every 'vedana' at the sense doors is an extremely advanced practice and not a practise for formal foundational meditation development but an auxiliary practise. The more formal foundational practise such as Anapanasati is developed, the more mindfulness at the sense door feelings can be practised. 

Mindfulness & appamada are not synonyms. The idea they are equated is wrong & sloppy (even though they are close). If they were synonyms, two different words would not exist. For example, I am sure suttas can be found that used both words in the same sentence. As I already explained, mindfulness is required to practise heedfulness. For example, a mother says to a child: "Be careful". The child asks: "Be careful of what?". The mother replies: "Since it is raining, be careful to not slip when you cross the road". Therefore, when the child is crossing the road, in order to be heedful or careful, the child is always bringing to mind (using mindfulness) the wisdom of the mother: "Mamma said the road is slippery, be careful; Mamma said the road is slippery, be careful". For heedfulness to manifest like the 'Elephant's Footprint' (as described somewhere in the suttas), many dhammas such as mindfulness, must be included within that Elephant's Footprint. In short, appamada requires mindfulness & wisdom to make it manifest. There cannot be appamada without mindfulness & wisdom. Mindfulness is cause or subfactor of appamada, just as mindfulness is a cause or subfactor of concentration (samadhi). In turn, appamada will be a foundation for higher development. I found a sutta, which supports what I wrote, namely, appamada: (i) prevents the fermentations; (ii) leads to higher development; and (iii) is something different to mindfulness. 

I only quickly browsed the sutta (not reading it all) but the question seems to not really be relevant to the Buddha because it was not the Buddha that introduces the phrase: "development of the body". Instead, it was Saccaka the Jain that introduced the phrase, probably from Jainism. 

Eradicating the lower fetter comes from prolonged experience of anatta in meditation (and the associated liberation) however the tendency to selfing is not uprooted. Nor is craving & attraction towards sensual pleasures uprooted when a strong sensual pleasure come within the field of experience. For example, the mind of a stream-enterer may find a certain food delicious & enticing; which is sensual desire. However, a stream-enterer has sufficient purity (as described in SN 13.1) so to not crave any sensual pleasure to a degree that hinders meditation. Or a stream-enterer may not be interested in sex however the sight of an exceptionally beautiful woman may draw the mind of the stream-enterer towards the woman. This is sensual desire; even though the sensual desire does not give rise to becoming (bhava) and unwholesome thoughts towards the extremely beautiful woman. The suttas are very clear in describing arahantship as the "uprooting" of the tendencies (anusaya). A stream-enterer has not uprooted the defilements of greed, hatred & delusion however their mind has had sufficient experience of anatta do fully understand selfing is not a real self and merely a thought construct fueled by suffering. The stream-enterer has comprehended Dependent Origination as I have explained many times on this forum. In conclusion, stream-entry did not occur in the other question because the mind did not develop confidence in the Dhamma because the mind did not clearly experience liberation from suffering with the absence of selfing. Instead, the mind experienced fear, which is not stream-entry. For stream-entry, three fetters are to be broken: 

Byāpāda [fr. vy+ā+pad] vy/anti Vy˚ is the semi -- vowel (i. e. half -- consonantic) form of vi˚ before following a & ā (vya˚, vyā), very rarely ū & o. The prefix vi˚ is very unstable, and a variety of forms are also attached to vy˚, which, after the manner of all consonant -- combns in Pāḷi, may apart from its regular form vy˚ appear either as contracted to vv˚ (written v˚), like vagga (for vyagga), vaya (for vyaya), vosita (=vyosita), *vvūha (=vyūha, appearing as ˚bhūha), or diaeretic as viy˚ (in poetry) or veyy˚ (popular), e. g. viyañjana, viyārambha, viyāyata; or veyvañjanika, veyyākaraṇa, veyyāyika. It further appears as by˚ (like byaggha, byañjana, byappatha, byamha, byāpanna, byābādha etc.). In a few cases vya˚ represents (a diaeretic) vi˚, as in vyamhita & vyasanna; and vyā˚=vi˚ in vyārosa. (c) vi˚ occurs also as distributive (repetitional) prefix in reduplication compounds (here closely resembling paṭi˚ and the negative a˚), like cuṇṇa -- vicuṇṇa piecemeal, chidda -- vicchidda holes upon holes, vaṭṭa -- vivaṭṭa, etc. -- Contracted forms are vy˚ (=viy˚ before vowels) and vo˚ (=vi+ ava); the guṇa & vriddhi form is ve˚. 

Engaging in slander, lies & cruelty is wrong speech in Buddhism. Today, is it very difficult to know what is true or false in politics. Further, making people laugh often distracts them from the real political issues. That is why the USA is in upheaval at the moment. When a Republican government promises to help the lower classes from the economic problems created by the Democrat government, this shows how distracted the people have been. 

The writer who wrote this quote did so so he could be reincarnated in a Brahmanistic (Hindu) heaven. He did not understand Buddha's teachings. The writer believed in self & wrote philosophy for the purpose of personal fame: 

Jhana is only required for arahantship. The noble eighthold path is the path to Nibbana or arahantship but not necessarily a path that must be fully completed for insight (vipassana). At this link, Bhikkhu Bodhi gives an excellent account of how, in the suttas, stream-entry does not require jhana. Yet to be a stream-enterer there must be some clear insight of anatta (not-self) since a stream-enterer is defined by breaking the fetter of 'self-view' ('sakkaya ditthi'). In the Nakhasikha Sutta, it is stated the stream-enterer has "not a hundredth, a thousandth, a one hundred-thousandth" of their former suffering. To extinguish so much suffering cannot occur without insight (vipassana). Yet such a stream-enterer has not yet reached the 'world' of jhana. 

The 2nd noble truth states the arising (samudhaya) of suffering is due to craving that leads to new 'becoming' or 'ego-existence' (bhava). In other words, craving without becoming does not lead to the arising of suffering. 

Watching this whole video carefully about how Angulimala becomes an animal (murderer) then become a human being again (after being reformed by the Buddha) may also help: $URL$ 

Most Buddhist meditation taught in the world is from an incorrect interpretation of suttas, which results in the mind being too busy, rigid & controlling. 'Mindfulness' means 'to remember'. It does not mean 'awareness', 'observation' or 'attention'. 'Mindfulness' remembers to keep the Dhamma in mind, which is the Four Noble Truths & the Noble Eightfold Path, or, in brief, mindfulness remembers to keep the mind free from craving. For example, the instruction posted in another post should practically read as follows: 

This chain of mental cognition can be distinct from the links of dependent origination because contact, feeling, perception & thinking can be undefiled, enlightened & non-suffering; where as dependent origination refers to the 12 links leading to suffering, in which every link is defiled, tainted or polluted by ignorance, as follows: 

The suttas rarely report the Buddha taught lay people the 4 truths but, instead, the Buddha mostly teaches laypeople to develop morality for a heavenly rebirth. For example, in his 1st sermon (SN 56.11), the Buddha states the 4 truths are for those who have left the household life.