In this way, by carefully considering what is being stated, we can convert it to a statement about existence, not-existence, or something which is true for all objects, and then transform it into something which is obviously existential (∃) or obviously universal (∀). On the order of quantifiers It's important to remember that the order of the quantifiers matter — you often cannot re-order them without changing the meaning. 

A simple model of infinitely deep infinite time Here's a model for the ordering of events in time such that you can have three different objects, each infinitely old, and each infinitely older than the last. Informally, it involves time not only having an infinite past, but a "very very" infinite past. We typically represent time by real numbers, possibly extended to include an idealized point in the infinite past ("minus infinity") or infinite future ("plus infinity"). However, we can also concieve of orderings of time in which there isn't just one time in the infinite past, but entire timelines in the infinite past as well. 

With our current understanding of weather — or at least the cost of ice cream production and jet fuel — it seems unlikely that I could cause ice cream to rain down every day under any circumstances, regardless of whether or not I were the King of France. If my claim seems outlandish to you, it is because you're not evaluating P ⊃ Q (where P = "I am elected the King of France" and Q = "I would make it rain ice cream every day"), but only Q on its own (you can't see any reasonable circumstance in which I could make Q true). Of course, the conditional P ⊃ Q is a weaker assertion than Q: it is possible for Q to be false and P ⊃ Q to be true; it's equivalent to "either I will not be elected the King of France, or I will cause it to rain ice cream from the sky every day" (which now sounds like a surreal ultimatum rather than a promise). Given that France doesn't have any kings at all at present, let alone elected kings, this proposed constraint on the way the world works will likely be satisfied by virtue of the fact that I will not be elected the King of France. In both cases, the condition had little to do with the consequence; eating apples is unlikely to cause me to die, and becoming King of France is unlikely to give me ice-cream-rain-god powers. But both of the conditional are true, because the constraints that they propose for the nature of the world are satisfied in either case. When we do want to think of conditionals P ⊃ Q in terms of cause and effect, we usually want to work in models of the world in which it is possible for P to be true, and where it is also possible for Q to be false. The reason why the examples above might seem strange is exactly because in one case Q is unavoidable (I can't avoid dying), and in the other P is unreasonable (I can't be elected the King of France) — at least not with the current governmental systems and levels of medical technology. 

where what I've written on the left is basically treating S as the description of a set — for instance, the set of all Scottish people. (Notations will vary in different communities.) These two 'limited' quantifications act exactly as though they are normal ∀ and ∃ quantifiers, except that they range over those objects x which satisfy S(x). Connection between ∀ and ∃ using de Morgan's Laws You might wonder why, with the restricted quantifcation over S, we use for the existential quantification over S, and for the universal quantification over S. The answer is hidden in the connection between the quantifiers and the AND and OR connectives: there is a connection between ∀ and ∃ through de Morgan's Laws in classical logic. This is true whether we use restricted quantifiers, or unrestricted quantifiers. For instance, consider the case where Scottish people are again the universe of discourse. Suppose that we interpret ¬EPP(x) as meaning "x adds something to their porridge when they eat it". Then the following statements are equivalent: 

The various truth assignments don't modify the proposition "If there is God, then there's a human"; they're assignments to whether or not there are gods or humans, and the truth value of A ⊃ B represents whether or not the hypothetical world being described — with or without gods, and with or without humans — is consistent with the statement that if there's a god, then there's a human. It might help you to rephrase this as "There is God only if there is a human", which is equivalent, and can be easily understood as a constraint on the conditions in which God can exist. 

Quantifiers in connection to AND and OR In the most common forms of predicate logic, ∀ and ∃ act like a sort of logical conjunction (AND) across all objects, and logical disjunction (OR) across all objects, respectively. Connection between ∀ and 'AND' Consider an argument in which the only 'objects' are Scottish people, and let EPP(x) = "x eats their porridge plain". Then 

Consider the Continuum Hypothesis: the assertion that the second smallest infinite cardinality is exactly that of the continuum (i.e. the cardinality of points on the real line, or equivalently of sets of integers). It's been demonstrated that there are models of ZFC set theory in which the Continuum Hypothesis is true; and that there are models of ZFC set theory in which the Continuum Hypothesis is false. If we suppose that ZFC is consistent, this means that the Continuum Hypothesis is neither provable, nor disprovable, in standard set theory; in which case I would say that in that context, it is neither true nor false. Conventionally we would say that the Continuum Hypothesis is undecideable within ZFC; but on what other basis does one hope to "establish" truth or falsehood in a formal theory? It cannot have a truth value in this case, except by recourse to refinements of the theory, or other informal criteria (such as various empirical arguments; though these are unlikely to be of any use in the case of the Continuum Hypothesis). 

Especially given what you observe about electromagnetic forces, not to mention atomic theory post 1911 (c.f. the Rutherford model) and gravity post 1916 (c.f. general relativity theory), the notion of what is "material" becomes a rather significant question. To say nothing of special relativity and the Einstein equation linking matter to energy... I would, as a matter of practical discussion, include antimatter and energy, and in fact anything which is understood to obey mechanical laws, into the notion of what "materialism" accepts as pertinent 'substances'. It seems to me that materialism was originally presented in opposition to dualism and idealism; and inasmuch as there is any distinction between the monism of materialism and that of idealism, it is that the notion of matter following mechanical laws of motion being primary versus consciousness and/or spirit being primary as the fundamental nature of reality. Aside from taking different positions on the hard problem of consciousness, the pertinent difference is whether mechanism or intention is the most important principle of dynamics: and materialism is clearly on the side of mechanism. Physicalism is therefore the natural modern formulation of materialism, and perhaps is best construed as an elaboration of it in which it is recognised that 'matter' was a potentially narrow description of what one ought to consider pertinent. (Though it is still perhaps feasible, if unfashionable, to try to interpret energy as merely describing kinetic behaviour and potential.) 

In modern physics, forces don't "exist" in the Newtonian sense. If you take the principle of inertia quite seriously, then by definition a force is a bookkeeping device (not unlike "potential energy") which accounts for the fact that objects occasionally accelerate. It proved to be useful to describe objects as accelerating to the extent that there is a net force on it, and also to suppose that forces can act on objects over distances, as with gravity. Newton didn't posit any particular reason why there should be such an influence without direct contact, and so it became somewhat natural to think of forces as non-local but real elements of the world, in a sense 'agents' to effect some influence from a body which was elsewhere. The importance of the notion of 'force' is exactly that: even if there isn't anything obvious which is causing an acceleration, we nevertheless assume that there is some external reason for the acceleration, and we only have to find out what. In this purest sense, 'force' could be parsed as "potentially unseen influence", where 'unseen' is meant to be interpreted literally, i.e. we may not have yet ascertained the reason. In the time of Michael Faraday, especially in trying to understand magnetic forces, it proved useful to elaborate on the notion of force with the notion of a field. In this context, 'force' is just the word we use to describe the effect of a field on an object. In this reading, the 'force' is not exactly a thing unto itself, just as 'temperature' is not a thing unto itself, but rather a partial description of an interaction between things which do exist — fields and objects. In modern physics, the fields which we considered previously are now understood to consist of gauge bosons (such as photons, gluons, etc.) which are transmitted between those particles which experience different forces — or in the case of gravity, space-time itself bends in response to the passage of matter, so that rather than fields in space interacting with matter we have space itself interacting with matter. Thus, for the moment, we seem to have closed much of the gap which was confusing in Newton's time; most forces are the effect of particles which are emitted and are absorbed or scattered, while gravity itself is reduced to geometry. "Fields" are used to describe collections of particles, including now matter particles which we have discovered have some things in common with those force-carrying fields which we imagined previously. In each case, we have a theory of the world, and within that theory there are elements which we regard as "things which exist", and others which we regard as "features of the behaviour or interaction of the things which exist". Metaphysical naturalism — to the extent that it is not merely an ontological-flavoured proposition that the words 'real' and 'natural' are synonyms — can be regarded as an epistemological proposition, that nature is comprehensible in a systematic manner such as the three schema I've sketched out above: that is, for any collection of actual phenomena that you might care to consider, there is a model which encompasses all of those phenomena, in which we have a description of objects which interact. Were this true, it would follow that reality is governed by some set of "natural laws" (where the term 'law' denotes that there is structure in the behaviour of the universe), or at least can be represented as the limit point of some sequence of natural laws (with each 'law' in the sequence encompassing more phenomena than the last). "Forces" are still around in our newer models of physics, but they are no longer regarded as things which 'exist', but rather a derived feature of the interaction of things that do. And indeed, many things which we now regard as "real" may turn out only to be effective descriptions of subtler phenomena. But these things which are "merely" effective descriptions of the world still reveal the world as a place of structure, and the point of naturalism is to reject that there are any aspects of reality which cannot be encompassed by any comprehensible structure. 

It depends on your definition of "apple" and "orange". Is a human an ape? Most people would say "no", because their definition of 'ape' implicitly excludes humans. (They mostly involve animals hairier than most humans, and less verbose.) But humans are apes in the sense understood by modern biologists. So without precise definitions, you are unlikely to be able to prove that humans are not apes. Analogously, oranges are fruit which were introduced only a few hundred years ago to Europe, and this shows in the names given them by different European languages. In particular, in many slavic languages, nordic languages, and also Dutch, the name for "orange" translates into English literally as "Chinese Apple", after the country which they were first imported from. Clearly in English we distinguish strongly between apples and oranges, but until the mid 1800s we did not distinguish between lemons and limes; so any attempt to prove that a "lemon" was not a "lime" might have proven confusing. And complicating the matter is that technically, lemons, limes, and oranges are all merely cultivars of the same species of tree (you can cross them and get fertile offspring). This is beside the point for the apple/orange distinction, of course, except that it illustrates that distinctions we take for granted now and for practical purposes are both arbitrary (based on which citrus fruit we wish to distinguish from others) and contingent (our sense of what counts as a lime has changed with time). Another example: how do you prove that Pluto is not a planet? In the year 2000, you couldn't; it was considered a planet. Now, following the decision by the IAU in 2006, one would start from the agreed-upon definition of a planet, which includes requirements which Pluto does not fulfil. In short, in order to prove that any A is not a B — e.g. where A is an apple, human, lemon, or the planet Pluto, and B is an orange, an ape, a lime, or a planet — definitions of A and B, or at least some extralogical information of what these things are, is necessary. 

I don't think you can do any mathematics at all without axioms, or principles which are equivalent to axioms. Consider the statement "3 is prime". There are two definitions embedded here: 

In this respect, we can think of "satisfying the constraint P ⊃ Q" as being something like a theory about how the world is. If it is true, then it is never violated; but if you can find one counterexample, then it must be false. Necessary conditions and sufficient conditions In the case that P ⊃ Q actually does hold, the two different phrasings "if P then Q" and "P only if Q" allow us to easily describe the relationship between P and Q in terms of either necessary conditions or sufficient conditions.