Because meaning is a dangerous term. There has been too much debate, during the XX century, about the "meaning of meaning", i.e. about the problem of defining the essence of the linguistic meaning as a phenomenon. A widely shared solution has never been reached in such respect. Therefore, authors might prefer to avoid such term at all. Moreover, in the contemporary usage semantics refers to a network of selectional properties that a lexeme can have, rather than to a flat meaning. The latter can be easily ignored in a structural — grammatical, morphological or syntactic — analysis of the language. For example, we are usually not interested in the concrete meaning of the verbs, since doing grammar means making generalizations over a set of different but analogous elements. We are interested, instead, in their argumental structure, subcategorization etc., i.e. whether a verb is (di)transitive or intransitive, whether it imposes some semantic features on its arguments (like when we say that the verb assassinate must have a [+human] direct object while the verb elapse cannot have a [+human] subject), or the like. 

Let's say that by "Boolean logic" you mean "Formal logic", and, moreover, let's restrict your question to the example you are commenting about, rather than to the whole logic. A first, obvious, answer is no, since, by definition, no natural language is a formal language, and ambiguity is always to be taken into account. However, your question can be reformulated in a more linguistic fashion: is there any language distinguishing nominal conjunction from predicate conjunction? If attested, such a system could potentially express the difference between 

As mentioned above, anything that is related to the study of handwriting in historical documents is part of paleography. Paleography is a large discipline that covers all kinds of writing systems from widely different periods, and it includes the study of handwritten (as opposed to printed or epigraphical) writing. Handwritten forms of writing are often labelled as cursive or running writing, i.e. scripts typically used for everday purposes and/or for private correspondence. The letters of cursive writing tend to be "sloppier" than printed ones and they tend to be interconnected much more frequently. For the scientific study of (past and present) writing systems in general there are the terms graphemics and graphetics. As in phonemics vs. phonetics, the former one is mainly concerned with the system of distinctive signs, while the second one is concerned with how those distinctive signs appear in actual scripts. Graphemics and graphetics are not to be confused with graphology, the latter being a pseudo-scientific method of drawing conclusions about someone's psychology by analysing their personal handwriting. There is to my knowledge no specific term for the scientific analysis of handwritten (as opposed to printed) writing. If you are looking for more information, your best bet is probably to search for cursive writing of whatever script you are interested in. 

Whether this amounts to a net distinction of P(a & b) from P(a) & P(b), is yet to be proven (and is effectively an interesting topic for an investigation). Speaking more generally, your question regards the relationship between the logical form of a proposition and the superficial form of a sentence. The logical form of a proposition is an abstract object, while its symbolic representation depends on what symbolism you choose (e.g. think about the difference between "Polish notation" vs. classical notation of the predicates). However, we can empirically claim that no symbolic representation of the logical form coincides with the superficial linguistic form of the sentence. According to Chomsky's theory, there are even explicit grammatical rules translating from the former to the latter. Therefore, languages can differ as to the degree of logical ambiguity they introduce during this translation process. 

Now, let's remember the PIE vocalic alternations: roughly speaking, every vowel could change into a zero. In the case of the suffix we are looking for this would result into a variant form -i-. Therefore, what we really need is a declension type with a stem ending in -Vy- in full (i.e. non zero) grade, preserved as such down to the Classical period. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. 

My point is that the first part of the rule is perfectly logical. The choice of the auxiliary verb (to be vs. to have) depends on the verb you're conjugating. (Very) roughly speaking, transitive verbs use “to have“ and intransitive verbs use “to be“. Let's also remember that, taken in isolation, the participles of transitive verbs are adjectives. When I eat an apple, what's eaten is the apple, not me, so the agreement with the subject would really be weird. In the other case, agreement with the subject makes sense (in some cases, it is even hard to tell if we're dealing with a verb at a compound tense or with “to be + adjective“; for example « Jean est mort » can mean both “Jean is dead” and “Jean has died.”) The second part of the rule (and all the subtleties I've hidden [pronominal verbs, special constructions with « voir », « faire », « laisser »...], which are very complicated and largely ignored even by native speakers) is indeed much more artificial. It's also noteworthy that before grammar was taught in schools, there was a lot of variation concerning this part of the rule. Voltaire, for example, systematically left the past participle without agreement (he would have written “La pomme que j'ai mangé était verte.”) [Chervel's Et il fallut apprendre à écrire à tous les petits Français, a marvelous book about the history of school grammar, even makes the case that the development of school grammar was in no small part motivated by this question of the « accord avec l'auxilliaire avoir »] There are other cases where French grammar asks for an agreement if and only if the part that triggers the agreement comes first, but they are mostly unimportant peculiarities. For example, “barefoot“ is « nu-pieds » or « pieds nus », you write « une heure et demie » (an hour and a half) but « une demi-heure » (a half-hour)... (To be perfectly honest, I wonder how many native francophones know about these rules...) So we could say that, while peculiar, even this artificial part of the rule belongs to some logical framework (but as the other examples are even weirder than the rule we're discussing, this argument doesn't sound very convincing). A final comment: this rule is very often infringed in speech, even among educated speakers (with a very large tendency to left the participle uninflected). Interstingly, women (who have to apply it in sentences like « Il m'a remise à ma place » = “he put me in my place” ; a man would say « remis ») tend to respect the rule more carefully than men. 

I share Antoine Meillet's skeptical approach to reconstruction. Meillet considered reconstruction as merely a convenient set of formulae to show the pattern of correspondences among forms in different ancient languages. Thus, instead of listing a series of cognate phonemes — for example, Sanskrit bh, Greek ph, Gothic b, Avestan b etc) — we simply write *bh which sums them all. Therefore, *bh is just an abstract formula, not a real sound. In case you have to pronounce it, you just spell it. Notice that we reconstruct IE forms on the ground of dead languages, of which we hardly know the real pronunciation. The only thing we have at our disposal are some ancient sources written in more or less standardised alphabetic scripts (and sometimes in syllabaries). We are lucky enough to have ancient phonetic treaties describing the pronunciation of Sanskrit, but nothing similar is available for the other sister languages. In many cases we have no certainty about the precise reading of some scripts, even in largely studied languages. For example, the "epichoric" alphabets used by Ancient Greek dialects are far from being understood with all phonetic details. Similarly debated is the pronunciation of the Avestan, Gothic, Cyrillic/Glagolitic alphabets, and many other scripts. The customary reading of such scripts are mere hypotheses, which, moreover, vary from country to country (even Latin and Classical Greek are pronounced differently in Italy, France, Germany and English-speaking countries). Therefore, IE forms are abstractions based on abstractions. Something too far from true linguistic reality. For example, "sonant coefficients" — later called "laryngeals", which is however quite an arbitrary term introduced by H. Müller by analogy with some Semitic data — were proposed by Saussure as a totally abstract, almost algebraic, means for explaining an apparently deviant phonological correspondences among some ancient IE language. 

the desire to be efficient (use as little time and effort as possible) the desire to be clear (give enough information and make it as clear as possible) 

Think of language as a code that humans have agreed on in order to communicate with each other. A speaker encodes a thought into the language and the hearer decodes it to understand the thought of the other. In this scenario, there are two main forces competing with each other: 

All natural languages are a compromise between these competing goals, as speakers are trying to maximize their clearness while minimising their efforts. In fact, many historical changes in languages can be attributed to either one of these two forces. However, languages differ widely in what that compromise looks like. In some languages, a lot of information is packed into inflections, while in other languages, most information is packed into separate words, or into the syntax. You can not say that one approach is better than the other, they are just different ways of solving the same problem. The advantage of the inflections is that they provide a very compact way of transmitting grammatical information along with the lexical items. In highly inflectional languages as Latin, it is very easy to recognize the grammatical relations between the words (e.g. what is the subject, what is the object of a sentence). At the same time, it is very compact and therefore efficient - compare any Latin text with its English translation, and you will see that the Latin text is shorter. When there are no inflections, the same information needs to be encoded in another way - typically with auxiliary verbs, prepositions or through the word order. So while the language may be easier in one area, it will be more complex in another. Inflections are therefore one strategy (of a number of possible strategies) that languages can use to reach a suitable compromise between speaking efficiently and speaking clearly. 

A common origin for two languages is a concept that has been proposed and theoretically grounded within the comparative method invented at the beginning of the 19th cent. by Rask, Bopp and Grimm. Two languages are considered genetically related if and only if they present patterns of regular phonological correspondences in words with similar meanings. No other feature is required, or is enough, to prove the genetic relatedness. Typological similarity, even as striking as the one between Japanese and Korean, does not prove the genetic relationship. There are languages that are typologically similar but genetically unrelated. On the other hand, genetically related languages diverge very easily in their grammatical structure. No one has been able so far to provide a convincing set of regular phonological correspondences between Korean and Japanese (less so for the alleged "Altaic family" in its entirety). Good attempts have been made in such respect, but eventually they have not met with general acceptance. It's a long standing controversy. It started with the Etymological Dictionary of Altaic Languages, a huge work by Starostin, Dybo and Mudrak (eminent Russian specialists in a big number of Altaic languages), then continued with a vehement, but meaningful, criticism by Vovin (a specialist in Japanese) and eventually concluded with a rebuttal by Dybo and Starostin Jr. The rebuttal is not convincing in many points, as has been pointed out by Ciancaglini, who makes also a good introduction to the Comparative method and briefly sums up the history of the Altaic controversy. Generally speaking, the null hypothesis concerning the genetic relationship between languages is always negative. The burden of proof is on those who claim that a relationship exists. Therefore, answering your original question, we don't need special arguments for proving that Japanese and Korean are unrelated, but we need arguments for the opposite claim. 

[This should be a comment, but I need room]. As remarked earlier, this feature is shared by French. I'll use French examples, because I'm sure to produce correct and idiomatic sentences in this language. The rule we are talking about has two aspects: 

A classical grammar book indicates a rough timeline and presents the phonetic deletion of verbal endings as the main cause of this change. « Au Moyen Âge, le pronom sujet faisait ordinairement défaut, parce que les terminaisons verbales, étant encore sonores, indiquaient suffisamment les personnes grammaticales : Que ferai donc ? (Eneas, 8729). — Ma chiere amie, que avez ? (Béroul, Tristan, 3175) — Où est ? (Fiore et Blancheflor, 676) — Feras ? (Pathelin, 1390) — Peu à peu le pronom sujet s'est imposé dans la conjugaison. Il était encore assez souvent omis au XVIe s. : Direz, chantant mes vers, en vous esmerveillant / [...] (Ronsard, t. XVII, p. 265) — Au XVIIe s., cette omission était un archaïsme, quoiqu'elle fût fréquente encore dans les réponses : Et le vais voir tantôt (Mol., Ét., V, 8). — Leur ai dit la langueur (La F., F., VIII, 3). — Non ferai, de par tous les diables (Mol., Av., V, 3) » (from Grevisse, Le Bon Usage, a (quite expensive) book that cannot be too recommended for any advanced student [or speaker] of French, §667; the English-speaking calls it a "prescriptive grammar", but that's absurd, as the title already shows). Rough translation, without the quotes: “During the Middle Ages, the subject pronoun was usually lacking, because the verbal endings, still pronounced, were sufficient to show the grammatical person. Bit by bit, the pronoun subject made his way in the conjugation. It was still often omitted in the 16th century. In the 17th century, this omission was already an archaism, still frequent yet in answers.” (Of course, Mol. is Molière and La F. is La Fontaine)