All disc problems are not alike. Some are bulging discs. Some are ruptured discs. The best way you will know what exercises are safe for your back is to have physical therapy. Your therapist will evaluate your back and symptoms. They will correct muscle imbalances, soft-tissue and joint restrictions, and teach you corrective exercises as well as self treatment techniques including self mobilization and/or traction, or heat/ice to control symptoms. Once you have some control over your symptoms, they will help you establish a safe exercise program which may include: 

Your physical therapist should be able to give you specific precautions and instructions given your diagnosis and/or symptoms. Working with your therapist will give you a clear understanding of what is safe, and what is not safe for you to do as far as weight lifting and other exercise. If your therapist doesn't take you into the gym themselves, they can recommend a qualified trainer who is experienced with training people with back problems. Squats & deadlifts work multiple muscle groups. You may need to target isolated muscle groups for better control at first. Get help from a pro. 

When to Stretch - Generally you will achieve more motion when the tissue is warmed up. Immediately before sports or performance activities is NOT the best time to stretch, especially if you are doing static or passive stretching. If you are doing an activity that requires full range of motion, such as some martial arts, you may want to do some dynamic stretching after warming up to allow you the range that will be needed. However, to work towards increased flexibility it is best to do so at times other than before just before the activity. This is because static stretching prior to activity may cause reduced performance and/or injury. Avoid Over Stretching - You can overdo stretching just like any other activity. 

I can't give you medical advice - (not a doc), but I can give you some links to hopefully help answer some of your questions. Here is some information on Platelet-Rich Plasma (PRP). The treatment is relatively new so evidence for its outcomes is still being collected. For example, using PRP for elbow tendinitis (tennis elbow) has shown clinical significance, but other studies for other sites are equivocal or lack sufficient controls. This article has some good information on groin pain and the athlete. It points out that there are a "number of potential differential diagnoses for athletes with chronic pain in the groin and lower abdominal region". This article discusses therapy for adductor injuries and points out that "by the time patients are getting into the clinic to have something taking care of, they have had multiple strains of the same area"; and as far a treatment, "many of those protocols are at minimum 12 weeks duration to start to see changes within the tendon itself". Other than that, I don't have any direct info for you and I've never had a plasma injection. If it were me I'd be sure to have an MRI to see what all was involved given that your pain is spreading. Also, here are a couple of videos that you can run by your therapist. The first is with voodoo floss and addresses the soft tissue. (You mentioned exercise but no soft tissue or manual therapy work.) The second video is by Kelly Starrett, a physical therapist. It is more for gaining range than for treating an injury, but it does speak to the joint capsule as well as the soft tissue. I realize this does not really answer your question, but hopefully it provides some help in gathering information. Good luck. 

I may be misunderstanding your question, but it seems that what you are asking for, would depend greatly on your goals and many other factors. “Optimal normal overall body flexibility” varies depending on age, gender, health, body type/size, level of activity and functional needs. There are many variables. For example, flexibility goals for the hamstrings would differ greatly for the needs of a karate kick, a hurdler or a ballerina’s split compared to the needs of a golfer’s swing, a runner or a person trying to ease back or knee pain. Another example of variables would be hip flexion range of motion that would depend on the girth of the thigh. (A greater thigh girth, from either fat or muscle, would result in less hip flexion due to approximation of soft tissue.) I don’t know of any resource that allows you to plug in your body dimensions and your outcome goals to obtain a recommended range. Maybe in the future a sufficient database will be created and you will have your answer. However for now, although not what you are hoping for, there are charts with normative goniometric joint range of motion ranges, which may be helpful to you. If you have a sport specific need, tennis muscle imbalances for example, you can find specific info which is beyond the scope of this question. As much as science has improved and quantified much of our understanding of the body, it is no replacement for one’s own body awareness. Becoming aware of your body kinesthetically will help you know when you’ve achieved sufficient or optimal range for your body and just need to maintain. If you have no sense of this, a professional such as a physical therapist or trainer could guide you. It is good that you recognize that there is a point beyond which pushing further is counterproductive. 

The Karvonen Formula shows you how to calculate your target heart rate taking into consideration your resting heart rate and your heart rate reserve. Karvonen Formula: (MHR - RHR) x _% + RHR = THR MHR is your maximum heart rate and is calculated by: MHR = 206.9 - (0.67 x age) (This a newer formula than the old 220 - age). RHR is your resting heart rate. THR is your target heart rate. 

“If it's unstable now, is there still a decent chance it will gradually improve even after 9 months?” 

Importance of Equal Hip Strength Bilaterally This Clinical Review found weaknesses in hip abductors, external rotators and hip flexors on the involved side as compared to the uninvolved side in runners with patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) and iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS). So an important factor is the strength of one hip relative to the other, making sure that you strengthen both sides equally. And I would emphasize abduction over adduction. I was surprised at the hip flexors weakness vs the extensors in the review. Your machines address flexion/extension and abd/adduction. The hip abduction machine will also target some of the lateral (external rotators). To further target your lateral (external) rotators you can use cables to isolate or to address both internal and external muscles functionally in standing. 

I’m prefacing this answer with the fact that I’m definitely not good with tech. I could be wrong, but I think my little Timex does this. (I’m not sure - I usually just strap mine on and go without using any of the features). But to try it out for you, I set a narrow target zone. The “in zone” timer counted when I was in the zone, stopped when I was out of the zone, and then resumed counting where it left off when I got back in the zone. So IF I understood your question, I think it does what you want. However, you have to hit the recall button to switch from the monitor screen to the timer screen and I don’t think you can always keep it on the timer screen. Mine goes back to the monitor screen as the default. So that may not work for you. The activity timer gives you the time “in zone” your “ave” bpm and “peak” bpm. The Amazon description says: “this watch enables you to continuously track your heart rate during exercise as well as pre-set target heart rate zones with alarms that notify you when you are out of the zone. It also offers an automatic activity timer and a workout review that recalls activity time and average/peak heart rates.” If this is what you want, would you do me the favor of getting it thru our site’s store? Timex T5G971. If it is not, never mind :) Thanks - hope it works out for you. 

I think you are right to graduallly increase your physical activity and create a healthy lifestyle as these will be ongoing changes which are more successful than attempting quick fixes. Sounds like you are off to a good start. Good luck. 

Every mile you walk burns about 100 calories. The farther you walk, the more calories you burn. So yes, you can still burn fat and lose weight with a good walking program. You can even do some interval training with your walking, by speeding up for short intervals and then slowing back down to your normal pace. As to your knee pain while running, it can often be lessened with improvements in footwear, running technique and exercises to balance your lower extremities through stretching and strengthening. For example, tight calf muscles, hamstrings, IT bands, quads, hip rotators, flexors and adductors can cause alignment problems that are aggravated with the impact of running. Strengthening of your calf muscles, quads, hams and glutes will help absorb the impact of running so that your knee joints absorbs less shock. However, while these measures can help, they won’t necessarily eliminate pain with running, esp. if you have joint or cartilage damage. Alternatives to running - Walking is a great exercise if done consistently. Adding nordic walking poles to your walk can increase your calorie burn by incorporating more muscle groups of the trunk and arms. At the same time the poles allow you to transfer some of your weight off of your knees and get a better stride. Elliptical trainers, swimming and cycling allow you to get a good workout with little to no impact to your knees. You can also get a good workout by running or jogging in water with or without resistance bands with minimal impact to your joints. The deeper the water, the less the impact. For strengthening, stair climbing whether up or down, and squats may bother your knees depending on the origin of pain. Using equipment like a total gym or an exercise ball can help you strengthen your legs as they let you perform a squat with some support. Hope that helps. And of course, hydrate well and eat a healthy diet. Good luck. 

Actually, you have a lot of other options. At 33 y.o. you are too young to become a couch potato. If your doctors have advised you to avoid weight lifting, running and jogging, you need to find someone who can tell you what you can do. A physical therapist (physiotherapist) is a good place to start. Without strengthening exercises for the hips and legs, your knee ligaments will have less protection. A good therapist can also give you advice on overall exercises suited to your skin tolerance and get you started on a good program. As for your toe touching sit ups, there are better ways to strengthen your abs. To achieve a cardio workout, you generally want to warm up, exercise in your target heart range for 10-20 minutes if you are a beginner - increasing to 30 minutes or more as your tolerance increases, and then cool down. You can use many kinds of exercises to achieve a good cardio workout: cycling (stationary if you worry about your knee), elliptical trainers, circuit workouts, swimming, pool running, nordic pole walking, rowing etc. Just check with your therapist to see which ones are best with your knees. Exercise will help with your diet, but since you are not having the results you want, you may need to refine your diet also. Weight around your middle is not healthy. A registered dietician may help you get on the right track. 

This age group requires medical clearance before beginning an exercise program. The doctor will refer your father to physical therapy if appropriate. The doctor can give your father guidance as to what exercises are appropriate for your his health condition, such as a safe exercise target heart range. 

Joint Pain and degenerative changes Loss of mobility and range of motion Loss of muscle strength Problems with balance Postural changes Thinning bones Reduced Cardio-Respiratory capacity All of the above can lead to reduced function with daily activities like going up and down stairs, bending or squatting down, reaching overhead, carrying groceries, getting up and down off of the floor, getting up from low seats, functional walking speed and balance, endurance and tolerance to exercise etc. 

I agree with @Janis about consulting your doctor. Numbness and tingling after exercise is something your doctor should diagnose. Livestrong.com has a couple of articles summarizing possible causes of numbness and/or tingling after exercise. In this article about hand and foot numbness: 

The Arthritis Foundation has community exercise programs, including aquatics, walking and Tai Chi exerise classes which may be helpful since your father has some knee pain. You can check to see what they have in your area. Good luck and congratulations to you for encouraging him and helping him get started. A little bit of exercise can make a big difference in keeping your father functional. 

Ideally, you would compliment your resistance band exercise program with weights in order to address eccentric muscle contraction training that is missed with resistance bands. 

Hope that gives you some ideas of how to find the practitioners who can help you meet your fitness goals. 

Yes, whey protein can be helpful for elderly people also. The Journal of The American College of Nutrition, JACN, reports that the elderly have greater protein requirements than younger adults. Given that your mother is exercising, ingesting whey protein (or other biologic sources of protein), especially immediately following exercise, may well help her minimize age related muscle wasting. Here are some references: JACN -