As stated, your target is to organize information. And that is usually not a trivial task : information elements are linked to others, may be linked to space and/or time. So you can have different axis : you can for example use a geographical map to locate things in space, a timeline to organize them in time, some family tree coupling time and relationships between siblings, etc. Depending of the level you want to achieve, it can be quite a lot of information to keep in your head. You may want to use some tools to organize this. It can be simple notebooks and papers, or some software (I can think of the great Tiddlywiki here ; feel free to add suggestion in comments). If you are building this for a world or game, do not push it too much, as the world is mostly a recipient for your story, and not an end by itself. Structure your information around the hero or center of the story. As a side note, you can maybe find inspiration for both content and organization in some gaming systems like Microscope. 

Identification for better protection. If from a social specie, or at least one taking great care of its eggs, the eggs would be better nurtured. In this case, the bio-luminescence could also be used as a way to communicate the egg's needs (warmth, moisture, etc.). Identification as a warning. The eggs could be highly toxic and poisonous for predators, or have other defense mechanisms (an electric egg ?). This special signature would keep predators at distance, like some animals using very visible colors. Identification as a trap. The eggs are easily spotted by some wannabe-predators, only to see the latter being stick to the egg and dissolve by some digestive liquid dripping from the egg. Or the egg need to be eaten to reach a parasitic form that is an intermediate step in its growth). This could also be combined with 1. where care-taking adults use the eggs to attract preys closer. 

Making the Humor Funny Others have done a good job explaining why things can be funny, so I'll focus on how to make your non-human humor amusing to the audience. I think the best way to go about it is to find a way to get the audience to laugh at the alien's sense of humor, rather than with. The audience most likely won't get the joke, either due to a lack of understanding of the societal relevance of it or because the joke falls outside of the person's idea of comedy. However, you can still make this scene humorous. Have a human-like character interact with the aliens and have them comically misunderstand the joke, or have them simply not get it and let the aliens poke fun at the human for not understanding what was said. The reverse also works. Drax from Guardians of the Galaxy had no understanding of human figure of speech, but his serious reactions brought about by the misunderstanding was very funny. His own attempts at being humorous, by contrast, would also be funny for the viewer because watching someone fail can also be a form of comedy. Maybe the alien gets annoyed when their attempts at humor are disregarded by their human companions, or when they fail to understand the comedy of the human's jokes. Because of our love of subversion and humor that plays on the discomfort and confusion of others even a character who doesn't understand puns and thinks a metaphor is a type of bird can still be hilarious. 

A Pair of Snipers With knowledge of the two second cooldown period a pair of crossbowmen can situate themselves in good sniping positions. First crossbowman fires a bolt, which gets frozen in time. The Dark Lord, savvy to the nature of crossbow bolts and knowing they take longer than two seconds to reload, steps aside and causes the bolt to miss. But the second crossbowman, with a keen eye on the look out for the Dark Lord suddenly teleporting out of the way from his perspective, readies his own shot. The second the Dark Lord does his time skip a second shot is fired and hits it's mark before the two second period is up. It doesn't have to be crossbows of course, but the idea is the same. Two assassins. One to trigger the spell and another waiting to take the Dark Lord out once the spell ends. Trap Him Wait until the Dark Lord is smelly and in need of a nice, warm bath. Once he has submerged himself use a magical assassin to transmute his bath water into iron. It shouldn't trigger the spell because he is in no immediate danger, but it will completely immobilize him and leave him at your mercy. You can then make him your prisoner and use him as a nice yard decoration. Certainly quite the conversational piece at your next party. Just as before you don't need to use this exact plan. Simply find a way to capture him that won't cause any harm to his person and the spell shouldn't trigger. Once he's captured you can execute him at your leisure. After all, if he stops time but can't move he'll just be trapped in place until he dies of dehydration. 

Imagine a person who has 'passive' precognitive abilities. During sleep, they dream of random future events-these can range from events that will happen in a few hours to events that will happen in a million years. During their waking hours, they 'remember' events that will happen in the next few days. They can force the ability to get a glimpse of the future, but it causes headaches and cramps that can seriously ruin their day So for example, take Alice. On Monday night, she dreams of a future catastrophe where a massive meteor slams into the earth, from the point of view of a random person on the street.Next day, her friend Bob mentions a job interview and Alice sympathises on how badly it went for him- only for him to say it isn't going to happen until Saturday. She then tries to find out why it'll go badly, catches a snatch of their conversation and ends up with a nosebleed and a migraine. What kind of effects would that have on a person's mental health, if they have the ability their whole lives? Assuming that the forward remembrances happen a couple of times a day and that the future is fixed- Bob's interview is going to go badly and he can't change that. The longer the time they try and look forwards, the longer and worse the pain- looking more than 10 years into the future causes fainting and can take over a week to recover from. 

Mounts are one of the coolest things about fantasy in my opinion. Riding around on raptors, dragons, elephants and even weirder things is one of the main draws to a lot of fantasy things. However, justifying dragons and unicorns can be tricky. So, inspired by the hours I've spent riding a parasaur on ARK, I have a question. What are the best alternatives to horses- or is there anything better? Drawing on animals that exist in the real world-even if they are extinct- what are the best animals to fulfill the transportation and haulage roles of horses? Answers should take feeding/ housing into consideration, but domestication can take any length of time. The environment is a mix of dense, rain-forest jungle and open plains with minimal hills. Rivers and lakes are plentiful and river transportation could be a viable option if creatures allow it. 

Ice skates. Or more specifically, bladed boots. In aerial combat it would allow you to slash at enemies below you without compromising your flight stance while leaving your hands open to carry some sort of buckler to defend against the attacks from others. With your arms free you could double the foot blades up with heavy darts to use as a thrown projectile. Your opponents have a big frame due to their wings, and you just need to damage the wings to make them plummet, so killing power isn't necessary. You can also drop the darts from overhead before engaging with the blades. Combat would involve a lot of drops and swoops as the two fighters attempt to get on top of and behind their opponent to slash at the unarmored wings (placing armor on the wings might make them too heavy to fly). Because the blades are on your legs your wings won't be easily reached by your opponent to retaliate without them doing an awkward flip or carrying a spear that might bump into their flapping wings and make them fall, and you can answer the spear by dropping a dart on their head. It might make landing more difficult, but not impossible. You'd just have to remove them after the battle is over similar to taking off your armor. 

Advantages at the biological level can help alleviate disadvantages at the societal level. The wolf people could breed faster than humans with the trade off of having a shorter life expectancy. Humans produce a single child at a time while the wolves produce four or five in small litters. While the human population would have a much higher cap due to the superiority of agriculture over hunting, the wolves would be able to bounce back from major population loss much quicker than the humans could. It also means that while their population density is lower, they are able to propagate and spread across a much wider territory faster than humans can. Wolves have fur. It might not seem like much, but fur is what allows other mammals to thrive in the wilderness without need for housing. Humans are extremely vulnerable to the elements, where as the wolf people would be able to survive fairly comfortably in the wilderness even during winter. No need for buildings means their entire society is mobile, which makes hunting them down much more difficult. Humans have incredible stamina, but we sacrifice sprinting speed for it. The wolves, while not as fast as real life wolves due to sacrificing speed for bipedalism and tool use, could well be faster sprinters than humans. This would potentially make them better at hit and run tactics, rushing in to wound enemies before quickly escaping into the woods faster than humans can keep up. Wolves could also have superior tracking senses. Better smell, stronger eyes, and better hearing. All things they'd need as a hunting species, and all of which provides a strong logistical advantage when maneuvering troops. If the wolves are nocturnal they gain a significant advantage over their human adversaries at night without losing much during the day. Humans deal with nocturnal predators by shutting our doors at night, but a nocturnal predator that can open doors or windows becomes much more dangerous. All these traits lend the wolves well toward a specific type of society. Raiding Culture The main thing holding the wolves back is the inefficiency of their food production, but there is one significant food source available that grows it's own crops and has a tendency to all congregate in single areas that can be spotted from miles away. Humans. Humans make a fine food source for the wolves. So do the humans' cattle and other livestock, and it's extremely difficult to defend farming communities from a dedicated band of fast moving, nocturnal predators that can plan as well as a human can. Furthermore, it would take significant effort to hunt down the small nomadic tribes through thick forests in an attempt to find bandits that don't necessarily need to set up camp. Humans will develop technology faster, but the wolves can steal it. Wolves shouldn't have an issue stealing more advanced gear and figuring out how it works, as well as how to make their own. The human population will find it hard to expand into new territories because wolves are already present there before the humans can set up their infrastructure. The human population has a harder time growing out of control because they have intelligent natural predators keeping them from expanding, and any battle that occurs that the humans don't win 5 to 1 will end in a long term advantage for the wolves because they rebound faster. So long as the wolves avoid large scale, open field battles they should be able to survive by preying on the fringes of human society and making it all but impossible to expand deeply into their own territory with constant raiding. This lifestyle can be further enhanced with good ships and/or horses to improve mobility even further. 

As the question title suggests, I'm looking to find out how long a human could live for if they didn't age in their sleep. Assume that this ability kicks in at about the age of 16 and they have complete control over when they sleep and how long they sleep for, but that they still need at least the regular human amount of sleep. The people in question may also attempt to live for even longer by sleeping through car rides and other such events where they don't need to stay awake. So, how long could they live if they slept for the normal amount of time? 

On average, 7ft each (for a 14ft wingspan) Hairless and featherless- the resemble bat wings in the colour of the person's skin, but they can be dyed or tattooed. 

This question is pretty simple. In a world where about 7% of the population have functional wings, how would buildings (such as offices, schools and homes) differ? I'm looking for ways that would allow easy take-off and landing without alterations that would take up large amounts of space and money, such as large landing pads and runways. The wings are: 

Taking inspiration from the elder scrolls, imagine a world that is composed of gods. There are twelve planets, each of which is the body of a god that gave up part of their power to create the human inhabited world. The laws of physics are the 'bodies' of gods that sacrificed their forms completely to form the world, with those gods existing in a state like a coma. The world itself is both forged from the donated 'pieces' of the 12 gods and earth-like, with animals similar to earth. There are two moons, believed to be two minor gods. Humans are the only sentient species and have technology equal to our own. The 12 gods are revered by most cultures, however their names and roles are undefined. Given all of those are known to humans, how would people approach the study of science? Would there be an overlap of the priesthood and researchers? How would an average person of faith view scientific study? 

Projectile weapons like bows or javelins would be incredibly difficult to use from the back of a flying creature. Not only would you need to calculate for your own speed and the speed of the enemy, you'd also need to account the much higher wind resistance, relative height of the target, and hope you don't turn the wrong way and end up staring right into the Sun. You also have a massive blind spot directly beneath you, and run the risk of accidentally shooting your mount in it's wing if you can't sync up with the flapping motion. Physics wise the creatures you talked about, eagles and pteranodons, would also be almost impossible to saddle like a horse and sit upright on, since their wings connect to the body and there'd be nowhere for your legs to go, and sitting on the neck would throw off it's center of balance. You'd have to sit on your knees to fire a bow properly, and that would reduce aerodynamics. A crossbow might work from a laying position but you'd be limited to shooting forward. If a rider could somehow overcome all this then the combat would involve trying to fly under your opponent and shoot up so they can't return fire. Another option is a light lance. Hold it forward and go for natural swooping strikes to penetrate your opponent or their mount and take them out. This works well for a sitting up or laying down position, and would be significantly easier to train soldiers and mounts to do. There's also no risk in injuring your own animal and falling to your doom. Regardless of which main weapon you pick, the secondary should probably be the net. It's very easy to use. Just fly over the enemy, loosen the net, and drop it on the enemy. If they get snagged in it they'll fall to their deaths, and if not it's not too big of a deal because you can carry several nets without incurring significant encumbrance for your mount.