More powerful telescopes need to be bigger and/or longer. Diagrams on this site shows a few ways how telescopes are made shorter. Yours could probably be the size of a small moon by itself. If you want to build such massive tool, the only realistic way would probably be a liquid mirror telescope. Where the mirror is a rotating pool of reflective liquid. Those are used in the real world because a curved mirror of this size has higher risk of breaking under it's own weight. In your case, this is not as important as you would realistically be in space. But the size of the required mirror (and lenses) make those hard to craft in the first place. Either because they need to be crafted in space or because you need a massive amount of material to craft it. In summary, building such a telescope might be possible and pretty interesting. Using it to see clearly enough in space would be theoretically possible but extremely complex and probably would not detect something smaller than a small moon. Going through the atmosphere is so complex that it seems simply impossible to me. 

To complement to VilleNiemi's answer, I'll throw some ideas on gun and cybernetics. Those ideas only really work for active users like soldiers or police officers. They assume that the user is equipped with a special helmet or has cybernetic implants. That equipment could also be part of the weapon package sold to a civilian. You might want to look at the military rifles from John Scalzi's Old man's war, most of those ideas are inspired by them. Those guns are basically telepathically controlled (from cybernetic technology), the owner must submit an electronic confirmation to shoot or input any command. They have no AI to speak off, but the weapon is completely computer controlled. Authentication : This is something Ville already covered. So I will only add that, if cybernetics are in your world, they would be used for that and possibly to access other function. Automatic monitoring The gun can monitor how many ammunition are left and signal problems as they happen. Depending on the level of electronic technology available, they could be sent directly in the user's vision. Sent to a portable screen similar to google glasses. Or displayed on the gun itself. Scope sight If the communication and camera technology are advanced enough, the scope's image could be sent directly to the shooter's view. Like before, how it is seen depends on the level of cybernetics available. Multiple ammunition types If the gun is computerized, it can have more than one firing system or ammunition mechanism. For example, a military rifle could carry both standard rounds for soldiers and explosive rounds for armored targets. A rotating part similar to a revolver's barrel allows switching between them. The command could be a switch on the weapon or a mental command. This would surely quickly increase the weight of the weapon. About computerized guns. It might also be a good idea to take a loot at how mobile devices are developing. As more and more electronics are packed around a weapon, I could see the same kind of evolution happening in a much more focussed and utilitarian way. Here's a few ideas I have off the top of my head : Synchronised weapons A squad's guns synchronise so that only 1 person is controlling the firing of all of them. I could see each person having to pull the trigger to allow his gun to fire, but all weapons would only fire when the leader orders it. I am not quite sure how this could be applied in a realistic setting. As the only way I see such a level of synchronisation being needed is for the opening volley against highly armored targets. Or against automated defences. These really depends on your world. This application would probably be limited to military settings. Shared view This is moving slightly away from the weapon themselves. But if the scope is sent to the officer's view directly, the same could be done to another officer's view. This could be used to show a target and to make sure everyone is ready to fire. 

What if those people aren't against the terraforming of Planet, but have something against those corporations precisely? (I will call the new earth Planet) First explanation : how to make sure the population is only caucasian What if the terrorists have reasonable reasons to believe the corporations are actually giving a poisonous gift to humanity? I will give a few forms this corporation can take, as well as how they are not all that evil. The corporations are making us a new home, but one where they would basically be in control of Planet. Behind the scenes, they are selecting the original seed of the new world's population, and those people are carefully selected. They are also engineering the new world so that those of their race (or religion or affiliation) have better life condition and will be the dominant group on Planet. Their group has the best land to grow food, the rarest ressources, the easiest access to the outside. You can look at how Warhammer 40k's Tau force outsiders to adhere to their own culture that way. How is this not evil? The biggest corporations are clean, but the smaller ones not so much. And those smaller corporations are the ones actually managing the new world, the bigger ones lend the machinery, the technology, the transportation, the cash. Even then, the presidents and figurehead genuinely wants to help humanity. But the engineers, who actually make the choices, want to push for a united and cohesive society. You get a corporation where the corporation actually have good intentions, but whose actions on the grand scheme of things is a lot less white. Second explanation : how to control the planet itself Maybe they don't have control over the people, but the way they terraform essentially give them control over the new world's economy. This new world will be grown in such a way as only the crop from the corporation's group will grow. One where only the corporation's life stock will life long enough to be viable. One where the corporation's products against Planet's natural dangers are legitimately better. All because they literally programmed the planet that way. Use the corporation's fertilizer once and it's the only one that will work for 20 years. Get modified pollen from your neighbor's field in yours and you now have to use the new modified crop. During that time, the corporation literally has monopoly on a complete world. There are such stories happening in the real world as I type this. How is this not evil? Doing some of that is the only way to actually terraform a planet in less than 2000 years. The corporations need to do it if they want the job done in a timely fashion. The only question is how much control will they have left once the terraforming is over. Can you blame them for using the only possible way to succeed? Can you trust them to relinquish that control once their job is done? Can you trust them when they say they need to do it? 

Here's another take on showing just how improbable it is to actually see a planet the size of Earth with any kind of clarity. I'll use existing telescope information to get an idea of the power of future tools. Then I'll look at the kind of magnification we need to see Earth. The bottom line is that you'd need much better technology than what we have now (or custom epic-scale hardware) and you probably wouldn't realistically get the level of details you expect. Bear in mind that I am in no way a telescope expert (these researches actually taught me a thing or two) and my knowledge of the finer details of telescope working is lacking. What we can see now I'll use Hubble as a point of comparison for image quality. The James Webb telescope is meant as the next space telescope, with launch due in 2018. According to the link, Webb is 17 times larger, has a collecting area 7 times larger. For a field of view 15 times larger and a "significantly better spatial resolution than is available with the infrared Spitzer Space Telescope". I know that we can't equate the field of view with resolution. But I'll assume it can translate relatively well if the telescope was made specifically for resolution. From that, I'll assume that raw power of your telescopes to be around 50 times stronger than Hubble. How to detect an exoplanet Even without catching details, how can we just confirm that Earth still exists? Turns out that most exoplanets are indirectly detected instead of actually being seen. There is, however, a list of directly imaged planets. The good news is that some are a lot farther than Alpha Centauri. The bad news is that the smallest is above Jupiter size. Moreover, if you look at the pictures of those planets. All we can see are speck of light. This and this picture are among the clearest I've found. This view of Beta Pictoris b is annotated and can give you an idea of the scale we're dealing with. If those images were magnified 100 times because of technological advancements, we could definitely "see" Jovian planets. But Earth-like planets would look like current images at best. Possible but unrealistic In the end, the magnification needed makes it theoretically possible to see what's happening in space. It would be possible if :