It seems that you're really more interested in reconstructions than more meaningful and evidence-based etymologies. Maybe, you would find this English-PIE translator useful: $URL$ You can also find some info here: $URL$ But the key thing to remember is that those PIE *etymologies are not attested forms with direct lines of descent. They are hypothetical constructs based on similar words in distinct languages related through known processes of linguistic change (previously called 'laws'). They are not on the same level of reliability as the more immediate ancestors with actual examples of use. The reconstructions cannot by themselves illuminate the meanings or journeys of individual words unless you contrast the descendants in several languages. Even then, this remains little more than a curiosity outside of a very specialist discipline of comparative historical linguistics. 

The answer to this is generally no. Particularly not when it comes to fluency. Unless you have some sort of an impairment, you already have enough fluency in your first language. Learning French or Latin will do nothing to improve it hinder it. However, learning Latin and/or French may increase your familiarity with the cultural and linguistic underpinnings of much of writing in English over the last several hundred years. So, you may in effect become a more fluent reader. It may also help you understanding distinctions that are hidden in modern English orthography - therefore, you may become a more accurate (and perhaps by extension fluent) speller. However, this does not apply across the board. Learning old Germanic or even older varieties of English will not help you at all with any of the above. As won't learning old Church Slavonic to help you improve your Polish. English is quite a unique case here because language contact has played such a profound role for so long and in so many ways. While language contact has formed all known languages to some extent, I find it hard to imagine learning the source languages would be any use whatsoever in the way I outlined above in any other case of contact-induced change. Also, I cannot stress enough, how marginal any potential improvements would be from learning Latin or French on your English. If you are concerned with your fluency, vocabulary or spelling in English, you would be far better served by learning more of those, rather than trying to fix the problem through another language. But if you already know the other language (at least in part), you can certainly benefit from drawing on that knowledge. I found knowing English useful when learning French vocabulary and I've also come across a textbook of French from the 1930s based on knowledge of Latin. My (albeit rudimentary) knowledge of Latin has definitely been useful for dealing with English words of Latin origin. But this also comes with the danger of following the patterns of the original language be it with false friends, literally translated idioms or syntactic patterns. I would compare such knowledge to being the occasional useful stepping stone on the muddy journey through language learning but not anything resembling a stone walkway. You also mention knowledge about language such as that by scholars. Every scholar of English should know enough about French, Latin or Old English to understand their impact on the current form, but unless they study historical developments of English, they only need to know about it rather than have any detailed knowledge of either of the source languages. 

That's not an unreasonable hypothesis but it when you look at the details, the gendered morphology of a language only plays a partial role in how the language expresses underlying cultural gender bias. 

Functional linguistics/grammar in the broadest sense (includes corpus linguistics, discourse studies, conversation studies, linguistic typology, lexicography, etc.) Generative/formal grammar (linguistics) Construction/cognitive grammar (linguistics) (close to and possibly fitting under the functionalist paradigm) Minimalism and UG (related and possibly part of the formal/generative paradigm) 

So the answer to the question "What exactly is it about language that should be too complex for children?" is that on the surface almost everything should be too complex but in reality almost nothing is. The only things that are too complex, are those that not everyone can learn or not learn equally well. But those depend on a combination of availability of input and generalized (rather than very specific) ability. 

A more clear-cut example of homonymy in suffixes is -s for plural as in 'books' and for possession as in 'Jake's' (in spoken English only). But this is for inflectional suffixes. I can't think of a derivational suffix homonymy in English but it is quite common in prefixes. For instance, the derivational prefix in- has completely unrelated meaning of 1. direction inward as in 'inhale', 'invite' and 2. negation 'invisible', 'inviolate', 'incredible'. Both of these unrelated meanings have multiple senses resulting in polysemy. 

The answer to this question very much depends on who's asking and why. And what stage of your linguistic studies you are at. For the lay person, I'd start with James McCawley's "To ask a professional linguist how many languages they speak is just like asking a doctor how many diseases they have." This pointing to the dual meaning of the word 'linguist' in English but also to the fact that theoretical linguistics is concerned with general principles common to all languages. It might also be useful to distinguish linguistics from philology - the latter dealing with a description of specific languages and from pedagogic or prescriptive grammar. The reading I might recommend at this stage is Stephen Pinker's Language Instinct (although I completely disagree with his conclusions, it is a good initial overview). The definition I would have parroted back to a professor during my undergraduate studies would have been something like: "Theoretical linguistics is characterized by a concern with general principles governing how language works using methods including corpus analysis, contrastive analysis, psycholinguistic experiments, etc.)." For readings at this stage, I would go to the classics: 

However, because the actual words that compose this subsystem fall across word classes (pronouns, adverbs, adjectives) and functions (e.g. negation vs. positive statements vs. indeterminate statements). I couldn't find any grammar (outside some learner grammars) that actually treats this as a subsystem. Does anybody know of any studies and/or grammars of this subsystem in any language (or better still across languages). It's hard to research because there is no one term that I could find that covers all of these words. Yet, they are clearly related - I'm afraid I'm missing something obvious but I've been looking for a while. 

In short, language is more than sentences (which are an object of writing rather than speech anyway). It is used for communication and self-expression. It is messy and complex. As part of it, people make judgements about acceptability and that is worth studying properly. But grammaticality itself is not a concept you need outside this narrow confine. You also need grammaticality in some branches of applied linguistics: For example, when you have an algorithm for generating sentences that is likely to spew out almost anything and you need a formal way of limiting the output of that algorithm. This is where you try to approximate native speaker patterns and turn to their intuitions about these. Another example, is foreign language instruction. But here you have to construct a sort of inter-language that matches some key patterns of native speech but is not exactly the same. So you turn to generalized grammatical intuitions. Finally, in contexts like copy editing or essay marking, native speakers turn to their intuitions to identify patterns that are unacceptable for some reason. Accidental slips, divergence from standard into dialect, lack of observance of register, etc. Much more is going on here than 'grammaticality' but often the people performing similar tasks will couch their efforts as avoiding things that are 'ungrammatical'. 

There is no mechanical way to determine the communicative intent of a sentence with 100% certainty. Things like word order, word choice, intonation, punctuation, etc. will help but all sentences are used within a broader communicative context to achieve various speech acts. Sometimes, these are clearly signalled. Other times, they require a complex human understanding of the situation in order to be able to fully parse what's going on. And, remember, often, even humans misunderstand each other. How often do you hear people answer rhetorical questions. Take the simple 'How are you?' Most often, it is used as part of a greeting and it does not require an answer. But very often it does. But speakers may have to elaborate. 'I really mean it.', etc. Or people will follow up a question with - 'This is a rhetorical question.' You will even hear things like 'This is a rhetorical question but I'm going to answer it anyway.' 

The problem with this question is that parts of speech are just a construct used for the description of language - not necessarily a real thing in a language. You can see that across languages only nouns and verbs are fairly uncontroversially universal with adjectives being another good but still disputed candidate (See Dixon's Basic Linguistic Theory). So if you were starting with a different language you might be surprised by things like determiners in the languages you list or prepositions. Other languages may have various classifiers that may seem a bit strange. There are other things that represent a distinct category but do not make it as a part of speech like quantifiers. Even in English, you will find lists ranging between 8 and 11 different parts of speech depending on the authors' perspective and need. You will also find a lot of variations in the internal typology of parts of speech across languages. So Czech pronouns and English pronouns or adjectives will come out looking quite different (e.g. Czech possessive adjectives). 

Of course, language ideology and folk linguistics are not the only concepts to relate in this semantic space. There's also language politics, language policy, language education, folk etymology, etc. They all interact in rather complex but at the same time fairly transparent ways. Some of the connections you can draw: 

If the blank was chicken, you could use WordNet to determine that chicken is a type of animal and food and pick distractors that would not collide. E.g. chair, sky, road. Of course, you could still get stuff like 'water' which would be more difficult. Or, you could use FrameNet to determine the frame of 'eat' and only offer things that don't fit the frame. The problem is that you could only do this with quite simple sentences depending on your ability to parse them. And you would still get collisions: 

In a sense, the national language standards of all languages could be said to be 'constructed' (to different degrees). They tend to be more artificial than other dialects and accents, and their histories can often be traced to some more or less purposeful efforts. You also seem to broaden the definition of accent to dialect which includes grammatical forms. In this case, the 'standard Czech' was 'constructed' in the 19th century. And it's not particularly unique. The rationale behind it was not that dissimilar from constructed languages like Esperanto. Of course, there's a whole class of constructed languages in the entertainment context like Dothraki or Klingon and with these you'd find constructed accents as well. Joss Whedon's Firefly comes to mind. 

As many pointed out, 'free word order' is a complete misnomer. I don't know of any language where the label would apply without at least some qualification. As TKR mentioned word order is motivated by information structure and pragmatics but also can display certain tendencies of iconicity and be subject to language default. That's why a language like Russian can be called free-word-order but also SVO at the same time. There is certainly no way to quantify the free-word-orderedness of languages. Ultimately word order can be twisted in any language in almost any way for a good purpose - for instance poetry. Context and other grammatical elements then function as disambiguators. The standard explanation for the relatively fixed word order in English is that it is used to encode grammatical information. So in John loves Mary vs. Mary loves John the agent and patient are expressed by position in the sentence whereas in a language like Czech, they would be expressed by a case marker. This is certainly correct in the broad strokes. But even in morphologically rich languages there is a huge amount of homonymy (expecially in the plural) so ultimately, it is the context that differentiates between the agent and patient (there's a Czech sentence that has 126 possible parses because of this). Equally, in English there are all sorts of raising phenomena that make the picture more complicated, as well. Even in English context and semantic defaults can override the word order rules. Whereas in John loves Mary, reversing the word order gives a sentence with a different meaning. When you compare John ate an apple and An apple ate John you see that it's more plausible to imagine both sentences with the same meaning but used in different contexts rather than a scenario where John would have been eaten by an apple. On the other hand, in a context where order order is supposedly completely free such as coordination, iconicity (i.e. word order mimicking real world features such as sequence of events) can remove a lot of your freedom. So, you're more likely to say 'bread and butter' than 'butter and bread' when you say preceded with 'I ate some' whereas the word order is more free when you precede it with 'I bought'. And there's no freedom at all in 'He opened the window and shouted out obscenities.' Finally, to illustrate how the word order matters in a 'discourse-configurational' language, let me tell you a little joke that appeared shortly after the velvet revolution. It's about two Moravians (who have a healthy disdain for Czechs). One says to the other. I have good news and bad news. Good news is "Češi udělali revoluci" (Czechs started a revolution) bad news is "revoluci udělali češi" (it's the Czechs who started the revolution). So you can see that although the word order appears to be free at the propositional level, it actually encodes completely different communicative meanings. Now, when you look at this range of phenomena (and there are more), you can see that it would be impossible to quantify. In any language, the situations where you have a completely free choice in how you order the words are very rare and on the other hand, no language completely bars you from twisting the word order for a particular purpose. You could certainly measure the defaults and prevailing orders but that won't show you freedom but rather a distribution of the different configurations each of which have very limited freedom of order.