What's the point? The more sooner the slack is taken up, the sooner the power comes. When the rider's brain says GO the muscles have to move, the mechanicals have to move, then the bike has to accelerate. All parts of this flow have slack or lag or tolerance or reaction time, that adds up and increases the overall delay. So if someone is making a break, the extra lag between pushing hard on the pedal and getting moving may make a difference between catching the break or not. (that's road speak - not sure if BMX has anything similar. However brain says GO and power takes time to arrive, then that's not going to help) What's the practical difference? Assuming your bike has a generic "do everything" setup of: * 20" wheels (406-44) * 1.75" tyres * 45 tooth front chainring * 16 tooth rear cog then the gear ratio is 2.81 meaning the rear wheel will revolve 2.81 times for one full pedal revolution, and the bike will go forward 4.2 metres, and the wheel is doing 80 RPM. Two totally identical riders, one with a 20 point contact freewheel and the other with a 90 point contact freewheel both apply power at the same instant from coasting at 20 km/hour which is 5.56 metres/second: 

The above picture is faked up but shows the approximate differences between a "normal road tyre" and a 40mm cyclocross tyre and a 2.1" MTB tyre. You can see that any smaller tyre will fit, but bigger tyres need more space. Here's someone with plenty of clearance, and they could easily go up a tyre size or two. 

Answer: Yes you can. Woods/Dunlop valves have a nominal hole size of 8mm, identical to a Schrader/Auto valve. For completeness, a presta valve uses a 6mm hole. Reasons not to - authenticity of an antique bike, or maybe having to carry a second pump head/fitting if both tubes have different valves. 

I'm guessing your cable is immensely too long, and its only by chance that numbers 2 and 3 line up with a gear. Try putting it on the smallest front chainring, then back off the cable pinch bolt. Set the handgrip shifter to 1 and pull all the cable slack through, and do up the pinch bolt. Some tweaking may be required. 

I'd make a decision then to either replace the fork with an undamaged one, or scrap the whole frame and save any useful components. Remember, if your fork/frame fails while riding, you're going down hard and its going to hurt. There's no time to put on a helmet, you'll be sucking mud before you can react. 

Note: This chart is purely referencing road tyre pressures. If you have a MTB the pressures drop off really quickly. Answer: I wouldn't go much over 90 PSI, but others have routinely put 100 PSI in Kenda tyres without issue. Your weight suggests that a higher max-pressure tyre would be the best solution, aim for 120 PSI capable tyres in 28 width. 

Riding competitively solo (like a time trial or setting a PR in strava) is all about getting the best overall time for the measured length. Since there's no pack there's no assist from being in a bunch. Instead you have to hit the start of the segment at a decent speed and maintain it as high as possible. Don't wear yourself out getting to the race either... take that easy. If the grade pitches up, don't mash, get up and put some extra power in to maintain a high speed as possible. After the segment you push through the end point and go on a bit, then you can slow down. Some of my best hill climbs are when I've been chasing someone, not necessarily someone I know, just someone ahead of me who has a decent turn of speed. (ie they've just passed me :) 

Honestly, the back brake contributes so little to braking that its not worth fitting a dual pivot. I'd simply change the brake pads to Kool Stop, maybe run a new inner and outer cable, and leave that single pivot in place. Clean the rim's braking track too. Dual pivots tend to be more speed orientated, which means racing frames and cables that go in the top. A mixte or ladies frame is not speed focussed. So a bottom-entry dual pivot rear brake caliper would be a rare duck. You might be able to find some kind of pulley, but for a low-end steel MTB-BSO, new brake pads+cable will be a substantial braking improvement by themselves. To answer the question - consider using a dual pivot caliper with a travel agent like this, to get the cable around 90 degrees of the bend. I couldn't find one with "more turn" 

To repeat - you need to have confidence in your bike and especially your brakes. The trailer above easily doubled my stopping distance because of its mass, and also the risk of jack knifing meant I had to slow down the bike slower, over a longer window. 

Sounds like an Eliptigo, as in $URL$ They're intended to duplicate the exercise of running, but without the impacts of hitting the ground. There isn't really a generic name for them, other than the class of "Funny Bikes" or possibly an "Exercise Bike" 

Feral dogs are not good - long term you need to report this and hand the problem off to those who can legally do something about it. There's a chance they're domesticated but reverted, and there may be a microchip or a collar ID to identify the proper owner. And having submitted a report, you have prior proof that something has happened and therefore an excuse for carrying an offensive weapon. The location is important too. If you're in a national park there may be restrictions about where you can be and whether you can carry any offensive weapons. Action camera footage can be beneficial to corroborate your story, and can assist in identifying the animals. I always ride with a handlebar camera, but you might prefer a shoulder or helmet or wrist-mounted one so you can aim the lens. If nothing else, it can be good for the youtube upvotes later. Carry a basic first aid kit and consider adding enough medical supplies to clean and bandage a bite or two. Better to carry and not need, than to need and not have. 

I read that as you already have a bike with this gearing, you're asking if its okay, not whether it will fit and work. You might want to recount the teeth on the big ring. 42 is not impossible, but 44 would be more common based on the other two. Assuming this is your 11-23, 11-12-13-15-17-19-21-23, and that you're on a 700 wheel with 23mm tyres, then Saint Sheldon says this at $URL$ Little Middle Big chainrings 4.2 5.9 7.3 (metres of forward roll per complete pedal revolution, 11 tooth) 3.8 5.4 6.7 3.3 4.6 5.7 2.9 4.1 5.0 2.5 3.6 4.4 2.2 3.1 3.8 1.9 2.7 3.3 1.6 2.3 2.9 (same, but for the 23 tooth gear) So its a road bike with a granny gear for steep hill climbs. The 42 chainring limits your top speed a little, and the 11 tooth rear will have mechanical loss of efficiency compared to a 12 or 13 tooth. There is nothing wrong with your combination. Use and learn what you want, and where you struggle. Personally I have a 25 in the rear and a 22 on the front, and I still struggle with steep 20% grades. Once its a bit more worn and you know what you want, then replace the chain and cassette with a range to suit your riding needs. 

If they're both the same interface, then it should be okay. There's a fair chance they're both square taper, so you'll need a 14mm socket and a puller to get the good crank off. You might have problems with the chain line, and the front derailleruerueure will need aligning. How did you mess up the crank on the raleigh originally? How's your bottom bracket? While the crank is off you may as well service it. 

So the best training you can do is to ride the planned routes before hand. That gives you all the knowledge you need of the course. If the route is a one-way trip then consider riding the first half then turn around, and some later week drive to the end, ride back to halfway and finish the rest. Riding the course the wrong way is almost as useful as riding it forward. Since you don't have a lot of experience with gravel, you need to practice ON gravel or similar. Try and find some road or track near you that replicates the conditions found in the race route. There's little point riding sealed road or mud if they are not like the course. That said, if the weather could make it poggy, having mud practice could be beneficial. Try and get at least one ride in each weekend, and an endurance-style ride in the week (perhaps on the way home from work?)