Zamenhof borrowed and made up the first batch of words. He encouraged people to Esperantize words from their mother tongue if they didn't know a word. So from the beginning, there wasn't a central source of authority for new words. This contrasts with other new languages, such as Klingon, toki pona, Tolkien's Elivish, where the stock of root words is limited by the number of words the inventor published. (Derivational creation of words is pretty much unavoidable, even in isolating languages) This doesn't stop people from creating new words, but coining new root words aren't part of the "game" in those community. This is analogous to the rule about having 52 cards in a standard playing card deck-- you can create a new one, but community standards, existing rules of the game don't encourage it and it doesn't happen in practice. Now that there are native Esperanto speakers, the language is evolving much like any other natural language. I think there is a language board for Esperanto, I'm not sure if it attempts to create new words (like the French one does) or if it is effective at that. 

I have reviewed the Liepzig Rules, and google searches are failing me. They don't say much about glossing words that don't have any internal morphology. The gloss of an analytic language by these rules would be a word-for-word translation without any guideposts as to the role of anything, with the exception of free pronouns and a few function words being being replaced with more opaque abbreviations. Is there a way to gloss an analytic language that has the richness of information that would be found in the gloss of a more fusional or synthetic language? I happen to be glossing an artificial language, but that is beside the point. Pointers on how to gloss Chinese, or Khmer or the like would be helpful, too. 

Except for Esperanto, there aren't any conlangs with native speakers (except a single Volopuk speaker, a single Klingon speaker) So there isn't much to study language change in the same sense that we can study language change of say Latin as it slowly turns into French. The next problem is that in the remaining languages, there aren't that many people and they are generally very conscious of the fact that they are using a language with explicitly invented rules, so you can't easily separate explicit creative acts of the users from the natural processes of language change. In this case one would expect fashion and the effectiveness of promoters of a given design to sway the crowd. The last thing that would complicate an examination of language change is that outside of Esperanto, the users of a constructed language are learning it as a second language and sometimes using it as a contact language (communication between people without a shared language, like a pidgin or creole), so you'd expect to also observe people moving along a learning curve and resorting to the sort of things people do when they are in a contact language situation. For example, pidgin speakers will sometimes try all possibilities of vocabulary and word order until the surmise they have communicated something. 

I mean obligatorily marking a word for number, gender, animacy, direction etc, I don't actually know what I'm asking about. For example, in English, we have that awkward situation where we don't know if the cat in the box is dead or alive, and might not know if it is a she or he, so is it an it, he or she (or singular they)? I'm sure style guides have rules for this, or maybe not. I tried to ask a similar question about Russian which has a puacal number (single, a few, many) marked on nouns. On that site, the native speakers didn't understand the question and only repeated the style guideline rule. For example, "Tell me about your problems" -- Would a speaker have to get into a big circumlocution to avoid implying that a person has exactly 1, 2-5, or more than 5? (Tell me about your problem or your 2 to 5 problems or your list of problems greater than five) Guugu Yimithirr is famous for requiring a north/south/east/west orientation just to utter certain words. I wondered how they would discuss things on a erratically spinning asteroid, in the fictional book Flatland, or if they just didn't know. Also, in Icelandic, I've asked people how they deal with inanimate collections of mixed or unknown genders-- since there are 3 ways to say "they" (a collection of bus alone, cars alone is different from a mixed collection of buses and cars) Are there any recognized patterns on this topic? 

Since sign languages form spontaneously when deaf children are given access to each other, linguists have had the chance to watch the languages evolve. What is notable is how fast they evolve when they are new, the classic example being the evolution from a intransitive only to a transitive + intransitive language. " As pointed out by a reviewer, a transition from intransitive to transitive structures is also clearly observed in the emergence of Nicaraguan Sign Language (NSL), which developed spontaneously by deaf children in the 1970s and 1980s (see, e.g., Kegl et al. 1999). According to the authors, the early pidgin stages of NSL do not use transitive [NP V NP] constructions, such as (11) (Kegl et al. 1999: 216–217)" $URL$ 

And now for my personal opinion-- some of the most vociferous opponents are American Indian language researchers. In that community, so many competing crackpot ideas have been advanced in the past (e.g. the Indians are the lost tribe of Israel and that Amerind languages are some type of Hebrew) that the whole field has irrationally turned against the idea that Amerind languages can be rationally classified into superfamilies. Now in other fields, genetics, archaeology and anthropology-- the researchers are coming to the same conclusions or coming to conclusions supported by the other fields. The classification of superfamilies is matching the migrations of ancient humans. I think someone in the world of Economics (Keynes maybe?) said progress in academia is made when there are funerals. I guess that makes sense because no one wants to retract a research paper that they wrote a long while back to take into account a major shift in the understanding of the world. 

But the topic-comment versions of 1) & 2) look just like SVO and OSV. What diagnostics tests are used to figure out the basic word orders (basic morphosyntactic alignment)? 

Any language that is using a character per word is sending a much higher quantity of information per symbol. I'm envious of how much the Japanese and Chinese speakers in my twitter stream can pack into 140 characters. On the otherhand, I learned to type in a single semester in Highschool and learned to read in probably a years worth of instruction. Chinese and Japanese writing on the other hand is a life long task of acquisition and maintenance that requires daily practice to remain good at using it. 

I'm trying to grok ASL's grammar. There seems to be a lot of folk grammar and the professional liguists haven't been studying it for very long so there is a lot of contradictory statments about what the basic word orders are in ASL. Okay, if we have a language that is topic-comment, then the patient and the agent can be fronted and it seems like 

Well, I'm re-reading your question. If you're trying to help your Anthropology Prof friend, then I don't understand what his goal is. Conlangs are either used for recreational or fiction writing goals. There is some overlap with science, but not a lot. Now the intersection of anthropology and PIE is interesting-- the gist is that culture affects language (which is less controversial than the idea that language affects culture), so a society with a word for sheep, probably at least has seen a sheep and maybe considers it important enough to have a simple word for it. The Horse, The Wheel and Language is a reasonably accessible book on this approach of linking the evidence of PIE with the archeological record in trying to say something about Old Europe. $URL$ Here is a dictionary to proto-indo european: $URL$ The words in "Quest for Fire" have no relationship to PIE except that Burgess may have been influenced by modern IE languages in picking his words ("vir" and "bratt" especially). Anatomically modern humans arrived in Europe 50,000 years ago and either arrived right after the collapse of Neanderthal life or helped finish it off. Your 80,000 number is solidly in the time of Neanderthals in Europe-- you'll get different estimates from different archaeologists and the time line has been evolving rapidly over the last few decades. In the movie, the language for which you provide the wordlist is the Neanderthal langauge. At best, it appears that a small number of Neanderthals bred with modern humans (as there appear to be Neanderthal genes in modern Europeans), but I doubt any substrate language would have persisted. We aren't even sure if Neanderthals could talk (I think they did, but there aren't a lot of slam dunk pieces of evidence for it). In any case, PIE wasn't spoken in Europe until ~6000 years ago (tops!) before that, according to Anthony, PIE was a language spoken in the south of the Ukraine. 

I tried to come up with a motivation for why this might be a loan word instead of something that people would come up with a suitable native word for. It's tempting to just say, "well that is the way it is, end of story" Here are my ideas 1 It's easy to translate/calque as a phrase. There isn't anything awkward about it and in English it forms a complete sentence. Compare this to Chinese loans to English-- they are few and become unrecognizable. 2 Plants have limited ranges, so who ever lives near that plant will likely name it first and the name would spread with the knowledge that the plant exists. As it turns out for this plant, it has a wide range, so it is possible that in some places the locals had already come up with a word for it. On the other hand, something like words banana and tea are likely to have traveled with the people who first named these plants. In the case of Tea, WALS has lots of data on how the name of that plant and the loanwords spread.