Were Buddhas always born on planet Earth or they can be born on any habitable planets across the universe? How does one Buddha gain knowledge of the existence of the the previous Buddha/Buddhas? 

garu-kamma (weighty karma) - if one has killed one's mother or father, for example. These types of karma outweigh any other possible result; one who has performed these at some time in this life cannot help but go to hell in their next existence. This is a quote from Ven Yuttadhammos answer. My question is does garu kamma relate to murder of ones parents or could it also be a reason to shame them which drives them to suicide? 

The yardstick to measure progress is by sensing your volition to serve other people. If it is increasing you are on the right track. Also if you are caught in the same situation as you did previously but acted In a calm and balanced manner, for your own benefit and benefit of others, you are on the right track. If you got angry before and it lasted for several hours, has this period reduced? It eventually reduces as you tend to come out of your miseries quicker. Same for lust, hatred, jealousy etc. -S.N Goenka (ten day discourses) 

Apparently there were 8 wholesome conditions laid down by Ananda when he was asked to be Buddhas attendant at the age of 55. What were they? 

I prefer practicing Buddhas teachings because technically that's what I try to do. I am not ordained not born into a Buddhist family. Rather I was born into a Hindu family and now I practice Vipassana so I have to face this question quite normally living among Hindu friends and family. It doesn't make much difference to me now as it used to since I first started out. I think the sara(essence) of all the religions is the same. It's the outer crust such as clothes, looks, theology, rites and rituals that people get stumped out on. Every religion teaches you to love but it's the recent age practitioners that have given society the image of a particular religion. Your question seemed to have a certain background hence the diversion. But nonetheless practice matters most. Doesn't matter what you want to call it. 

every meditator at a point in his her life goes through a dilemma of whether to ordain or to live a lay life. Although it's a wholesome disposition, I wonder if its a lack of strength to face problems as a veil that shadows the decision. (It's proven so for me) But sometimes the emotion to give up lay life is so strong(and then again it's just a emotion-state of mind which is also annicca) that the more I look back, the more I get the feeling I should have done it a long time ago because the fruits even as a lay person are so evident and clear (wonder what pool of calm monastic life will bring around) The question remains, how can one determine ones decision to ordain, whether it's a strong volition or not (because if it's not I would hate to go back to lay life as a failure and discouraged on the path of Dhamma) 

I was wondering the same issue. Please note, I write from an Zen viewpoint. I am no teacher, nor enlightened or anything. This is just my personal view, coined by my school: Soto-Shu in the line of Deshimaru. If you do zazen, do zazen. That is all there is. If you do zazen in order to overcome your desires, to become a better person, to become enlightened, whatgotcha.. you will fail. If you do so, you are still attached to desires and concepts (I am, for sure). Thereore, you can only practice for the sake of practice. This is called muhotoku, translating to without a goal or with no profit. You do zazen, because you do zazen. And that's all there is, shikantaza, just sitting. I even raise the stake: There is no satori to achive, no samadhi, no big transformation, no hammer of enlightment the ends all your suffering with one blow. Nothing like that when you are away from shikantaza and zazen, and while you do zazen, you have reached satori already and your suffering stops. To be fair, there is a loop. Everybody starts something new, because of goals and desires. Someone has noticed, he is suffering (Every fullfilled wish isn't enough.). Naturally he looks for a way to stop suffering(I stop wishing now!). He may start to go the zen-way (Buddha said, that will stop suffering.). If he does so, in order to stop his suffering, he will notice, the suffering does not simply stop (I'm still suffering!? Even my legs are suffering, and my back!). This perception causes even more suffering (Not even this works, Buddha was a liar!). But if he manages to stay on track and continues his practice, he might notice his attachment and entanglement with the world. He might percept, how this causes his suffering. He might be able to reduce the entanglement. On the other side, he might notice, how the world stops, while he sits, how the loud and busy world isn't so exciting any more. This comes not easy and is a hard way to learn. But it comes naturally. It can't be pressed, it can't be explained. A step at a time. The important point is, it can't be pressed. The wish to achieve it (at best now and not somewhere in the future) tries to press it. It is human to have he wish, but it cause suffering, no more or less, then every other wish. If one could let got that desire, but continues to go the path (mushotoku), one will be a Buddha, sitting zazen, not suffering, shikantaza. Gazing the moon. Edit: Just one more thought: For me there is a difference in "overcome desire" and "have no desire". Since English is not my native language, it's hard for me to explain. But it boils down to something like this: I will still have desires, I will still be entangled with the world, I will still be attached, but it will not dictate my life or who or how I am. I will see the mechanisms, know how they work and life with them. Nothing, not even desires, attachment or entanglement is inherent evil. There is no such thing as inherent evil. It's our behaviour towards those things, that let us suffer. 

What technique you practice ? do you have a teacher ? Cause if you dont i would recommend it In case you have a teacher and you practice in a correct way, than i can tell you what helps me now : which is that every action you do have an effect (even if not every kamma has an effect) so nothing was in vain and remembering that each action you do has an effect can help motivate you - for example if every action you did has an effect than failing and trying again and again even if never successful still has its point see this question - especially the chat i had with Sankha Kulathantille : What are the cases where a karma's fruit is destroyed? 

How to get back to practice after failing ? i always try and fail try and fail meditating for some years- had and have a teacher - did retreats - but i never manage to keep meditating for more than a few days - tried going all in - tried only meditating 5 minutes - or just being mindful ect ect cause every time i fail i take a month or two break if not more so how can i get back to practice each time ? the more i "fail" and take this breaks i feel that its for no use cause i never manage to persevere no matter what i try 

I think this could be understood as the lack of ill will - so its more what a buddha wouldnt have The opposite of many bad (unwholesome-akusala) things is good (wholesome=kusala) so the opposite of ill will i believe be empathy - the 5 hindrances which arhants (and the buddha was an arahant) dont have : Sensory desire (kāmacchanda): the particular type of wanting that seeks for happiness through the five senses of sight, sound, smell, taste and physical feeling. .... opposite will be to be content with what is Ill-will (vyāpāda; also spelled byāpāda): all kinds of thought related to wanting to reject; feelings of hostility, resentment, hatred and bitterness. .... opposite will be metta to all Sloth-and-torpor (thīna-middha): heaviness of body and dullness of mind which drag one down into disabling inertia and thick depression. ... opposite will be enregetic Restlessness-and-worry (uddhacca-kukkucca): the inability to calm the mind. .... opposite will be calm Doubt ... opposite will be to have faith in the dhamma 

Is doing contemplation of death auto-suggestion to meditate ? is it working on my subconsciousness ? maybe i should just do auto suggestion telling my self many times to meditate - maybe its more effective ? can i do my own version of death contemplation or should i say exactly the words in the sutta ? if i can what are the guidelines that i should follow when make my own version ? If i dont fear death and dont care to die - is it still useful ? can i do death contemplation about people i care about ? you can only answer some questions i asked or add something i didnt ask about which is related and can be helpful