I think this is one of the best lessons you can learn from new jobs (and probably a harder thing to deal with for a first job), so you should consider this as something you investigate for your next job, and whether it is something that you find very important for your job satisfaction. If you look at the options you have proposed, option 1 will not solve any problem other than relying on you to cope with it for as long as possible, at which point you'll either leave, someone else will fix the problem (or leave). I can just see this going down badly and resulting in you leaving. For option 2, you need to consider whether it is a good time to leave the job or not, otherwise leaving will create a bigger problem compared to staying just a little bit longer. For option 3, for a new job this might not be something that the management will warm up to. However, it is useful to put the idea out there is you are considering option 2 anyway so there's nothing to lose and everything to gain. 

I don't know if it necessarily counts as discrimination as availability would definitely have to be considered when allocating positions. I would like to add that disclosure is probably a better course of action in the sense that it gives both parties the best chance to manage the situation. I say this because managers never want to know about things in the last minute, and the worker doesn't want the insecurity of ending up with either options available to them. The fact that a manager is still willing to keep you on if you don't get the job offer would be very reassuring in the sense that I am valued in the company, and the fact that I would tell my manager that I want to move on gives them the confidence that I am communicating things to them, so there is a very high level of transparency and no 'games' being played here. Not sure why there should be down votes on the previous response as it is an equally valid solution. 

As a contractor this is something that I have had to deal with a lot more than most people in a permanent job, and I have to say that it doesn't get easier for me each time I have to move onto a new role and the process of applying for jobs, talking to recruiters and fronting up to interviews can wear you down regardless of how experienced or seasoned a professional you are if there are no roles suitable for you out there. Along with the advice and suggestions already provided here, I think the most helpful piece of information I have been given by a friend is that you should try to think of applying for jobs in the same way that actors audition for roles. Sure, the process isn't always fair and the people picking the candidate can be subjective to their own personal preferences, but at the end of the day they are looking for a particular type of actor and if you don't fit the bill then you don't fit. It can be easy to take the rejection personally, but on the flip side when you do land a job it is easy to forget those that have also applied for the same role and missed out. As for the rejection emails, you can either try to fine-tune your applications to try and tick the boxes that recruiters are looking for, or you can stick to who you are so that when you do get the call up for an interview you can be confident that the job is more likely to be a good fit for you. There is no right or wrong answer, because at the end of the day it is how you choose to react to these rejections that will ultimately determine how well you will do in your next application. 

I think it is not necessary to do this, because the idea of creating connections is so that the recruiter has an independent and reliable source of information about who you are as a person and a professional. They will find enough professional and personal referees, so it is more important to maintain good relationships and have a presence rather than getting people to write recommendations and give endorsements at the time of the interview. 

It depends on if you rely on connections and contacts for job opportunities. It also depends on the type of industry and how the recruiters operate. In IT any social or network related platform will definitely get a lot of attention. I think the need comes from being able to identify or uncover links that you might not have otherwise been aware of (for both companies and employees). 

Since you have already dealt with him directly and it hasn't improved the situation, it is time to raise or escalate the issue with the client manager so that you can stay out of it altogether. In general if people can't work things out among themselves then it is really up to a third party with the authority to make a decision. Also, if there is a standard process or procedure that has been established, there also needs to be something in place for people who want to do things another way to justify that decision. You need to put something in place with your project to make sure that this doesn't happen again or affect the progress of the project. 

In almost every single contract I have seen, there is this clause which allows the employers to request the contractor to work a 'reasonable' amount of hours when required beyond the normal work day (which I assume is 8 hours for most countries) without having to pay them more (in some cases they do as well). I am a bit confused because from most of the labour laws I have seen there is a limitation on the number of hours that a person is allowed to work: 

It is definitely not a problem, and I would probably even make a point of saying that you have some questions listed and would like to make some notes so they don't think you are doing something else or being distracted when you look down and scribble things on the notebook before the interview starts. 

It is interesting to find that many social events that are organized by managers or teams for the purpose of getting employees to socialize outside of work hours (e.g. lunchtime or after work events) end up being seen as another opportunity for people to complain/discuss/gossip about work related topics. I think constructive discussions about work outside of the work environment over a meal or an activity can help generate new ideas. However, the type of complaint or gossipy type of conversation usually seems to contribute to the build-up of frustration may not be particularly productive. For example, if there is a farewell lunch organised for someone leaving, having that person talk negatively about their experiences at work, or even positive things at work (if people know it hasn't been as pleasant as is being politely described) can be awkward. Instead it is much better to direct the focus away from work-related topics altogether. In jobs where there are particular political or organisational issues there is a tendency for people to become a little bit too focused on talking about these topics, and it doesn't serve the purpose of getting people out of that head space so they can actually relax and try to get to know people better. Are there strategies that have been successfully employed to help people focus on topics other than work related matters at these events? Or is it just difficult to do this since it is still a work related event? 

This will probably largely depend on the organization, but in general is it a bigger hurdle to overcome when you move from a permanent to contract position with the same company or the other way around? Companies often hire people in permanent positions because they feel that they need to, and end up realizing that they don't need someone on a permanent basis. The other scenario is that they engage someone on a contract and then realize that they need to have someone to do more of the same work. I have been in both situations before, and I think that going from permanent to contract position alienates you more than going from contract to permanent, but I am wondering if this is largely a work culture or just from my own experience, and would like to know the specific reasons. 

I guess everyone should have their own professional and personal standards when it comes to ethical conducts and standards, but in an age where corporate and social responsibilities are becoming more important values to employees and customers, who is responsible for defining and maintaining the company or business standards? Who should ethical issues within the company be raised with? 

I think the best solution is to develop a better understanding with your manager. The worst thing that can happen in this type of meeting is if you provide different information compared to your manager, or if your manager does not back you up on your comments. The best way to ensure that this doesn't happen is to make sure that you are on the same page as your manager on issues that relate to your area of expertise and knowledge. Otherwise, it is probably better to not participate in these types of meetings and leave the responsibility to the manager (which is partly what they are there for). 

I would have thought the better way to make it fair is to allocate a certain number of tickets to each area/region if you want equal participation/attendance. Of course, you could set a time limit so after an initial period then the remaining unsold tickets are opened up to everyone else that is interested.