Latin æ represented /ai̯~ae̯/ and monophthongized later to /e:/. The digraph simply ea represented the sequence /ea/. Old English æ represented the vowel /æ/ or /æ:/, and ea represented the diphthong /æɑ̯/ or /æːɑ̯/. In Middle English, /æ/ merged with /ɑ/ as /a/, and /æ:/ heightened to /ɛ:/ and was written ea. You can read about vowels in Latin or Old English on Wikipedia. Your observation that e is short and adding a makes it long isn't exactly correct. The long version of e /e/ in Middle English orthography was ee /e:/, and ea was a separate long /ɛ:/ (historically from Old English /æ:/). The fact that some English words spelled with ea (such as great) are pronounced with the vowel /eɪ/ has nothing to do with the pronunciation of æ as /e:/ in later Latin. 

The syllabic l (IPA /l̩/) is no different than the ordinary consonant /l/ in place of articulation, but takes the place of a vowel in a syllable. The dark l (IPA /ɫ/) is a velarized (or pharyngealized) form of the consonant /l/, meaning that back of the tongue simultaneously articulates an /l/ and is raised at the velum (or pharynx). Each can exist independently of each other. Neither has to do with whether the tip of the tongue touches the roof of the mouth (which is the distinction between apical/laminal consonants). In English, every syllabic l is also a dark l (and could therefore be written [ɫ̩] in IPA), e.g. "apple" [æpɫ̩]. However, a dark non-syllabic l exists at the coda (end) of a syllable, as in "pool" [pu:ɫ]. 

I think a few issues need to be cleared up first. Firstly, the first source you mentioned is an ESL source rather than a linguistics source. If you'd like to learn more about linguistics, I'd suggest consulting more linguistically-oriented sources like Payne's article, since ESL sources tend to be simplified - they are, after all, aimed at language learners, not linguistics students. Secondly, another issue to be cleared up is whether we're talking about descriptive categories, which are specific to languages or comparative concepts, which are used for cross-linguistic comparison. It seems here that we're talking about descriptive categories, but you did not specify this in your question, so I think it is helpful to make this explicit. This is because the discussion of what constitutes a lexical verb and a copular verb in English has nothing to do with, say, French être or Mojave iðuːm, or even Middle English be. Finally, Payne never defines the lexical verb as a copula verb. He is, in fact, arguing against the treatment of the copular verb be as an example of a lexical verb. He regards it as an auxiliary, and uses several kinds of evidence to show that the copula be and the auxiliary be behave the same way morphosyntactically except when the difference in behaviour is purely semantic/pragmatic. More generally, lexical words are generally those that form an open class in the language, i.e. a class of words to which words can be added freely. For example, in English, you can easily form new words, e.g. you can form new lexical verbs by X-ise meaning 'to make something like X'. It's much harder to form new auxiliaries like can or may. This is the 'general idea' behind the distinction. However, these criteria seem not to be really helpful for determining whether be is lexical or auxiliary in its predicative use, since we don't know whether be belongs to the first group or second group just by looking at it. This is where morphosyntactic criteria come in: We can define lexical verbs and auxiliary verbs by means of their morphosyntactic behaviour. This is the whole idea behind language-specific descriptive categories. Descriptive categories are invented on a language-specific basis to describe the particularities of the grammar of a particular language, in this case English. Payne cited language-internal evidence for treating the copula and auxiliary be both as auxiliary, e.g. be can take the negator not and be fronted in questions, whether as a copula or as an auxiliary for tenses: 

Both words come from the root זכר, but are in different conjugations (binyanim). לִזְכּוֹר or זָכַר is in the kal (pa'al) conjugation, and לְהִזָּכֵר or נִזְכָּר is in the nif'al conjugation. Etymologically, זָכַר is a transitive verb meaning "to remember," and this meaning goes as far back as Biblical Hebrew. נִזְכָּר, on the other hand, means "to be remembered" in Biblical Hebrew and is intransitive. In Mishnaic Hebrew, נִזְכָּר is first used with the meaning "to remember" and usually appears as נִזְכָּר שֶׁ- meaning "to remember that...". In modern Hebrew, נִזְכָּר is usually followed by בְּ- "to remember about..." (since the word is still intransitive). Semantically, נִזְכָּר differs from זָכַר in that it carries a connotation of realizing, i.e. remembering something that had previously been forgotten, whereas זָכַר can refer to uninterrupted remembering. For example, one dictionary defines זָכַר as 

So Tok Pisin does have more than two prepositions when there is a need to make a distinction between different ones. However, a lack of prepositions doesn't necessarily mean that it's impossible to express complex philosophical ideas — it just means that the ideas are different than what we're used to. For instance, Ugaritic doesn't distinguish between motion towards ("to") and motion away ("from"), both being l /li/. But many cases in which it would be natural for an English speaker to say "to" use the preposition "with" (‘m /ʕimma/). I don't speak Tok Pisin, but the case could be similar here. 

In Canaanaic (which includes Hebrew) and Aramaic, Semitic w normally becomes y in initial position only. The notable exception is the conjunction wa "and". Usually historic sound changes do not have any identifiable rationale. 

IE *h1(e)su- accounts reasonably well for ἐύς m, ἐύ n., as well as for Skt. su- and for Hitt. āššu-. The final -ς of ἐύς is simply the case ending for the nom. s. The Luvian etc. forms look more like Skt vasu-, Av. vohu- and their cognates, IE *uesu-. 

The modern Persian word pronounced /γadaγan/ means “prohibition” and the like; it is spelt both as غدغن and as قدغن. It can hardly be a native Persian word. I have searched for it in Clauson’s “Etymological dictionary of pre-thirteenth-century Turkish” (do note that Clauson uses “Turkish” to include all Turkic languages), as well as in several dictionaries of modern (Anatolian) Turkish, but found nothing. It occurs, however, in the Urmi dialect of Neo-Aramaic. In his dictionary of that language Geoffrey Khan derives it via Azeri from Mongolian qadagala “to keep in confinement”. 

The Oxford English Dictionary quotes early attestations for most of the words in the dictionary. The latest edition is available online, but most of the entries require a payed subscription to access them. The first edition is out of copyright and available for free at archive.org (links to each volume are given here). 

According to the Tok Pisin Wikibook, Tok Pisin does have compound prepositions beyond the two "basic" prepositions. 

Biblical Hebrew consistently uses the letter ס (s) to transcribe names with the Akkadian consonant š. For example, Esarhaddon for Aššur-aḥa-iddina, Esther from Ištar, Sargon from Šarru-ukīn (all Akkadian transcriptions copied from Wikipedia). Etymologically, Akkadian š and Hebrew š almost always correspond (š and ṯ, although Akkadian š can also correspond to Hebrew ś, but not to s to my knowledge). The only exception I can think of is Aššur which is transcribed that way (with š). Since the Aramaic reflex is Attur, the word seems to have reached both languages as a descendant (through *Aṯṯur) and not a borrowing. On the other hand, Shalmaneser comes from Šulmanu-ašarid, and yet preserves the š at the beginning of the word, while the second š is transcribed as s. My question is: Why does Hebrew not transcribe Akkadian š with Hebrew ש (š) instead of ס (s)? Does this indicate that Akkadian š was actually pronounced s (maybe only in Assyria)? And why was the š preserved in the name of Shalmaneser (only one of the two times)? 

The word for "two" is dua in Malay/Indonesian and duo in Latin. This is a classic example of how words in two unrelated languages turn out looking the same, by pure coincidence. 

I am not sure about “intrinsic”. It is, however, main-stream Indo-Europeanist theory that the suffix * -es marks both the genitive singular and the nominative plural m/f in proto-Indo-European. Though I would concede that this does not really answer your question but merely projects it back to a hypothetical proto-language. 

The oldest known form of the North Semitic alphabet is the Ugaritic alphabet. The order of the letters is: ʾa b g ḫ d h w z ḥ ṭ y k š l m ḏ n ẓ s ʿ p ṣ q r ṯ ġ t ʾi ʾu s2 As you can see, the voiced stops b g d and the liquids/nasals l m n are NOT grouped together without a break. There is no perceptible logic to this order. 

So French is considered an analytic language because various parts of the sentences are cut up into words, but it is also considered a fusional language (not an isolating language!) because we use fusional affixes (e.g. ils chant-ent, 3pl sing-3spl) to express information. Mandarin is both isolating and analytic. However, note that in recent years, there is less focus on putting languages into (somewhat arbitrary) macro categories like these, and instead there is more interest in looking at the typology of particular constructions, so one hears quite frequently about the analyticity and syntheticity of particular constructions. 

Because in English, to-infinitivals with an overt subject always require a subordinator for. See Huddleston (2002, pp. 1178-1181). Here is another example but in complement position: 

By the way, clauses and verb phrases can also go to subject and object positions without complementisers. Here are some examples of constructions that would not be allowed in English: 

The Wikipedia “formula” is indeed highly problematic in so far as it assumes that derivation and inflection are effected solely by suffixation, which is manifestly not true in many languages. For example, in Arabic yatakātabūna “they write to each other” the root is k-t-b, the first /ta/ is a derivational morpheme, the prefixed /ya/ and the suffixed /ūna/ are inflectional elements. So what comes before what? 

Our English grammatical terminology is taken from Latin, where in turn it is calqued on Greek. Noun = nomen = onoma literally means “name”; the idea is that a noun is the name of a particular person or thing. A verb is not a “name”, but merely a “word” = verbum = rhēma that is predicated to a name/noun. Sometimes the Greeks used rhēma also in a broader sense to mean a predicate adjective. References here: $URL$ 

The OED (the uncredited source for most of the entries in etymonline) is a bit more cautious; its entry on “splice” says: “< Middle Dutch splissen, of doubtful origin, but perhaps related to split v.” Both “splice” and “split” are originally nautical terms, borrowed from Dutch. I do not see any great difficulty in the semantic development split > splice. You have to split a cable before you can splice it. 

Greek had the /h/ phoneme only at the beginning of a word, and it was marked with a diacritic (rough breathing sign) rather than with a letter. Koine Greek lost the /h/ phoneme and early manuscripts (such as Codex Sinaiticus and Codex Vaticanus) didn't mark rough breathing, or had it added by a later scribe (according to their respective Wikipedia pages), and so they don't offer evidence on how it was pronounced. Latin, which did have represent /h/ with a letter, would translate the rough breathing as "h". Since readers unschooled in Hebrew had to guess for themselves whether the Greek word began with a rough breathing mark, both Ierousalem and Hierousalem, Ieremias and Hieremias existed in Greek. Alexander Sperber wrote an article with a list of Greek transliterations (Septuagint and Origen) and Latin transliterations (Jerome) of Hebrew words. Since the Greek words don't mark breathing, only the Latin is helpful here. Jerome uses i/j for this letter; he never uses "hi" to translate words beginning with Hebrew yod (his full list is on p. 124). Jerome, who learned Hebrew, certainly would have had no doubt as to the correct pronunciation. Apparently, the rough breathing interpretation won out, because that was what was borrowed into Latin. It certainly helped that hieros meant "sacred" in Greek (that point made here), which would have been meaningful to Christians who considered Jerusalem a holy city, but also could have been a simple hypercorrection. Notably, names such as Iesous are never (to my knowledge, at least) spelled Hiesous, which might support the theory of a hieros misunderstanding, but if names such as Hiakobus are indeed attested, I can only explain this as having been made by analogy to words such as Hierousalem. So the "hi" spelling in Latin Hierusalem, Hieremias, etc. would have necessarily come through Greek, and not directly from Hebrew.