There is actually a paper on this. Click Here for PDF Quick answer: 10^6 kilometer-scale Dyson Sphere Depending on the specific white dwarf size of Dyson Sphere will be subject to change 

Ok so if your speedster tried to write, the pen/pencil will burn through the page with friction and emailing will be too slow with many broken keyboards. Your speedster needs to figure out simple direct messages she wants to send to humanity. Best way to make sure she is heard is to carve her message into the ground. Get a running start, then have your speedster stop by digging her feet into the ground. Write a message all of earth can see. Imagine like a crop circle message but inscribed into the earth. She could change the message daily. Instruct people on how to live. Some people might even think it is a message from god. 

ring -> circlet, bands, hoop totem -> emblem, symbol, token artifact -> heirloom, relic, antique, vestige talisman -> (my favorite) juju!, fetish (as Alberto Yagos) points out charm -> ... amulet -> periapt, brooch, medallion, scarab Shoulders -> Cloak, Cape, Mantle Torso -> Vest, Vestment, Shirt Waist-> Shirt, Girdle Eyes-> Lenses, Goggles, Spectacles 

Your item needs some form of drawbacks. As there is no cost to your current item, it is ripe for abuse. Some suggestions you can employ to make the powers of the item limited to superhuman instead of god levels. The "best" way to do this is to slap on limiters and try it out with different powers. To avoid confusion, I'll refer to your item as the "Grand Absorber" 

Spy (no one expects an ant or a raven to be spying on them) Circus performer (Perform certain tricks like feats of balance when you are a cat, pretending you are a trained beast) Animal TRAINER (who better to train dogs than someone who can shape-shift as a dog and speak dog?) Sensory exploiter (Need to find objects in the ocean-> Shape-shift into dolphin and blast out some sonar. Need to find the drugs on the criminals? Shape-shift into a dog and find those drugs like a champ.) Extinction prevention (So it turns out there is only one super extinct rhino left and you have a few shapeshifters... start making more rhinos) Organ Farm (give kidneys/liver/organs to someone who needs them, then shape-shift into Axolotl, regenerate the missing pieces, rinse/repeat) Also this will allow your shapeshifters to recover from virtually anything besides completely getting their brains destroyed. Drug/Poison Dealing: The Colorado River toad (Incilius alvarius), also known as the Sonoran Desert toad can secrete a hallucinogenic compound that could. You could also turn into a snake and milk your own fangs Literally any job you could master given enough retries at life, even if you are severely maimed: Phase one, live your life in an attempt to master a job -> lets say you are trying to become a linguist(easier to learn languages when young because...*citation needed) or too old to continue (boxing/gymnast) Shapshift into a Turritopsis dohrnii become a young polyp -> TRY AGAIN YOU GOT A NEW LEASE ON LIFE! Bear Clone Warlord: Shapeshift into a sponge or any animal that reproduces asexually. Now, since the asexually reproduced animal has the shapeshifter's DNA the cloned offspring should be able to revert to human form after replicating like bu...sponges. After shapeshifter has built up an army (and has established many "circuses" in strategic locations), start taking over stuff. EVEN if the shapeshift fails one time, they have all the time in the world. As a bonus, your shapeshifter can coordinate all military attacks as Bears. Exotic pet salesman: Using the sponge clone method in 9, have your sponge clones change into pets of the most exotic kinds. You could even avoid having to deal with the hard part of smuggling exotic animals to other nations. When boarding a plane, have all your clones turn into bugs and when you get off shapeshift back into the rare tiger. Supervillain: To the shapeshifter, the world is disgusting. There is not enough of the shapeshifter. SPONGE CLONE METHOD AGAIN! Replicate like mad, start to hunt down every life form that isn't a former sponge clone. As you kill something, replace that with a sponge clone shapeshifted copy. Become only living thing on planet with clones of yourself doing every job of EVERY animal. Do all Jobs. 

Not exactly sure how you're going to keep the liquid nitrogen under -196C however. You're also going to run into the problem of the Leidenfrost effect, which might make the liquid nitrogen evaporate when exposed to your target's skin. If your arrowheads were MUCH larger so more liquid nitrogen can be exposed to the skin longer OR you hit someone in the clothing, the liquid nitrogen could linger a bit longer to freeze the skin underneath. Not exactly SubZero level of freezing people, but with the size limitation of arrowheads. It is not too feasible to drop the temperature of something super quickly with very little exposure time. 

For your electricity powers to work you need to know the balance between negative and positive energy (electron buildup). For example, maybe your magic users need to move or vibrate against specific materials in order to build up charges (magic carpet?!?!?!) by building up a large amount of electricity, the wielder can exert magical ability to retain or discharge the power into something with less charge. Thus a high level lightning user would be able to use magic to absorb lesser attacks while also being able to overload a lesser magic users with more electrons than they can handle. 

So they operate at (80/30)=2.66666666667 our speed? People typically talk at 150 words per minute We need someone to talk at (2.66666666667*150)= 400 words a minute If we can get to 7 words a second (420 a minute) we can communicate So some human beings are just incredibly fast talkers. 2.6 isn't too fast of a gap. All we have to do as an advanced civilization is to just send the proper representatives. Someone like John Moschitta Jr. can speak at 11 words per second at maximum rate, easily clearing the requirement. A quick youtube search reveals this guy missing your requirements by 3 seconds. It shouldn't be hard to implement for prepared speeches. However, dialog about complex issues should be done in writing. Preferably lengthy detailed documents otherwise a lot of misunderstandings can happen quickly. 

Apparently there is also a person who has given birth to children (Although I cannot find a super official site to corroborate) Jose Maria Garcia 

The simple answer would be to sacrifice the winners and kill the losers making sure they are dishonored afterwards. If they were honorable and the gods favored them, they would have won right? Unless you can hand waive in the martyrdom trait and true believer features into each member of a civilization (who "know" that by sacrificing themselves the family unit/personal life is getting an upgrade by death), you will always get people that cheat/game the system. Even if the punishment for the loser is something horrible, some people will prefer something horrible to death (whatever that punishment is). Unless you somehow knew what the thing worse than death is for everyone on a personal level WITH the ability to execute said plan, you aren't going to have much luck. There is terrible moral hazard with cheating in sumo wrestling which is a sport that has been around for quite some time. That cheating is done repeatedly over money and prestige. It is going to be nearly impossible to discourage moral hazard in a life or death scenario. Make sparing the losers the exception rather than the rule. Maybe the losers only live if an unknown point/injury threshold is reached.