First talk to your therapist not only about how this job is making you feel but about what kind of accommodations you need and how to approach your company with that. You should also ask about what documentation you need. This should not be the first time the therapist has had to deal with workplace issues. Talk about ways to reduce stress. While it is risky at this point in your job (new employee with no established track record of performance) to ask for an accommodation, would it be less risky to flame out and end up in the hospital? But before you ask for an accommodation, you need to seriously decide what accommodation you need. Quitting your job and hoping you get better is not going to work, bipolar issues are for life. You need to start working with a therapist to find ways to make work life less stressful to you. If you have not worked with one, I would suggest looking for a behavioral psychologist since medicine and talk therapy doesn't seem to be doing the trick for you. You need to learn new techniques for coping with daily life and reprogram your thought process. I had to go this route to get my own bi-polar disease to where I could live with it. Be comforted to know that I have dealt with this disease for close to fifty years and I have been able to remain gainfully employed for my entire adult life. Things I personally have found helpful to deal with workplace stress and bipolar disease: 

I've worked with all kinds of remote workers the last few years. What I have noticed is that good remote workers keep in contact. You don't have to bug them for progress reports, you don't email or IM them and never hear back. Your projects don't go into a dark black hole and hopefully come out OK at the end (But maybe not). So in managing remote workers, to me the first thing to do is set clear expectations about contact. If you have core hours that they must be available, make that clear; make it clear how soon you expect a response to an email or IM. The next thing you want is good solid source control and policies concerning how often work is uploaded to source control. Remote workers, particularly those out of town, should be uploading their changes to a branch (not necessarily the main branch) at a minimum of every day. If you aren't seeing any code changes frequently, then it is time to have a chat with them. One reason why this is critical even on a long term large project is that sometimes people get sick or take emergency leave due to a death in family, etc and you need their latest work to get the job assigned to someone else during their unplanned absence. Someone who works in the office, it is easy to go get the code off their machine if they haven't checked it in, with remote people, you really need the frequent check-ins. Next make sure you set a up a way to video conference and share documents etc in a web conference and put money in the budget to bring remote workers into the office for a couple of days every year. People do work better with people they see and know in person. Code reviews are something that should be a requirement for everyone. Using your web and video conferencing, you should have regular code reviews with remote people and have them code review the work of in-house people. If someone is on a longer project and you are feeling uncomfortable about the progress due to what is being said or not said in the regular progress reports, schedule an interim code review for the next day. This will often make the person who is slacking realize that they aren't getting away with it and progress will suddenly be made. If your remote workers are in drasitcally differnt time zones, you may have to allow extra time in project plannig for the delays that will inevitably occur becasue they need something from you (a clarification for a requirement, access to a particular database, etc.) and you aren't available to provide it. Remote workers also need good solid requirements to work from. When you give them a new project requirement, talk to them about it and make sure you have covered any intial questions. Treat everyone as part of the team. Remote workers often get forgetten when it comes to awards and things that we do for in-house people. For instance we frequently have bagels in the morning at our office, the remote folks don't get that. So if you do that sort of thing for those in the office, periodically send the remote people a gift card for Panera's or somesuch so that they feel they are part of the group. We also expect remote workers to be at team meetings and company meetings. It's hard to get a word in edgewise when you are the remote voice on the phone in a meeting, so it is up to the in-house people to remember to ask them what they think especially if the topic is somewhat controversial or when you are discussing things like overall architecture. Plus they are more likely to pay attention if they know they will be asked questions. YOu have to make more of an effort to provide feedback to remote workers too. It's easy to say good job on XYZ project to the guy you are passing in the hallway. It takes more of aneffort to remeber to passfeedback on to remote workers. And don't be the person they hear from only when you are unhappy. Make sure to pass on praise as well as criticism. Like any worker, you want to hire the best you can. For remote workers, someone who has a track record of working remotely might be a big plus (especially if they have refernces who can verify that it went well), but don't eliminate great potential employees just because they haven't. Ask why they want to work from home. Ask them how they envision working with your team while they work from home. This should give you a good idea of the way they like to work. If you interview someone who likes to take a project and then give it back to you only when it is is done and who doesn't want to be "bothered" with IMs, email, questions or prorgress reports, run away. 

The one place where I would be concerned about doing this, and where I would ask in advance, was if I was interviewing for a some type of position where classified information was being handled. If the interview is in a secure facility, you might not get in the door without having to leave your laptop behind. Otherwise I agree with @Hilmar, it is generally a huge plus to be able to show off your accomplishments and bringing a laptop to do show shows organization and forethought. One time I was hiring for over 100 open analyst postions and we interviewed all day long for weeks. Only one person out of hundreds interviewd brought a sample of his work and he was the top person on everybody's list for hiring (and the only one we put on the hiring list before we were finished interviewing everyone). Do make sure if you are showing off samples of your work that they are good samples and that they are not violating any company confidentialty agreements. Usually when I have prepared sample programming work to show I have gone in and refactored to make sure it was the best I could do and I changed things so that the code was no longer company specific. If you can't find a way to make the sample not violate your company confidentiality, then create a personal project that does something similar to show off and/or show the public face of your work (if it is a public web site for instance) and talk about what specific features you worked on and what techniques you used to do them. 

You probably would not directly hurt your career as the definition of essential and non-essential is more about who is needed in an emergency than whether the job is needed, so it is unlikely to mean your job would get eliminated by volunteering. However as a new employee, I would counsel you against this because it gives the impression that the free vacation is more important to you than anything else and that is not an attitude that impresses supervisiors. If you had a longer track record with this group of people, you could probably opt out with no consequences because they know you and your work and your value to the organization better (unless you are perceived in general as a poor performer and then you are furthering that impression). But as a new employee I would avoid any action that could be interpreted as taking my job less than seriously. This is especially true if some of the senior managers are part of the group intially furloughed and they did not want to be. Further while people are out, it is your chance to shine by taking on more responsibility. That is a golden opportunity and it would be foolish to throw it away. Just remember, perception is the most important thing in how your managers will judge you. If they perceive you as a slacker, it doesn't really matter that you are not. If they perceive you as someone who steps up during a trying time in the organization, they will think better of you than they might at this early stage of your career with them. (I should point out I was a federal employee for 14 years.) 

At this stage, I would go to him in person, say you understand he has some questions about what you did and get the package from your email and open it on his desk if he has the right software installed or go to your desk if not. Then walk through exactly what it does. Make sure to run the package after setting up any appropriate test files needed. Show through unit tests what the results were. Make notes in writing of anything he thinks needs to be added. Follow up the meeting with an email stating that you are going to change these things per the meeting on and the changes will be done by ... Make sure to copy anyone he sent his angry email back to (if that was how he communicated his displeasure to you, that part wasn't clear). I would probably also casually mention that was a review of the package that was sent to him on such and such date and include that as an attachment. Then make the changes. Now anyone else he forwarded this to is aware that you did send the package and you have documentation of the steps of the process and when they happened in case you need it later. In the future, clarify vague requirements before starting to program. It saves a lot of time. 

I am going to point out that many people who did not do well at the interview think they did brilliantly. Just because you have all the technical skills doesn't mean they think you will fit in. Technical is typically only 30-50% of what they are looking for. And I personally have interviewed plenty of people who thought they had the technical skills but who did not pass my interview questions on them. Sometimes what they want is at a higher level or a different part of the language than you are unfamiliar with. Sometimes you think you gave a correct answer but it not the answer the interviewer was looking for. He may have expected more detail or the mention of something specific. Or what you said might be a 180 degrees from the way they do things and they know you would be unhappy with the code base you would have to work in They did not think you were a match for what they wanted. If they advertised again, it was because they didn't find anyone who they wanted to hire or they had the hire fall through or they have another opening. It could even be that they had a budget freeze and figured out that most people would no longer be in the market of their original group. You have no idea why it happened. And frankly why is irrelevant. Hating people and companies for rejecting you in an interview is ultimately not in your own best interests. You may run across these people later in your career and be a better fit for the job they have then. Your boss might leave and this person take his place. The company you work for might get bought by the company you hate. It is a small world out there in any profession; don't burn bridges and don't let a rejection mean you can't work with them later on. It is not personal, you are competing with other people and other needs; you need to stop taking things personally.