It could be a tiny amount of movement between the cassette and the freehub. Try putting some grease on the freehub splines, and (more importantly) make sure the cassette lockring is tightened to the correct torque. Check if the noise occurs on all cogs of the cassette, or just on a few cogs. I had a case where there was a crunching noise only on the 3 largest cogs, which were joined into a single unit. 

The way you asked the question, it sounds like you think the following is happening: first, the derailleur hanger wears out/weakens, then it snaps, and this causes the derailleur to go into the spokes. It is much more likely that the chain of events is the following: the derailleur is mis-adjusted, when you shift to the largest cog on the rear, the derailleur goes into the spokes, and this causes the derailleur hanger to break off. Possible causes: 

I'd go with a couple of bungee cords, maybe the adjustable-length ones. That's probably going to be more versatile and adaptable than something more specialized. There are some flat adjustable bungees, like these: 

If you've already checked the lower limit screw of the derailleur, and also checked for a bent derailleur hanger, another thing to consider is cable friction. To get to the smallest cog, the derailleur spring has to move the derailleur all the way to the outside. While it's doing that, the spring is pulling the shifter cable out of its housing. If there is a lot of dirt/oil/gunk buildup inside the cable housing, that would make it difficult. Given that the bike is fairly old, it's worth removing the shifter cable and lubricating the inside of the cable housing. Then you could either reuse the old cable if it's in good shape, or better yet, get a new shifter cable (should cost just a few dollars). 

On the Retrospec website, the page for this bike states that the handlebar clamp has a diameter of 22.2mm. It seems that there are some handlebars of that diameter available, for example: $URL$ However, I'm not sure what kind/shape/size of handlebars would make this bike easier to handle for you. I'm guessing the handling is currently a bit twitchy because of the short handlebars ? So maybe longer handlebars would make things better. Perhaps you should measure the width of the current handlebars and then look for something that is significantly wider. In principle, it's very simple to replace the handlebars. You would have to remove one of the grips, and loosen the clamp bolt in the center. 

the inner limit screw on the rear derailleur is too far out, needs to be tightened a bit, until it reliably keeps the derailleur from moving too close to the spokes the chain is too short, and when you shift onto the largest rear cog and the largest front chainring (not recommended in general), the chain gets too tight and this rips off the derailleur. 

I've spent a lot of time adjusting Avid Elixir 5 brakes to stop rubbing. There could be multiple things going on that may need to be fixed. If you can figure out which of these applies to your situation, I can give you more detail on how to fix it. Below are 4 possible causes of your brakes rubbing, and what to do about it. 

I just went through the same adjustment process. I used to ride only mountain bikes for about 15 years. Then I got a cyclocross bike in March of this year, which we can regard as equivalent to a road bike for the purposes of this discussion. On short rides (< 1 hour) it was OK, but on longer rides my neck and shoulders started hurting a lot after about 2-3 hours. After 3 months, this is slowly getting better. I've had about 8 longer rides between 60 and 90 miles so far. Strava tells me I've ridden the new bike for 831 miles. Apparently it's still going to take a bit more before I've completely adapted to this bike. I had some lower back pain at first, but that went away very quickly (maybe 3 rides of 1 hour each). In spite of the discomfort, I like riding the road bike better. The handlebars are more comfortable for my hands, and I also like that I can go faster than on the mountain bike (17mph --> 21mph) To get back to your specific question, I think it may take much longer than 2 weeks, and perhaps less than 6 months. I'm 43, so if you're younger maybe you will adapt more quickly. To add another perspective, my wife switched for a flat bar road bike (similar to a hybrid, but thinner tires) to a regular road bike and never had a single problem. For her, there was no adjustment required at all. 

If the disc is warped, you can bend it back into shape. Hold the bike so you can spin the wheel and look closely at the tiny gap between the rotor and the pad on each side. It may help to put a light-colored object, such as a white piece of paper, underneath, so you can see it through the gap. Good light helps too. As the disc spins, you may be able to see that the distance from the disk to the pad on one side increases and decreases. When it gets too close, it rubs against the pad. Spinning the disk slowly, you can see which part of the disk is bent towards that pad. By gripping that part of the disk with an adjustable wrench (or a specialized disk truing fork, if you have it), you can gently bend it in the opposite side and straighten it out. Or maybe the problem is that the brake caliper is not centered properly. This is the case if one pad is rubbing against the disk for most of one revolution of the wheel, and there is a gap between the other pad and the disk. This can be fixed by loosening the caliper bolts (2), moving the caliper so the disk is centered between the pads, and tightening the bolts again. The gaps are tiny, so you only want to move the caliper by an amount similar to the thickness of a few pieces of paper (maybe 0.1mm ?). It is easier to do this if you only loosen the caliper bolts a little bit -- just enough so you can move the caliper, but not so loose that it moves too much. Be careful when you are done adjusting and tighten the caliper bolts. Turning the bolts with a hex wrench can move the caliper, which would ruin whatever adjustment you have just made. I found I can avoid this problem by firmly holding the caliper with one hand while tightening the bolts with the other hand. Also, tighten each bolt a little bit at a time, going back and forth between the two bolts. Carefully watch the gap between the disk and the pads; when the gap changes, you know you've screwed up. The third possibility is that there is too much brake fluid in the system, which prevents the pistons from retracting enought to give sufficient space between the pads. Remove the pads and try to push the pistons all the way into the caliper. If they go all the way in, it's fine. If not, you need to remove a small amount of brake fluid through one of the bleed screws, but not too much. Another possible cause is that the pistons are unable to retract sufficiently when you release the brake. This can happen when brake dust and other dirt accumulates on the pistons near the seals (where the pistons retract into the caliper). You can fix this as follows: remove the wheel and the pads. Clean the area inside the brake caliper where the pistons are (using a small brush or similar). Pull the brake lever and watch how the pistons move. If they both come out and then retract, they are fine. Don't push the pistons too far, or you will get air into the system and then you will have to bleed the system (this is a bit complicated and time-consuming). Push the pistons back in, as far as you can. If one or both of the pistons are stuck (meaning they don't retract when you release the brake lever), you can get them unstuck by putting a few drops of brake fluid on the edge of the pistons (where they touch the seal). Then repeatedly push them out a bit using the brake lever, and push them back in using a tire lever or similar tool made from wood or plastic. I've read that a metal tool might damage the pistons, but I'm not sure if that's true.