The fundamental "virtue" of virtue ethics over deontological ethics -- for which Lok123's answer provides a useful case-based analysis -- is that the former centers on what actually constitutes and underpins morality on the essential level (i.e. psychic and psychological) while the latter centers on an arguably "blind" commitment to certain abstract rules that due to their said abstract nature are incapable of accounting for indefinite contextual and relative factors that determine what is truly right in a particular situation. In other words, virtue ethics focuses on the very essential aspect of ethics from which morally consistent decisions and results can emanate with respect to any given situation (a feature that is evidence of a truly "universal" ethics), whereas deontological ethics in its very quest for universal morality fails because of ignoring or dismissing what truly constitutes universal ethics: not abstract mental rules but actual psychic qualities, i.e. the ontological principles of ethics. Consequently as pedagogical implications, in the school of virtue ethics, morality is materialized not merely by popularization of abstract moral maxims that are disconnected from an ontological basis and disregard benefits for the individual itself (that are also key in actually motivating morality), but more importantly by following codes of discipline and conduct that lead to cultivation of psychic qualities that basically makeup the whole character of the individual and consequently determine the moral nature of his actions consistent with the greater good in any given situation. This contemplation may explain why under the deontological and quality-lacking morality of the modern world (and consequently the colonized traditional world in as much as the modern cultural norms have made inroads) despite all the official ethical rhetoric and pretensions, societies are suffering from all sorts of moral ills and most politicians have become basically lying crooks while putting on moral pretensions of saints! 

This thesis explains why humans can develop infinite ideas as well as why machines do not since they do not posses mind with which to think and find illumination. Machines can only perform a limited number of seemingly intelligent behavior to the extent of the possibilities afforded by the human design behind it which is always limited. 

I can supply a perspective from my own (Iranian-Islamic) philosophical heritage. Iranian Sadraian philosophers such as Allama Tabataba'i define knowledge in the broadest term as simply "the presence of a thing for another thing" where the two things are both immaterial in nature with the first thing being the knower (or "the subject" to use a fairly equivalent Western term) and the second thing being "the known" (or "the object"). This definition presumes a unity between the two since mind is believed to unite with the form of the known object once it gains knowledge thereabout, with the acquired form corresponding to the transcendental active cause of the perceived object, residing on a higher plane of existence (paralleling the Platonic theory of "Ideas"). So according to this view, every form of knowledge transcends the material world. Tabataba'i supplies a few arguments for supporting immaterial nature of knowledge. I describe only two of them that I deem to be stronger. 

Centuries before Descartes made up that (maybe perceived) fallacy, Avicenna the persian muslim philosopher had already explained why it is a logical fallacy to argue from an issue of the self (in this case thinking) for the existence of the self. Because in any such argument the existence of the self is already presumed as it is impossible to experience any issue of the self (such as thinking) without having first experienced the self itself. The glaring fallacy is manifest even by looking at the apparent semantics of the English translation of the argument that starts with a presumed "I" in the premise ("I think, ") to prove the "I" in the conclusion ("therefore I am."). PS: Even if the famous statement is not meant to be a logical proof (as ChristopherE and Asphir Dom suggested in comments), but a reference to a human transcendental experience (which is supposed to be beyond proof and self-evident); it still holds true that the first object of transcendental experience is not any mental/psychological process (e.g. thoughts, feelings etc) associated with human self but rather the very direct experience of the self which precedes them all. Nowhere this is better explained than in the theory of "knowledge by presence" which was first proposed by Al-Farabi and later refined by Avicenna. In knowledge by presence, it is argued, the subject and object of knowledge are united -- either because of the identity of the two or one being the intimate part of the other --, therefore the subject can directly experience the object of knowledge without any medium. Such a knowledge is thus self-evident, infallible and needless of proof. Examples are human experience of one's very self, one's thoughts and feelings. The theory is very significant as it bridges the gap between philosophy and mysticism, as in the latter most statements of truth are based on direct experience rather than logical proof. This allows objects of knowledge by presence to serve as self-evident premises for philosophy. That's how muslim philosophers for the first time reconciled Aristotelian philosophy with Platonic. 

Benevolence is integral to any concept of a Creator. The very fact that God has granted existence to the creation underpins the concept of benevolence. And as for the question of evil in the creation that seems to contradict God's benevolence, I believe Plotinus's theory of evil solves the seeming contradiction. Plotinus can also be regarded as one of the non-Abrahamic pioneers of the idea of God's benevolence. Though, in his philosophy he uses the term the One to denote the source/creator of the universe and he also equates the One with the Good. Drawing upon his philosophy, we argue that God (the One) is in essence benevolent because all goodness emanates from Him, whereas evil stems from His creation (i.e. the Intellect, the Soul(s) and ultimately matter as different levels of His emanation). Without evil, there would/could exist no creation. So evil is a necessary part of the universe. In other words, to ask why is there evil, is to ask why is there any creation. That means the substance of evil is within our very creation. To be liberated from this essential, structural evil, man should redirect his tendency towards material forms (worldly attractions, such as wealth, fame, sexual partners and pleasures thereof) towards intellectual forms (angels) and ultimately the One Himself. However that doesn't imply suppression of our natural tendencies (as practiced by Catholicism) but moderating them so that they don't act as impediment to realization of Intellectual forms and the One (a practice taught by Islam). Plotinus's philosophy, as thus, perfectly substantiates the religious doctrines of God, Original Sin, repentance, heaven and eternal bliss. See, $URL$ 

"True randomness" and "exists" are two concepts that are notoriously hard to pin down, so it is hard to give a straight up answer, but here are two directions of thought. You can consider the idea that the digits of normal numbers conform to the formal results of probability theory; that's what it means to have proven that they exist mathematically. But now, what you've done is established that this one type of formal/conceptual objects stands in a particular relation to these other formal/conceptual objects. Is that existing? If you are a mathematical realist, then sure, they exist. But if you are a mathematical realist, you probably (ha!) don't have a problem with the existence of (formally defined) randomness in the first place. If you reject the "existence" of purely formal objects, then this formal relationship between concepts won't impress you much. Sticking to the real world. Given one of these numbers we could construct a seeming perfect random number generator -- a machine/program that can construct more and more of the digits of one of the numbers and provide it to you. But is this really random? Some people could argue that it's not really random since the particular sequence of digits constructed by this machine was fixed (determined) by the normal number that was used to "seed" it. Conversely, if you take a more empirical approach, you might contend that its output is random, since by any computable measure it "looks random". 

The idea of moral incoherentism formulated by D. Loeb (described in "Moral Incoherentism: How to Pull a Metaphysical Rabbit out of a Semantic Hat") may be relevant. In it he argues that the (seemingly) intractable issues in metaethics imply that the idea of morality is incoherent. 

The transition from the common use of "materialism" to "physicalism" represents a recognition that the boundaries of the former are too narrow to accommodate what is now accepted about the nature of the world. I don't see a good reason to think that it is impossible that we cannot have a similar transition from physicalism to some x-alism if we were to conclude that there are some non-physical things that are none the less real (I don't know of any such things, but 17th century scientists/philosophers didn't now about quantum fields either). Materialism, especially when differentiated from physicalism, tends to connote the idea that all that there is is matter moving around. Nowadays we consider various kinds of non-matter stuff -- energy, momentum, quantum fields... as being real. These non-material things are sufficiently different from (the conception of) "matter" as used by the early materialists and thus a new term is required. I can't rule out the possibility that in the future there will be some other kind of stuff, sufficiently different from what we currently accept lives under the term physical, that we'll again need to construct a new category. Of course I can't imagine what such stuff would be. Just poking around on the web I've found the mathematical universe hypothesis by Max Tegmark -- which has in it the idea that mathematics is "really real". If that hypothesis were to pan out, then one might reasonably say that physcialism missed the mark. There are probably other ways that one could immesh the laws of physics, or even mathematics itself, in with the the structure of the universe such that it would not be precise to describe these ontologies as being strictly physical. 

I don't think that statement 3 is particularly coherent definition of God, since in all religions that I'm aware of, God(s) interact with the world and thus it is false that he/she/it "shares no properties with the natural world". Even Deists tend to base their belief on feelings of awe -- again an interaction with the divine. Maybe someone out there really does believe in a transcendent that shares no properties with the natural world, but that such a person exists seems non-obvious. 

I believe that you've hit on what is typically referred to as the "systems reply", which is, in short, that the room system does understand Chinese. This seems plausibly true in terms of a functional definition of understanding, but getting to the point where one can conceive that the room system has a subjective experience of understanding is a much bigger conceptual chasm to jump. (though as far as I can tell, it cannot be ruled out, especially since I don't know to a high degree of certainty which of you dear readers have subjective experiences and which of you are zombies). 

Premise 4 is false: the body's matter is not completely different from one time to the next. Over reasonable timescales, say up to hours or days, and at spatial scales larger than say the size of tissue cells, The physical configuration of our bodies is largely conserved. There are some small scale short time changes, but Theseus wouldn't complain if you replace a few nails in his ship. Over longer time scales, yes there are macroscopic changes, but the I of today is not the same I that I was 10 years ago (though current me has spatial-temporal continuity with the earlier one). The key assumption here is that the identification of "I" over time doesn't depend on the molecular level configuration details, just like with every other macroscopic object. 

I'm going to cast my answer in terms of the badness of death, rather than the value of life. I believe that this does not affect the logic, one being the mirror of the other. Sections 16 through 21 of the Yale online course on Death are probably relevant in this sense. There's a reductio ad abusurdum to indicate that we can't consider all potential intelligent life as equally valuable: there are an incomprehendably large number of "potential people" if you consider all possible egg+sperm combinations between all differently sexed pairs of people (even more if you go out a generation or two). Nobody worries about the lost value in that these potential intelligences never came to fruition (or at least the "value" of any one of these needs to be incomprehensibly small). We need to draw some sort of line, or have some sort of weighting to balance the "value" of these potentials; and that threshold/weighting defines where in the progress from a gleam in your fathers eye to being a fully matured person that we're going to allocate value. Thomas Nagel's paper Death provides arguments that assessments of the badness of death as a form of deprivation need to take into account the past history of the individual in question (he's primarily concerned with people who have become fully intelligent). He argues that (part of?)the badness of death comes from the elimination of possibilities that the person would have had available but no longer does, and these possibilities depend on the entire history of that individual. In my view, this is just another argument that some threshold/weighting needs to be considered but doesn't provide much concrete guidance on where/how to make the distinctions. I'd be remiss if I didn't include the standard, uncontroversial, observation that one person's death can be bad for his/her survivors, through their grief at the loss. For me, this would include even the very earliest stages of the development process: the anguish felt by some people who wish to bear children but cannot, is clearly a bad outcome, even though barely any steps have been made in the progression. I thought that there was somewhere in the Yale course lectures (link above) where Dr. Kagan referred to a theory where the deprivation due to death was due to the fact that humans think about the future. (I haven't been able to locate it.) For animals that don't have this ability, it would be moral to kill (and eat) them, since they are not actually deprived by death (I'm bringing this up since the context of the theory might have been in justifying eating meat, rather than discussions of death). Anyway, if this idea, that death is only a deprivation to individuals that can, or to the extent that they can, form ideas about the future, (a) exists in the philosophical literature, and (b) is coherent, this would provide one possible specific feature on which to base the value judgments. Even if I'm mis-remembering the idea that an individual must possess one or more mental faculties in order to realize a deprivation from death may be an approach to pursue. Another relevant mental faculty is the ability to feel pain; at the very least it's pretty generally accepted that we should avoid inflicting gratuitous pain on entities that can experience it. So it is almost certain that answering this would need to account for multiple features and their potential interactions in terms of "overall value". To summarize: The idea that all potential intelligences are equally valuable seems hard to swallow, so some additional details need to be filled in there. Looking at the problem of "why is death bad" may be a useful approach since this question has been looked at in the philosophical literature (see the Nagel paper and references to/from it).