"Fallacy" is the general term for misguided logic, but not necessarily deliberately deceptive. If you're interested in these, there is an amazing little book "An Illustrated Book of Bad Arguments" which can be read online here. If your interest is in deception, you might find the short book "On Bullshit" by Harry Frankfurt interesting/helpful. Although, you might also be looking into the problem of hidden premises. This is known as an enthymeme ("en-thee-mem"). An example of reasoning using an enthymeme would be as follows: 

From my experience with the use of models in first-order logic, these can be a way of expressing truth-functional entailment. Think of a model for first-order logic as equivalent to the truth-table for sentential logic. Say we have the famous case of multiple generality: 1. All humans are mortal 2. Tyrone is a human 3. Therefore Tyrone is a mortal Expressed in first-order logic, we have: {∀x(Hx→Mx),Ht}⊨Mt We can form a model of this as a sort of Venn-Diagram, where single place predicates are expressed as circles forming sets. It would be impossible for us to form a model where ∀x(Hx→Mx) is true and Ht is true whilst Mt is false. This system can be used to show truth-functional entailment, rather than using a deductive system of derivation. 

Here, the conclusion does not necessarily follow from the premise. The Reasoning seems to contain a hidden premise (2.) All art by Frenchman are bad pieces of art. This form of reasoning is sometimes used to conceal often crucial premises from the immediate eyes of opponents, but they tend not to be too difficult to spot. Hopefully one of these routes will get at what you're looking for. 

As this derives a contradiction, if we still want the starting assumption to be assertible, we better deny one of the steps in the derivation. Hence, Tarski looks to remove principle [T], such that no object language can express propositions about the semantic values of its own sentences. 

I'm inclined to read "self" as fundamentally self-referential in all cases, whilst it isn't necessarily possessive in the same way as "my". "Self" seems, fundamentally, to signify some relation to itself, which doesn't follow for the uses of "my", where the relatum of the something like "my perception" or "my knowledge" is not necessarily the self, but could very easily have, as its subject, some external, non-self entities. On the other hand, the subject relatum of "self-knowledge" or "self-perception" is the self, and so stands in a direct relation to itself analytically. Although to answer your question at the end there, it would likely fall into a branch of phenomenology within neo-existentialism. This sort of thought about the relation of the self to itself and the world seems to share some parallels with the work of Sartre (I have in mind here the chapter "The Look" from "Being and Nothingness"), Marleau-Ponty (I have in mind here "The Primacy of Perception") and those who took inspiration from them. 

It seems that investigations of language and logic have focused on truth as the assumed designated value (the value preserved by valid entailments). It is only in later, non-classical logic that non-truth based designated values were introduced to govern the inferential steps from sentences bearing other semantic values; the value of correctness is one I have in mind. Why is Truth the default designated value in logic and language? When, and by who, if by anyone at all determined it as such? Are there any philosophers who take other semantic values as more fundamental and/or more basic that truth (which?) From what I've read in non-classical logic, logic can merely be used to maintain the designated value within the system, which is why correctness-functional entailment can produce correct conclusions from correct premises. The preservation of any semantic value can be termed valid inference depending on which semantic value is chosen. It is simply not the case that logic only deals with truth, as can be seen in Ian Rumfitt's "Truth and Meaning", which uses correctness-functional entailment, with correctness as the designated value in the deductive system, to govern the inferential steps of three-valued logic (as an intended solution to problems for truth like the Liar Paraodox). I have seen no arguments to support the notion that the system is fundamentally truth-functional. Certainly no more than that a decimal mathematics is more fundamental than a duodecimal one. If there were some argument that indicated that truth is not only fundamental in logic, but also necessarily fundamental, I would be very interested in this. I doubt that I have identified a lack of literature, as it seems most philosophical topics have been covered with at least some depth. Any comments and recommendations on this topic will be much appreciated. 

On the accounts of many Doctors of Philosophy specialising in Meta-Ethics, the philosophical landscape is notoriously hard to taxonomise. What are the best comprehensive guides to Meta-Ethics. I have in mind things such as collections of key essay, " X's introduction-to" and authors potential work on the general area (rather than a specific aspect of it). Any recommendations will be much appreciated! 

Usually, the Liar Paradox can be formed of one sentence, where the paradox arises from self-reference; essentially, the sentence "This sentence is not true" says of itself that it is not true. Take a sentence D such that D = ~Tr(D), where Tr(x) is our truth predicate. ~Tr(D) says that D is not true, and since D = ~Tr(D), it says of itself that it is not true. This shows the paradox to be an issue of impredicativity, where the content of the sentence depends on the content of a set of sentences of which that sentences is a member. The very truth conditions for the sentence's being true derive a contradiction: D is true if and only iff its not true that D; formally: Tr(D) ⟷ ~Tr(D) Tarski uses this to show that an object language cannot contain a truth-predicate that can be used to talk about the language itself. Either the truth-predicate exists as part of a meta-language above the object and talks about sentences of the object language, or the object language contains a truth-predicate but that truth-predicate can only be used to talk about the truth of sentences in lower-level languages (According to Tarski). The reason for this is that when a sentence of a given language is uttered, it is assumed that when we utter that sentences, we are also making the equivalent claim that the sentence is true: I.e. to say "snow is white" is also to say "the sentence "snow is white" is true". Terence Parsons (1984) calls this principle [T], where for any sentence, X, expressed in a derivation, we can assume Tr(X). This is how we form the biconditional from earlier: Tr(D) ⟷ ~Tr(D). When this is done, we can derive a contradiction very easily. Parsons gives the following intuitive derivation: 

I was reading "A Graphic Guide to Logic" and a little speech bubble from Hilary Putnam says that "I still believe that there are facts in the world that determine which logic it is appropriate to use in each case, and that no logic is better than another". Does anyone have any idea which articles/chapters Putnam expressed this belief? Also, if anyone knows the name of this stance, and its other proponents, please recommend.