I will separate my answer in two questions : can a single nation exists and can a single government exists ? Nation Humans define their identity relatively to something else. If I consider myself as a Swiss, it make sense because lots of people are not Swiss. However one ask me, in Switzerland "where are you from ?", I will not answer "Switzerland", I will answer "Valais" (my native region). Why ? Because if everybody (in a given context) is Swiss, affirming that I am give no differentiation, it has no interest to identify myself as such. To have a common nation, you need something outside, for the definition to make sense in the hearth of the people. However, having wide difference inside a nation is not an absolute problem against a common nation. Kurds often describe themselves as a nation, but do not share a religion, nor a state ; Swiss do not share a language ; and I am pretty sure I can greatly offence half of the United-States by saying "You are all just New-Yorker". Of course, the closest you are from the other in your nation, the easier it is to identify. Well, the closest you are, relative to how different are the others from not-your-nation, once again. So yes, it is possible to have a unique nation for all humans, but you need to drop aliens for us to compare. If you want to pick a nation, however, and force everyone to "convert" to it, it will just fail miserably. My point here is that a wider concept of nation can emerge, not that you can force everyone to live the same way without an Orwellian scenario. State There is actually no reasons that we can not scale our current governments up to the size of the world. Of course it will be a multicultural government, but it is possible. India is an actual example, and pretty much any empire or kingdom before 1800 also were (for the latter not democratic, but still multicultural). Obviously, you can not just scale up any of our government with their problems and hope they will suddenly disappear. My point is that by building a world government, you do not face any problem that can not happen in a small scale government. Dictatorship ? No respect for minorities ? Corruption ? Too much job for the head of state ? Too high concentration of powers ? People unhappy with the government unable to go away ? Different laws in different parts of the country ? All of that have dozens of real examples, that's not new stuff. Conclusion Can we have a common nation ? You need something outside (in our case aliens) of it, otherwise the concept of nation makes no sense. Can we have a common government ? Hell yeah ! (if you do not ask how to get there) Would the problem of today modern society still exist ? The only difference is that the human wars will all be relabelled "civil wars". 

In the plane, there are two warring states (political entities). The territory of each is constituted of many islands, about 100 in number. There are 15 front islands on each side. Each side has about 1,000,000 military crafts (including support crafts, but not including fighters). The ships fight slower than light but can jump into FTL with recharge time 60 minutes. The weapons are mostly projectile weapons. Projectiles travel far below lightspeed (about 150 km/s on average). I think the major problem which puts an attacking fleet at a disadvantage is that attacks are far-flung expeditions; maintaining a supply line that long is very expensive. The defenders have clear advantage. Another thing I thought about is if a side would attack the capital right away (fleets are hard to stop when travelling on cast fabric) or island-hop little by little starting with front islands. In short, my question is 

Note 1 : I will use SI units for my calculation Note 2 : I assume that water will not be a problem and that your army will always found a river or lake. Also I assume that your army will be disbanded after reaching the objective, not taking in account the need for them to go back afterwards. First of all, the humanitarian daily ration weights 850 g. Since it is optimised with modern technologies, I think that a 1 kg daily ration is a reasonable estimation of the weight of a medieval ration. If each soldier carry its own supply, your are only limited by the weight they can carry in addition to their usual equipment. If soldiers can carry 10 kg of supply without being crippled, it means 10 days of autonomy. Of course you have to gather the starting supply first, but with that logic you can gather it as the same time you gather your army, since your men carry their supply. It means that at peace time you should keep your (potential) army dispersed through the land. Then, you want to march 500 miles (800 km). By assuming that your army walks 8 hours a day at a speed of 5 km/h (only possible if you have good roads), it will take you 20 days to reach your destination (not that this is the best you can do, the real number will probably be much smaller, for example if your roads are not that good or if you are in unknown territory). Therefore with the most optimistic estimation, you can only travel half the plan distance with the "self carrying supply" method. Note : if your army fully rely on horses, as the Mongolian one, you are both faster and able to carry more stuff. But I focus here on marching army. If you want to carry the supply, it becomes a nightmare very rapidly. For the 10 days remaining and a 10 000 men army, you have to gather and carry 100 metric tons of food (without taking in account the additional men and animals needed to carry it). It does not look very practical. You can not really send the supply to your army, since it would need to travel faster than your army. If you have a faster way to travel, your army should probably us it. But if your army need to stay somewhere, it is a good idea. In the other hand, you could use "walking supply" such as living cow. Since a cow can be estimated to weight around 500 kg (the estimation given in the link is higher, but medieval cow were probably lighter), only 200 cows are needed for 10'000 men and a 10 days march, this seems reasonable. They can even carry stuff with them and you can milk them. Well you still need to feed them, and they can be quite slow (I doubt they will walk 8 hours a day), thus expanding the time you need to reach your destination. All this together makes that you can probably not go further than 50 000 men with this strategy (already at least 1 000 cows are needed). Note : if you are a Mongol you can simply milk and eat your horses You can still eat what you find on your way. Hunting does not seem efficient, since most of your time will be dedicated to walk toward your objective. However using the supply gathered in the towns and village you pass by is quick and give you plenty of food (you have an army, you can seize what you need if the people do not want to give it to you). If there is a 30 days reserve of food, it means that each inhabitant of the land you go through can "provide" supply for 30 soldiers (and afterwards starve to death). I think this is the really limiting factor. By travelling through a very populated area, you can handle a very big army. Going to a 10 000 inhabitants town each day let you feed 300 000 soldiers (with our assumptions). Actually this was the main strategy used during medieval times, and it explains why war did cause such terrible famines and destruction : armies just scavenged what they needed. Note : if you reign over a big empire, storing food everywhere in large quantity help the movement of your troops. In conclusion, the maximum size of your army is defined by the population and the wealth of the land through which you are travelling, other possibilities being viable only for a short period. 

In my question, a space fabric "plane" consists of many "islands" strewn about, and any point of the plane which isn't part of an island is "bottomless". The "gravity" at a point is affected by the curvature of the fabric at the point, in addition to mass. Each island is "circular" or, to those inside, spherical with interior diameter 50 ly. The islands end asymptotically (the closer to the edge, the stronger the pull towards the edge and the faster the pull increases). Before the edge (i.e. slightly more inside) of the island, there is a border of "heightened" fabric (approaching the border, a ship would need to counter gravity). An island's interior is relatively flat (although there are some areas of slightly heightened or lowered fabric. Travel inside an island is with FTL; it takes about 3 days to traverse an island (i.e. go from an edge border point to the opposite). To travel between islands, the inhabitants of Islandia use fabric-casting devices mounted on large ships (abount 1.5 km long at minimum), called fabric-caster ships (FC ships). When "on" an island, it lies on the island, but if it goes over the edge border of an island, it "takes off" with cast fabric (the cast fabric functions like a platform over the bottomless pit). After that, they can't see outside their fabric "normally", but a FC ship is typically equipped with a navigation device to "see" islands (but not other FC ships; their fabric is too small to detect). They also can't communicate with an island until they "land" on it. If an FC ship's fabric-casting device fails while the ship is not on an island, the fabric is destroyed. The islands are about 3 to 4 months apart. A FC ship casts a fabric, spherical to those inside, about 50 km in diameter. Unlike island fabric, however, those fabrics end abruptly. Ships which travel with an FC ship travel close to it, to avoid falling off. Ship-cast fabrics rarely collide, because their heights usually differ. When they do collide, they destroy each other along with the ships on them. For this reason, FC ships adjust their heights so they're not the same as each other. 

I will try to generalize a bit celtschk answer : To defend against teleporting dragons, the best thing to do is to prevent them from teleporting. To teleport by surprise near your fortress or in your fortress. To teleport a dragon need two things : 

(the flux of particle is graduated in what could look as a strange unit, but the label on the curve are way more informative, $1$ m$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$ for example represents the level corresponding to 1 particle crossing an area of 1 meter squared each second) You can see that around one particle with energy about $10^{19}$ eV pass through a surface (on earth) of one kilometer squared each year (1 km$^{-2}$ yr$^{-1}$ label). That is an energy one billion time hight than is CERN, and given the total surface of earth and its age, if something could have gone wrong with particle of this energy, it would most likely already have happened. Note however that since in quantum mechanics is about probabilities, worst case scenario in CERN can not be excluded for sure, but it could as well happen inside my kitchen due to a nasty cosmic ray. So the worst thing which could probably happen at the CERN is some kind of "regular" incident, like fire or leaks of supercooling liquids or gases (if you visit CERN they actually tell you what to do if it happens). Note that the link I gave, reports a leak of "approximately 6 tonnes of liquid helium". 

First point: Christmas is not celebrated in all places (only about half to three quarters the world's population actually celebrate it) second point: Christmas is not celebrated at the same time all over... The first point is easy, Santa will only have to deliver gifts to half the children in the world. The second point hinges on differing traditions; yes, if all the world woke up to gifts on the 25th of December, he'd have a hard time... However, where I come from (Denmark), the gifts are traditinally given on the evening of the 24th. Some eastern countries wait until January 6th At least this gives Santa a bit more time to distrbute his gifts 

How does that explain how I got my Gameboy Color when it was just released? (it came out late november 1998) 

First question to answer, in my opinion, is : will berserkers deal with themselves ? If you can just go berserker at any time and kill you loved one, you will be likely to constrain yourself (for example by living as an hermit) ; or if you do kill your whole family and friends (possibly several times), you are likely to commit suicide at some point. In this case, you do not have to fear berserkers that much, they will try not to harm anyone. The problem would be to use them in combat : they are most likely to refuse to turn berserker if they can avoid, since the more they use their power, the more likely their are to turn berserker against their will. So berserker in this scenario will be sort of peacefull hermits keeping themselves away from violence and society, because they do not want to risk killing innocent people. (this scenario somehow ring a bell in my memory, but I can not find any reference of such people retiring from society not to harm anyone) Of course there is another scenario possible : Berseker is considered by the society to be a very honorable state, or at least to be normal. You can draw a parallel with running amok : turning 'berseker' and killing people is seen somehow as a natural disaster and afterwards you do not consider the berserker accountable for his fury. In this case, you can use berserker in combat, at will. They will just, sometimes, kill random people, but the whole society consider this killing to be normal and just accept it. It is not quite in constradiction with your statement : 'They are quite civilised, and they don't want to kill outside war if it's not an absolute necessity.' since nobody choose to kill innocent people, it just happend. And (in the mind of the majority) there was nothing you should or could have done to prevent it. Everything just is as usuall. It can seem to be a very crude way to deal with the death of your people, but if you analyse the opinion toward death in medieval europe (for exemple), death was part of the everyday life. You just go for a chivalry tournament and be killed during it (it killed so many people in fact that the church try to interdict such tournament but failed). In this last case, you do not deal with berserker, they sometimes kill people, and you just accept it. Note : 2% of the population being berserkers is huge in my mind, it means 1 person out of 50 people is a berserkers, in other words, everybody know at least 2 berserkers. 

I picture only few (one?) connection between adjacent countries, because then only one system has to be defended in case of an invasion. 

Here, star systems are connected with "wormholes". The wormholes facilitate travel at $250\ c$, regardless of mass. They are made using special ships. Any travel (including military vessels) not through the wormholes is well below light-speed (not more than $0.05\ c$, ). It takes a road builder ship $50$ years to make each endpoint and $30$ years to make a light-year of "road". So, for example, to connect two systems $10$ light-years apart, a road builder ship takes $400$ years. A road cannot be constructed by more than 1 ship, not even by building from opposite ends. All of a road has to be built by one ship. Additionally, roads cannot intersect in the middle. Here are some more information on the setting: 

The most probable outcome may be some free for all wars, followed by a theocratic gerontocracy. When the domination of the Xenquians collapse, the local leaders will want to keep they (limited) power, and probably to extend it. This will most likely results in wars, but this also means that the local governments will mainly remain the same. However it will not last too long before the information that Xenequians now all dies young spreads (economic links means exchanges, also exchanges of informations). So the people will connect the dots : Xenequians die young, but they don't, and it is what make the Xenequian domination end. It must be a divine intervention ! Somebody at some point will have this reasoning, and conclude that the gods are in favour of them, that they are some king of chosen people. Since it is an easy reasoning and that it is seducing, the idea will spread. All local leaders will be united around the idea that they are all part of a chosen group of people gifted with long lives. The religious people will use that belief to pacify the region and extend they powers. The next step follows quickly : they are gifted with long lives, but that also means that they are gifted with old people capable of accumulating experience. Thus older people will gain a new respect, since they are missing to the Xenequians. Even more, as soon as Xenequians lost their old people, they were unable to keep their domination (of course the immediate and massive deaths also count, but it will be easily shadowed). Old people are the key to success, and only us are gifted by the gods with them ! Now all ingredients are there. Religion strengthened, increased respect for the old ones and some efforts to unite the local leaders... well this results likely in some sort of council of the oldest local leaders under the supervision of religion. 

In this case, any animal outside the time bubble will stand (nearly) still... Intelligent or not, the given animal will be none the wiser, as it will experience the altered timeframe as you all would experience time right now. The point is, that time is relative... Time also slows down for a pilot of a near-lightspeed space ship, but he still experiences that timeframe as being unaltered. As for the humans: THEY WILL (nearly) ALL DIE! Why? Because the low-to-none amount of light (depending on time dilation factor) will make humanity unable to grow crops. Of course, you could plant a field of wheat and walk away, but depending on the time dilation factor, it may take hundreds or thousands of years in relation to the farmer to grow the crops. You can also go kill an animal (easy, you just extend your time field around their heart... imagine your heart beating a million beats per minute), but the animals also take hundreds or thousands of years to grow and reproduce compared to the human timeframe. Any animal that comes into contact with or cross a time field like this, is very probably going to die immediately and painfully... The remaining humans will not be able to eat meat (apart from very rare occasions), and they will only be limited to crops that can grow under low-light conditions (good example being mushrooms, which thrive in darkenss). New jobs would include literally watching plants grow and paint dry, to make sure it happens this century... Where you have to be careful, and where many go wrong, is that time outside cannot stand perfectly still! Space and time are two very intermingled forces, and one cannot exist without the other. This rule applies in reality, but not for a simulation (as things are dynamically loaded and unloaded as needed) Essentially: Time needs space so that something can happen. (without time at all, there cannot be a "big bang" or a growing universe) on the other hand.. Space needs time to grow and change. (without space, how would you move about or do something?) 

In fact that does not cause any problems, absence of empathy is not contradictory with intelligence. Unless, of course, if you define empathy to be part of intelligence, which is arguable, but, here, let assume we consider intelligence as capacity to produce logical reasoning (which is more or less a very common way to define it). The class of humans you describe is very similar, in its ideology, to nazis. Yet it never prevent them to enjoy (German) culture, (German) music, (German) painters or chess games. Did they lack intelligence ? According to our definition, no, they did not. However, the belief they were intrinsically superior did lead them to irrational behaviour. But since, according to their belief, their conclusions were logical, we can not label them as stupid. Moreover since they believe in "survival of the strongest", this notion can include "the most intelligent", leading these guys to strongly train their intelligence. But by becoming more intelligent may they start to question the system, and become less domineering and greedy ? Well, if you study Greek philosophers, you will notice that very few of them actually criticised slavery (Aristotle and Plato did support it for example). Here is a bit of a wikipedia article about this particular question. In other words, if your society is based on slavery and domination, criticism against them can likely never emerge, even if everybody cultivate their intelligence. To conclude : how would this human have fun ? Exactly the way you do, probably simply refusing to have fun with "inferior beings" and possibly having a preference for competitive game over collaborative one.