As for where one is upon enlightenment, there are more lots of formulations, I don't have a good idea on how to summarize them. 

Buddhism isn't Christianity, so it is concerned with a different set of question and has different assumptions. As for the area of metaphysical speculation, the early Buddhist either explicitly put those questions outside of Buddhism, or assumed that the current assumptions of their day was correct, name that time has been going on for ever, will continue to do so, but go through cycles of things getting better and worse, falling apart and restarting. This is essentially the same world view of anyone in India at that time. Something unique to Buddhism though, was speculation on how long Buddhism itself would last. All things change and disintegrate including Buddhism, as a movement and coherent set of teachings. Some early predictions thought 500 years, but as that time period came and passed, it was bumped up to a higher number. The closest thing in the Buddhist system to end times is Mappo, the time of the decline of the Dharma. Many systems of Buddhism believed we were in the time of decline of the Dharma, and therefore we needed new creative ways to practice Buddhism that differed from early Buddhism. To get a good understanding, read Jan Natiers paper on the topic: $URL$ 

There is a trikaya theory, which in Mahayana says that an Enlightened Buddha has multiple bodies. It solved the problem of how a Buddha could provide aid at a distance. The Dharmakaya is the body that is the most abstract and "fuzzy" and could be recognized as an Abrahamic style God. The Buddha most similar to the Christian God is the Amitabha of Pure Land Buddhism. That said, there are numerous differences. In Pure Land, you are still working on the same practice based project, except you expect to complete the project with assistance in the next life in the Pure Land. In Christian Heaven, you don't have a rigorous monastic program leading to Enlightenment, the end of suffering & the end of the cycle of rebirth. 

This is a fundamental premise of Mayayana, that the goal is not to be extinguished and leave samsara like an Arhat, but to stick around until everyone is enlightened. Here is the zen formulation of the Bodhisattva Vow (couldn't find the Tibetan version) 

It is clear that some Buddhist realized there was something unfair and unethical about the realms and that something should be done about it. Off the top of my head, I can't remember any that suggest killing as a solution.** The Mahayanists realized that the hell realm was unfair and imagined Ksitigarbha, who vows to empty the hells, not by visiting hell and killing everyone, but by more conventional means, like merit-transference (doing deeds for good karma, but transferring it to others). This is also the main theme of Ullambana Sutra and the Hungry Ghost Festival (O-Bon)-- getting people out of the Hungry Ghosts realms by making merit here and transferring it to those in the Hungry Ghost realm. Also, in the Brahma Net Sutra, specifically mentions a way to get animals out of their current realm: 

Somewhat. If you are a secular Buddhist (I consider myself to be one), the focus is on this life and the collective that follows us on earth. In a Mahayanaist path to liberation, you practice in this life as a monk so that in future lives you become a Buddha where you can provide mundane benefits to others. If we don't live after death, then it's more important to be of use to others in a mundane sense now. 

That usually gets translated as hermaphrodite, it looks like it means more generally someone who isn't conforming to the ordinary gender role. The situation probably refers to ordination. By some ordinary arm chair reasoning-- the historical sangha was clearly sexist. Even just allowing women to participate at all was a major point of progress. But they set up different organizations with different rules, any new members would have to participate in one or the other. So I imagine there would have been a problem if faced with a cross dresser or biological hermaphrodite. They'd be too rare to set up a new organization for them and probably were an even less sympathetic group than women. So they just prohibited entry into the Sangha. Enlightenment was a status reserved for the sangha. A lay person would become enlightened only via reincarnation. So pandakas would be unable to reach arhatship in this life. By the time of the Mahayana, sutras were taking on the gender issue head on-- with sutras where the enlightened Buddha was a woman or even a young girl, or capable of magically shifting gender from one to the other (without first dying and reincarnating) 

Many of the rules of the vinaya and precepts are clearly concerned with the organization of a sangha in the sense of a band of people who take care of each other. Should any member get married and have kids, this would divert that member's attention to his biological family. This particular concern is irrelevant for a lay Buddhist. The next point is that a householder's time and attention are divided, but a monk attention can be devoted to the dharma full time. This concern would be true for a lay or monastic Buddhist. The Upaseka Sutra ends each chapter with a reminder of how much more difficult it is to gain enlightenment as a lay follower. Finally, from the traditional life story of the Buddha, householding is seen as part of the problem with the world. Householding (and by extension, having girlfriends, and all that goes with that) has certain complications (and a less pessimistic person would say certain benefits). This would be true for the lay and monastic Buddhist. The old monastic system relies on the existence of laity-- the monks were forbidden by the vinaya from engaging in any self sufficient economic activity. So I imagine it was in the interest of the sangha to encourage the laity to farm, do business and in those days, farming meant also having a family as reliable source of labor. Nowadays, economic conditions are entirely different. Serious Buddhist can take long vacations from work every year to sit and meditate, with a college education they can participate in reading and writing of Buddhist philosopy. This is a very modern phenomenon and the traditional schools haven't really decided what to do with the "very serious but not monastic Buddhist". The closest traditional thing I can find is from the Mahayana Tradition where lay Buddhist could take the Upaseka and Bodhisattva precepts as a way of being very serious about Buddhism while still being a lay householder. 

Historical Buddhist scholars trying to figure out who the historical Buddha was prefer using the Pali texts, not so much because they are canon but because they pass the various tests historians use to decide how old a text is and appear to be the oldest and closest to the original man. This isn't though a secular project, it appears to be a project that secular Buddhists seem to like. As far as we can tell, the historical Buddha was more secular than your average guy and he was a historical person. Personally, I'm not to excited about this project because immediately after the historical Buddha put forth his project, he or people around him mixed in supernatural elements. Stephen Bachelor seems to have a preference for Pali texts, since the tend to be less devotional and more straight forward. So his project is one of taking the Pali texts and kicking out the supernatural. David Chapman is a blogger an Meaningness and uses the tantric tradition as his starting point. Despite tantra sometimes being called Indian witchcraft, if you kick out the supernatural you have the core for a secular religion. This project would be drawing on the Tantric texts of ~800AD. Chögyam Trungpa started with Vajrayana and wrote his own terma. Canon is a matter of institutions and supernatural beliefs about old texts. So why not write a modern text? D. T. Suzuki took Zen and ignored all the supernatural elements to create DT Suzuki style Zen. I guess the material the DT Suzuki would be canon. So I think this illustrates that secular Buddhism is sort of a methodology where you pick a flavor of Buddhism and kick out the supernatural, add some modern thinking from science and elsewhere. Secular Buddhists have been picking a variety of "starting points". I chose Chinese Buddhism-- the big themes in Huayen & Chan speak to me and are still there when I remove the devotionalism and supernatural. Some of these secular Buddhists at the moment are just successful authors and teachers, Chögyam Trungpa has an institution that outlived him, although the word is Shambhala is less secular that it used to be. 

They couldn't if the laity didn't think they should. If a lay follower was going to gain merit by donating to a monk, if that monk was a goof off, then people wouldn't be incline to donate. I don't believe in the magical sin of alcohol, meat or tobacco. I believe in the real problem of alcoholism, heart disease and lung disease. If I gave a buck to a monk and they spent it on whiskey, hamburgers and ciggies-- all luxury goods, I would think they were probably rich enough to not need by dollar. I imagine the problem with music is not so much that the music is evil, but if you have the leisure to listen to music, then what work of soteriological benefit is being skipped? 

Often intention plays a role in deciding if something is ethical/unethical, has good karmic results, or bad. For example, accidentally killing versus intentionally killing. Outwardly the may look the same. If intention matters, then karma would need to be able to reason and know our thoughts. These are exactly the sort of things we attribute to god(s). I think this is in part why karma was eventually personified by King Yama, the judge of the dead. As other answers have already mentioned, there is an entirely naturalistic way to look at karma. In a way, naturalistic karma is a harsher judge-- killing is killing and has consequences, regardless to intentions. 

This is a practice question. I know both Mahayana buddhists and Vajrayana buddhists use mudras. In the former they show up in inconography, and hand resting positions while meditating, in the later it's part of elaborate rituals. How are mudras used in lay and monastic practice in Mahayana? Outside of being a step in larger rituals, how are mudras used in lay and monastic practice in Vajrayana? 

The Heart of the Lotus Sutra, Ikeda. To clarify, the question is not "Is mantrayana efficacious?", but if that is the question you want to answer, I already asked that a while back. The question is, as practiced, an in doctrine, do the various Buddhist institutions expect their monks and laity to understand what they chant? 

Ksitigarbha Bodhisattva is famous for being the Buddha who rescues those in hell. The other important personage is King Yama (Yamadevaloka), who is sort of a judge of the dead. These two are a big deal in East Asian Buddhism, I would suppose the Tibetans were aware of them as well. 

Okay I found the answer. It's from the "Sūtra of the Upāsaka Precepts" (Shansheng Jing). It was translated into Chinese in the 5th century. $URL$ This sutra has similarities to the older Sigalovada Sutta $URL$ (Ref comparing the UPS and Sigalovada: "Buddhism and Peace", chapter 10) 

See the Buddhas of the 10 directions, learns their qualities. (Sounds to me like a meditative visualization exercise similar to the Pure Land visualizations) Maitri/Metta practice. Seeing oneself as others. Dharma study. Detachment from experience. Determining that everything is empty. Working for the benefit & enlightenment of all beings, even though they are empty. Working on equanimity. More work on seeing things as empty. 

1) Familiarize yourself with what sorts of Buddhism exist and which one speaks to you. There are 80,000 doors to the dharma and the teachings vary because they are specific to the audience they were taught to.The books aimed at university students do the best overviews of all traditions, but can feel "heartless", the books by accomplished practitioners of a particular sect have the most heart, but may or may not speak to you. 2) Find out what real world groups exist and visit them. If you're in the West, you may want to check to see if services or classes are in English before you attend. If no groups exist, consider trying out online video meditation classes or create a meetup. 3) As you study the various schools of Buddhism, look for both ideas and practices-- the ideas color all your actions, the practices are specific things you do, from chanting, to meditation, to following precepts and so on. 

Maybe the issue here is "dharma", which has lots of different meanings, one of which is something like, "how things really are" another is "the principles of one mental model explaining how things really are propounded by Buddhists". An analogy would be heaven and heavens (getting your soul to heaven is religion, but explaining the heavens (meaning planets and stars in this case) is in the realm of science.) The former sense of the Dhamma is objective. If Buddhist confound them, is a sign of confidence. In the pali texts, the historical Buddha had a story about seeing Buddhism as sort of a raft to get across a river, and once you reach the other side, you put it down. ref: $URL$ Overtime though, Buddhism becomes an institutionalize religion and you begin see things like the 8th Minor Precept (this is from the Brahma Net Sutra, which is precepts for east Asian Buddhism): 

Well, if you were a monk, you'd get kicked out of the sangha. As a layperson, it's one of the five precepts. For laity, imho, the five precepts come down to respecting the existing social order-- very socially conservative and not especially deeply connected with the philosophy of Buddhism (what's annata got to do with being an obedient citizen?). So was it against the rules, yup. Should we throw the rules out the window? Different topic, but many people in modern Buddhism would like to throw the rules out the window. But lets imagine we didn't. Next step is to repent, which in Buddhist terms essentially means you plan to knock it off. Which probably isn't very helpful because this isn't the sort of thing one would do habitually. Buddhism, as a by product of being a religion of celibate monastics, imho, is not an especially good source of relationship advice, at least nothing that is specific to relationships. In terms of how this relates to desires and the dysfunctional behaviors our desires lead us into, Buddhism has high level advice. Departing from Buddhism, my favorite relationship doctor is Dr. Gottman, and the way he describes it, a lot of infidelity cases are relationships that have fallen apart/are at the end stages and infidelity is one of the symptoms of this (as opposed to being a cause of a failed relationship). Dr Gottman by no means is condoning infidelity or making excuses for it-- his goal is to help people mend their relationships despite infidelity. So a modern relationship counselor would say, a rule that says "don't do adultery" is missing the point. Adultery can only be prevented by investing the time and effort in to creating a healthy relationship. Once people are miserable, they will begin to do all sorts of things, like drinking, adultery, lying about it. (Probably not necessarily robbing and killing, that is an entirely different sort of bad behavior) So following the precepts is matter of creating a life where the precepts can be followed. And when you find yourself in a situation where you can't follow precepts, see if it is something that gets in the way of practicing Buddhism.