Many Westerners market meditation as a cure-all & easy path so they can make money. In Asia, meditation is generally not taught to lay people. Meditation is not an easy path; relatively few Buddhists attain profound results; therefore, you should not judge yourself against meditation results. For example, according to the monks Vinaya, jhana concentration is a "supernormal" state of mind. Therefore, comparing yourself to 'jhana' is like comparing yourself to Michael Jordan. It will only lead to suffering over what is rare; like girls who have psychological disorders because they believe they should look like a certain movie star or supermodel. As for hindrances to concentration, there are five, namely: (i) sensual desire; (ii) ill-will; (iii) restlessness & remorse; (iv) sloth & torpor; and (v) doubt/fear. The two major obstacles to concentration are sensual desire & fear. For example, many men become monks but cannot develop samadhi or abide in emptiness because fear arises in the mind if ego or self is abandoned. Such monks spend their life scolding & bullying laypeople & praying for a better reincarnation (they believe will exist). As for sensual desire, to dissolve this requires wisdom about sex. If a person cannot discern the incredible harm that is caused by heedless & uncommitted sex, including what occurs in the 'entertainment industry', it is unlikely they can develop samadhi. As for ill-will, remorse, etc, such hindrances generally require spiritual friendship & discussion about past issues, so some genuine understanding can arise about past relationship issues. 

Ultimately, 'letting go' means to not take something as 'being onself' or 'belonging to oneself', as summed up in SN 35.101: 

In MN 37, Sakka, ruler of the Gods, lives in an actual palace, with rooms & many young sexy young women. If the godly realm here was a literal 'heaven' (in the clouds), why would there be a palace, with rooms? 

In your previous question, you referred to a 17 year "intimate" relationship, which came to an end. Often, random sexual acts feel pointless after intimate love is known because sex itself is something the developed human grows/evolves out of, in favour of intimacy & friendship. It is like becoming accustomed to eating good food. If one is forced to eat bad food, the bad food is not enjoyable. Similarly, random sex after the ending of an intimate relationship can be unenjoyable because life evolves forwards or upwards rather than falls backwards, which is described in MN 75: 

I agree with you. The Pali suttas do not refer to a continuous consciousness at the termination of life. Instead, the suttas explain 'birth' ('jati') & 'death' ('marana') refer to the birth & death of 'self-views'. Therefore, 're-birth' refers to the re-arisings of 'self-view'. For example, you make $100,000. Re-birth is the happy view: "I made $100,000; I am rich". You lose $100. Death is the unhappiness of 'I lost $100; I am poor". 

It does not. Paticcasamuppada described the 12 conditions for the arising of sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief & despair. 

Yes, in your own meditation. If the teacher gently pointed out the ego-fixation in private, the same result may have occurred. I think public humiliations give a bad example to students. Often students imitate their teachers. 

But when I try to concentrate more during meditation, my mind becomes charged... If what you are describing here is concentrate with more effort (rather than meditating for a longer duration) then what you have described is a common symptom of concentrating with too much power & effort. While beginner meditators often meditate with mental force to counter (suppress) discursive (habitual) thinking, ultimately, Buddhist meditation is based on letting go & emptying the mind (rather than pushing the mind with power & effort). 

The phrase: "sabbe saṅkhārā dukkhā" is unrelated to this answer posted in the question because the word 'dukkhā' in this phrase does not mean 'suffering'. Instead, it means 'unsatisfactoriness', i.e., the incapacity of saṅkhārā (impermanent conditioned things) to bring lasting true happiness. This is clearly explained, also in MN 115, as follows: 

The question & some answers (such as the video of Yuttadhammo) are about efforts to abandon rather than effort to prevent. Prevention is better than cure. Prevention uses reasoned thinking about the harm & danger of these addictions. The objects of addiction should be viewed is the same way as reasonable people view drugs like heroin. Pornography, for example, destroys the lives of women, for example: 

The Pali scriptures refer to faith (saddha) in two most basic ways, namely: (1) The 1st of the five spiritual faculties (indriya). (2) The 1st of the five spiritual powers (bala). Therefore, faith is the 1st mental quality required for any kind of spiritual activity. The other spiritual faculties & powers are energy, mindfulness, concentration & wisdom. The spiritual 'faculty' of faith represents the mental capacity for belief, trust or conviction. The spiritual 'power' of faith represents the mental capacity or faculty of faith put into action & bringing spiritual results or fruit. Thus, the Christian teachings also distinguish between mere faith & the power of faith. 

The Buddha exclusively used the term 'dependent origination' to refer to twelve conditions that lead to suffering. Once you adhere to the Nagarjuna (Mahayana) view on 'dependent origination' (i.e., cause & effect or conditionality) there will be conflicts since conditionality & the idea of 'no inherent existence' is difficult to apply to all things. The 'no-inherent-existence' ('emptiness' - 'sunnata') the Buddha was concerned with was the emptiness of 'self', i.e., 'egoism' (SN 35.85). The Buddha was not concerned with the 'no inherent existence' of time since time obviously does not have a 'self', 'ego' or 'personality view'. Take the laws of nature (dhamma-niyama), which are conditionality, impermanence, unsatisfactoriness, not-self, emptiness, etc. If they lacked inherent existence then they would not exist. How could they be 'lawful'? Even the idea of 'no inherent existence' would have 'no inherent existence'. The Buddha taught impermanent things naturally cannot be a 'self'. But this does not mean the opposite must apply, namely, permanent things must be a 'self'. People often ask: "If all things are impermanent, is impermanence itself impermanent?" Naturally, this question is irrelevant since the Buddha only taught conditioned things are impermanent & never taught that impermanence is a conditioned thing. Thus it is reasonable to conclude impermanence is permanent; just as not-self/emptiness (anatta/sunnata) is permanent. 

The other answer on this site was fine in its essence, spirit, purpose & intent. There is the unwholesome 'remorse' or 'guilt' (kukkucca), which is a hindrance; and there is the wholesome 'sense of shame' (hiri), which is a virtue and one of the five gates to Dhamma. As the other answer on this site implied shame towards unskilful deeds is for a Buddha a means of learning a lesson and moving beyond guilt & remorse. The Lord Buddha said: 

The question has so many errors in it that it is difficult to know where to start how to answer. First, there is no evidence the Buddha spoke every sutta, particularly in the dodgy Anguttara Nikaya. Therefore, it is wrong to think the Buddha gave all of these messages. Second, samatha is not samadhi. Samatha is a fruit of samadhi, just as vipassana is a fruit of a samadhi. Therefore, AN 4.170 does not say insight can be developed before concentration (samadhi). AN 4.170 is not about samadhi (concentration). Third, samadhi must always occur before samatha; just as samadhi must also occur before vipassana (yathābhūtañāṇadassanaṃ). However, when samadhi is right, the occurring of vipassana will often occur simultaneously. Therefore, it is incorrect to say the dhammas in AN 11.1 are developed separately. These dhammas occur automatically following from eachother. Fourth, AN 11.1-3 do not say every person (monk or lay person) should start with the "cultivation" of virtues (sila). The Noble Eightfold Path says the practitioner starts with Right View and when Right View is established the virtues will automatically be established. Why does virtue need to be "cultivated"? How is non-killing cultivated? How is not taking drugs cultivated? Is not taking drugs "cultivated" by reducing daily drug intake from 10 drugs, to 8 drugs, to 6 drugs, to 4 drugs, to 2 drugs, to 0 drugs? These virtues are not "cultivated". As soon as there is non-killing, non-stealing, non-sexing, non-lying and non-drugging the virtue is immediate. Fifth, the interpretation is not correct that the correct sequential order of practice is first sila, followed by samatha, followed by vipassana because samatha is not concentration (samadhi). In the Anapanasati Sutta, the phrase: "He trains himself" is continuously used. The means, with every in-breath & with every out-breath, the practitioner trains themselves in sila, samadhi & panna. This training occurs simultaneously because when the mind has samadhi, the mind has sila and the mind has wisdom. When the mind has wisdom, the mind has sila and the mind has samadhi. The forerunner is wisdom, as said in MN 117. Without wisdom, morality cannot be established. Therefore, the practise of sila cannot occur first. This is why the Noble Eightfold Path does not start with sila (morality). Sixth, when virtues (sila) lead to rapture (piti) and pleasure (sukham), this rapture & happiness do not refer to factors of jhana. It is merely the joy the mind has in knowing clearly it is living morally in the right way in not harming onself & others. Seventh, concentration (samadhi) is not the goal of samatha (tranquility) meditation. There is no such thing as samatha (tranquility) meditation. The meditation is called "samadhi bhavana" and samatha (tranquility) is a goal of samadhi meditation. Eighth, samatha (tranquility) meditation does not lead on to vipassana (insight) meditation. Samatha is unrelated to vipassana because both samatha & vipassana are fruits/results of concentration (samadhi). Ninth, MN 149 says: 

Therefore, based on the words attributed to the Buddha, what is 'reborn' appears more likely to be the 'self-view' or 'I-thought' based on all of the five aggregates rather than only consciousness being 'reborn'. In MN 38, the Buddha is reported to have heavily criticized & admonished a monk for holding the view that consciousness is reborn. To quote: 

To make a blanket statement that the "DN was not spoken by the Buddha" would not be wise. Obviously, there are certain suttas in the DN that reasonably conform with what the Buddha taught in other suttas as verifiable truth. It must be noted the core principle of the Buddha-Dhamma is that is it 'verifiable', namely: sanditthiko akaliko ehipassiko opanayiko paccattam veditabbo vinnuhi. Any sutta that departs from this core principle is open to question. It must always be kept in mind that pre-Buddhist Brahmanism was very different to Buddhism however, over time, both Buddhism & Hinduism changed so much that they became largely indistinguishable resulting in Buddhism becoming extinct in India. Many commentators have attributed this to Buddhist efforts to proselytize the religion & the DN has been deemed (for example, by Bhikkhu Sujato; by Bhikkhu Bodhi, page 31 of his SN) to be the major vehicle of proselytization. In other words, it was corrupted Buddhism designed to seduce Brahmans. It is widely acknowledged that: 

Most Buddhists believe an arahant has ended the cycle of reincarnations. If so, what made the view of Yamaka wrong view? Also, what makes the right view here right view? 

I used to manage certain affairs of a monastery. I once gave a homeless penniless man food & lodging and he has been a monk now for over 20 years & is a well-known dhamma teacher. The beggar must be able to live by the basic monastery rules for laypeople, which is not consuming drugs & alcohol; not disturbing other people; and doing his share of work. 

When 'jati' ('birth') occurs via Dependent Origination, the 'will' (intention -cetana) is a contributory condition but not 'control'. That the (ignorant) 'will' generates 'birth' is due to 'ignorance' (avicca) therefore, when ignorance is functioning, 'control' cannot exist. Therefore, it is correct to suggest that when there is 'birth' ('jati') or 'new birth', there is no sense of controlling actions. People can only ever be responsible for their enlightenment because their unwholesome actions are always controlled & created by ignorance (rather than by their 'self'). This is why enlightenment generates metta, equinimity & forgiveness. 

The clockwise direction is the direction of 'origination' or 'creation'. Theistic religions, such as Judaism, Islam & Hinduism worship creation, therefore it is expected they would worship a clockwise swastika. Where as Buddhism honors cessation rather than creation, i.e., turning back creation. 

Again, seeing or realising the three characteristics comes first. This is wisdom. As a result, there is 'dispassion' (dissolution of craving & ego) and the ending of 'birth'. This is fruition. The Pali word 'birth' ('jati') actually means the 'birth' of the ego-delusion (rather than birth from a woman's womb). The 'unborn' is also a synonym for Nibbana, so all these dhammas are very close. 

The Three Dharma Seals in an error of interpretation by Thích Nhất Hạnh based on an error of interpretation by the majority of Buddhist commentators and translators. It is an example of when an error is made based on accepting an existing error rather than refuting an existing error. Thích Nhất Hạnh has correctly stated that "suffering" is not an inherent aspect of reality however the word 'dukkha' as one of the tilakkhaṇa does not mean 'suffering' but means 'unsatisfactoriness'. It is an error to translate the second tilakkhaṇa as 'suffering' or 'stress' thus it is another error, as Thích Nhất Hạnh has done, to accept the wrong translation as valid and then dismiss it because this also dismisses what the Buddha taught and, more importantly, dismisses what is actually real. Thus, as properly translated from Dhammapada 278 by Acharya Buddharakkhita: 

In short, Buddhism does not extol poverty & recognises Livelihood as a requisite of life (rather than as an attachment). However, if money is used for engaging in unwholesome types of sensual pleasures & vain luxury, which lead to strong addictions & egoism, this is contrary to the Buddhist way of life (since addictions & egoism generate suffering). Some more quotes below: 

Correct. This is preliminary understanding (Right View, 1st factor of eightfold path) that must be reflected upon & used so the mind can develop the path. However, once the path & concentration is developed. the three characteristics will be directly seen & known (which is vipassana). Therefore, the three-characteristics as 'sampajanna' is required to help you develop the path of concentration. Where as the three-characteristics as 'vipassana' is an automatic result/fruit of developing the path.