This is called a "Straw Man Fallacy" which is a variation of ignoratio elenchi (irrelevant conclusion). The general form of a straw man argument is to misrepresent an argument to make it easier to defeat. Your scenario would be a specific case of this. Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Fallacies 1.8 

Argument from Silence decribes making conclusions from the absence of evidence and the Association Fallacy may be the closest thing to describing why people write off science in general when they hear a reversal of consensus. More generally, it sounds like your frustration is primarily causes by people's ignorance which is not something you will find easy to fix or describe to them. In flipping through Wikipedia's list of informal fallacies, I have found the following helpful in describing the plethora of ways people misunderstand, misinterpret, and miscommunicate scientific ideas: 

Holes (as the word is commonly understood) are almost always filled with something else, so a filled hole can, in at least some cases, still be considered a hole. The most obvious example is a hole dug in the ground. It is filled to the brim with air (which are particles with mass just the same as filling it with sand would be). In many cases, it is also filled with electromagnetic waves of all sorts (light, magnetic field of the earth, UV light, infrared, microwaves, radio waves, etc.) Common knowledge and understanding that not all matter and energy that fills volume can be seen should suffice for documentation. 

Probably the classic skeptical treatment of atheism is T.H. Huxley who coined the word 'agnostic'. You will also find a fair number of scholarly articles critiquing certain kinds of atheism if you search for pairs of terms like "soft atheism" and "hard atheism" or "weak atheism and "strong atheism" or "negative atheism" and "positive atheism". The weak/soft/negative position is that person x lacks a positive belief in God while the strong/hard/positive position is that person x believes that God does not exist. The latter is a far more sweeping claim. Michael Martin has a number of writings discussing the difference. 

Emmanuel Levinas took Nazism seriously enough to pen a very astute rebuttal. See his 1934 essay Reflections on the Philosophy of Hitlerism (reprinted in Unforeseen History). Some argue that the vast majority of Heidegger's political writings are little more than regurgitated Nazism. Certainly German and Italian intellectuals at the time drew deeply on Heidegger's writings. The literature on whether or not one can separate Heidegger's Nazism from his philosophy is a vast and deep pool. Lastly, "state of exception" theorists like Carl Schmitt and Giorgio Agamben argue for something very similar to Mussolini's Fascism. 

It seems to me that this is just a reformulation of Theseus' paradox. Plutarch notes in his biography of Theseus that the ship that Theseus and the other Athenian youths returned upon was preserved by the city of Athens through the ages. As various planks and rails rotted, they were replaced leading to the question commonly discussed among philosophers over whether or not the ship we have now is one and the same as the ship that Theseus returned to Athens upon. Really the question at hand is the very question of identity. It's not an easy question to answer. A good starting place is the subtopic Understanding the Persistence Question over at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy in the Identity entry: $URL$ 

I'll take an out-of-the-box view of this question to hopefully provide an interesting perspective to the question. There is actually a great example of this in modern life here on Earth in the theory of a multiverse (as opposed to a single universe). The question, "How did the universe begin?" has been one justification of a divine being for all of recorded history. It didn't start itself, and everything has a beginning, so there must be someone outside of the universe (God) who started it in motion. Modern physics cannot disprove this theory. Even the Big Bang has the question "what caused it?" "God did it" is an untestable explanation that is enough to confirm belief for many people. However, this is a problem for people who do not believe in a divine being. People have thought up a wide range of ideas to this solution, but few hold up under investigation. Enter the multiverse. The multiverse is a relatively recent astrophysics theory that states that there are an infinite number of universes in every possible state (only some are capable of sustaining life and each can have different laws of physics). Each spontaneously pops into existence by creating equal amounts of matter and anti-matter and energy and anti-energy. Each universe is totally separate from the others, so no one in one can observe the others. The multiverse theory (and the existence of universes that cannot support life and are not observed - only believed in) allows some people to see meaning in existence by providing an alternate hypothesis to the existence of a divine being. So in this case, a universe as described above does have "meaning." 

If you're familiar with Nietzsche's genealogy of morals, the answers to these questions quickly become apparent. (1) is true because the origination of morals is guilt about being weak instead of being strong. (2) is false because morals degrade the human spirit. (3) is true but misleading because religion creates morals but morality is not something that should be chased after so much as it is something that should be cast off by the strong. 

You're making an assumption that is contrary to your premises. If a point is "something which has no part" then it follows that they have no size or dimension. So stating that "No matter how small we try to make a point, it still has some size/dimension" contradicts what we just said about points. In fact in almost all forms of geometry a point has zero dimension. Being that which has no part, it has no dimensional aspect that can be quantified. 

You could also write this statement as a material conditional: if there is a house in this area, then there is no food to be found in it. If the antecedent of a material conditional is false, the statement always evaluates to true. The only way to evaluate a material conditional as false is if the antecedent is true and the consequent is false After all, if there are no houses, then there certainly no houses with food in them. 

In Computer Science, the simplest interpretation of this would be a class of multi-sets, containing references to const multi-sets. But they could also have other properties. I think traditionally though a common reason to deny ordinary extensionality is to produce something like ZFA in a one-sorted universe. This can be done by limiting non-extensionality to collectivities without elements and equating those to atoms2. So you might intuitively interpret this system as a class of references to multisets that can contain atoms. Edit: It is possible this is too strong and specific, so you might want to check it over. This is an attempt at the most simple and conventional intuition on how to interpret a system of exactly those five axioms. The key point I believe in excluding extensionality is that it allows multiple versions of sets, which by itself seems to suggest multisets. Other than that, excluding choice and foundation while weakening extension can produce atoms as in ZFA per references. I'm not sure "is collected by" is distinguishing in the universe itself without additional definitions given collection and separation. If you were to implement a subset of the class though it would be. 

2: cf. section 4.1 Weak extensionality and ZFA. Kanamori, A., Gabbay, D. and Woods, J. (2012). Sets and Extensions in the Twentieth Century, Volume 6 (Handbook of the history of logic). Amsterdam: Elsevier, pp.582-583. 

The goal of gathering information is to gain knowledge. The aim of statistics is to measure the level of certainty in the knowledge we gain from information. That level of certainty is proportional to the number of observed events. Fewer events, less certainty. One event, very little certainty. You also have to consider how closely each anecdote agrees with the others. In general, the variation in anecdotes is large due to the differences in the setup and also in the results. One of the biggest problems with anecdotes is that they are uncontrolled and you really don't know all the inputs and the number of inputs that could affect the result is often huge. Without more information it is usually difficult to turn this information into useful knowledge. Take for example that someone eats a certain plant and is cured of a certain disease. Then another person also eats that plant and gets cured of that same disease. If that is all you know then that is close to useless because those people also ate many other things and did may other things which could all cause an effect, individually or in concert. I'll also reiterate the point about Bayesian statistics. It is essential that you consider prior knowledge in any statistics. If something is thought to be likely you need less proof to "prove" it. Likewise, "extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence". The failure to do this well is endemic in the social and medical sciences largely because there are so many input factors and it is so hard to control studies (think about controlling a study about murder - you can't ethically create this study, so you have to observe the uncontrolled world). But this applies to all anecdotal evidence as well. 

There are several reasons. First, formal logic had not been invented yet. Plato began writing by depicting conversations held by Socrates that took place prior to the invention of both Aristotelean and Stoic logics. The idea that a written work could take a geometric form would not occur for almost a hundred years after Socrates with Euclid's Elements. Second, the spoken word was considered by most of the ancients to be preferable to the written word with regards to pedagoguery. Even more formal writings, such as Aristotle's, weren't written to be read so much as they were intended to be lecture notes. In such a world, the dialog would be a nice trade off that retains some of the features of the written word even though the work is being written. Third, at least according to some authorities, Plato was intentionally disguising his own point of view and trying to give his readers puzzles that they would need to figure out for themselves. The dialog format is much more suited to that sort of esoteric writing than are other forms. 

You may be interested in the article on rule consequentialism over at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy: $URL$ Another interesting take is the modern trend towards negative utilitarianism, to work towards minimizing pain rather than maximizing pleasure. Popper addressed this in The Open Society and its Enemies. Peter Singer has also been basing much of his animal rights work on that idea. 

You have several questions in here, but I'll address only the title question about the relationship between freedom and democracy. The definition of "democracy" is "rule of majority". This means, that in an isolated democracy, there is absolute freedom of majority opinion (outside influences such as other countries with military power would change the totality of this statement). This structure is not tied to any moral standard (although the majority opinion may be guided by moral standards). If the majority decided that speeding should be punished by immediate death without a trial, then that's what would happen. Democracy is not freedom of any one person (anarchy), democracy is freedom of the majority of a group of people. It should be noted that no democracy can exist in a strictly defined form for long - no current governments are strictly democracies. John Adams said, "Democracy... while it lasts is more bloody than either aristocracy or monarchy. Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There is never a democracy that did not commit suicide." REF 

I will make a brief argument against pirating as a form of demo. Business owners make business plans based on the expectation that certain rules will be followed. Prices reflect the amount that consummers are willing to pay for the item, but they also cover things like low manufacturing yields, high risk experimental products, and losses from shoplifters and pirates. In order for a business to be sucessful they must get this balance right. The only reason they offer a product or service is because they are expecting a certain return on their investment. If they thought they could not get enough return they would repurpose that capital into something else. A person could argue that the return on investment is unreasonable and greedy and therefore not unethical to dip a tiny bit out of it, but what is reasonable is relative to the provider. Some are non-profit, some make small margins, and some make hefty margins, but they all are going into it expecting what they are planning to get. When that balance falls away from the expectation they may increase prices or stop offering the product. Demos are available because the business has made a decision that providing the opportunity to test a product will ultimately bring the expected returns. Products that do not offer a demo are restricting that testing because they feel it will not bring the expected returns. That is why one-time-use products do not offer demos (at least not full demos) and products with a long life are more likely to offer demos. Some people will say that they are bringing value to the company if they pirate once and then become a long-time customer (and thus are doing it ethically). That may be true for the individual in some cases, but in other cases they will try and never buy. All of these points have been general enough to be independent of legal issues. If the law were suddenly changed to allow for pirating then companies would adjust their business model based on the expected relationship between company and consumer, and they would continue under the new model. There is an implied understanding between companies and potential consumers (consumers as a group) that both sides only have a relationship because of the expected norms of the environment. Pirating is unethical because it violates that understanding. If that doesn't sway you, you can also consider that as pirating becomes more commonplace companies will compensate by increasing the cost of their products. This is fine for the pirates but unethically harms a large group of other people. 

According to The Logic Museum's page on Philosophy of the Infinite1, the distinction traces back to Aristotle to whom is attributed "infinitum actu non datur" - that actual infinity does not exist2. The details of his views and arguments are complicated enough to be their own questions. However, as a result the idea of potential infinity - something that can continue without implying any end, is taken to be well established in philosophical tradition. In contrast, it's not always clear what it means for something to both be actually infinite and reducible to an aggregate at the same time. In one case, Aristotle seems to argue that we can't expect a line to be actually composed of an infinite number of points (as opposed to potentially dividable into infinitely many segments) when we can't find any two points to be adjacent (and thus able to span the continuum). In ancient times, this was relevant to things like the atomic theory of Leucippus and Democritus, and Zeno's paradox. But the distinction has been important to many philosophers in a variety of contexts since then (cf. Logic Museum). In part, the esteem of potential infinity over actual infinity is testimony to Aristotle's legacy in western philosophy. For instance, I think many theistic philosophers would argue for both. In relatively modern times the question saw something of a revival during the development of axiomatic set theory. Dedekind, Cantor, and others addressed the problem around that time, and many questions related to infinite sets (for instance, the continuum hypothesis and axiom of choice) were developed. These became of particular importance since transfinite set theory based on ZFC (Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms plus the axiom of choice) was becoming a viable system in which to formalize modern foundations of mathematics. Nowadays, transfinite set theory is the most accepted foundation of mathematics. Because of this the idea of actually infinite sets is so common and useful that the question has lost some of its significance. In this context, the idea that a potential infinity implies an actual infinity is plausible at least in a logical or immanent sense. I think the question is still interesting from the perspective of ontology, alternative foundations of mathematics, alternatives to ZFC in set theory, and in other historical and related contexts. There are also some interesting mathematical aspects, for instance in set theory and analysis, but I think that would be better asked on MathOverflow.