Because that's how you make blackpowder. It's simply ridiculous. People have also made cannons out of wood and stone. If everyone lives on a boat, then yeah, I can see this being a theme. But if they're on mainland? Can't really see it. Guns are impossible because laws of physics I really don't think that this is a good solution. Basically there will be a bunch of unforeseen consequences from this. A lot of unforeseen consequences. If everyone is bigger and stronger? Why do they have horses? How do they get enough food? Etc. I think it's kind of a cop-out. Guns are impossible, but nobody knows why At least here you're kinda being honest about it. There's a reason and you totally have that reason planned out, promise bro. But you're not going to tell anyone because it's a plot point. It informs how the story is told, so telling people gives away some of the story. This is a common one to use if you're GM'ing. Just tell them straight up before the game starts that stuff like guns don't work, and that there's a reason for it, but your characters would have no way of knowing that reason. You can admit OOC that it's because it messes with the story you want to tell, but that's fair. Now everyone's on the level. But for like a written story? It's kind of unfair, I feel. But I'm not the boss of you know, I'm not the boss of you know and I'm not so big~~~ Personally, I'd have to ask myself why I wanted no guns. If I wanted to tell a story with no guns, but would be fine with guns eventually (after the story was conveniently over) reappearing, then any variation of guns being possible but aren't there yet will do the job, and give you more possibilities. There is however, another question. WHY do people want guns? Well, guns are really, really really useful. Big guns, such as cannons can hit fortifications further away than catapults etc. can. They're easier to transport. They are easy on your logistics. (You need to bring gunpowder, you don't need a separate team of skilled carpenters to make sure the catapults work.) If your enemy clumps up, you can smash a lot of them with cannon-fire. If your enemy disperses, you can clump up and smash them. If you're at sea, cannons are simply better than anything else until we get to the modern era. Arquebuses have a longer effective range than bows (as amply demonstrated by the Imjin War), and they're much more deadly, and are harder to armour against. And as armies start to get larger and thus you need to shoot more people, it's important to note the logistical aspects of bows: You need a well trained man, who's trained a lot with a bow, to get an at-all effective archer. You then need to get him arrows. Arrows are large, expensive creatures. Look at them! 

Some possible ideas. All of these ideas are takes on mythology. They're not meant to be authoritative in any way. Just possible interpretations of said mythology. Idea number 1: An interpretation of norse mythology. The ancient Norse Gods created the humans as bioweapons. This has influenced many myths of humans, which is why they beat up monsters, slay giants, etc. Humans are basically really, really scary in context of the other creatures in Norse mythology. Trolls may want to prey on humans, but they'll not push their luck and go into a village, because humans would apply guns to the problem until it goes away. Humans on the other hand cannot easily kill these supernatural creatures. They'd need some form of magic to do that. The easy, over-the-counter kind of magic that any elf, nisse, hulder, subterranean, troll, etc. can do in a pinch. In other words, humans are this giant race of not-dangerous people. Unless you give them the weapons they need. Which to them is practically free. Imagine if dogs turned into superkiller robots if you fed them chocolate. And there were massive million strong dog colonies. And all stores stock Chocolate due to the Chocolate amendment. Do you see the ticking time-bomb that humans are? On the other hand, most non-Jotnir seem to live in relative harmony with humans. The forest spirits help humans log so long as they plant new trees. The spirits of nature help hunters so long as the hunters respect the prey, etc. Because humans can push things back into balance if things go awry. Humans are stewards of nature, and have a very integrated role in doing so. Humans are scary, but mostly benign and everyone wants to let sleeping dogs lie. However, the gods are warring, and one of them just bought a chocolate factory... Idea number 2: An interpretation of Greek mythology Most humans are weak. Most humans are frail. But sometimes amongst humans are born men who can challenge the greatest of monsters, gods, and titans. Achilles, Heracles, Jason, Odysseus, Perseus, Theseus, Atalanta and Bellerophon, and those are just the ones from Master of Olympus + Poseidon. These heroes are nothing to sneeze at. Another thing to note is that gods are embodiments of things that happen to humans. If you're the god of craftsmen and you control the humans, you can make war more or less go away. Bye, bye Ares. Note that their power is not bound by their power of worship, but by the emotions and experiences of the human soul. (This is also what Warhammer 40 000 does.) Idea number 3: Idea based on, but in no way canonical to Christianity. Human souls are noble and worthy. They're also filthy and sinful. If you get a follower you get their souls after they die. Humans who live lives in accordance to you and your pact with humanity will fuel you. This means that the gods who's pacts make humans live good lives, where they prosper and multiply will have the edge. Furthermore, if your rivals lose their followers, you'll gain relative to them. So... In all of these scenarios you'll have humans being worthwhile. Whether humanity is valuable for their souls, for their potential, for the gods being shaped by the human experience, or finally, because giving them a magic weapon turns them into unstoppable murdermachines that will grind up anything you throw at them to a fine fine dust and blow it in your face... There's plenty of possibilities. 

That's a huge piece of wood, and you need to get a good craftsman to make a whole bunch of these suckers. Meanwhile, an early bullet is just a small lead ball. You also have some gunpowder. Both of these are cheap (lead is inexpensive, steel warheads on arrows are not. Then there's the wood, feather and craftsmanship in addition...), and the package is much smaller than an arrow is per shot. yes, you need wicks for your gunners, if you use that type of firearm. However, bowmen need to have strings for their bows, and crossbowmen need a bunch of tools for their weapon too. It's not a close competition. In addition to that, you don't need as much raw strength to wield a firearm. So your pool of potential recruit is much larger. You can use the big lads to smack your enemies with big sticks instead. While yes, a well drilled gunner will be much more effective than a relatively fresh recruit, a fresh recruit with a gun will be more effective than a fresh recruit with a bow, all things being equal. (Which they often were not, since a lot of peasant hunted with bows.) Finally imagine being besieged. You won't be able to get more supplies, so you think yourself lucky that you have gunpowder based weapons, since you can have more ammunition that way. If the enemy brings archers, they cannot engage your gunners, because your gunners can easily stand ready and fire on a moments notice, which the bowmen cannot. In a siege, firearms are ridiculously overpowered. In other words, as soon as someone manages to figure out how to gun, there will be guns. 

Sure you can. Others have given a lot of reasons as for why the monarch can hold power, now let's also ask why we'd want the monarch to remain in power. One of the more interesting views on this is the reknowned libertarian Hans Herman Hoppe, who wrote a book called Democracy: The God that Failed. He basically makes the case that a democratic government has some very shitty incentives that rewards splitting the population into voting block, taking from Paul and giving to Peter (because 51% of the population is Peter and the remaining 49% is Paul), and a lot of other "fun" things. He calls this the uncivilizing effects of democracy. You can argue that Ukraine had a similar problem when "enthusiastic tourists" engaged with the public officials, so to speak, and Crimea left. And I am oversimplifying here, but bear with me. You see, there was a big problem with Ukrainian politics, other than the fact that they were completely dysfunctional in a way otherwise only seen in a banana republic: They were essentially culturally and politically split. Down about the middle. This meant that the democratically elected government spent its time shitting on half of the population, and depending on which side had the most babies 18 years+ ago, the side that got shat on changed. This of course leads to very dysfunctional governance, because neither side will build up stuff, because the other side will just destroy it afterwards. I'm not saying that either side were good or bad here, they were both shit. However, shit is what survived under such systems. When Crimea left, you had a new situation: The Crimeans were culturally Russian-friendly, and when they left Ukraina for the Rodina, the Russian-hostile/Western-friendly party had a permanent majority. Imagine getting 40% of the votes in every election, and the only issue we're voting over are cutting your benefits and raising your taxes... You can't complain because it's democratic. This is the kind of problem (although I'm simplifying massively) that the easterners faced. Hence the revolt, hence the police action (it's not a civil war because then Ukraine can't get loans from the IMF to stay afloat) involving armoured columnns and artillery, and hence the general shit-show. But imagine that there was a King. He had a 2-5% income tax or something as his only source of income. He had about 50% of the power. Now what interests would the King of Ukraine have? He wants to have money right? So he would not do anything that made people earn less money. He would in fact likely stop any shitting on any group as far as he could, because it would be against his interests. He would also oppose with a vigour seldom seen in politics against any robber-politician because while the politician will spend 5-10 years in office to take as many bribes as possible, looting the country and then just leaving, the King will spend his life as King, and he will pass the title on to his son. So he has a very, very real incentive to have political looters like that shot. In such a state the Monarch would in fact be a massively stabilizing force because the elected officials cannot loot without his consent and to him looting does nothing but ruin him. And he wouldn't be alone either. He'd have a family who would definitively want to keep him around and stop him if he did something evil. Therefore you could have had a stable Ukraine because there would have been a King/Tsar that would have had a vested interest in shit not hitting the fan. Ukraine's problems are pretty deep and complex (or rather there are two sides of shitty politicians that have taken their turns looting the country since the nineties, but that's a mean thing to say, but you'll never find Ukrainians really denying it..) and there are no obvious solutions except for federalization with extensive states' rights and forced neutrality. But you'd need something like a King or a Tzar to be able to wield enough powers for that shit to even begin to happen, so... Summa summarum, kings can happen and they can have good stabilizing influence on a polity in such a way that the various groups in the country will trust him more than the democratically elected politicians. 

I think that the only real way to get a whole world without guns is to regress to the point where you don't have the means to really make them. Remember that basic gunpowder is not easy to make (the process is complicated), but that the ingredients are not hard to get hold of. So I can see a few possible contenders for the NOGUNS scenario: Guns are possible, but they're future-tech This implies that yes, we can make guns, in theory. However, we don't have the practical means yet. We may not have the population centers to get the division of labour required to kickstart the gun trade, the metallurgy may not be there just yet (and what little good steel you have been able to make is needed right now for other needs, like say, maintaining a large dam that's essential for your agriculture, keeping a bridge up or what have you. This is in my opinion an interesting opportunity because guns are now a possibility, your intrepid rag-tag band of heroes may at some point come into contact with guns, etc. Guns are possible, but they're unaffordable This means that there are people with guns, but these people are few and far between, guns are really expensive, and anyone making them without license are clamped down upon. Imagine The King's Guard having rifles, and nobody else. A point to remember here though is that while muskets are not that hard to make, proper modern rifles are impossible without precise machining and measurements. This will give you a setting where there's a reason why there aren't any guns around. Do you want to fight the King's Dragoons riding out to slaughter your entire village because someone went bird-hunting with a shotgun? Guns are possible, but people don't know how. Basically, yeah, you come across Hjemmeladeren, an immense bible about loading your own guns. It tells you exactly how to load, what pressures to use for each bullet, etc. If it's about putting gunpowder into a holster and using said powder to propel a small bit of metal into people/animals/others, the book has the best recipe for the purpose. Only problem is, it's in Norwegian, and your society don't read that language. Of course, if you could, you'd know that Raufoss Ammunisjonsfabrikk refers to what's today called Nammo A/S and in your post apocalyptic world would be a smouldering ruin. (Actually, the smouldering is optional.) So even the knowledge you do find is of little use. This would be a temporary solution, so you should set it to happen relatively early after the apocalypse has passed. This also assumes that the sort of people who would know how to make gunpowder from scratch is gone, or if they're still around, are not talking to the heroes. They may in fact be very insular people living in fortified compounds and have little to do with the outside world. (This does give you a Deus Ex Machina if you need it. Chekhov's Prepper Compound?) Guns are impossible because resource lack This means that there's none out of one of these: