There is the real experiment of raising children. If we observe children learning language we see two very odd things: 1) They err on the side of assuming grammar is more consistent and rigid than it is. They may well know the word 'taught', and then, when the pattern of ordinary past tense formation 'clicks' for them as a pattern, temporarily start using the word 'teached', which they have never heard or used up until that time. 2) When they get grammar wrong, it tends to be wrong in a way that would be correct in another language, and they consistently make the same mistake several times. They are temporarily sure that, for instance, we should consistently mark all of our infinitives, or that we should use gerunds freely in place of infinitives. Again, this is not from experience -- American children don't likely have a Gaelic or German exemplar who puts in too many 'to's or too many 'ing's. They learn that those patterns are wrong, but there is no good evidence why they should have dreamed up the wrong pattern to begin with, instead of just assuming there is no pattern, and learning each instance. In fact, as with 'teached' and 'catched' they already have enough instances in exerience to prove the pattern wrong, and they try it out anyway. These two experiences lead us to presume that grammar is not just accidental, since it is not entirely learned, but is established by searching a specific predetermined space of options. 

The problem is that our model of space is meant to be a 'form of intuition' for Kant. It should not, then, be modified by experience. There should be nothing out there on the basis of which to modify it, if it is itself an aspect of ourselves and not of nature. Kan't position is that space and time are not real, but are imposed on reality by our perception. If space itself teaches us something about our imagination, like the fact it is off a bit at high speeds, then he is just wrong on that count. This is not very central to the notion. The rest of the underlying mathematics may still be a form of our intuition. Notions like the continuity of space, the basic properties of metrics, etc. may be part of the form that proceeds from us, while its 'flatness' is synthetic, and would be different if we lived at a different scale or speed. So it is not deeply damaging to the theory as a whole. But since geometry is the most compelling example, it robs the theory of one main 'hook' that makes us pay attention to it. 

To the extend that 'what is' is '=', in systems of logic that trace deduction literally, such as proof theory, implication (⇒) captures the basic notion of why. What lies to the right of the arrow is true because of something that lies to the left. But Classical logic simplifies the meaning of implication into something unnatural by insisting all true statements are equal in meaning and all false statements prove anything, regardless of referential content. People who want to talk about semantics then usually introduce a symbol to recapture the natural meaning of implication. So I would suggest that the semantic implication symbol 'turnstile' (⊨) really at least intends to capture the natural sense of 'why?' When these are interrogative, what is implying or what is equated is a free variable. "Ǝ X: X ⊨ 2^4 > 4^2" means "There are collections of facts and deductions that entails the fourth power of two exceeds the square of four, we will call some one of those X." (In this case there is no X, because the right-hand-side is simply always false.) Then using X anywhere is, in effect, asking why. 

Logic and rhetoric are not linked in this way. There is no point at which the quality of a human being's ability to interact has anything to do with his logic. So there is no point where an ad hominem fallacy stops being bad logic. That does not mean it is bad behavior, especially not bad psychology. Shame is an appropriate rhetorical and psychological tool. You don't need input from philosophers, you need input from the Super-Nanny. 'The Gentle Art of Verbal Self-Defense' suggests that the appropriate way of dealing with arguments that are not arguments is to pretend you only understand logical statements until the other party becomes bored with you, and then start the argument over without them. 

It is not about God, at root. It is not the theology of Christianity that he openly disrespected. It was the mechanism of elevating the sentiments of the underprivileged (compliance, modesty, forgiveness) over more honest human motivations. (He would most likely be just as disgusted by modern post-Christian social justice warriors who double down on those sentiments and consider Christianity among the oppressive forces that empower some people over others.) It was the feeling that attempts at social control are never entirely honest. As PeDeLeao points out above, but takes out of context, his aversion is part of an instinct toward authenticity, which does not allow for chosen positions that conform the individual to society as praiseworthy in themselves. (He complains often elsewhere about this instinct as a disease.) As he lays out in the Genealogy of Morals, Nietzsche sees Christianity as an ingenious attempt to control natural humanity. He later enumerates Jesus as one of the great Creators. He points out that Christianity is a designed psychology that works by inverting one of naive human emotionality's main driving forces -- the feeling we have that links effectiveness and freedom to deserving. It instead links effective control of other people (the rich man) and pursuing one's own ends (unencumbered by God's plan) with selfishness, pettiness and arrogance (through the Lucifer mythology), and ultimately with evil. As such a carefully tuned manipulation, it could not really be honest at its root, it must actually be based in the desire for order, and the advancement of the species that constructed it. 

I don't think the proposed master morality is the same master morality that was about controlling herd members. If you are in a place where your ego is elevated by the opinion of the herd, you are in the herd. The original forms of master morality died from infection by the opinions of the herd. It was overpowered by a more insidious form of power (power-over lost to power-with). And if you just go back where it came from, it will just cycle back around into the place we are in now. So there is something of a non-sequitur here. Dialectics are meant to identify and evade pitfalls, so we need a reaction to the slave morality that evades the trap into which the original master morality fell. The higher man is an attempt at such an escape. To be guided by the drug of egotism that arises from being served by other herd members would make you one of the best versions of the Last Man, but it would leave you as one of them, finding comfort in drinking the poison of narcisism. So the higher man cannot be harmed by this possibility: The alpha buck who thinks he is actually outside the herd because he is leading it might, but he does not qualify. Creators need to fall back upon their own instinct of art, and diverge from the shaped notions of propriety, which may well preclude their being leaders within the herd. To look back on the litany of Creators, Moses did not become the High Priest -- Aaron did, Christ only really led after his death -- in life he might have been an inspiration, but he could have lead a revolt and didn't. There is a message in Nietzsche's choice of examples. 

There is an extremely famous consideration of something similar to your diagnoses, but without being quite so condescending. Kierkegaard's "Either/Or" and its separate discussions (in which he becomes, at some point, four different authors) investigates two different approaches to life: The Aesthetic, which I think you are declaring 'typical', lives subjectively and has his motivations determined by what is around him. The Ethical, lives more objectively, but only by adding complexity and restraint. It risks a loss of oneself, in moving from a natural posture of 'wishing' to a more considered one of 'willing'. His answer (to be really Procrustean) is that although the latter is an advancement over the former, it is a risk that is only worthwhile if it culminates in a deeper solution, identified as the Religious. I think his point of view, and yours, assumes we all move in one direction between these two positions. But that does not seem to be the case. Mauriac's "Woman of the Pharisees" (which some thing is written in response) makes the case that people just as often move in the opposite direction. That a large number of us cling to limiting structures in our youth, largely out of fear. As a result, they foreclose options for themselves and others for all the wrong reasons, and cause a great deal of damage before developing the courage to question their motivating structures. The integration Kierkegaard is after may be equally necessary either way. Jungians like Briggs-Myers put this dynamic more prosaically, and to my mind more fruitfully. In her classification, this is simply a movement between 'Judging' orientation and 'Perceiving' orientation. Jung himself suggests that everyone moves toward the center over time, if they mature, and useful maturity requires both the movement itself and the awareness of what was out of balance to begin with. 

From two different approaches, you get something like the same answer. From traditional psychoanalysis, the personality is always fragmented, we are never completely free of repression or its associated fear, and therefore always have some degree of dissociation. So our point of view is made up of competing beliefs and desires, and one complex with in it is addressing another. "The part of me that owes my father A and B needs to believe X." "The part of me that owes my husband C and D needs to believe Y." "Since X and Y are incompatible, which shall I repress more deeply? Which of these obligations is more central to my identity?" From a more modern model of thought offered as an abstract by Daniel Dennett, the mind is a parallel process that continually rewrites the stories that explain its behavior. The stories circulate in 'multiple drafts', and talking to yourself is using the serial linguistic mechanism to consciously edit together two drafts that exhibit a potential discrepancy. "I don't know X." "But you do know X, because you have decided Y (a fact from another 'draft') and that implies X." "Ok, so what if I do know X? Then is that consistent with Z, or does Z need reconsidering?" ... 

I think it is not disprovable, but it requires some pretty shaky notions. One is that there is no cause for any of your perceptions other than your own will. And a lot of those perceptions are of suffering. As usual, I am going to float the "Gnostic proof of God" argument. If you are alone in the universe, why do you hate yourself? Clearly your life could be a lot better, so why isn't it? If someone else (say, God) hated you, it would make some sense, but you are assuming you are alone. In experience, if you do hate yourself, it is usually because you feel like you have failed some other being (say, God). But again, if you are alone, that makes no sense. Most people intrinsically believe in an overall causal framework outside themselves, because life is always in some way hard, and they need someone to blame that on. There is 'Hell on Earth' even if 'Hell is other people." 

There are three ways of laying out the four elements. If you choose to have Fire at the top of a + the element opposite can be any of the other three, and then the left and right positions are basically symmetrical and don't create more variation. The layout you are talking about, the one with Water opposite Fire is the one aligned with Astrology. The actual hot, wet, cool and moist notions apply to the seasons dominated by those elements. Spring, dominated by Air (associated with rapid change) is wet and warm; Summer, dominated by Fire is hot and dry; Autumn, dominated by Earth, is dry and cool; Winter, dominated by Water, is cold and wet. This is true at least at the latitudes of the Classical Ascendancy. Farther away from the Equator, Autumn is wet and Winter is dry, so Winter is associated with Air and placed opposite Summer associated with Fire; while Autumn is associated with Earth and placed opposite Spring associated with Water. The strong association of Winter with Air is common in northern cultures with festivals of light at midwinter when the air is exceptionally clear, and the alternation of temperate wet and extreme dry seasons, can be found in some Celtic and Teutonic traditions. The arrangements opposing Fire with Earth are more common in cultures less dominated by either of these forces, because the actual substances physically, visibly arrange themselves that way. The heat of fire rises, and Earth falls through both Air and Water. This is the elemental arrangement that has become more popular over time, and is used, for instance in Jungian type theory, European racial stereotyping, and Wiccan geographical associations. 

1) Is any definition of objective reality really just a democracy or vote which is relying on the most popular perception? Clearly this is not democratic, by simple observation. A small number of individuals have a great deal of the determining power, even though huge segments of the population know nothing about them, and hold completely different models of the world. As a political system this is clearly an aristocracy and Aristotle alone is at least a Grand Duke. If there is an Emporer, no one knows his name. Some useful refinements of perception are not at all popular, and the effective-but-unpopular one survives. Gallileo's notion of inertia is not natural to us in the same way as Aristotle's. But it is the one we inculcate into one another, because it has the nature of giving its holders power. 2) If #1 is true, doesn't this just mean that reality is truly subjective, just there may be larger and smaller populations of people that basically agree on the same nature of reality? Despite that #1 is not true, objective reality is still a mass 'inter-subjective' effect. This is the basic idea of Wittgenstein's circularity between meaning and usage. Our shared reality is negotiated. It does not assert itself. This is because we can only address it with thoughts, and our thinking is bred up with words, which hold their meaning in a socially-determined game. But the nature of that game is unlike political decision-making. Its game-like and competitive nature is almost entirely unconscious, for one thing. And it is clearly refined by continual feedback that proceeds from its ability to control aspects of the environment outside of ourselves. It may not be governed by any external force, but it is also not independent of external forces. Unless you want to claim natural disasters are some sort of mass choice, this social process has a physical dual, either in a process separate from the mind, or in a layering of minds that allows for a prominent part of our thinking to lie outside the human species. 3) If #1 is false, then how can it be explained that ideas like logic, empirical data from the 5 senses, the scientific method, and any other basis used to determine objective reality is true outside of an individual's perception of both these ideas and the other observers needed to verify them? The best answer that can be easily laid out is 'The Selfish Gene'. We as a species evolve to accumulate power over our environment, like any other biological species. Since we are 'troupe' animals, our biological process is a social process, but it is not a democratic one. 

There are either zero or one such thing. If there were two, evaluating the action would involve choosing between them, which would tie it to one principle satisfied and the other. Then the action would be good only in reference to the chosen principle, and not competing principles. It would therefore serve an end other than itself. As long as there is only one such principle, there is no choice, and no dependency (other than 'dependency' on the logical whole of existence). So, as he often does, Kant has used symmetry and universality to set up his definition to rule out the possibility of multiple choices. And he can say the one without loss of generality in the definition itself. 

Jung would say that it is because we all have parents (of some sort), and the experience of parents sews into us the Archetype of the King. We spend our early life looking up to adults, and discerning their expectations of us. By the time we are done being children this becomes so ingrained a habit that when we are really free of external expectations, or at least have taken responsibility for them and understand their causes, we can't stop looking for more layers of expectation. This makes it convenient for an individual to be the Father of Fathers, for huge segments of the population, and holds together Kingdoms. But those are gone in modern life. Even the King is just a man, even if we consider him somewhat special. Unconsciously, we still want there to be an expectation that tells us what to do with ourselves, and we don't want to attribute that highest expectation to any of the adults that we have now demoted to peers. Otherwise, there is no really good reason to obey it. We want the Universe to have a plan for us. Because without a plan, we can never satisfy our need to obey something. (Jung was a religious man, so he would probably see this as a behavior planned into us by God. But he was also a late-Victorian scientist, and would presume God generally works via logical mechanisms, rather than by fiat.)