It seems unfair to me. But I'm not sure what the alternative is. If the alternative is to let you go, then extending your probation to see if your situation changes is rather kind. If the alternative is to just give you the job and not worry that you may not be able to accommodate the company's needs, then it's a bit unfair. I'm sure you understand the norms of ad agencies better than I do and can get a better sense of which of the two alternatives is more likely. If you haven't already done so, sit down with your manager, explain the situation with your mom and where you see that going, and see if there is some accommodation that can be made. Always remember, you can also choose to look for another job - perhaps one that won't require you to stay late. I'm sure your mom would understand. 

There's no way to know for sure unless you ask. As a hiring manager, I always conduct the first round over the phone. So it wouldn't be a problem to me from that point of view. But you indicate that this company is looking only for local candidates, and while you put a local address on your resume, you actually aren't quite local yet. So from that point of view, asking for a phone/Skype interview because you currently live in Canada could easily be a negative. It's possible that they could conclude you are a non-local, or unlikely as it might be they could even suspect you were being deceptive. If you want to be very safe, and view this job as a significant opportunity, then go to New York and attend the interview in person. And prepare to do the same for subsequent interviews at this company. If you are willing to risk it, ask for the concession, or ask if you can do the in-person portion of the interview process next month. 

These technicians have a boss. Go to that boss and say "I need a technician who can do [whatever is is you need them to do] dependably. I've had a hard time recently getting the support I need to be effective with the clients. The problems with the technicians is causing [details of client-related problems]. What can you do for me here?" If this should be someone else's problem (and most likely this is their bosses problem) don't make it yours. (BTW, you seem to have a bad attitude toward these technicians. If they are sensing your attitude, they may be "punishing" you for it. Try to see if you dial back the vibes you send out if that's actually the case. Maybe ask the other licensed staff how they do it.) 

$200 is far too much to spend, in my opinion. Find something much smaller, that is meaningful to you. When a boss of mine left the company, he gave me a book that was personally meaningful to him. He wrote a little note on the inside cover expressing his thanks. I thought it was a wonderful touch. I still have that book more than 10 years later. 

For me, the answer is clear - I am not a liar. I would never work for a company that expected me to lie as a standard part of doing business. And I have to believe if the company is willing to lie they would be willing to commit other business practices that I would consider unethical. No thanks. I would thank this company for their interest and walk away. I would find a company where I could work and still keep my reputation intact. For me, my reputation is very important. People who know me trust me to always try to do the right thing, and I would never want to betray that trust. Your answers might be different. We all have a different approach to lying and we all have a different relationship with our reputation. This happens to be a hot button for me, although I know others don't feel as strongly. 

You should explain that you made a mistake and the company turned out not to be what you had hoped for. If you are going into a new commissioned job, you can talk about how the base salary is too low to be viable - many employers will understand that. Try hard not to bad-mouth your current employer. Just indicate that you quickly realized that it isn't working out. Don't tell them that you cry about it. Don't talk about laws or turnover or your car or dwell on the other nastiness at your current employer - those don't make you a more appealing candidate. 

Try Google Voice: $URL$ It provides a handy way to give out a number that you can use for the duration of the class, then discard. You can have the voicemail stored, forwarded, or even transcribed. And it's free. 

For some hiring managers, it would make you seem like a less attractive candidate. For some, it makes you look like someone who doesn't value work as much as other candidates. Some hiring managers would wonder why you cannot conduct a job search while working, when the majority of others can. That might lead to questions of efficiency and juggling multiple tasks. Some managers actually like to hire out-of-work folks. They feel that this status gives them leverage when it comes to salary negotiations. Some folks consider leaving before having a new job a bad practice financially. When you have no income, you might feel pressure to take a job quickly, and hence might choose a less-than-optimal job. For me, that would be my biggest concern, and is the reason I advise all of my friends and family to find their next job before quitting their current one. None of these reasons mean you cannot find a job if you quit before having one. But for some, they are negatives. And remember, these are people's impressions we are discussing - not the actual circumstances in which you find yourself. 

Of course. Ideas are great. But as the Manager, you must consider all aspects of ideas - the viability, the potential upside, the potential downside, the cost, the timing, the political impacts. Some ideas will have terrific potential, be simple to implement, and will sail through upper management approval. Others have little potential, are overly burdensome to implement, and have no chance of gaining management agreement. And most will be somewhere in the vast middle. As the Manager, it's your role to carefully filter through these ideas, implement the easy high-payback ideas, reject the burdensome, low-or-no-payback ideas, and weigh the remainder - all while considering the rest of the work your team has on it's plate. Try to find some quick wins as a way to help your team feel good about themselves, and encourage more idea generation. Thank and reward the team for a great idea. And even when you decide that you might need to reject an idea, find a way to thank the team for coming up with a good idea - even if it may not be practical or realistic to implement it. An idea can still be good even if "now is not the right time and here is not the right place" - if you see what I mean. And you will find some ideas that will be very difficult to implement, but still have enough potential and upside that the are worth a struggle. These can be the really big wins. It's wonderful to generate ideas. "Unlimited vacation policy", "Let's all have offices rather than cubicles", "Lets double our team size and stop working overtime". And ideas are fun to generate. But the real key, and the real difficulty, is in the implementation.