In fact, Goodlake did make a passing reference to the incident in a letter to his parents dated 6 November 1854. The letter is included in Sharpshooter in the Crimea: The Letters of the Captain Gerald Goodlake VC 1854-56, Volume 3 by Michael Springman: 

Part of the reason for the confusion is simple. Egyptian names had meaning. Stephen Quirke captured this concept quite neatly in his book Who Were the Pharaohs?, when he observed that 

On a side-note, one of those interned on the Isle-of-Man during the Second World War was the German archaeologist Gerhard Bersu. He was permitted to continue working as an archaeologist during the war (assisted by other internees), which goes some way towards explaining why we know so much about the archaeology of the occupation of the island during the historic and prehistoric periods. Records of those interned by the British government during the two World Wars are now held at the UK National Archives in Kew. 

I have seen similar patterns in other parishes where I've been researching my own ancestors. A number of factors were at play, and it is difficult to be specific for a particular parish, however, the most likely reasons for Eversholt appear to be: 

The posthumous flattery from the victim (referred to above) could be used as propaganda to deflect people from the fact of the conspiracy (at the very least, it would feed Nero's ego!). The fact of the suicide could be used as evidence of guilt, and so he might hope that it wouldn't further "increase the odium of his cruelty". There was no need for a public trial which might inspire further opposition. The scale of the conspiracy could be concealed. The conspirators still ended up dead. 

A representative "debate" of the various points of view was conducted over a number of issues in the pages of Bible Archaeology Review between 2013 and 2015. (This is one of the links mentioned by Mark in his earlier comment above.) It is well worth reading, if only to highlight the interpretive difficulties, given the equivocal nature of the evidence - such as it is, and the distances between the positions of the proponents of the different dates. 

While there are records of single combat in ancient warfare, it definitely appears to have been the exception, rather than the norm. However, we can be reasonably certain that the tradition can be traced all the way from the Bronze Age to the later classical period. 

Several sites in addition to Wikipedia have fairly complete lists of the virtues, both private and public. I've haven't yet seen a fully sourced one, but the list on nova Romana at least seems fairly complete. A useful text that discussed the virtues, and at least some of the sources is The Roman Virtues by Harold Mattingly. (It should be available to read free online at JSTOR, but either their site is down right now or the Internet connection on mt phone is playing up) 

The obvious place to look would be in the letters from Constanze to her husband. Unfortunately, as far as I am aware, none of these survive. The letters of Mozart and his family were collected (and translated) by Emily Anderson. These were published in 3 volumes in the 1930's. I was able to find the first and third volumes on Archive.org. As far as I could see there is no use of "Wolfi" or "Wolfie" as a pet name for Mozart in any of the letters. The second volume is on Google Books. A search inside the book didn't identify any occurrence of "Wolfi" or "Wolfie". It looks like it may well be the case that they used the film as a source in this instance. 

Sources Healy, Mark: The Ancient Assyrians, Bloomsbury, 2000 Kuhrt, Amélie: The Ancient Near East, C. 3000-330 BC (2 vols), Routledge, 1995 Nolen Jones, Floyd: Chronology of the Old Testament: A Return to the Basics, Kingsword, 2002 Pritchard, James, B: Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament, Princeton University Press, 1969 

The short answer is that Constantine didn't create the Chi-Rho Christogram. There is evidence that it was already being used before Constantine, but he certainly raised the symbol's prominence after the Battle of Milvian Bridge in 312AD. Most of the early Christian texts were written in Greek, and Greek actually continued as the language of the eastern Roman, or "Byzantine", Empire. It was therefore natural that the symbol would have derived from the first two letters of the Greek word ΧΡΙΣΤΟΣ. You are right that Latin was the language of Constantine's court, but as an educated Roman he would probably have known some Greek, and he was probably aware of some of the Christian symbols in use at that time. He certainly wasn't fluent in the language though as he had to use an interpreter to address Greek-speaking bishops at the Council of Nicaea. In the story of the Battle, the sign that appeared was a cross, or something similar (Lactantius is the first author to mention the story (just a couple of years after the battle), and he is not entirely clear on that point). The sign was associated with a dream in which Constantine received the message (in Latin) "In hoc signo vince!" ("In this sign, conquer!") 

- source: Wikipedia The crew accommodation was more limited. The Hindenburg carried about 50-60 crew members (it varied from 47 on its maiden flight to 61 on its final flight). The commander had a private cabin just forward of the control car. Other officers shared a compartment with twelve bunks in the same area, while the remaining crew shared 2 crew areas, one with 22 bunks just aft of the passenger accommodation and another with twelve bunks closer to the stern. 100 hours is just over 4 days. Storage for food etc. to feed 120-130 people for four days would really not be a problem on an airship the size of the Hindenburg. There are a number of websites with cutaway diagrams of the Hindenburg (and other Zeppelins), including the one on airships.net. These give a good idea of how storage and cabin space were distributed. 

One piece of evidence that is missing from most of the modern claims that Churchill was responsible for the famine, is the observation made by the War Cabinet report that the shortages in Bengal had been: 

When you say "slaves freed in the UK", I assume you are referring to slaves in Britain's Caribbean colonies. 

And then, of course we have the concept of "public virtues" in ancient Rome, many of which were personified as deities. Examples here would include Bonus Eventus, Fortuna, nobilitas, Pax, and Securitas. Notice that, of these, nobilitas (social rank) is the only one not to have been personified as a deity. This was also a concept that would change radically in the transition from Republic to Empire. These public virtues are also sometimes known as the mores maiorum, or "ways of the ancestors". As unwritten rules, these are, not surprisingly, hard to tie down exactly. Some were mentioned, in passing, by Roman authors, For example, Juvenal in his Satires says: 

Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs pose a different set of problems. The written form of the language didn't generally record vowel sounds. So, when we transliterate the name of Nefertiti from the hieroglyphs, we actually get: 

According to a paper titled The First Nuclear Weapons, the reason was simply that Little Boy was very inefficient, and required a large critical mass. If the Uranium-235 were used in a Fat Man type bomb, the efficiency would have been increased by more than an order of magnitude. It seems that, immediately after the Trinity test, in a memo dated July 19, 1945, Oppenheimer suggested removing the Uranium from the original Little Boy device to be reworked into uranium/plutonium composite cores for more implosion bombs (the paper linked above states that 4 implosion bombs could have been made from Little Boy's core). General Groves rejected the idea since it would delay combat use, and Little Boy was deployed on the Japanese city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945. However, it seems that there was no intention to build further uranium-cored devices at that point. 

Drugs are certainly not a new phenomenon. Two well-known examples are opiates and cannabis. A great deal has been written about the use of hashish by medieval Nizari Ismailis (which gave us the word "assassin", derived from the Arabic "Hashshashin"). When I was studying the archaeology of Cyprus at Birkbeck in the late 1990s I wrote a paper on opiate use in the ancient Eastern Mediterranean. I've summarised many of the salient points from that paper (with a few updated links) below: 

Origins of the claim The claim that Churchill was responsible for the 1943 Bengal famine stems from the book Churchill's Secret War, By Madhusree Mukerjee. The problem is that the evidence doesn't actually support that conclusion. On the contrary, it actually appears that Churchill did everything he could in the midst of a world war to save the Bengalis, and that without his actions the famine might have been worse. 

This would not have been entirely without precedent. The government had previously shown that it was willing to amend the Constitution to address unanticipated problems. For example, the Twelfth Amendment was passed in 1804 to address problems that had arisen with the original procedure contained in Article II, Section 1, Clause 3 of the Constitution during the Presidential elections of 1796 and 1800. 

Wikipedia can be OK for looking up hieroglyphs, but it is limited by its very nature. There are some good Egyptian dictionaries available online. A concise dictionary of Middle Egyptian by Faulkner is probably among the best (but I'm not sure how legit the online copies are!). A good (free) dictionary of Middle Egyptian by Paul Dickson has been made available on the Pyramid Texts Online website. 

The Norwegian Royal family had been invited to the US by President Roosevelt. As such they would have been considered to be his guests. They would probably have been invited to the White House fairly often. He certainly seems to have visited them fairly often. We have photographic evidence that Harald met, and played with, FDR's dog Fala on at least one occasion. Probably more often in fact. However, as to how well he knew the dog, I'm not sure that was ever recorded by history. 

The official designation for that particular device was the RDS-220. The nickname Tsar Bomba was an appellation applied by the West, rather than the designers of the bomb (who - according to the site linked above - apparently referred to it as Big Ivan, or simply the Big Bomb). 

Thanks to the "heads-up" I got from your comment on my answer to your last question earlier, I had a chance to do some research on this today (although I'm not sure about your page numbering in Breasted. You may have a different edition to mine). 

From the wording of the relevant section of 10 U.S. Code § 2644, it appears that, unlike the UK, where the government only requisitioned the asset "for the duration", the US government actually assumed ownership of the requisitioned aircraft when the requisition papers were served. It would appear therefore, that under the Fifth Amendment, compensation would have been payable to the owner of the aircraft immediately. 

To answer the update, The Uraeus is actually a symbol representing the Ancient Egyptian goddess Wadjet (one of the earliest Egyptian deities, and often described as the 'protector' of Lower Egypt), who often was depicted as a cobra. The name therefore has the feminine -t ending. In this case, there is no masculine ending. After the unification of Egypt, the Uraeus of Wadjet appeared alongside the vulture of Nekhbet (representing Upper Egypt) on the royal headdress to symbolise the unified kingdom. 

Medieval bracteates (a form of pennies) are pieces of thin silver sheet embossed on one side. They typically have a diameter of between 22 and 45 mm. Because it is struck on only one side, the coin image appears in a high relief, while the obverse remains hollow. From the middle of the 12th century to the 14th century, bracteates were the predominant regional coin type in almost the entire German-speaking area (with the exception of the Rhineland , Westphalia and the Middle Rhine area). From a currency perspective, bracteates are typical of the regional penny currencies of the time. In some regions, it is true that bracteates were periodically devalued and had to be exchanged for new money. In Magdeburg this happened twice a year in the 12th century. When the devalued coins were exchanged, the rate was three new coins for four old coins. The withheld 4th coin was called strike money, and this was often the only tax revenue of the minting authority (Renovatio Monetae). Obviously, the periodic devaluation caused huge disruption for businesses and traders. The city guilds began to issue a so-called "eternal penny" ("Ewiger Pfennig") from about the mid 13th century. The rise of the Ewiger Pfennig marked the end of the bracteate period, although they remained in use as "pilgrim coins" until the 17th century. 

It seems that the answer is yes, although British sovereignty seems to have been merely nominal, since no attempt was made to actually occupy the island. This 1961 article by H.E. Maude discusses the history within a regional context. I will summarise the main points. The disputes between the United States and the UK following the American Guano Islands Act of 1856 fell into abeyance when the few commercially payable guano deposits were exhausted. From that point, almost all the islands covered by the American Guano Act were considered, in the absence of any active American interest in them, to be British possessions. That situation changed when the strategic value of the islands in relation to trans-Pacific civil aviation was recognised. Baker Island (and also Jarvis Island) was placed under United States administrative jurisdiction by the Presidential Order of May 13, 1936; In March, 1938, Mr. Stephen T. Early, Secretary to President Roosevelt, announced that: 

(In fact, the Y-chromosome haplogroups that most commonly appear in populations that originated in sub-Saharan Africa are A, B2a1a, E1a, E1b1, E2. These haplogroups, together with sub-haplogroups are generally accepted to be evidence of sub-Saharan African ancestry. Only the E-1 group was reported in the Hamilton surname study). This the fact that these 2 individuals inherited haplogroup E is sometimes presented as "evidence that Alexander Hamilton had African ancestry". Unfortunately, it can be easily demonstrated that this claim is nonsense. Participants in the study are identified by codes, rather than by name, to protect their identities. The two participants in the study who inherited haplogroup E-1 are identified by the codes H-271 & H-308. The discussion notes that these individuals are second-cousins, and so it is unsurprising that they share the Y-chromosome. However, these were not the same individuals as the 4 descendants of John Hamilton (who are identified as H-039, H-073, H-079, and H-072). There is thus absolutely no evidence for any African DNA in Hamilton's family tree from that data-set. We can therefore say that there is no (presently known) primary source, or DNA evidence that suggests that Hamilton was black. (Of course, none of that is likely to change people's minds. People often believe what they want to believe in cases like this. A point eloquently made by Robin Gane-McCalla in the article linked above). 

Nabu-kudurri-usur (Nebuchadnezzar II), was the oldest son of Nabu-apla-usur (Nabopolassar), founder of the 11th dynasty of Babylon. From the records, we know that he was born c634BC and died c562BC (aged 71/72). He succeeded his father to become king c605BC. (the "c" in all these dates stands for "circa" or "about") You are right that we use a number of astronomical events to provide fixed points that we can use to tie the various near eastern chronologies together. A well known one is the "Assyrian eclipse" of 15 June 763BC (although even that date is not without controversy!). As I understand it, and as you say in your question, the "saros" texts record another solar eclipse in the 32nd year of Nebuchadnzzar's reign. Now, I think that has been suggested to be an eclipse in either 573/572BC, which would correspond to Nebuchadnezzar II becoming King of Babylon c 605BC. Now, you're quite right that, as with many other ancient calendar systems, the Babylonians faced a challenge of making their calendar of twelve lunar months fit with the solar year of about 365.25 days. This has added a further complication to matching events recorded in Babylonian records to exact dates in our modern calendar. A bigger complication is that most events aren't actually recorded with a date, just a regnal year - e.g.