Pulling an eccentric out that's not stuck is usually pretty straightforward once you've gotten the cranks off. If you want to find out the brand and model info (which might not actually be that useful anyway), that's probably the only place you'll find it, if it's there. But, if you're going to try to source a new eccentric yourself, you really should pull it anyway to get an exact measurement of the shell's inside diameter. If this is any kind of mainstream bike manufacturer, where I would start here is calling them up and seeing if they have a replacement they can send to either you or a dealer. If so, that path is going to be about a million times easier than anything else, and probably cheaper. I'll also mention that the framebuilding suppliers like Nova are the main source I've seen for more simple 1-piece eccentrics like you appear to have. Most of what you'll find elsewhere are the premium ones like Bushnell, Phil, and Niner. As for the Loctite idea, with GXP there's not really any place for it to move to. I would never recommend riding on a loose cup, but people do all the time, with the main consequence being noise and play in the cranks. 

From where you're at now, you bonk the end of the axle on the non-drive sufficiently hard and the axle slides out, possibly taking the freehub with it, or if not then letting it be removed. You put the 5mm allen in the drive side end and a cone wrench on the bit with the cone wrench flats next to it, figure out if it's a left or right thread, break that connection and unscrew it, and the hub comes apart that way. I think this is more probable. 

You mean larger right side flange. Making the left side larger on a derailer wheel would exacerbate the tension disparity, not equalize it. There are companies that do it. The reason it's not more common is that the difference has to be pretty radical (i.e. a way more expensive shell to produce) before the tension disparity is affected much, and at the same time, it doesn't take much difference at all before lacing the hub gets difficult using conventional j-bend spokes. On 6-bolt hubs, the left side already has to be around 58mm, so making the right side much larger means starting with just a really big piece of al, and I believe that's why it's seldom done. The only tall left side mountain hub I know of is the DMR Revolver. I have no idea why they did it that way. But if you want equal spoke tensions, don't buy that hub. 

All tubeless compatible (aka "tubeless ready" or just "tubeless") rims and tires can be used with tubes. It would be impractical even for bike industry standards to disallow people from putting in a tube when something goes wrong, or even buy a modern wheel/rim if they weren't interested in tubeless. The main special thing about the TCS rims compared to many others is, as their ad copy points out, they have a certified UST standard bead seat. The idea there, not to give an opinion either way, is that in conjunction with a UST tire the bead interface meets a designed standard and can have greater security than the alternative of just using parts that are more arbitrarily designated as "tubeless compatible," in other words every non-UST MTB tire and rim on the market. You can still use whatever tires on TCS rims, tubeless or not. 

Since post mount became the norm, most long travel/gravity forks have a minimum rotor size based on what post mount length standard they're built with. Here is how Fox communicates it on the product page for their 40 series forks for example: 

With most noise-diagnosing, my usual protocol is to test ride thoroughly, including on an uphill, as the first step, to try and get the most accurate impression possible of what the customer is experiencing. You kind of need to do that to know, or at least have a pretty good guess, that you've taken care of the issue at the end. A caveat here is for my own safety (people ride some sketchy stuff) I may torque crank and stem bolts first, which can in theory throw off the before/after picture, but oh well. I think this is the best practice, but it's also not altogether unreasonable on a lot of creak-fest modern road and mountain bikes (integrated headset and unthreaded BB) to just do all your disassembly/parts replacement/grease-slathering up front and then see what you get afterward. If a customer tells me there are multiple creaks on such a bike or if I can pick up on it from just handling the bike, I might go that route. There aren't really any ways of simulating load in the stand. There are a few tricks useful for isolating noises in the headset and bottom bracket areas involving sideloading or selectively loading certain areas with the bike on the ground, but they don't simulate full riding loads so they're not a substitute for test riding. 

The answer for a rider who's capable of doing the math themselves is use either the bikes that are available to you or help from a pro with a fit machine to establish these numbers: 

The brass rod (I believe its technical name is the "plunger rod") is broken. You can probably find the lower part hanging out in the tube somewhere. Getting it out may be tricky, but you should probably do so before replacing the core. 

There is no adjustment for modulation on the Apex hydro brakes, but make sure the lever reach hasn't been set too far in, which could screw things up. Also soft feel, lack of stopping power, and ability to pull the lever easily to the bar can always just mean they need to be bled. 

Yes, absolutely. The knobs will get rounded off at an accelerated rate, particularly down the center of the rear tire, and the tires won't offer as much traction off-road. This doesn't happen instantly, but it will happen soon enough on a knobby used for primarily road riding. 

There have been exceptions, like Dura Ace 10mm Track, but for the most part 1/2" chain pitch is totally universal. Pairing a heavily worn chain or chainring/cog with a new part can result in what you're seeing, though, because of the mismatch in pitch that develops as chains wear. 

This is a deceptively complex question because it touches on many aspects of hub design, and answering it properly would also require taking some kind of survey of what design choices have wound up getting made for the various convertible vs. dedicated size through axle hubs, particularly in terms of what bearing sizes are used. Furthermore, for practical purposes the story is quite different for convertible road vs. mountain front hubs, because within mountain many of those hubs use bearings with a 20mm ID so they cover 20mm all the way down to QR, whereas the size variance involved with a 15mm/12mm/QR hub is much less. But, broadly speaking, the main potential downside to convertible hubs of this style is that even if you're fine with it being as big and heavy as it needs to be to have good bearing durability, the person who designed it might not see things that way. They'll probably see it instead at some level as a trade-off that has to be made. And while usually in practice that may only make a marginal difference (I don't think I've met any convertible hubs with extraordinarily teensy bearings), the bike industry is quite good at occasionally turning out products that shave grams in unfortunate ways, on things like bearings and spokes where a little weight spent goes a long way towards durability. Again, this applies more to fronts than rears, because the variance in axle size is so much greater. I doubt it applies to rears much at all, but determining that is where the aforementioned survey of bearing choices used across hubs would come in handy. Some companies (I'm thinking of White with their Venti front hub, but there are others) have wisely taken the pressure off to make compromises here by making the 20mm in their lineup a dedicated design, and the others convertible. That makes even more sense now that 20 is firmly DH/FR, where there are going to be other aspects of the design you want more usage-specific, but for a while it wouldn't have been as easy a choice because before 15 came out, 20 was seeing use on trail and even XC bikes. Another aspect is cost, particularly when there's a rear hub like the one in question involved. The endcaps and axles cumulatively make a pretty big pile of precision machined parts you're paying for but maybe only using some of. Not a huge deal, especially if you're going to actually use the convertibility, but for example with Novatec hubs like these being high quality Taiwanese stuff, you are paying something for the extra parts, and what's really going on is if you're buying a wheelset/hubset that just comes with all the conversion parts, you're paying for a manufacturer's decision to simplify things by just giving everyone everything and letting the costs tick up accordingly. (When a bike brand or wheel manufacturer orders hubs from hub manufacturers, it's entirely up to the buyer whether to get the extra conversion hardware. Hub makers most commonly wouldn't be sending all that stuff out since most of their hubs wind up OEM on bikes.) In cases where a hub is convertible across axle standards where one reason for the new standard was to change hub geometry to create a strength increase, such as hubs that can work on both 12x142 and Boost 148, you get none of the advantages of the new standard. Finally, it only gets harder to create effective sealing when you're designing around multiple different axle adapters that might be used. That doesn't necessarily mean sealing will be deficient, but it is at some level a downside. To be clear, there are no major categorical downsides to hubs like this. A lot of them are out in the world performing very well. But there are subtle downsides that get incurred as a result of adding more factors to the design criteria.