No, there is no evidence to support the claim that radioactive snow fell on the aircraft carrier USS Ronald Reagan (CVN 76). The photo in question was released by the US Navy with the ID 110323-N-DM338-142 and the following original caption, 

If we add this up we come up with 13,336 households with children and if we use the 1.95 children per household from before that gives us an estimate of 26,005.2 children in same-sex households. This is a substantially lower estimate than the previous high estimate of 54,266.6 children in same-sex households. Thus, our conclusions are largely driven by the data that we are looking at. While the 40,000 children in same-sex households appears to be an extremely fair estimate based upon the 2010 Census data, when the estimate is updated based upon the revised 2010 American Community Survey data the estimate is quite high. A better estimate using the revised data would be somewhere around 20,000 children in same-sex households. 

The answer to this is really going to depend heavily upon what you are defining "chi" (or "qi" or "ki") as and what the context is. To take things from a slightly different angle, aikido relies heavily upon the concept of "ki" which relates to the Chinese concept of "chi" but is very overloaded in that it doesn't really have a well defined definition of what it means and if you talk to some aikido-ka they will tell you it means one thing, other's well tell you another thing, and still others will say it's bunk. However, the truth of the matter seems to be somewhere in the middle as you can watch an aikido demostration and see that they are in fact doing effective techniques regardless of the language in which it is taught. Shihan Bernie Mulligan 1 described the concept of "chi" in aikido loosely as follows (quoted from article): 

RT's Coverage of Putins Statement On December 16, 2010 the English-language Russian TV network ran a story on its website about the call-in show. They reported on Putin's "traitors" statement under the subheading "No more 'squads against traitors'". On December 19, 2010 RT did a 60-second TV spot on Putin's question-and-answer session. It begins with two glamor photos of Anna Chapman (one of the spies deported in the Illegals affair as described below) and follows with Putin's statement about what would happen to traitors. The segment can be viewed on Archive.org. The Illegals Affair In the part of the Putin's statement from which the BBC took its soundbites he refers to the exposure and arrest of agents of the Illegals Program on June 27, 2010. The Illegals Program (which is the name given it by the US Department of Justice) planted Russian sleeper agents in the United States under deap cover as private citizens. They posed as ordinary people, generally married couples, living ordinary lives in suburbia. The incident was the inspiration for the TV program The Americans. In July of 2010 the ten spies arrested in the United States were exchanged for three Russian nationals who had been convicted of high treason for espionage. One them was Sergei Skripal, included in the exchange at the request of Great Britain. (This appears to be his only connection to the affair.) In August the deported Russian spies were “warmly greeted” by Vladimir Putin who "led them in singing patriotic songs". Later in June 2016 Putin claimed a personal connection to sleeper spy cells (details below). After the program was exposed, the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service began an investigation in an attempt to determine whether the agents had been betrayed. Suspicion fell on one Colonel Aleksander Poteyev who was in charge of undercover spying in the US. He is thought to have fled Russia a few days before the arrest of the undercover agents. Where he is now is unclear, but the opinion in the Russian press is that he went to the US, that his children are also in the US, and that he may or may not have died in 2016. The Statement Putin's comment on the Illegals affair came at the end of a longer statement in answer to a question on another subject. He is speaking during the program Direct Line: A Conversation with Vladimir Putin in December 2010. Direct Line is a marathon ask-me-anything-style show which he does once a year. The broadcast is on Youtube (the question is asked at about 3:12:15 and Putin concludes his answer at about 3:15:15) and there is a written transcript. Here is an English translation. The parts included in some form in the quote from your question are in bold: 

Meaning that as of right now, there might not be much advantage in using their device over a conventional computer. However, they go on to note that, 

Maybe, but church attendance per se may not be the cause. This is an extremely complicated topic that since there are many variables involved and as the as the author even noted in the article, 

For our purposes this is being defined as mechanically assisted farming with harvest being done at the ideal time to maximize yield. Green ton - 2,000 pounds of undried biomass material. This is also assuming the fiber is only used for paper production as opposed to other usage in clothing or rope production. Some useful timber volume-to-weight conversions. 

Thus it should be noted that incarcerated persons would not have been included in the NISVS data and I didn't see anything that indicated former incarceration status of the persons surveyed so that can not be taken into account either. However, given the basic summary findings of the NISVS, 

Shortly after a promotional video was released on YouTube the store was shut down for operating without a health permit, 

Note that the report does not distinguish between male and female for the 97,177 adult prison and jail figure, but it does provide the following detailed breakdown, 

The Dracaena cinnabari (Socotra dragon tree or dragon blood tree) is well known for having a distinct red sap or resin and there are a number of other plants that also exhibit similar "Dragons's Blood". As noted in the Wikipedia article on Dragon's Blood: 

There is limited evidence to support the term being in use on an informal basis due to the overlap with engineering due to the electromechanical nature of early computers. However, the terms "bug" or "debugging" could not considered to be widely accepted as having a meaning applied strictly to software until the 1950's. Early computers such as the Harvard Mark I and II and the Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator (EDSAC) where electromechanical and required the use of a combination of plug boards and system software in order to be programmed. It was not until the development of the A-0 System compiler for the UNIVAC I by Grace Hopper that modern programming (i.e. writing instructions that are compiled and interpreted by the computer) came about. This electromechanical nature of early computers is relevant as articles such as "Etymology of the Computer Bug: History and Folklore" by Fred R. Shapiro in "American Speech" (Vol. 62, No. 4 (Winter, 1987), pp. 376-378) provides the following pieces of evidence that while Grace Hopper may be well known for using the term "bug" due to the moth story, she was not the first one to use it in the context of computing,