You need a RECENT time as it is obviously used to determine how fit you are at the start of the program. So you want a time from the last 1-2 months at most. If you have had several races in the last 2 months, then you can chose the one closest to the distances you want to run as it will be the most representative of your performance for that distance. But don't go taking the times from a race in January. It needs to be recent. What matters is how fit you are right now, not how fit/unfit you were. If in doubt, follow their advice: go to a track and run a mile at top speed and use that. Personally, that's what I would do: Enter the last race details and generate a plan. Then go to the track and do a mile run as as fast as I can and generate another plan for that. Compare both plans and see how different they are. They should be pretty much the same, but maybe you have changed since your last race: For instance, if your last race was 90 days ago and you have been training regularly since, you are probably better now than your last race's time would suggest. 

Ultimately, it doesn't have a direct relationship with the efficiency of your workout. If you're sweating, that could be caused by a multitude of things (clothes your wearing, temperature of gym, speed of workouts, etc.) Usually sweating while working out is a good indicator that you're get a nice workout in, but that doesn't mean sweat=good workout/no sweat=bad workout. Some people sweat a lot during workouts, some don't sweat much at all. In short, it's very hard to find a solid correlation between sweat and an "effective" workout. If you want to sweat more while at the gym, try to keep your heartrate up while you train. This can be done by taking shorter rests between sets, and working with fewer reps and higher weights. 

What you are doing currently works for you, so it can't be that bad, but I think your perspective is wrong: You suffer through "working out" as a price to pay for being in reasonable shape. You can also do cardio (treadmill/biking/elliptical...) while watching a movie, set the pace low enough that it doesn't distract you from the movie. Use an elastic band to work your upper body at the same time and you'll still come ahead because 1:15/day at low intensity is not a bad deal at all. And it's just a matter of convincing yourself to go watch a movie. Can't be too hard. However, my real advice would be for you to try and take up a sport that you can actually enjoy doing. Could be Football, Basketball, Judo, BJJ... any physical activity you enjoy. Grappling sports are particularly good for that. They develop the whole body rather uniformly and it's fun to try and outwit an opponent - just find a friendly dojo where they don't care too much about competition. Then it doesn't feel like you are "working out" but like you are "playing a game" and instead of having to tell yourself "Darn, I need to workout", you start looking at your watch and telling yourself "2 more hours. Can't wait to get on the mat". If you are the slightest bit competitive, you will find your training intensity goes through the roof because you want to win and the pace is no longer dictated by some arbitrary numbers of reps to be done, but by your desire to win. Result-wise, intensity is a necessary component. Low intensity provides mild cardio benefits and that's about it. Medium-high intensity is where you get all the fitness result goodness. 

Timing your protein is a theory that I've read has been debunked many times over. You'll still hear this being said from even the most seasoned lifters stuck in their ways, but ultimately it doesn't matter. The most important factor is to ensure you're consuming the proper amount of protein. If you're really headstrong on protein timing, then I'd say the logic seems sound that if you're taking a slow absorbing protein and you want it to start absorbing after your workout, you should take it before/during the workout to compensate. 

Your friends are incorrect. Virginity makes no difference in the results of working out. In regards to building strength at that age, focus on building a solid foundation. A proper diet is the most important thing at your age for getting in shape. Sexual history/activity is irrelevant. 

Looks like you don't have the strength to handle that weight. Most likely a better way to go about it would be starting with a basic strength program until your muscles are strong enough to deal with the load. Things like heavy squats and deadlifts (starting strength type of program), combined with unloaded running and uphill sprints. If you have access to a sled, use it. Once your strength is improved enough to handle the load, then you can start putting the weight on your back and run. Running with weights is something you can do as a consequence of being strong, but not a good way to get strong in the first place. The potential for injury is high, and the load is too small to produce the strength adaptation you need. 

There are a few reasons you might not be seeing muscle gains and only fat gains. I'll start out with the first one that comes to mind, and the most probable from my perspective. You are. Take pictures, lots of them. If you're in a surplus and gaining muscle you are naturally going to gain fat too. This is going to look like you've gained mostly fat when in actuality you've gained fat and muscle. If you've got pictures you can compare yourself within them. When you lose the excess fat after your bulk, you'll regain muscle definition and you can see any gains made much easier. I'm also curious about how you're training. 5-6 times per week? Light weights? 1RM's? High Reps? Low Reps? How long are your sessions? Are you doing cardio? What type of training are you doing? These are all important factors in how you're training. If you're eating in a surplus and hitting your protein levels you will notice muscle gains providing you are working out adequately. Your body will develop more muscle if you are: A.) Giving your body a reason to build more (working out so your body adapts) B.) Giving your body the proper tools to build muscle (Protein, proper rest, etc.) 

Growth can happen late. In my case, I hit my growth spur between the ages of 22 and 26, when I went from about 5'3" to 5'10". (My father is 5'3 and my mum 5'7 or so). You are 15 years old. I was slightly smaller than you at the same age and my best friend at the time was 6'3", I know all about being the small guy. So that's the first point. You have plenty of time ahead of you. You could end up being 5'2" all your life, or grow another foot before you turn 30 or anything in between. Some people are tall, some people are small, the same way some people are black and some white. Tall doesn't mean better. What can you do and what should you do to grow more? It's one of those rare cases where the best answer is probably "nothing". There is nothing wrong with your height. Yeah, but I don't like it, what can I do? You may or may not hit a growth spur later on. Doesn't matter. You live right now, don't wait to grow up, just work with what you got: One thing you can pay attention to is posture. Having a good posture makes you look taller, but more importantly, it is quite good for your body. Head up, back straight. Work your back and neck muscles. Train for agility, mobility, speed and endurance. Being smaller gives you an advantage in that department. If you ever watch fighting sports like Judo or MMA, you will notice that the smaller weight divisions always have the fastest, most dynamic fighters with the most endurance. It's not a coincidence. You have to find your assets and cultivate those. One way or another, there are things that will come more naturally to you. Instead of just wishing you could be big, take advantage of those things you can do better because you are not. Don' let your size prevent you from doing what you like either. Around your age, I played Volley Ball. Being small forces you to have a different look at the game. I couldn't block, in fact I couldn't even reach the top of the net, but I got pretty good at making saves and working with the tall guys in the team. At the end of the day I was just as effective as one of my team mates who was over 6 feet, at a game where he should have been massively better. And a nice little bonus is that if you do eventually grow taller, the skills you gain while being "the small guy" will give you a competitive advantage over people who have always been tall if you have developped a technical game. At whatever sport you chose, you should always strive to be a technical/tactical player. In short, don't worry, concentrate on what you have and never mind the folks who believe that them being big is somehow a huge achievement of theirs. Natural gifts only carry you so much, but as soon as you want to accomplish something meaningful, what really matters is how much quality work you put in. 

For what most bodybuilders are after, you pretty much have to operate within a bulking/cutting cycle. In order to gain muscle mass effectively a bodybuilder (especially one who's been exercising for years) must eat in a surplus and work out efficiently. In doing this, they will also accumulate fat to some degree. This depends on how "clean" their bulk was. Then in order to lose this excess fat, they have to "cut" by eating fewer calories than they use. In doing this, they also lose a bit of muscle. If one were to follow the method you propose, they would indeed notice muscle/strength gains as well as likely gaining fat depending on their intake. For most casual gym goers and the general population, this would be a more than acceptable regime. However many people looking to get into working out research bodybuilding advice and therefore find themselves researching a bulking/cutting cycle. For most people, it's not needed. But for competition bodybuilders or those looking to make very large changes, it is the superior route to go. 

The skin is not a muscle. Exercise will not take up the slack. Don't get me wrong, exercise is needed to stay healthy and it will help indirectly, but regaining your skin tone isn't a matter of exercise. To regain elasticity, your skin need to be well hydrated and have the proper nutrients: Drink enough water, take enough proteins and eat plenty of fresh fruits. You can also use several things externally, like aloe vera, egg whites, lemon, honey, skin creams,... anything which hydrates the skin will help it regain elasticity. 

You should consider getting into a sport that involves other people as well. Running is great, but unless you have a running budy, it's yet another lonely activity where you need to rely on your own discipline. Everyone can get started, do a few runs and feel good. The hardest part of running as an exercise is the discipline involved with doing it regularly "in the long run". Getting out of bed when you don't feel like it, skipping a few days because of the rain, etc. There is something to be said for meeting people at a set time and training together. Having a place where people expect you to show up gives you extra motivation for those days when you don't feel like training, and also provides some measure of social life, which is kind of nice when you're spending most of your time alone with the computer (same story here). Team sports are great, but it's tricky to integrate a team for real when you are way out of shape. My best advice would be looking into martial arts like Judo or BJJ. It might sound rough, but it's actually quite fun, and you'll find that the same qualities that make a computer nerd also make a BJJ/Judo nerd. 

The weight in which you are lifting does not perfectly correlate to the numbers on the stack. The weighted plates that you put the pin into are showing the weight of the stack up to where the pin is. If you see the stack increasing in 10 lb increments that means that each plate is 10 pounds. Due to the mechanics of the machine, you are not necessarily doing 10 more pounds of work. The best example of weights that actually show how much weight you're lifting would be with free weights. 

If you're trying to bulk up, then make sure you're eating a surplus amount of calories every day and that you're working out. Twice a day is not necessary, and might even lead to more harm than good. Protein powder is another supplement which might be beneficial if your diet is lacking protein. I imagine if you're eating in a surplus that you likely wouldn't need to take any additional protein supplements. Keep lifting heavy weights to promote muscle growth and eating enough so that your body has the materials needed to actually build the muscle. You'll gain muscle mass in time.