If we knew, we wouldn't need spells The thing about what we do to animals, is that we don't really know how they feel about it. Many people honestly say that they don't believe animals can suffer or feel pain, and that's why it's all justified. Others enjoy the benefit of the doubt. If we could speak to animals, we could know for sure how they feel and decide accordingly. A moving speech from a cow would probably make many people go vegan (others would argue that these animals wouldn't even be born if it wasn't for us needing them for food). If they turn out to be feeling-less, we would use them even more. So the real question is, what would they say. What would they say? I believe what they would say is exactly what they say now, in actions and demeanor. When my dog says "woof" I know what she means. It's not complex ideas, mostly emotions and basic needs. I doubt an animal would evolve the complex skills of symbolic thinking without being able to use it. I also highly doubt that they can express emotions without feeling them, as some think (I doubt that's even logically possible) So lab animals would probably say "I'm scared", "I'm in pain", "I don't like the person in the white coat" etc. Nothing we couldn't have guessed already. To conclude 

Hide stuff. A lot of stuff. Preferably things that stand the test of time and are obvious relics of the age that you want to claim to come from. Hide them all over the place. You need to be able to pin point the location of several items that has not been previously found by someone else. If you want to prove time travel, hide one or more things your son gave you (such as the cellphone or laptop) in a container that is clearly manufactured in your year of origin, along with other artifacts, and hide them in a place your son tells you has not been excavated. Then once you have the interest of scientists or the media. Excavate it publicly together with reliable witnesses. Edit: I just realized one more thing you might want to do while you're hiding your phone under the foundation stone of a church or something. Take pictures with it. Of you, of the town where you live, of things that definitely will change until modern day, of anything you can imagine that would be hard to fake and may create an interest in your story come our time. You'll probably still be called a fraud, but at least it's worth a shot. 

If it was radiation, I would say humans know how to use dosimeters and avoid contaminated areas. Animals don't know any better, and in fact prefer areas humans avoid. Power of mind could be a factor in the mechanism of the magic, since after all, magic responds to will. Humans could will it into harming them less, and animals would have no idea. It may operate on a different mechanism. It was originally intended that humans be the masters of the magic, whereas animals and things are under the influence of it. 

There's a very reasonable reason: To give the inventor time to recoup his investment. That is the entire point of patents and IP law, after all. It's not literally recoup; it only provides the chance to recoup. The chance must be high enough to motivate the inventor, investors etc. to sink the up-front to take the chance. So, if you have an exceptionally long patent, you may have an invention which, by nature, has an exceptionally long recoup time. Perhaps 

Other rebels make serious effort to keep save points up! I can't take on this boss, I lack the ability. But what I certainly can do is keep a save-point alive here -- to make it a lot easier for those who can take the boss. You've made this easy, because you already have an in-game rationale for save points, and that rationale makes in-game characters very aware of the value of save points. 

Philosophical differences is probably the easiest sell. A war could easily start over a sect of any major religion (or a new one) deciding that the human die off is God's will and either want to help out or hope to change the divine mind by appeasing it. ("We all must conform to these simple rules about food and clothes, then God will make us fertile again" ... basically the setting for Handmaids Tale thought... so I might end up feeling derivative.) As other users have already pointed out general hopelessness might very well cause an outbreak of violence. Look at, for example, Children of Men which has a rather similar scenario as the one described. However, while most fiction deals with the worst of humanity surfacing in a crisis most studies of real disasters do show that on at least a local level people tend to cooperate. So it might not be the best motivator, it's a powerful trope which we all know. But it is a trope. 

I think, like many posters before me, that it's highly unlikely that all members of a civilization would collectively come to the conclusion that suicide is the solution. The will to survive is too great with most species. We can, of course, imagine a civilization of genetic defeatists but how did they get to the position of civilization in the first place? A major cataclysm such as Nigel222 suggests may of course give inclination to just give up and check out early for a majority of the species. (With further members being killed in lawless chaos once governments collapse.) Leaving only a small splinter of the previous civilization who no longer can uphold the scientific and industrial advances of their precursor and as such can say have devolved into something else. The ur-civilization is now dead, even though members of the species which constituted it are still alive. However, as AlexP's examples show remainders of the species may over time come to power as a new civilization. While Roman, Ottoman and Chinese civilizations have come and gone the human civilization persists. So, how do we kill off an entire world by collective suicide in the face of existential crisis? Well, I suppose if we're going by the OP's original premise that this crisis erupts with the intelligentsia who are smart enough to recognize the futility of carrying on this may, at a sufficiently advanced technology level, create enough problems to kill of enough the less sensitive parts of the population. Possible scenarios are: 

Skin in the game Pay them at wages competitive with private industry -- contingent on good performance. And then, have the voters decide that by popvote. Or whatever. I'm just looking for a pretense to have a tickable box on the ballot specifically for venting approval/disapproval of the government -- so they don't misuse the category where they select Candidate Blue or Candidate Orange. 

A technological society doesn't want to be discovered While the main society is inching into their Renaissance, embracing technology and thinking they are the pinnacle of civilization.... ... in fact, the people on that faraway continent are centuries ahead of them - with radar, thermal imaging, satellites and maritime patrol aircraft. And the Aircraft Society uses these capabilities to intercept 100% of Medieval Society explorers. The medieval explorers have no ability to hide, and it wouldn't even occur to them to try. Who knows, perhaps religion has everything to do with it. It doesn't need to be Aircraft Society's. How they deal with explorers Aircraft Society either integrates explorers into their society, interns, imprisons, or kills them, or perhaps some combination thereof depending on circumstances. Integration is no small motivation to an explorer's mind, it would be like being invited into Heaven itself. They might operate an intelligence network within Medieval Society, either observing: collecting advance notice of most expeditions, perhaps pulling out explorers' families when that is negotiated. Or actively tampering with their development, e.g. buttressing religion, amplifying superstition, inciting persecution of technologists, and trying to keep them in the Middle Ages. Perhaps Aircraft Society is in the throes of its own enlightenment, changing how they manipulate Medieval Society. Their motivation Their motivation might be "Prime Directive" sort of non-interference. More likely it is self-serving. Perhaps they see amazing art and culture arising from Medieval Society, and they don't want to corrupt it the way modern technology has corrupted so many formerly isolated societies. Perhaps they feel Medieval Society is just not culturally ready for an influx of unearned technology and would horribly mishandle it to their own destruction. Perhaps the Societies' differences are irreconcilable, and they are trying to forestall as long as possible what will definitely happen when Medieval Society discovers what uranium does. 

Btw, sorry to nitpick but why would the planet-facing side of the moon be dark all the time? Just look at our moon, it's earth-facing side is almost always partially lit 

Edit: I added the tag to encourage out-of-the-box answers. I would accept some craziness for better results, although simplicity is preferred. (There isn't an actual study!) 

Fake knows doesn't hold forever, but since time is of the essence it could help. It also won't work in high profile cases where a team of well trusted hindsighters could verify exactly what happened, but it should at least give any culprit some hope of getting away with stuff given a good lawyer. 

Suppose I'm a rich, well-connected psychological scientist with a lot of spare time, and I'm sick of WEIRD science. 

Find someone with hindsight and a sketchy character Give them money Have them falsely confirm your alibi and blame the crime on someone else + discredit whoever is condemning you (including if it's the judge his/her self!) Maybe throw in some conspiracy theories for the hell of it Stall the trial, say "we just can't know for sure what happened! So many alternative facts!" Walk away happy as a clam 

How do you engineer such a world? Easy. We're doing it right now. We're mining all the easy-to-get fossil fuel and minerals. What happens if our civilization collapses and another one tries to industrialize 2000 years from now? They're going to find our leftovers - veins we abandoned as uneconomical to mine. That doesn't mean there's nothing there, it just means it's a lot more work, which makes it rather inefficient. Eventually, their engineers will figure that a previous society mined out those resources before them. That will be particularly obvious with anything nuclear. 

EMP won't kill everything It'll be totally hit-and-miss what gets nailed by EMP. A row of police cars, all same make/model, might all get their PCM (engine) computer killed except for one, while two more parked at a different angle might work fine except for power windows and radio. Boeing aircraft might be flyable (with the DirecTV and FMC not working) while 75% of Airbus aircraft are heavily damaged. The power companies may find many of their Eaton controls took a hit but very few of their GE's. A bunch of railroad lines, using older tech, may be totally unaffected, while the railroads are unable to control trains from their central dispatching centers and must go back to "old-school". In case you catch what I'm implying, engineering mentality and build quality matters. I expect Boeing to be thinking hard about this, since a lot of their business is warplanes or military derivative of commercial airframes, like Air Force One and other VIPs, P-8 Poseidon, KC-767, etc. Eaton vs GE, no idea, it's just a made-up example. You just don't know until you pop a nuke over one, and you're not going to do that, unless you take a serious disliking to the Test Ban Treaty. 

As much as can be economically defensible. What's the extraction rate of the ore? Gold for example has an average concentration of about 5 grams per tonne of ore (though is from my understanding usually not mined unless you can get out at least five kilos per tonne, or 17 furbnings to the boartload if you're using Imperial measurements). So... is it cheaper to refine ore on site and just ship gold (which also has the benefit of being very compact and not need huge storage bays)? I'm fairly sure it would. So for rare metals this is definitely the most viable method. But I'd say that even for common metals such as Iron (which is deemed commercially viable at around 56% (or 560 kilos per tonne) if my research holds up it makes sense to not lug a lot of useless stone over the planetary system if for nothing else then to reduce inertia. I'll assume here, of course, that mining and refining at your suggested tech level is highly automated and can be maintained by a small crew of humans who's life support doesn't significantly impact on profit. 

Earth is a very, very windy place as well; ask any pilot. It's just not that way on the surface. I don't agree it would increase wind force proportionally. Ultimately it's about energy. Wind is simply a manifestation of the energy hitting the planet from the sun(s). 12x the density takes 12x the energy to move, and so it'll move slower and impact with the same original force. Ground effect For instance ground effect is why windmill towers are taller than they strictly need to be to keep blades from hitting the ground; to get up in the good fast air. I would think denser air is going to be more impacted by ground effect. Proximity to the ground will slow the wind. Or, the wind up high will be worse - might matter to the trees. Trees I seem to recall seeing another recent post on here that discusses how trees and gravity relate. Your weaker gravity means trees will be able to more easily lift the water they need to thrive. However the wind will present a real challenge for them and require they build themselves beefy. Keep in mind the limiting factor isn't daily wind, it's peak wind - as in the peak wind in a tree's productive lifetime. As a practical manner, it's likely the planet's fauna would evolve** within the forests, using them for protection from the elements. As such, they may not need developments to help them with the wind. You would have to ask whether such developments would give them advantage. Is there stuff beyond the islands of forests which would give reason to leave? The redwood forests depend very strongly on each other to resist the wind: alone they cannot stand, as a forest they help each other break the wind. That's why it's a big deal when a forest company clearcuts to a property line; they stress and endanger the trees on the far edge of the line. For your society that means there may need to live amongst the forest as the open areas may be inhospitable. The stewardship of the forest would be a survival priority, the forest would effectively be community property, which would mean property ownership would work differently. It would certainly change the nature of war: does the enemy routinely destroy your forest to defeat you, or is that so uncomprehensively destructive as to be considered a war crime akin to nuclear war? Would the latter be the domain of the civilized Great Powers, whilst ruined forests are the mark of the civil-war-ravaged third world? Structures Perhaps cities would have complexes of high walls which do the same thing as the trees, breaking the wind so wind speeds are workable on the surface. Perhaps this is done with usable buildings as much as practicable, resulting in a unique, interlocked style of city-building. ** Assuming your planet does evolve. Some are created by powerful beings, especially in fiction. 

Rats. Rats are cooperative, highly resilient, opportunistic eaters and pretty clever as it is. Rodents can grow to quite impressive sizes (citing both the Capybara and the now extinct East Timor Giant Rat) The ability to organize and hunt in packs is more dangerous than actual size itself (as the fate of various megafauna at the hands of humanity may attest to) but in order to make your predators fearsome I'd let the rats grow to where one lone rat may pose a plausible threat. Say around 10-15 kilos (about the size of a large Maine Coon cat or a small Wolverine or an European Badger) for at least the largest and most dangerous individuals. Rats are used to humans and are used to live in and around human settlements. This makes them a better threat than bears and wolves who are naturally shy. It would also make it crucial to devote a lot of time an energy just to keep rats away from your homes. Sure, you need to handwave a bit to make the rats larger and also move them from primarily scavenging to aggressive hunters, but once you do they'll be nightmarish indeed. 

Since what makes an AI an AI and not components is entirely virtual... ... Death for an AI means it is gone. There is nothing to bury. We do indeed commemorate the passing of humans whose bodies are lost, like the Challenger or Columbia 7, or sailors lost at sea. And that is an option: The empty casket. Or the name on the memorial. 

The more likely drama is a criticality accident. First, he'll never figure it out. I consider LSerni's scenario highly improbable. The gadget contains just a bunch of complicated gobbledygook, too inaccessible to anyone without at least 19th century sensibilities. He'd be worse off than a cargo-cult. I don't consider an accident with the explosives likely, because they are the best insensitive explosives money can buy. But even that would only amount to the Kidman-Clooney example. Even in that case, the Pu239 dust would not kill enough people fast enough to be distinguished from the normal dying of the middle ages. Far more likely he just reduces it to a pile of parts, is either stumped or wrecks it, and never figures out the core is special other than being uncharacteristically warm. Unless he dissolves the core in acid (e.g. Aqua regia). Then it could very easily go critical in the jar because of the moderating water. It could go critical a year later as water slowly evaporates and the solution thickens. By "critical" I mean the nuclear chain reaction starts and sustains, much as it does in a power plant, presumably at a low level. It would give a blue glow and a lot of radiation and heat, people close to it would die in a week. Oh, wait. They have two. And he's taken two of them apart all the way down to the oddly warm core. And he does what humans do with like things: puts them together. What happens next depends on the physics. Could be nothing. Could be the mass becomes critical, ramping up power until the forces push the cores apart. The lethality of that depends on how hard that is. In the Slotin accident, they stacked the deck against themselves by not making it easy for the criticality to disassemble itself. Our alchemist could be a great deal luckier; e.g. if one is in his hand and the unnatural effects startle him into dropping it, he might get away with it (long as he doesn't keep trying it). If he's set them both in a tight fitting wooden crate, they won't quit until they burn through the box. Eventually the energy will force the two cores apart, ending the criticality. There's more. Water increases criticality. The pair might become critical only when immersed in water. Maybe it rains. Maybe the alchemist has them nestled in a wooden box, and the unnerved wife or king decides to be rid of them and throws the box in the river. Bad plan. But that will still increase energy until the cores are forced apart -- right? Not necessarily. Near-magic could happen: Water removes heat quite efficiently - and if it makes enough heat to boil the water, the steam bubbles displace water. Steam isn't water and this reduces the criticality, throttling the reaction until the steam bubbles fade and the reaction throttles up again. Meet negative void coefficient of reactivity. A modern reactor is designed to use this as an automatic, passive throttle - set the control rods in the right neighborhood and the reactor will trim itself**. Depending on how the physics work out, that pair of cores could make heat for a really long time. Why it won't nuke Little Boy and a few other early experiments were a type that simply mashed two chunks of metal together into a critical mass. Nobody makes them because they have so many problems: e.g. they can go off by accident. That could vaporize your entire stockpile, unless you want to store each weapon 5 miles apart, but then how do you guard them all? So the alchemist will never get one; they aren't made. The modern types require a flawless sequencing method - that's how Nicole Kidman made the weapon fail in the above clip. That is computerized and easy to tie into sophisticated authorization systems. What's more, America gives the tech away for free to any state we think might have nuclear weapons. Nobody's gonna put a user-friendly UI on a nuke - that would go against the entire concept of non-proliferation.