Frequency Specific Pulsed Electromagnetic Field Ah this is an interesting question ! For sure the most straight forward way of doing it is a consistent gas mix to induce sleep chemically. However, there are some studies to suggest that magnetic fields (Pulsed magnetic fields as opposed to constant, which the WHO have found there to be little scientific evidence to support the idea of electromagnetic hypersensitivity) have the ability to affect the brains abilities to sleep. In therapeutic PEMFs for instance, it has been found that this field and intensity was effective in reducing sleep disturbances in 83% of the exposed group, compared with 57% in the controls, which further suggests that some kind of pulsed EMFs could induce a state of constant sleep. Studies references : $URL$ 

Water - An effect of nuclear fallout is a vast reduction in precipitation rates due to dust in the upper atmosphere (~45% reduction - $URL$ therefore it will be essential to bore deep ground water wells and check regularly for radioactive contamination. Food - Since the soil will most likely be still contaminated, the safest way for production would most likely be something akin to greenhouses or buildings containing hydroponics basins and modified uv lamps. Depending on meteorological conditions and the nature of the nuclear weapons, there may be significant solar dimming or cold resulting from dust. Most of this however should have settled in 5+ years. Shelter - The ideal would be to use the subterranean complex for the first generation of settlers, as this will provide ready made shelters as well as established infrastructure. Also there will likely be very little wood available for construction as a result of fire, low light conditions, and low temperatures etc. New trees will be not be suitable to cut as plants bring radioactive material from sub-soil to the surface, and cutting them could therefore expose humans to extra dosage of radiation. Quarried stone will most likely be the best and most readily available basic building material as it will be the least affect by radioactive fallout 

I'm assuming you've read the multiple questions related to this one... I'll try to answer those that are not obvious from their answers. 

If your planet and your moon have roughly the same masses as our Earth and Moon, respectively, then your moon cannot be "much closer" as you requested, if its orbital period must be 20 days, because the orbital period is not a free parameter. From Kepler's third law (with some help from WolframAlpha) you have: $$a = \sqrt[3]{{T² \times G(m_1 + m_2)} \over {4 \pi²}}$$ where 

Iron is not present as metallic iron on the Earth's crust, but mostly as iron oxides. Oxygen combines with many metals to form oxides, and these are the main sources of iron for us. These are basically rocks, and they're lighter than the pure metal, which when the Earth was still forming was molten and sank towards the center. Now, as you see, the amount of iron left on the crust depends on the initial amount of oxygen available to oxidise it. Oxygen bonds first to other elements and then goes for the iron. If there had been a little less oxygen in the nebula from which the Solar System formed, there might be almost no iron left near the surface. Metallic, non-oxidised iron would just melt and sink to the core. This happened to nickel, by the way, and to gold and silver. It could very well happen to copper, too. The initial amount of oxygen in the protoplanetary nebula was a lucky number. So that's how you can have a non-magical, natural explanation to a metal-depleted planet: it's there, but it's all in the core. I doubt you'd need to explain all that in your story. 

Advancing from Basic Settlement Once the basic elements of food and shelter are setup, establishing infrastructure to service the needs of the population will be important. For the first 500 years, there will be bountiful supply of metals to be reclaimed, smelted and reused for tools and infrastructure improvement. 

Replace a bone in your body with a prosthetic material Here's one potential idea. Replace a bone in your body with a prosthetic material, with a portion or perhaps all of it composed of a predictably decaying radioactive isotope. It very much depends on how close a time you need to record to that will depend on the material, as the half-life of the isotope in question will determine the material. You could have a number of different isotopes also to determine the age from long half lives to shorter. $URL$ This wont solve the problem with needing to send more detailed messages, but it might help establish a reasonably accurate date from which you can be retrieved from? Edit: I had originally also stated that the Mesozoic era atmosphere wouldn't be survivable by humans, but after some further research I found this wasn't the case. (Thanks @SethWhite !) 

An island with no natural harbors, with steep cliffs all around (such as Rockall in a previous answer), in choppy waters and with at least seasonal bad weather, should do the trick, at least statistically. There's no place that can be one-hundred-percent-guaranteed unreachable but there are many places that most people don't consider it worthwhile enough going to great trouble trying to reach in the first place. If your island has no safe place to land a boat, and the weather around it is usually bad, and the island is away from the main seagoing routes (so that getting there takes a lot of time), and there's nothing there of great value (that you know), then only very determined people will even thinking of trying. That in itself will also contribute to the island's legend of inaccessibility. 

I'd say more frequent total eclipses. Also the fact that there's a great planet close by and that there are other moons would mean that people would quickly understand their home world is not that special (as we on Earth thought it was). 

Workshops and Fabrication - Initially a number of high volume workshops will be needed to fabricate everything from tools, to pipes, to struts, moving part mechanism etc. This will allow for work on the other projects to advance Water - Water will need to be distributed first from a central point (eg. well(s)), however as the water needs of the populace rise a distributed system of pipes will be needed. Pressure to push the water around the system will have to come from either high elevation reservoirs or water towers. Waste - One of largest factors in the extension of the human life expectancy was the toilet. Getting excremental waste away from the places where humans will eat and sleep will prevent disease and parasite proliferation. Roadways and logistics networks - As the settlement grows, it will become vital to be able to move people and goods around in a safe and efficent manner. Roadways and thoroughfares will have to be established, as well as methods for the movement of goods (Teamsters, delivery persons etc) Power - Assuming there was no portable nuclear reactors etc stored for this eventuality (and the skills to safely use them), then the only viable means to generate power will be kinetic based renewable power generators. Solar panels will not be viable as it is a complex industrial process to create even minimally efficient photo-voltaic solar panels. The most suitable power sources will be hydroelectric and wind powered generators as these are relatively simple to construct and materials will be readily available for construction Schools - While one of the lesser immediately important pieces, having a existing knowledge base to begin with is a huge advantage in getting started, but more importantly to prevent knowledge degradation, a school system coupled with an apprentice type system will be vital to ensure the preservation of knowledge especially around complicated technology and processes Policing - Inevitably, with any larger population, some degree of criminality or behavior that infringes on the freedom of others will occur. Establishing early a system of fair assessment of crime and punishment will be important to preserve the necessary happiness and productive societal attitude (ie. Widespread lawlessness and infighting would destabilize the population to the point of self-destruction) Culture - As the settlement advances and becomes more populous, a cultural identity and formal structure for creative arts to flourish will provide happiness and sense of identity to the society, which is an important basis for the settlements longevity. 

I really don't have the astrophysics background for a detailed calculation, but I do understand that in order to destabilize a star by throwing mass at it you must use a lot of mass. In order to get some ballpark figures, suppose the star is Sun-like and the Dwarves have managed to build a Dyson sphere of solid iron at a distance of 1 AU. The volume of iron contained in said Dyson sphere can be calculated easily: $${{4 \pi} \over {3}}(R^3-r^3)$$ where $R$ and $r$ are the outer and inner radius, respectively. For a Dyson sphere with a thickness of 1 m, that gives $2.8\times10^{23} m^3$, which is four orders of magnitude smaller than the volume of the Sun. Any main-sequence star will be a lot less dense than iron, and anyway you could use some denser material, thus bringing the thing down to three orders of magnitude. Or you could make the wall thicker. A Dyson sphere with a 100 m wall of osmium at 1 AU would have a mass of $6.3 \times 10^{29} kg$, about one-third of the Sun's. That should be fairly destabilizing, I think, but as I said, I have no idea what it would actually do. 

Weaponry used in the war Firstly the question is how 'dirty' the weaponry used in the war was, as anything other than clean bombs ($URL$ or something like pure fusion wepaons ($URL$ would result in many years of residual radiation and radioactive particulate. The radioactive particulate in particular can be a problem as it deposits and becomes embedded in the soil, effectively ruling out effective horticulture (Ie. The environment may be relatively safe to traverse but it would be a bad idea to dig up the soil for any reason) Beginnings of Settlement Assuming that the population in the subterranean dwellings also has a stockpile of equipment and resources (machine fuel, generators, etc) then the first step is the acquisition of resources essential to survival. 

500 Years represents about 15 generations (based on a 33 year reproductive cycle - $URL$ which given there inst very harsh environmental conditions or defense worries to contend with, and given that there was a reasonable stockpile to get stated with, there would be reasonably good chance of success.