If you are lucky enough to not to have to worry financially and you are fairly confident that you can freelance if need be, I think taking some time off for a break is a great idea. Why? 1. R&R Job searches can be hard work, especially if you have a demanding job. Taking some time to yourself can be great for you, it can give you some time to decompress and evaluate what you want to do next. 2. Travel Related to R&R but there are some trips that can't be easily done while working where you get a limited amount of holiday time. Long trips and experiencing other cultures can also be great for you personally, giving you a fresh perspective on your life. 3. Training There may be some skills that you would like to learn or brush up on, this can be hard when you are working full time. You can spend time on a formal or informal course to give you a chance to learn things that will be advantageous when looking for a new job. 4. Community work This could be open source work, or something local where your experience can be useful. Again this is a good thing to talk about when interviewing and can be good to give you insight into yourself. 5. Flexibility You kind of mentioned this, but it is worth reiterating when you start to look for work you can be flexible about when and where you interview and you can also be more flexible about start dates and locations, which will not hurt your prospects. 6. Networking You don't specify your field, but you may find there are events you can go to, conferences or such like, where you can network, talk about jobs and get to know more people in your field. If your current employers won't give you time for this you will be able to go on your own time (and cost). This can be a great springboard to freelancing or to another permanent position. 7. Assertiveness When you are interviewing you will be able to use points 2-6 above to show that you are a confident go-getting individual who is not afraid to step out of the norm to improve themselves. This is in many cases seen as a good thing and can reflect well on your prospects. So, of course, there are risks involved in jumping ship without a plan, and these should be seriously considered. But it is far from all downside, used correctly it can also benefit you greatly. 

The Setting We have to complete a software-engineering module at my university. We are a team of 8 students. This module is required for any computer science related students. Unfortunately we are 3 Business Information Technology Students (I am one of them) and 5 students, who study to become a teacher and only have half of the computer science modules, because they have to study 2 subjects. We need to build an running android app and website for managing some hospital-related stuff in 4 weeks. The first week was mainly spent on the specifications, so by now we have 11 days left. We are required to build the app and the website in Java. For the website we are using Grails. We split our team in two 4-person teams, one for the app and one for the website. I already created a bunch of websites with MVC frameworks in PHP, but I'm new to Java and Grails. So I would say I know how the architecture of a website looks, but I really have to put effort in learning Grails and Java to achieve what I'm trying to do. Everybody needs to make a 15min presentation due today on a specific subject (mine is ORM) The team My 3 co-students (Let's call them A,B and C) have only written one Java application (required module), but have no experience in web-software-development, HTML, CSS, etc. I took the lead of the team and started reading the Grails documentation. It took me some hours, but now I have an idea how to do it (for the easy parts) so I spent the night and set up the basic CRUD-Functionality for our website. My coworkers don't have any idea what's going on. A is reading simple HTML tutorials, but doesn't seem to have any plan. B is setting up an authentication plugin for the website (it's his presentation subject), so this is quiet helpful and C is working on his presentation all the time because he's got no clue, or he's working on diagrams for the documentation. The problem 1) The other teammates are constantly asking me questions about their problems. If they're working on the documentation they have to ask me everything, because they don't have an understanding of the grails application. Person A is asking me how to include an image in html, etc.. So this limits the time I'm able to spend on coding. 2) I feel like the only one, that is capable of creating the required software. As I said, we've got the basic CRUD running and we've got more challenging tasks now like validation, pagination, build Rest API, and so on, but the others have not a single idea how to solve those tickets. The question What am I supposed to do? If I slow down and focus on helping the others, I guess we won't finish in time. If I go on, the others will be left behind even more. Managing AND coding the project. 

Precariously balance a very expensive looking (but in reality cheap) vase or some other ornament on the corner of your desk. It is important that it looks: 

Yea, the 'international and local wages and my relative position' sounds like a line they feed you to try and justify. I would believe it. It is possible that the company is struggling and can't afford to pay more. If their costs are being squeezed they may not have scope to pay more. A company would not want to tell their employees this directly so they may use the 'international average' as a way to fob you off. It is also possible they are being tight. They are trying to get away with paying you as little as possible. The can then go into profits or even bonuses for the line managers. If you are unable to leave and they will not negotiate the only other thing you can do is ask for a promotion. If you have several years of glowing reports this would seem possible. Perhaps it is time to take on more responsibility and get more wage for doing so. You don't specifically exclude this as an option so it is worth mentioning. 

People have answered about why the accepted wisdom is good, and they are valid points but you also asked 

There is another possibility: That while the team were happy hiring you their decision was overruled. Often hiring decisions stay within the local team before getting a final sign off from higher up. It does seem to fit the evidence. It was not just yourself that spent a lot of time, the company did as well. They would not do this if they were not seriously interested. It sounds like it was the final authorisation that caused the issue. I've seen it from the other side, where I have interviewed a good candidate for a role where there was supposed to be a job and to be told that it was not possible to hire them. It is unlikely that the company would let on if this was the case, to say 'we have no budget', or 'we have a hiring freeze' or 'the sales team blew the budget on their team building trip to Venice' is not something they would say to somebody in your position. While it is disappointing it does happen.