Human being is freedom. The external world is filled with in-itself being. Consciousness is the only anomaly, and consciousness only manifests itself through human being, insofar as we are aware of it. So, the starting point for an account of human being is in the account of the being of consciousness. We know that the being of consciousness is the consciousness of being, and it will follow that the being of consciousness of humans is the consciousness of being human. This consciousness of being human entails a consciousness of consciousness, and the immediately apparent features of consciousness. Conscious is infinite which means that the options for manifestations of human consciousness are infinite. The feature of having an infinite amount of options for the manifestation of one’s consciousness is what Sartre calls freedom. So, we have determined that the human being is freedom and that humans must be aware that their being is freedom. This does not mean that human beings have an essence of freedom. “Man does not exist first in order to be free subsequently; there is no difference between the being of man and his being-free” (BN: 60). Freedom is the reason that human beings do not have an essence. “Human freedom precedes essence in man and makes it possible; the essence of the human being is suspended in freedom” (BN: 60). The freedom of human being manifests itself as the limitless choice of human action. No matter what the situation is, a human being can always choose to act and his action will define his being. Even in extreme situations of coercion (such as being threatened with death), a human being still has the ability to choose his action and to choose the conscious attitude with which he apprehends the world. This ability to choose is actually an inability not to choose. Sartre tells us that “we are a freedom which chooses, but we do not choose to be free” (BN: 623). We are not free beings. We are freedom itself. Citations refer to this translation of Being and Nothingness 

Aristotle refers to this in Politics. For example, in Book IV he states that a society with a large middle class (i.e. low inequality) is the "best constitution" of society. A quote in extenso below (from here): 

My question is, do paradoxes necessarily require a successful explanation in order to be considered a paradox? In other words, is there such a thing as an unexplained paradox? Or that would be called a puzzle, a problem, or a mystery? I am particularly interested in paradoxes in science. Notice that there are of course a multitude of problems in science that have not been resolved, but they do not necessarily have to be paradoxes in the sense defined above. 

If a sensuous mental process were to contain sensuous contents, then they would have to be distinct. The sensuous contents would have to be a separate experience which preceded the sensuous mental process, which means that the sensuous mental process would not be a sensuous mental process, but a reflective intentional mental process. This is clearly a contradiction, so it must not be the case that sensuous mental processes contain sensuous contents. This stuff can get confusing and just to make sure that this is not misunderstood... According to Husserl's phenomenology as expressed in Ideas, sensuous mental processes ≡ sensuous contents 

Say doctrine A claims premise X to be true, and Y to be false. Say doctrine B claims premises X and Y to be true. There is some sense (I believe; you might want to confirm), in which the "burden of proof" is tilted to the side of B. This is, there is no "responsibility" for individuals in A to justify "why Y is not true" (or at least lower than that of individuals in B in justifying Y). Now, let us add a temporal dimension. Let us say that first, it was doctrine B. Then, a rupture appeared, whereas a group of individuals denied Y. Thus appeared doctrine A. Given this temporal structure, is it now the "burden of proof" tilted towards the side of A? In a sense, they rejected Y, thereby giving origin to the second doctrine. Is this the case if we focus only on the individuals belonging to A and B (i.e. those who believe in X), without requiring them to prove to the rest of the world that actually, X is true? Is this analysis of a philosophical school? Does this analysis has a name? How can I approach this question from a philosophical point of view? Any reference is more than welcomed. PS: Behind this abstract question, lays an analysis of the history of Christianty, whereby Reformation emerged primarily as a negation of many Catholic doctrines. I think the question itself is independent of this background, but it might be informative to give it anyway. PS2: I hope tags are well selected. Please change if not the case. 

This is a heavily debated issue and you are not likely to receive a conclusive answer. The question as phrased amounts to "Which view is correct?", but there are strong arguments from either side. I think you will benefit from doing a little research on the topics of Paternalism and Consequentialist Libertarianism, which are the general terms used in philosophy to refer to either standpoint. I have included descriptions of these views and links to places to start below: 

My answer is a bit long, so I'm going give you the short answer first. Virtue is a necessary condition of achieving eudaimonia. However, this is different than the answer to the question as it was formulated at the end of your post, "Is there an argument that a good life can be lived without being good?". One could easily argue that a person can live a good life, independently of virtue, simply by providing examples of individuals who have a "good life" but who are not virtuous. However, if you are using the phrase "living a good life" to explicitly mean "achieve eudaimonia", then an individual cannot achieve eudaimonia without virtue. As you seem to be aware, there are multiple conceptions of eudaimonia. The three best documented views are those of the Stoics, Artistole and Epicurus. I will quickly summarize their views as relevant to your question: 

I read here and here that, strictly speaking, there are no counterexamples to Occam's rozar, because the latter implies no need for pluralism when unecessary, which is to be understood as "for the theory to be correct". For example, if a simple theory like "all material entities are composed of fire, water, air, and earth" is false (as it is), the fact that the composition of matter is more complex it cannot be considered a valid counterexample. But then, under this interpretation of necessity, Occam's razor become a bit of a tautology: "more realism/complexity is not needed unless it conforms with reality", or equivalently, "simple theories that do not conform with reality are false". Thus, how precisely one is to interpret Occam's razor in order to enable counterexamples, and so that it does not become a useless tautology? 

Historically, people with a political agenda tend to select the "philosophical angle" of the thinker whose work is most sympathetic to their objectives and social conditioning. The list I have provided is meant as a starting point and is by no means exhaustive. Hopefully, these will help you to find the "philosophical angle" that works for you. 

The answer is (B) all sensuous mental processes are sensuous contents. At this point in Ideas, Husserl has qualified his expression as phenomenological description. In the context of apprehending a phenomenon, the content of consciousness is equivalent to act of consciousness. This is because: 

I have a very rudimentary understanding of Locke's labor theory of property. The key argument is expressed in Chapter 5 of Book II of the Two Treatises of Government: 

This is, appropriating something (e.g. land) is valid as long as it comes from its own work and there is sufficient left for others. The issue for which I have found no clarification in the text is the following. Say that a boat with 100 people crashes into a deserted, isolated island. Each one appropriates a 100th of the land. A few years later, another boat with 100 people crashes into the island. Since these people have no land, they must rent a place from the landowners. Yet, if the original 100 individuals would have appropriated half of the land, they would have left space for the rest to also own some land. Thus, is the original appropriation of land not in line with Locke's conditions? It might seem evident that Locke's condition about being enough for others refers to contemporary fellow men, and not a future with larger population. But can we simply dismiss the problem I am raising as such? This is, can we just say that, because a resource was divided in a time when population was small, there is no injustice in any sense by any subsequent situation where just a small proportion of the larger population owns the resource? Had Locke something to say on this respect? Maybe in another text of him? 

Composition. (you guessed it!). The phrase people generally use to describe the fallacious reasoning involved in the fallacy of composition is the untrue statement: "What is true of the part is true of the whole". So, if the "part" is the failed attempt in your example, the "whole" would be the set of all attempts. Just because the part entails failure, it does not follow that the sum of all parts entail failure. Ad hominem - An ad hominem argument is one that is used to discredit a claimant's assertion based on some unrelated negative attribute of the claimant. This is like thinking because someone is wrong once, that they are therefore always wrong, and attacking a claim with an unknown truth value on that basis. This would apply to your example if the particular conclusion drawn is that the subject always fails at making an argument. E.g. "I made a math error, so my math will always be wrong" 

Marx's argument in the theory of exploitation is that capitalists do not need to sell their labour power in the market in order to live, whereas workers need to do so. As such, workers are not really "freely and voluntarily" participating in the labour market. This power differentiation enables the capitalists to exploit the worker, extracting surplus value from the latter. Yet, if a (sufficiently generous) universal basic income (UBI) were to be implemented in a given country, workers would not need to offer their labour in the market. Anyone who does so, would do it freely and voluntarily. This not only eliminates the "slavery" side of the argument but it might also reduce (albeit not eliminate) the level of surplus value extracted to the worker (because, essentially, is giving more power to the latter). Therefore, any "exploitation" in such context is entirely agreed by the worker when entering a work contract. Is this correct? Is exploitation no longer exploitation when no coercion is involved in the transaction? Would then UBI be such a "solution" to exploitation?