According to FM23-95 Basic Field Manual, 75mm Tank Gun M2 (Mounted in Medium Tank M3), the amount of traverse to the left and the right, are actually 14° 0'. Turns of hand wheel to traverse through maximum travel (28°) is 25½. One turn of the hand wheel was 1° 6'. Note that the link above is to a PDF which may download to your computer, but opens in Firefox directly in my own. 

This was well shown in several movies, including Gladiator (2000). A familia would travel the countryside performing for the towns. This meant that there would need to be (in addition to the gladiators and the lanista) support staff as well, the owner, his slaves, perhaps his family, plus people to buy food and procure housing, etc. All of this added up to the best gladiators costing a minor fortune, and even the not so great ones being more expensive than a normal person, slave or not, to care for, train, feed, and tend to. 

I'll quote only two paragraphs more and I'll leave the rest to you, if you're more interested in the trade with Islamic World in overall, not only from the point of it's connection to religious problematic. 

To understand how different services were changing the day-to-day life of serfs, we have to know two main kinds of such services: barshchina: 

At the beginning of 20th century, large masses of black people were migrating to North or between districts of the same towns (like in New York from Tenderloin or San Juan Hill to Harlem, previously occupied by Italians and Jews), because of lower real estate prices, economic crashes, worsening of conditions for blacks elsewhere and anti-black riots. Several black real estate entrepreneurs, like Phillip Payton Jr, took big part in organization of such moves. I wonder if it had any reflexion in architecture of such districts, except for probable more thrifty use of ornaments, what I believe would clearly result from lowering the price of newly created buildings. I compare it for example to Jewish settlements in Europe or United States, where their own culture was strongly reflected in local architecture. But while there were plenties of Jewish architects with proper education and unique style that developed through centuries, with its own symbolic, I'm not aware of anything like that in Black American culture, except for so called shotgun houses. How did settlements of Black Americans reflect the local architecture? Was there anything like Black American architecture style or symbolic in the beginning of 20th century or later? 

The first ship to successfully circumnavigate the world was the Nao Victoria. It was originally part of Magellan's fleet. All of the other ships (the Trinidad, the San Antonio, Concepción and the Santiago), Ferdinand Magellan himself, and most of the sailors of the Victoria had already either been killed, or turned back before this. When the Victoria finally returned to port, under the command of Captain Juan Sebastian de Elcano, they discovered, even though their logs were kept meticulously, that they found they were a day behind everyone else. This, eventually, led to the establishment of the International Date Line. Source: Laurence Bergreen, Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe, Harper-Collins Publishers, 2003. 

How old is the oldest written work where we have translated what is written on it in correctly that is verified? Sigh. I've tried writing that sentence in a way that is understandable and am having trouble, which is fairly ironic. I guess I'm looking for the current demarcation of prehistory to history, but from the standpoint of writing that we have successfully translated beyond "we know someone wrote these symbols, but don't know what they were trying to say." I've read the wiki page on prehistory and it says while in the past prehistory was 'that time before writing,' many historical scholars are moving beyond the writing and into artifacts. I'm currently interested in the oldest translated written works. 

The myth of Russian helmets is quite popular speaking not only about the beginning of the war. The truth is that even if Soviet Army had enough helmets, there were some other reasons why soldiers didn't want to use them. First of all, they were highly uncomfortable and reduced the sight, so soldiers preferred caps. Also they were made of very poor material (don't ask me for details) and too weak to provide good cover from anything (not speaking of bullets, as there were no helmets at those times which could protect from a shot). This way especially at the end of the war, when Germans didn't have as much artillery, helmets weren't so important for Russian soldiers. Another reason I've heard about was the shiny material, which helped Germans shooters to localize Soviet soldiers from a distance. In the queue to blame there's also Russian propaganda machine. It's said that when Soviet Army were coming to Poland, soldiers heard from everywhere that Germans are in panic and they just run away from Poland leaving everything, including helmets. This way some Russian soldiers diaries contain scenes of leaving heavy and uncomfortable helmets on the road, in order to get a new one, left by Germans. They didn't even expect to fight until they reach the German border and in many cases they were right about it. Sounds a bit like Catch 22, don't you think? 

While there are many articles discussing the Australian Aborigines' de facto legalized slavery, or essentially free labor, the fact seems to be that they were never de jure slaves, as Africans were. Why didn't England press the Australian indigenous Aborigine population into actual slavery? 

I happen to think this is an acceptable 'dumbing down' of the Declaration. As you can see by this interpretation, "a long train" has nothing to do with a railroad train, but more of a long history of violations of the Rights of Man. The writers of the Declaration were telling the World Powers, and their own people, that over the millennium, Kings, Emperors, and other despots trampled on these Rights and that the "long train of events" culminating in the imposition of taxation (of the Colonies) that was enacted to help pay off the recent war by England. The Subjects who were facing this taxation never were afforded the opportunity to raise their own voices in Parliament, as would Subjects at home. So the writers were, in essence, saying that over the course of history, many rulers had trampled on the Rights that were being declared here, and enough! we weren't going to take it any more. 

Infantry square I believe that the most obvious tactic against cavalry is the infantry square formation, which was used by ancient Romans, and later revived during Napoleon wars. But of course the main reason for their creation was to prevent any attack from behind. Still, there was a rule regarding horses in particular, not to shot too late, as wounded horse could tumble at soldiers and break the square. The minimal distance for a shot differs among sources. The infantry rulebook used in 1807 in Duchy of Warsaw had special chapter dedicated to fighting against cavalry, but it doesn't mention any special order to shot horses. As for stabbing the horses, to make it possible, first you need to have longer spears than the cavalry itself. In 1811, during the Battle of Albuerra, Polish Vistula Lancers were able to manage the destruction of John Colborne's brigade thanks to longer weapon than British forces (if not to count the fact that British infantry wasn't prepared for the charge). Bayonets and cavalry charge "On the Uses and Application of Cavalry in War" by F.W. Bismarck reminds the battle between Turkish and Russian forces, when 500-600 riders of Turkish cavalry decided to make an suicidal attempt in order to break infantry lines. As horses from obvious reasons didn't want to jump on bayonets, riders ordered them to turn around and move back, and this way be killed by enemy's bayonets. This try was unsuccessful. During the Battle of Dresden in 1813, Russian general Aleksei P. Melissino managed to break enemy lines by riding on bayonets with his horse, while dying with his horse. Although some sources claim he died different way (e.g. from a cannonball), I've asked fellow Russian to clarify that. Frisian horses Crucial role at the battlefield in fights against cavalry had so called Frisian horses, or Spanish goats (my literal translation of "hiszpańskie kozły" from Polish). Used from the medieval times, they served main role e.g. during Battle of Klissow in 1702, when it made the charge of Polish hussars against Swedish infantry impossible. Psychological effect As for psychological effect, Polish winged hussars were noted with two elements of distraction caused among enemy's horses. First were the wings, the view and whistle of which was believed to cause fear among horses that weren't used to it. While modern historians still argue about it, the letters of Stephen Batory's administration regarding the preparation of hussar units seem to prove that one of their roles was to scare the opponent in battle. The analogical situation was with pennants and skins of wild animals which were used by hussars. The second element was shiny armor, which was prepared different way than western heavy cavalry, in order to distract the enemy horses which were scared of that. Unfortunately I completely forgot where I've read about that. 

Well, drugs and drug abuse has been around since the beginning of man, of that I am positive. In the Victorian era, for instance, addiction to laudanum was a major thing. Mary Todd Lincoln (the First Lady) was said to have been so addicted. As far as the American 50's, according to a blog I read the wide-spread drug abuse of the 60's was the direct result of the behind-the-scenes drug use of the 50's. The Beat Generation (aka Beatnicks) were the abusers of the 50s. WWII caused a boom in the development of pain killers. The drugs of choice of the 50s appear to have been Marijuana, Heroin and LSD. Their main usage demographics, however, were mostly inner-city and the so-called Jazz-scene. The blog is pretty enlightening and finished with several citations. Well worth a read. My Google search terms used here was "drug use in the 50s" 

It was at first accepted by the Committee on Education, but thanks to Purdue University Professor C. A. Waldo, who came to Indianapolis especially in order to teach politicians about the matter of Pi, became postponed forever by Indiana Senate. 

"The best thing that Euskara could contribute to the humanity is to die out" - Miguel de Unamuno Euskara, Basque language, is a very interesting subject. It survived on two time levels. First, being an ancient language which is still in use, and now, being a minority language which is still in use in 21st century, where we have to deal with stronger and stronger assimilation of weaker cultures around the world. On the other hand, there were only two times in history (both during Middle Ages) when all the people speaking Basque language on both sides of Pyrenees created common country - Duchy of Vasconia in 7th century and Kingdom of Pamplona in the 11th. Both of them had the opportunity to use Basque language as an official, but what's strange, in both situations, Basque language haven't been used in their official documents. So if we're speaking about how Basque language survived the times of Roman Empire, when most of the others were forgotten forever, the main reason is quite simple - a longtime alliance between Basques and Romans. While Romans continued extermination of other tribes, like Celtiberians, Basques could easily settle on their lands. This way their culture and language were saved to medieval times. Of course, as you've mentioned it, we can't forget about geographic location of Basque Country. Situated in mountains, far from trade routes and without good land for agriculture, it didn't have much importance for ages, so the native culture could freely develop. That helped f.e. when almost all the peninsula was conquered by Arab people, or when there was a strong pressure from Christian, Latin culture against Basque speaking pagans. In the contrary, right now Basque Country is known for being among those regions of Europe which are the most religious, with the difference that now it's helping to preserve old traditions. From the late Middle Ages it was also a good thing for Euskara that thanks to politic reasons, even when Spain became important kingdom, it still remained multicultural. Later, it's worth to point out the neutral status during World Wars, which was also partly connected with geographic location of all peninsula. When many other cultures suffered from oppressions, the people of Basque Country weren't affected at all. Right now, I'd also count a longtime support of Spanish government, regarding cultural differences and minorities. This way people in various regions of Spain (Catalonia, Galicia) speak different languages as their main one. Of course I can imagine a Spanish historian arguing with the last paragraph, but in comparison with other European countries, the situation of minority cultures in Spain still looks much better. 

In 1492, Columbus sailed the ocean blue. He sailed farther than anyone else had ever done, on three tiny ill-equipped ships. After days of sailing he finally reached his intended destination and discovered the Westward sea route to the East Indies. Unfortunately he didn't actually reach his goal. Fortunately for me, he discovered the new world. Were there other explorers heading out into the unknown and uncharted waters Westward from Spain, England, or Portugal that failed? In other words, everyone remembers the winner, and second place is another word for loser. Who were some also-rans? 

If you meet the enemy as they begin to cross, they may halt their crossing, preventing the attack. They may fire at you from the far shore. If you let only as much of the enemy force as you can handily defeat, cross the river, you can easily defeat them while the reinforcements attempt to cross to their comrades. This is a form of "divide and conquer." 

Still, particular army units had their own uniform standards. Some of the nicknames of those units come from the clothes, f.e. Red-legged Devils, which points to the red trousers of 14th New York State Militia uniforms. There's a website $URL$ which is dedicated to soldiers of this particular battle. You will find there a lot of interesting informations about uniforms worn during the battle by particular military units. It provides excellent choice of quotes from valuable sources, which in many situations talk about the uniforms. Everything is divided according to a division, brigade and particular unit. Also the website contains paintings of each unit, that were done with full respect to those researches. Here's an example, for 2nd Maine Infantry (1st Brigade, 1st Division of Northeastern Virginia army): 

This way I believe that at least children that were born blind could be killed or abandoned (whatever is closer to the definition of "exposure") by parents in full accordance with the law. And the presence of such law gives a valuable hint that the status of such people in culture would be very low.