It's not your task to "convince" the developer. Basically, the main question here is about your position: 

Actually how you answer the question should only to some extent reflect your subjective opinion - in the countries I know there are precise legal requirements regulating that. So check whether that's the case in your country and make sure that you are acting legally. In my country it wouldn't be legal to request employees to spend their private unpaid time doing work (obligatory training is work). It's related to both labor law and insurance (if you attend a compulsory training on a Saturday and get hurt during it, will it be a work accident and you would get more money from your company and have more rights or not?). More subjectively, there are two kinds of trainings: 

The question is not whether "it [would] be inappropriate to ask if there will be training with the company platform?". It wouldn't. The question is however, whether strategically it makes sense to ask about it. And the answer is: It depends what kind of platforms you mean. Search for a trial version or youtube videos and try to assess how difficult it will be for you to learn it. If it's something that you know you will be able to learn quickly, don't even mention you have had no experience with that. If asked about it, say you've heard of the platforms, have had no practical experience with them but are able to learn it in no time. Add that you are quick to pick up new skills and give an example how you learnt something quickly. Only if that's something you would need days of training to learn you can ask about it during the interview. 

You should always assume you haven't got a job unless you've been sent a contract and asked to sign it. The situation you are currently in is actually easier to deal with. You know the interview didn't go well, so you know you probably didn't get the job. What's really difficult is when you're not sure how it went and spend days and weeks wondering what you did wrong. So just move on. Btw, this blog has a quite realistic stance on recruitment and waiting for companies to answer: $URL$ $URL$ 

On a more personal note, I was in the same situation as your junior/senior engineer and the sense of unfairness is something that can decrease job satisfaction dramatically. If you don't take care of him, he might soon search for his senior position elsewhere. 

You don't normally criticise your manager without being asked to do so by themselves or their bosses (for example within the 360 degree feedback) and even then you should be extremely careful while doing so. A much better solution is to make positive suggestions concerning communication, work organisation, etc. The clue is to formulate it as suggestions how to make your work better, not feedback on their skills. And even if you do formulate it as a win-win suggestion you should be super diplomatic when expressing it. I've worked with many managers, some of them good, some of them disastrous, but even with the good ones I can't think of even one who would have reacted positively to me saying "I would like to give you some feedback on your communication/management style" and then proceeding to explain them what they should do better. Basically, the main decision is how important the issue is. 

It's difficult to find a job abroad. To find my first one I sent more than 200 applications. So it might be a question of you not sending enough applications. Mind you, I don't know the US labor market. Another possible reason may be your application documents which are not suited to the US market. In many countries for example no references are expected. As far as I understand, in the US they are a vital part of the application. Another point are your competences. Marketing and especially content marketing is an area in which you normally work for a market you know very well, both in terms of the language and the culture. So you should apply for positions with companies that do marketing for your home country. It's similar for PR. The question is however, what country you come from. If it's a country with cheaper labor costs than the US, like many Asian countries, companies probably look for marketing employees directly in the country you come from. Another question is how many people speaking your country are living in the US. If it's difficult to find a native speaker you have better chances of course. Basically, IT, medicine and STEM professions are relatively easy to "sell" in a foreign country. Marketing, PR, journalism and similar is very difficult to get into. 

Do you actually know that you aren't allowed to work from home (abroad)? I used to work at a company that permitted working from home and it didn't play any role whether you were in Spain, Poland or Germany. I actually had colleagues who worked for our branch although they were residents of other countries. I also had plenty of colleagues who spent some of their home office abroad. Which is why, if I were you, I would first make sure I know the answer to this question. The situation you are in doesn't need to be a problem. As far as I understand your text, you asked your boss about transfer, not about moving somewhere else while staying in your current job. The only possible problem I see here are taxes. European tax law is a complex topic, but it's linked to residence. So living in Eastern Europe and working in the UK can have some consequences for you, which you should assess before making this decision. With the training I see two solutions: 

Different companies have different policies for that, but normally your name (i.e. the name of the main author) gets included even though you are frequently expected to add the names of your supervisors, including those who didn't participate in the writing process at all. Your first step should be to ask your boss or HR to explain you the policy followed in your company for naming authors in publications. Then act accordingly. If the main contributor's name normally gets included ask them why yours wasn't. The fact that you are much lower in the hierarchy doesn't explain much. Because to get higher in the hierarchy it makes sense for you to make a name for yourself among others by publishing papers. I've seen plenty of papers published by companies where it was clear that the paper was written by a junior but also had some senior managers' names on it. 

Things like that (when the invoice should be paid, how many rounds of revisions are possible and how much time the client has to inform you about them) should be agreed on in the contract signed before starting the project. If they are there, you just say "according to the contract you need to pay me first". If they aren't there you need to negotiate with this client and treat it as a lesson learnt for the future. 

You first need to decide whether you want to stay in science or move to a company. Normally people do that after their PhDs at the latest. The more you are waiting the more difficult it will get. There's no one way that suits everybody. If you aren't into theory and publishing, use the next months to brush up on your data science skills and apply like crazy. 

To diffuse the situation you can assure him you will work as engaged as you were before till your very last day. You can also assure him you will do all you can to secure a smooth transition to the new person. But treat catering to your ego as a favor to him, not something you are obliged to. 

It's not ok unless you have that in your contract. You can try asking your boss for advice how to deal with the problem however. We all need to eat, so maybe there's a fridge somewhere else that your predecessors used or a different solution. However, I don't think your sandwiches would be wasted by lunchtime (let's say max. 8 h out of fridge) even if you are in a warm climate. You could also think about buying one of these bags that keep products cold. 

I left my previous company as they didn't want to promote me or increase my salary. Also, I was considerably overqualified for the roles I was given on projects. I used to get excellent performance reviews there but I left upset by the treatment there, which probably showed to some extent. My current company resulted even worse. I see that a foreign office of my previous company has an opening that corresponds very well to my expertise. Are there any risks involved to reapplying at your old firm after just 6 months out of the company? To what extent would it signal I'm a failure if I try to come back after just 6 months (to another branch, but still)? Will my reputation suffer? Under what conditions do companies employ their former employees? It's a huge company and I'm in Europe. 

Prepare a detailed plan to solve the situation to present during the meeting even though it wasn't your fault. That's basically it. You can't do more. Accept the accountability but don't let anybody convince you it was your fault. 

Asking X to reschedule. This can look unprofessional, especially given that nowadays most tickets can't be returned without losing quite a bit of money You paying the return ticket yourself. The company will never learn about it if you buy yourself the ticket. Company Y paying for the return flight if they have offered that. In some countries it's completely normal that companies pay for your flights. If that's the case in your country, they have probably offered that. 

It is common. What is completely uncommon is PAs signing as partners. I don't think I've ever come across anything like this. It is normally very clear if the email was answered by a PA, not a manager/ partner/ CEO. I don't think any manager/ partner/ CEO would accept their PA signing as them either. But you are overthinking it. It was probably him and I can't see why you would try to find out whether it was him or another person. 

I've been in this situation several times so far. Once it was a practical problem given for me to solve (maths was involved - only one solution was correct). The interviewer corrected my solution, but I was sure the solution was actually ok. So the question was: should I try to convince him knowing he will probably hate me for pointing out his error or just accept his error hoping it won't influence my chances to get the job too much. I went for the first option but I was very diplomatic, I proposed we analyse it together, asked questions to make him understand his mistake, which was really evident, etc. We ended up having a long discussion on that and him telling me I had no idea. A few seconds later he actually told me I was right - and looking at how furious he was (he was so nervous he actually spilt some of his coffee on me) I knew I would never get the job. I didn't get the job. The feedback was I didn't come across as assertive enough. Now another situation like this. I was given a brainteaser which required me to guesstimate one economic indicator for my country. When explaining the solution to the interviewer he told me I was completely wrong and the indicator had actually a much lower value. I didn't want to argue this time as I wasn't completely sure. Now I checked it. I was actually very right, I missed the correct indicator from last year by less than 5%. What is the right way to deal with the situation when the interviewer is wrong? The goal is not being eliminated as a candidate. 

Some of the commentators here commit a mistake. Living in one EU country and working in another is legal. Of course you are obliged to pay additional taxes in some situations. But otherwise it's not illegal by any means. 

What is the right thing to do here? I'm quite sure one reminder can be sent: an email or call. And then? Does it mean the company is not interested if no answer is given? 

If your question is really about a technical solution to notify everybody about the meeting it's probably out of scope of this forum. However, I would think over this fact first: 

When complaining to HR, don't complain about gender bias. Instead, ask them about the policy for sick leave. 

It depends on the company. But most companies I know (large internationals) don't consider it work experience unfortunately. I came across some that do, however. For example at some consulting companies (AFAIK McK and BCG) you receive a higher grade when starting if you've completed a PhD or an MBA. But you don't lose anything by trying. 

I could tell you plenty of stories here where my boss believed things that were clearly contradicted by data. When told so, they would get angry with the person sharing this info. Now, you work for a tech company, which can make it easier, but doesn't necessarily need to, which is precisely what you discover now. There's a reason why so many startups disappear in the first years of existence. It's about the organisational culture. There are companies that are data-driven and treat employees as resources to learn from and take the stance "it doesn't matter what you do as long as the solution works" and those that will fight any opinion that contradicts your boss's stance. Solution: It depends on your alternatives. If you won't find a job apart from the one you have now, just keep your head down, do everything you're asked to do but keep the communication in writing, so that when it doesn't work you can point to an email that says you knew it wouldn't work from the very beginning. Then switch a job when you have a bit more experience. If you don't mind having to quit or being fired, ask the CEO for a meeting and discuss the problems. Philipp above describes it well. 

Basically you pay the colleague acc. to his length of experience, not his skills or the job he does. This is unfair to him. It's also not ok for your clients as you are currently misleading them. The fair version would be 

"Thank you so much, oh so much for the offer!" However, several stipulations of the contract you've sent me are unfortunately unacceptable for me, which is why I've decided to withdraw my application. Alternatively, if you want to make it even easier, you can lie that you need to withdraw your application from consideration "for personal reasons" and add that it wasn't an easy decision. "Thank you again for considering me for the position!" 

There's nothing wrong with that of course! However, it's like with bullying in school. Smartest kids are frequently the ones that get bullied. Also now, people you work with may feel threatened or intimidated by you even if you're the most modest person. They may feel that you know more than they do and, especially if they also feel they are higher in the hierarchy than you are (because of them being your bosses or being longer with the company) they may get hostile to you and try to reinforce the hierarchy with means such as aggression, criticising you behind your back, accusing you of lacking soft skills, spreading malicious rumours about you. Solution: I've witnessed it in several environments but have never found a solution to that apart from trying to work with people that are similar to you. In your case this probably means applying with big companies, not startups or setting up a startup yourself. 

It's not a gap if you spent the time off work pursuing a degree or in a full-time training. Whether participating in this specific training makes sense and whether you need to give up your job to participate are completely different questions of course. 

Is there a qualitative aspect both to the data and the work done? I.e. data sets don't probably all have the same levels of complexity. The quality of work done by the employees probably differs too. Or can you assume that only the quantity of data matters and all analysis has the same quality? If there is a qualitative aspect you need to include it. Probably the most important thing when designing KPIs that are to measure performance is to consider their unwanted consequences. If you really measure just the quantity of the work done, it might be that employees will give you just that... And the quality will suffer. And remember, it's better not to have KPIs than to have bad ones, which can impact on morale and the work culture. 

Whether it's normal in your country to put hobbies in your CV at all. There are countries in which companies expect that but also countries in which this would be treated as super strange What message you want to convey with your CV. Ballet is not "inappropriate" of course, there's nothing inappropriate about it. However, the first thing people imagine when reading "ballet" is probably a girly, soft, lovely woman. That's why if you apply for a job where you need to be hard and decisive putting "ballet" as your hobby is probably suboptimal*. Whether ballet is really like that or is in fact a hard sport that requires a lot of stamina doesn't play any role. It's only about associations.