The Coca-Cola Company The Coca-Cola company already acknowledges responsibility for its marketing department having created the modern-day image of Santa Claus, entirely as a tool to sell more Coke. It is not much of a stretch to assume that if he no longer serves their needs they would launch another campaign aimed at destroying him. Two equally-likely scenarios include: Scenario 1: Coca-Cola is attempting to sell "The Gift of Coke" as a Legitimate Christmas Present Sales of sugary beverages are flat in many regions and Coke is actively searching for a new way to sell their product. Seeing that other retailers derive a majority of their income from the Christmas season, Coke decides to get in on the market. Once the trend caught on however, that Jolly Old Elf started just GIVING AWAY their carbonated sugar water to kids! Cutting into Coke's profitability is unacceptable and, having already demonstrated that they can re-create Santa's popular image, Coke decides to take him down. Scenario 2: Coca-Cola Diversifies into Other Areas Santa Competes with them In As before, sugary beverage sales remain a challenge. Many states and countries are even passing laws that prohibit actively selling their diabetes-in-a-can to children, which are their next generation of consumers. But that doesn't mean that Coke can't start manufacturing action figures, right? Toys that just happen to include background items native to the storyline of the creation, like chairs, lamps... and 6-packs of Coca-Cola. But again the Jolly Old Elf rears his ugly head and is giving away toys to kids for Christmas! If kids aren't playing with toys that prominently feature Coca-Cola, they are not pushing Coke's agenda. And so the marketing department goes to work again... Edit / Update: In response to the comment that this may be an attack on Coca-Cola, I thought I would present some additional links that help cement the underlying scenarios as realistic. Note that all links in this answer are to the actual Coca-Cola Company's website, though more examples could be found elsewhere. If Coke was uncomfortable with any of this information I am sure they would not have published it. Coca-Cola's Holiday Gift Guide of Coke-Inspired Presents Historical Coca-Cola Branded Toys (note how many have featured "Sprite", a character originally created by Coke to be Santa's elf!) 

If your handwavium gas is a compount of gravity-negatium (say for the sake of chemistry handwavium gas is gravity-negatium pentahydride) and gravity-negatium has a nucleus that really massively is repelled by normal mass... and ignoring the fact that all the handwavium would have scooted up out of the atmosphere just as fast as it could... you could make a suit of armour that had no weight at all. But as others have pointed out, it would still have mass. You could stand up in your brass/handwavium armour that masses 1 tonne, but the amount of power needed to get a single leg moving would be akin to towing sacks of sand. And once it was moving, it wouldn't readily stop. So if my some miracle you got your leg moving, you'd have to expend the same amount of energy to stop it when you put your foot down for the next pace. And if my some miracle you got yourself running at full charge towards the enemy, you'd be like an oil tanker with a five mile stopping distance. Effectively, you would be about as mobile as if you were standing inside a pill-box, great for getting in the way of things but useless for fighting. 

Something like a Mallen streak... with both parent and child initially being so thoroughly dirty that they can't see each other's hair colour oddity... or both wearing headgear that covers it... or it being considered a mark of something bad so it's normally masked by dye and gradually grows out in the child. Or as in GoT... a blond child produced from a family that only ever produced black-haired children. 

Please bear in mind that I've only seen the movies - and not often at that - but I think they offer some good reasons for the design choices. R2D2 R2 was at some point in one of the original movies picked up by some kind of crane dealie (the technical term, I'm sure) and placed into the pack of Luke's x-wing. It seems like, for whatever reason, it was desirable to have a component of the plane that could leave the ship, take instructions, and be lifted into another ship. With those requirements you could really make R2 any shape you like, but something very sturdy and unlikely to fall down seems like a good choice. Using limbs or treads would probably complicate the "installation" procedure. 

Don't Look for Energy - Go for Infrastructure The problem with freezing powers is that they actively suck energy out of wherever they are used. The movement of the energy itself could be useful, except that it's simply magic'd away to nothingness, which is not very helpful. However, the queen's magic is also capable of very quickly building robust structures (eg. castles in seconds) and fine items (eg. finely tailored dresses) - which are very useful attributes. Rapid Prototyping The ability to quickly test ideas to identify what works and what doesn't is a HUGE accelerator for all manners of innovation. 3D printing revolutionized industry for us just a few decades ago; imagine what the world would have been like if it existed hundreds of years ago! Instead of taking dozens of years to refine industrial designs, the Queen could help refine them in DAYS. Ice-Dams and Hydro-Power One such use in an industrial revolution is to quickly create very large dams capable of holding vast amounts of water. Such dams could be fitted to power anything from mills to hydroelectric generators, very quickly allowing you to leap ahead technically. Sure, they will need a re-charge every so often, but if you kept a sawmill in operation with the output you could probably cut all the wood you need to replicate it in wood before long. 

If you build with arches (or vaulting which is sort of the 3-d equivalent if you consider a wall as 2-d) there's no tensile strength needed... all the load is compressive. You can use precision-cut blocks or just about any material that will stick together to fill the gaps between blocks that are not precision cut. So you can build using whatever rocks are available... and anything that is vaguely cement-like for gap-filling. The building material doesn't have to need any tensile strength and nor does the filling material, it just needs enough strength to hold itself in place. You could even use something like lead hammered in. Look at all the mediaeval cathedrals in Europe, Roman aqueducts, castles... all of them are just about 'heaps' of stone in compressive loading with nothing tensile at all. You only need reinforced concrete or steel or timber to make lintels and flat spans... without it, you're limited to arches and somewhat more massive floors - you built a barrel-vault 'ceiling' and then you probably fill the top of the barrel vault up with loose fill to get a 'level' surface for the next floor up. Okay, no wood for the roof, you just make it vaulted and waterproof... and fit drains. No skyscrapers, but you can build several floors up before the walls at the bottom get so massive they use all of the room space. But it's a lifeless planet... so you can build wide and low, there are no neighbours to complain. 

No. Daron has it right and I don't want to distract from that fundamental legal basis for their answer, but I would like add a few tidbits of my own. In your world, it sounds like multiple religions are specifically considered. We have long established that as long as all religions are treated equally, the treatment is fair. Your world is then almost uniquely situated to avoid conflicts that would arise if, for example, only one belief systems' deities were manifesting (though that would imply that it was the "one true religion" and separation of church and state is no longer necessary). However, that discrimination inside of of the squads against a particular practitioner due to their faith would violate those rules (and others). [I imagine this would almost necessarily have to come up in some of the squads too, given that religious belief systems are mutually exclusive]. At another level though, if you have bad actors killing people and the federal government said you couldn't take action to stop them, I think you'd see a non-trivial number of states either acting against the directives of the federal court system or simply cutting ties with the union. It's speculation, but as someone living in the southern United States now I can't imagine having a vote to leave and the state I'm in not making the mandatory 70% threshold for it under such conditions. 

Here's the thing though: the Loon is much more related to the Heron (by DNA) than the Mallard. Mallards belong to a species that breaks with Heron's at the first demarcation point within the Aves class, while Loons share two claves within the Aves class with Herons (Ardeae & Aequornithes). So maybe all we need to do is move the Heron from the Order Pelecaniformes to the Order Gaviiformes, which both share two claves within the Class "Aves" to meet your need? That's probably easy enough to accomplish. Herons share many physical traits with loons, and it is entirely conceivable that with the right environmental pressures a Heron could arise from that group. But there is a Catch It seems likely to me that if Herons were evolving in the Gaviiformes order they would be competing with early Storks if they share the same environment. That means that either you would need to put Herons somewhere physically well separated from Storks and their descendants, or accept that the Ciconiiformes (Storks), Suliformes, and Pelecaniformes are going to lose species (eg. Ibis's may cease to exist). 

There's probably a more fundamental issue with this... as found by the mesopotamians (see for instance $URL$ - water is a good transport of soluble minerals that get left in the land when the water evaporates. Silt blocking the canals so they no longer feed water to the salt-poisoned lands would perhaps be a blessing... silt would certainly be one of the lesser worries in the long term. 500 cubic kilometers is 500 billion litres. Even 'insoluble' quartz at 6ppm (solubility of quartz in water at STP) is producing in the order of 3x10^^6 Kg (three thousand tonnes / tons) of quartz deposit per year at the fields... which would create chaos at the areas being irrigated. And flooding fields doesn't get rid of this... unless you can wash it into oceans. 

Have no prevailing wind... such that for some part of the year it blows one way, for another part of the year it blows another way... For instance a mountain range that sits at around the line the jet stream would like to follow, fluctuations in the jet stream could mean that the side of the range that gets the rain would be changing on a irregular basis. If you consider somewhere like the UK, some of the time the wind comes from predominantly the west, but under the influence of waves in the jet stream low or high pressures get held over the UK and wind instead comes from the south or the north west. 

It Depends on your Definition of "Commonplace" ...a statement not to be confused with Bill Clinton's "it depends on what the definition of 'is' is". On Reproduction Minimums Let's start with Elves, since I think this going to set you up for the rest of your species. You state in your premise that same-sex and non-reproductive relationships are "commonplace". Without knowing just how common we can't say what their lifecycle would look like. I would strongly suggest however that "commonplace" not be very common at all or there would be no possibility for a stable population or even a slow decline; in fact it would seem very unlikely that the population would be particularly old at all with such values. Consider for example that for a population to remain stable every 2 elves must produce 2 offspring in their lifetime. The implications of this statement are considerable when you stop and consider that for every elf that dies before producing a matching offspring someone else needs to pick up the slack. If "Common" were to mean "as often as any other type" the implication is that that 33% of the population was engaged in same-sex relationships and another 33% was non-reproductive, leaving just 33% in a reproductive relationship. In that case just to break even the reproductive relationships would need to have 6 children each - and that's before discussing the mortality rate! Realistically you probably end up needing to pop out 12+ kids each. So this definition seems to suggest that you either have no children or A LOT of children. Anything less would be sharp, noticeable decline that would suggest a race with a relatively short history. Of course if only a third of your population reproduced it would not be hard to see how that would quickly create social or physical evolutionary changes that would push the group towards an increase in the number of reproductive relationships as only the breeders pass along their genes and are responsible for the majority of the passed-on values/preferences. If "Common" were to mean "not rare" we could maybe call it 10% same-sex/10% non-reproductive/80% reproductive. This is still far from an ideal, but it's not as bad. In this model the reproductive relationships need to have 2.25+ children each before mortality is considered. Realistically you're still talking 5+. Hopefully you see where this is going, and I'll let you do the math yourself to suggest what your definition of "common" is. When you do though, please consider that in the middle ages the child mortality rate was around 30%. That means you need to overcome a loss that size just to break "even", and that doesn't count an adult mortality rate. If I may, I would personally suggest that your definition of "common" be that same-sex and non-reproductive account occur less often than 10%... less than 5% would be even better. At that rate your neighbor might not be likely to fit one of those roles, but you would certainly have met a number of people that do. These numbers also do not account for when elves interbreed with Humans or Dwarves instead of other Elves. Any time a female elf is impregnated by another race is effectively a lost opportunity to produce another elf, which adds up if it's done with any frequency at all. If the males stay with their mates they are effectively removed from the reproductive pool as well. On Child Spacing & Old Age The next area of clarity that is needed is why elves seem to be "very old" for 100 years. You give both Humans and Dwarves lifespans of 60-80 years - an average of 70 years give or take 10 (~14%). Elves on the other hand have an average of 150 years plus or minus 50 years (~30%). That just seems like too much of a swing. I don't know whether to consider a 100-year-old elf "very old for up to 100 more years" or "middle aged". If an elf is "very old" at 100 they are presumably not going to have children anymore, but if they can reasonably expect to live another 50-80 years (50-80% of their life to-date) and are still properly mobile then why not have some more kids? I would suggest that unlike Humans and Dwarves, in your scenario Elves probably wouldn't want to start having children until at least their 40's. If they are very long-lived and there is no cultural rush, they might as well wait until they have had a chance to fully stabilize their mental, social, and economic/political positions (NOTE: I am stating as occurring in their 40's, but you could certainly have it come sooner). At the same time there would be no incentive to juggle multiple children at once, so you could reasonably expect them to wait ~16-20 years between births. That would suggest that if they did stop at 100 the maximum number of baby elves a couple could be expected to produce under normal circumstances to be 4 (more if they continue reproducing beyond that). On Hybrid Life-Cycles This is really up to you. There's no reason you couldn't say that the life-extending biology of elves transfers 100%... or that the life-limiting biology of Humans/Dwarves nullifies any elven benefit. Or just say "it's half the difference" and call it a day. Because the mechanism is undetermined so far (and without genetic testing, likely never to be determined) you could claim there is a science-based reason for any result and be equally correct.