I'm sure the driver's insurance can. Get an assessment from a bike shop, and a quote for any repairs possible, or the cost of a like-for-like replacement. Get the driver to pay for that. 

Although I personally wear overshoes and SPDs, the best you can really expect in a prolonged downpour is that water enters your shoes slowly enough your feet can warm it up - they'll still be wet eventually, but not cold. I suspect the best system for casual clothes is actually to stick a rain cape/poncho over the top - the cycling-specific ones are designed to attach at the wrists, so they cover you completely. You should still get mudguards if you can, both to stop your front wheel spraying your feet, and because it's much better for your drivetrain. 

Best bet is to look at them - if you can't do it in person, look for reviews with pictures of the beam and illumination. For example, road.cc have a comparison tool. I couldn't immediately see anything putting 35 lux in the centre, where I assume yours is measured. The Topeak Whitelite HP Beamer (who names these things?) is closeish at about 30 lux, so maybe see if that looks similar to yours. 

Many bike shops actually offer demo saddles so riders have a chance to try them out without buying them. You should call around any see if any of the shops in your area offer such an option. If you can't demo the saddle, the first thing you need to figure out is why your saddle is uncomfortable. Saddles can be uncomfortable for two main reasons: because there isn't material where you want it, or because there is material where you don't want it. When you're sitting on your current saddle, where are you feeling pressure. Ideally, it should be on your sit bones. If it isn't, do you need a saddle that's narrower or wider? If you're having issues with numbness, you might find it beneficial to adapt a saddle with a cutout. If you're experiencing chafing, you probably need a narrower saddle with less padding. You may also wish to examine the angle of your current saddle. A typical rider will want to have the saddle horizontal, but even a few degrees of tilt can make a huge difference. 

One of the tracks I've been riding recently is testing both my skill level and my bike. The track is a combination steepness and roughness that makes it significantly different to what I've previously riden. The track is probably more suited to an AM FSR but I'm riding an XC hardtail. The frequent chain slapping and rear derailleur bouncing around has led me to question what the best gear ratio to ride is and if this will damage my drive train. Is it better to ride downhill in the larger chainring (42T) on a lower gear with a tighter chain or in the middle (32T) in a higher gear assuming the ration at the end is roughly similar? 

Mount a roof rack and use a carrier. This is a medium cost, semi permanent (roof rack can be removed) and medium effort to get bike up and down. 

Apart from these being very different frames with very different uses you won't have much luck transferring parts. In terms of your bike there is very little that would fit: 

As I see it, you have two main options. The first is that you buy new/better brakes, the second is that you adjust the cable tension so that the brakes function correctly in the "open" position. This will kill the "quick release" functionality, but should otherwise function correctly. 

Wear proper cycling shorts under your chamois-free tights. This provides you with an additional layer of warmth without sacrificing the protection a chamois provides. Buy leg warmers to complement your cycling shorts. Leg warmers are just an insulated sleeve that goes over your leg and runs from the ankle to just below the crotch. When you say you spotted other cyclists wearing tights under their shorts, it is much more likely that they were only wearing leg warmers. This provides them with the added leg protection, without a layer of material in between their body and the chamois. Buy tights with a chamois. These are designed to fully replace your shorts, rather than complement them. 

Perhaps your best option is Gear Finder provided by Bicycling Magazine. They have various bikes organized by type, price, and some sub-details. As for why you don't see the same types of databases that you see for computer products, this is because the people who actually make these things (computer programmers) are much more likely to be interested in computers (as a product) than bicycles. 

One fringe benefit of having more active cyclists may be better provision of bike stands, more bike shops, etc. Of course there may also be the fringe detriment of more bike thieves if there's a larger second-hand market. This is based on my commuting in London btw, so YMMV. 

If it's a folding tyre (rather than a wire bead), you can just turn it inside out and inspect the puncture site. If something's still lodged in there, you'll be able to see it (or feel it - carefully, since it's sharp). Then, push it out from the inside. It's worth brushing down the inside of the tyre while you have it off, in case the tip of the sharp snapped off and is still rattling around in there. Finally, you can get a toughened variant of superglue which is ideal for glueing up cuts - search for flexy cyano glue. It doesn't repair the breaker strip to original strength, but closes the surface cut which will otherwise accumulate grit and wear more quickly. 

When putting tubeless tyres on I would definitely recommend that you use a sealant such as Stan's if riding somewhere with thorns. This would be your first level of defence. The sealant would seal up a thorn (or other) hole quickly and painlessly. You can repair a tubeless tyre with a vulcanizing repair kit, but reseating a tubeless on the trail is very difficult. It is virtually impossible to do without 'shop air' (I haven't tried CO2) so carrying a tube is important for any major leaks. You can simply run a tubless tyre with a tube until you get somewhere to properly fix the tyre. Like everything else in the mtb world there are two schools of thought on whether you leave the thorn in or remove it, I would remove it. If you leave it in it plugs the hole but then if you ever do need to put a tube in you risk puncturing that also. 

Both are XC bikes, 29" and alloy. So the price difference between the two bikes is $349, this would include: 

not in my experience. Many bike lanes in London are one bike wide, and even where the blue "cycle superhighway" takes a full traffic lane, there are no subdivisions inside it. In my experience, the space required for a safe overtake depends both on the absolute speed of the overtakee (slower-moving bikes are intrinsically less stable and, by riding closer to the edge, they're likely to encounter more bumps and obstacles) and the relative speed difference. Even a full-width lane isn't ideal for overtaking with much over a 5mph differential. By the time you're going much faster than that, you're probably closer to the speed of traffic than the cyclist you're overtaking, and will be better off using a regular traffic lane to overtake anyway. Caveat: typical London traffic speeds, doesn't apply to all roads, etc. etc. 

If the back wheel is locked, skidding it should still have some braking effect, so I'm inclined to view this as evidence for poor traction. 

If you mean the steerer tube, then the headtube itself is also bent. You probably need to bin the entire frame & fork (although you can rescue other components) and claim on the driver's insurance. If you mean the fork blades, or the crown where they meet the steerer - you might be able to keep the rest of the frame. Check the top and down tubes for creases near the head tube though. 

The most important thing is to make sure your core temperature is high enough. As your body begins to chill, it pulls blood away from the extremities, to maintain its core temp. Often times cyclists will think "my core temperature feels fine, but my hands are cold" so they think they need warmer gloves, when in reality they need another jacket/vest/jersey/base layer. Also, remember body heat is generated in your torso, and has to be piped to your hands. If, for example, you were riding with bare arms, and giant oven-mitt gloves, your hands would still get cold, because the blood would have lost too much of its heat before ever reaching your hands. Again, long-sleeved jacket/jerseys, base layers, and arm warmers can all help significantly with keeping hands warm. Good gloves are important to keeping your hands warm, but they're just one part of the chain, and if any of the pieces are missing, not even the thickest, warmest gloves in the world will stop your hands from getting cold. 

Nutrition: isn't that hard, although if you haven't already, you might want to spend some time figuring out what food works for you on the move. You want things that are fairly calorie-dense, probably not too much fibre (see point #3) and agree with your stomach while exercising - this is specific to you and your digestive system. If you're going for endurance, you don't need massive sugar spikes on a regular basis, so normal food is probably fine. Something sweet as a pick-me-up is a good idea (see bullet #1), but it doesn't need to be the bulk of your calories. Hydration: varies a lot with temperature, effort, and again your body and how much you sweat. Carrying 100 miles-or-kilometres-worth of liquid yourself is difficult, so this is where having support personnel to hand over replacement bottles is useful. I'm pretty sure I've never gone that far without stopping for a refill (again, see #3) 

I've heard good things about Atomic 22, and they have a quill stem fastener. I haven't used them myself though, so don't take this as a recommendation, and ask around! The only other vendor I recall hearing about is Pitlock, but like Pinhead I don't think they have a quill product. Otherwise, the ball-bearing + wax or solder method is probably easiest.