Your job is to add value. It sounds like your CMS will result in tremendous productivity gains. But if your CMS reaches a point where most of the value has been added, and your continual work will add little value, then it is time to move on to a new problem. Have trust in the Luddite Fallacy. The world will always have technical problems to solve and inefficiencies to eradicate. 

If the president of the company came to your desk and asked what you were working on, would you be comfortable telling him/her? You goal is to do something that is ethical, beneficial, and fun. You have an opportunity here to to satisfy all three. Devise a project that you would enjoy working on, and that would benefit your employer. It won't be as fun as a personal project, but it will allow you to sleep at night and give you satisfaction at work. Full disclosure: I am guilty of answering this question at work. 

When searching for candidates on Stack Overflow Careers or anywhere else, include passive profiles. Many good developers in your area are probably not actively looking for new jobs. You should seek them out rather than waiting for them to come to you. Send them a simple invitation: 

Turn this employee's perceived liability into an asset. Your view is this employee has demonstrated a lack of respect for authority. Turn it around and say, this employee has assertiveness and is a problem solver. It took some guts to go around you. Most people would have given up and lived with the rigid situation. This employee found a way to resolve it. It depends on the job, but this employee's ability to cut through rules and bureaucracy could be a huge asset to you. 

Ok you're dealing with an incompetent and insecure manager who's crap at managing time, setting agendas and communication (missing information: how did he get to his current position? was he promoted, is he a friend or crony of the CXO/VP, or else how? As an aside, he must have some good qualities...?). As to whether he's actively malicious and whether he's redeemable and how long he lasts, that's not your concern. The cc: abuse can be symptomatic of him not having clarity on his and other people's roles and abilities. (Maybe the people above him are even worse. I've seen it happen.) 

In general this is ok as long as company policy allows it, you pay all your separate leisure expenses, and you take any necessary PTO (although some or all of Friday(/Sunday in lieu) would already have been dedicated to traveling anyway). So, if your company culture and policy allow it, no it wouldn't look bad; if they don't, it would. Now from the cost point of view, if you need to make the case to management or the accounts dept for allowing this, one good technique used is to print off the airfares for a Friday and Sunday return and show them how much $$$ you're saving them. The Friday one will almost invariably be a lot higher, due to demand and the airline industry's trusty old Saturday-night-stay price structure. 

In the circumstances, seeing a mental health professional seems like an action you should take irrespective of your employer's demands. When you find one, discuss with them (not necessarily as your top priority though), what the normal 'back to work' procedure in similar circumstances is in your country. They have been trained in how to discuss their patients with others without revealing unnecessary personal information, and if you can trust them to manage your case, you ought to be able to trust them to report on your case to people like your employer on a 'need to know' basis if it is required, i.e. to provide information that your employer requires and is entitled to without divulging anything else. 

I have been in this position myself, albeit as part of a small team of designated experts, and we tried most of the strategies listed in other answers with limited success. Eventually, I left that company, and now have a role where being the expert is less intrinsic to my job description. Unfortunately, the only thing that will actually work is support from management for you to migrate away from being the expert. My guess, from experience, is that at least part of the time, people are coming to you because their supervisors have told them to. I also discovered when I was in your position, that there were occasions when said supervisors specifically told their employees NOT to attempt to 'waste their time' figuring out the answers themselves, but go straight to the experts. In short, there are many strategies that could work, but they are all in danger of failing unless the managers of the employees using you as a walking encyclopedia support the process of their employees becoming knowledgeable and using your free service less. 

Keep it on your resume, in anonymized form, e.g. "Volunteer coordinator, Education nonprofit" or "Intern, Environmental NGO" This keeps the benefit and minimizes the risk. So if they never ask for the name, you never have a problem. And if/when they do ask for the name in interview or reference-checking, you say "The organization was X; I served between date Y and Z in function W. You may be aware they recently had a scandal, and I had no involvement whatsoever in that, and have multiple references for you on my work at X", so you preemptively mitigate the risk. Many people jump to lazy conclusions from a name-association or a brief Google or LinkedIn search, and few do more diligence. But this solves things. And as time goes on, people will be less likely to ask or care about the name of something you volunteered in n years before. (And of course by then the investigation will have completed, so if asked, you can point out you clearly had no involvement in it, or knowledge thereof.) 

Whether this is considered acceptable by employers depends which degree (Bachelors? Masters? Grad Diploma? PhD? other?), and which country: you already said you're in the UK, and presumably your prospective employers are in the UK too. Here are some tips: 

Also, include candidates that are willing to relocate to your area. Search for developers who attended your local university or who grew up in you area. Find someone who is stuck paying high rent in Silicon Valley and wants to move back closer to family and friends. 

Yes, this is dishonest and thus unethical. By applying to a job, you are stating that you are interested in possibly taking the position. It is clearly unethical if a person lies when asked why he or she is looking to leave his or her current position. An innocent answer like "looking for a change" is a lie if the person really isn't looking for a change. The organization deserves a truthful answer like "not really planning on switching jobs, but I am open to something new if the job is right." It is wrong to use another company's time and resources for your own skills assessment. There are ways for the hiring company to somewhat lessen situations like this. The organization should at least ask before an interview the intentions of the interviewer. That should filter out some of the people who are not really interested. In my experience, interviewing organizations do not probe enough into why a potential employee wants to switch jobs. Typically a canned answer like "looking for a change" is sufficient for the interviewer to move on. 

Sure, but it's not a binary decision, you can have minimal interaction by email only and no meetings ("As you are aware, we are very busy with XYZ project and unfortunately are unable to participate in meetings on other projects.... If you formulate proposals by email we may be able to offer brief written comment"). Your decision is fine, just don't tell him bluntly why, not in writing, certainly not in scathing negatives, and definitely not with a cc:. 

Honestly that's a badge of being a good engineer, if somewhat unrealistic about their productivity. (Read about "Engineer-not-Manager") 

I'd bloody rejoice. A manager who wants to keep their hand in the game? Consider yourself lucky. This is a blessing in disguise. I don't see that this a problem, certainly no more than a manager who spends too much time in meetings, presentations, reviews, conferences, executive lunches, politicking, MBA classes, playing golf, drinking, betting on the horses or other sanctioned modes of slacking. Even if we conclude it's a problem, it's at most a small problem and it's certainly not your problem. One good side-effect is that they will still be competent at hiring good technical people, which is something that PowerPoint warriors lose (or delegate to the HR dept, or stop caring, and the organizational rot sets in). (What's their motivation? Need to present credible data to higher-ups? Want to stay technical and deny the cloak of management being thrust upon them? Technically insecure? Impostor syndrome? Afraid of being laid off, or that their role has become obsolete? Want to understand what you or their subordinates are doing better? Want to know how to hire or manage you better? or hire your replacement if you leave? They may have several of these motivations, and don't expect them to tell you.) Most of those are fine, and even the ones that aren't can work to your advantage. You can (privately) show them you that you can do their work faster (or some automated script, or query tool, or GUI). Implement it yourself. If they're a chart person, give them charts. If they're a KPI person, give them numbers. If they like doing it interactively, install a query tool and write a wiki of frequently-used queries. If they want to tie things to the build/SCM process, implement that. Consider this a hidden opportunity to both do something productive and "get recognition" at multiple levels of the hierarchy. This is how useful internal tools generally happen. Show them a functional prototype then see if they approve spending further time on it. a 

I'm in a phase of hiring at the moment. I would say the length per se is something of a red herring, but to rephrase your question slightly, absolutely it is offputting, and likely to lead to not getting an interview, if your resume doesn't include sufficient information to enable an informed decision. And yes, I have binned candidates due to their not having given me enough data to make an informed decision, especially where that co-incides with no explanation in any form (cover note, email message, resume body) of how the candidate meets the advertised criteria. You need to include data that lets the hiring manager know that you meet all the threshold requirements (some of which might be unstated - such as 'sufficient grasp of English written communication'), and data that convinces the hiring manager that there are ways in which you are superior to other candidates who meet all the threshold requirements. Unless you know the other candidates personally (may be possible in a niche professional job, where the number of candidates meeting the criteria is very low, and you have likely met them at professional events - e.g. judgeship, senior surgeon - but unlikely elsewhere) there is going to be some redundancy in your resume, because you can't completely anticipate how the other candidates are presenting themselves. Excepting jobs where the requirements are 'have a pulse, and get to the site reliably', it's difficult to imagine less than one page getting those jobs done. That said, if your current role is very prestigious, and you have a very strong reputation in your industry, you may occasionally get away with a very short resume. You can imagine, for example, that if Stephen Hawking had wanted to switch from Cambridge to Oxford or maybe Princeton some time in the last 35 years, once he'd convinced them he was the 'real' Stephen Hawking, the details on a resume wouldn't have had much to do with the decision (not saying that getting the job would be certain - just that any plausible interviewer would be thoroughly familiar with Hawking's work and able to make a decision). To summarise, be sceptical if your resume seems very short. Imagine you're the hiring manager - is every thing you would want to know written on the resume, including ways you are different to other candidates (for example, if you are applying for a graduate position, having a degree doesn't make you different)? If necessary, put it aside and come back to it the next day, so that important information is not omitted. 

Several questions rolled into one: Yes you should set a coding challenge, but no, do not set it as homework, for many reasons, some of which are to prevent cheating, copying, plagiarism, getting help. But also because it robs you of two valuable parts: you get to see how their thought process works when under stress, and also (it's a two-way street) they get to see how you approach code development. For example, do you set a slightly ambiguous problem statement and expect them to make simplifying assumptions, or to down tools until you supply a definitive clarification? (the "right" approach depends entirely on your domain e.g. programming life-support systems is different to web code). 

Ok this is type of thing is symptomatic of a disorganized small company with an autocratic boss. Your situation might not be fixable. But as @RomanMik and @ChrisLively say, you need to take charge and start standing up for yourself. You might well have some issues yourself you need to identify and sort out. My comments: 

Your fears are misplaced. Encourage them to ask questions and/or document assumptions. Tell them it's ok and encouraged to use Google/ StackOverflow/ whatever. Another good practice sometimes used (esp. on Craigslist or mailing-list/web-based job ads) is to email/post candidates a very simple problem, the solution to which they have to attach to an application. This is to weed out timewasters and people with no interest or experience; but again can be used to give them a flavor of what sort of code they'll have to write.