The right approach here is to document the situation in an email or memo and then verbally go over it with your boss. The code is inadequate here, here, and here. Joe Schmoe lied about this and that. Parts X, Y and Z are non-functional and will require large amounts of additional code and testing to get working. It is critical that you determine the best possible options and present those alongside the problems. NEVER just give a list of problems with no options or solutions--it makes you look like a obstructor or excuse-maker. So, basically what you need to do is identify in detail all the problems and then propose the best possible solution or "mitigation" options available. 

I would not worry about a "professional network", because in all honesty the chances that your "network" would intersect with a good opportunity is small. Even worse, you could waste a lot of time talking to people of marginal relevance to your career. The way to get a good job is to specialize and know your stuff, then approach a well-chosen employer that is the best possible match for you. Your main problem right now is that your experience is probably limited and you may have very generic skills that are not compelling, or at least do not really differentiate you from many other candidates. The way to fix this is to focus on your strongest area and emphasize it ("I am a Struts expert" or whatever). Try to write an article for magazine on Struts or whatever. Then look for a company that is seeking that exact skill. If you can combine it with domain expertise, that is even better (I am a Struts expert and I have a degree in chemistry). Then apply to a chemical company that is looking for a Struts developer. Expertise is the key to getting a satisfying job, not a "network". 

Unfortunately, earning the privilege of doing advanced tasks requires a lot more than being a good student and showing up. Most of the work in the real world is pretty mundane. When I went to help out my aunt who worked at Coca-Cola I was attending an elite Ivy league college. The first task she gave me? To add up a list of numbers. A relative of mine once hired an assistant to help in his photography studio and on the new hire's first day he asked him to start by sweeping the studio. The kid sniffed, "I am a graduate of the Brooks Institute." (the most elite photography school in the world). So, my relative picks up the broom and says, "Oh, yeah, I forgot. This is how you do it." and he proceeded to demonstrate how to operate a broom. In any business a lot of basic stuff needs to get done. Do you think your boss should do that stuff? Nothing is stopping you from doing creative work, just make sure the basic tasks get done first. You think the interesting stuff I do are things other people have "assigned" to me? No, of course, not. 95% of the cool stuff I do is stuff I thought up on my own. If I waited around for my bosses to think up cool things for me to do I would be waiting a long time. 

This question has been asked before. I am in the no-notice camp. If the company had laid you off or fired you, you would get 0 days notice. You owe them nothing. That being said, do not be rude about it. Just be straightforward: "I am taking a new job with a different company starting tomorrow (or the day after tomorrow or whenever), is there anything you would like me to finish up before I go? Make sure you have your personal belongings already removed because small employers sometimes go bananas when somebody quits on them, so you don't want to lose stuff in the course of the exit. Employment at will is just that: employment at WILL. You can leave whenever you want and you have every right, both legally and morally to do so. If they wanted to engage you permanently, then they should have agreed to a CONTRACT with fixed dates, which they did not do which means they consider you disposable. It works both ways. 

Be objective and answer questions put to you. It does not sound like the email contained a question. From your description the email did not ask any questions, but simply stated a prediction, ie if some deadline is not met then the company will go out of business. The way to react to this information: (1) Do not answer. The email does not ask you for your opinions. (2) It might be a good idea to start looking for another job, since the head of your current company is predicting that the company might be going out of business. (3) Do not take stuff personally. When somebody says "Do xyz by 3am or we all [insert bad thing here]." do not interpret that as "blaming" you. Blame is when person A goes to person B and tells them that person C is responsible for some act. Since there are only 2 people in this equation, you and your boss, no "blame" is involved. 

It will be difficult to correct this. People get set in their ways and have certain abilities. You cannot change such things just by complaining about them. There are various options for trying to solve the problem. Here are a few: (1) Require that all customer communications be drafted as a letter in Microsoft Word first before being emailed. Then, make sure all such letters are spell-checked and grammar checked. (2) Route all customer communications through yourself and correct them yourself. (3) You make the customer communications. 

First of all, don't assume that the code is so "bad". Virtually every time I have seen a new developer come to a project, they pronounce the code bad, no matter how good or bad it is or who wrote it. Once I had been been working on a product for two years and they hired a new contractor and he told my boss that my code was worthless "spaghetti" code and needed to be rewritten. He got fired about 2 months later for lack of productivity. In general, you should resist the urge to rewrite everything. Try to limit your changes to what is necessary. You are not trying to create the Mona Lisa here; start off doing the minimum to accomplish whatever needs to be done. If you think that means rewriting the whole project, you are probably the problem, not the code. There is absolutely no reason to make editorial remarks about the quality of the code to your boss. You are there to add functionality, not be a film critic. Keep your opinions to yourself, until you have proven your worth. 

No. When I see stuff like that on a resume, the candidate becomes a lot less attractive. The last thing I want is a worker who is leaving at 4:59pm every day so he can rush home to do guitar practice for his band or whatever. It's fine for people to have hobbies, but when that hobby is the person's #1 priority that is a problem. Another issue is that stuff like that goes to personal self image. It kind of says to the reader: "I see myself as a novelist." That is not the message you want to convey to an employer. The message you want to convey to the employer is, "I see myself as a legal professional." 

Getting "acquired" is always wierd. The bottom line is: how are you getting along with the new owners? If you are meshing well with their people and becoming an active member of their organization, then treat it as a new job. If you are like a space alien or leper or something, look for a company where you will fit in better. 

No. Mixing work and home in this way is inappropriate and unprofessional. Even making a request like this could be construed as patronizing. Do you want employees to be gossiping behind your back, "Oh, and last week he had Fred move furniture around his house." Seriously, do not even go there. If I was a VP or director in a company and found out something like that was happening I would put a stop to it at once. Office politics are complicated enough without people leaning on their employees to do personal favors. 

If you are working as a contractor, you should be getting paid a lot more than normal. If you are getting paid a typical full-time wage, then there are only downsides. As a contractor, it is much easier for the company to fire you and at least when I was a contractor I was always an outsider. Did not get invited to company gatherings/offsites/parties. You have to list "(contractor)" on your resume by the company's name. Also, there is a stigma to being a contractor which is hard to get over, even if you eventually get employed by the company. Basically, if you work as a contractor you are just that: an independent business person, not a member of the company. If you are getting paid a mediocre rate by the agency, consider yourself to have been taken advantage of. When I was a contractor I was making about 30%-%50% more than regular employees doing the same job. 

It's probably better to come clean up front. I would have letter from a doctor which explains your condition and disclose to the company's HR once your application process is moving along. For example, let's say you passed the phone interview and were brought in for a full set of interviews. At that time you will probably interview with the HR rep. Disclose it to them in written form and emphasize that your condition has not affected your performance in prior positions. I would not recommend asking for fewer hours. That will change the terms of employment, possibly in a negative way. Just explain that you may have occasional "nap attacks" that require a short break to rest and you have control over them, so they will not affect your ability to attend meetings and events at all. 

As long as you are being objective and factual you are doing your duty. In my company it is rare for any performance test to ever be "doubted". If you have pouty managers with no scientific training trying to bully you about your scientific methods, then those behaviors should just be ignored for being what they are: childish. To defend yourself against that kind of stuff, just make sure the test plans are crystal clear and everything is cut and dried. Don't try to verbally argue with idiots: just say nothing and hand them the documentation. 

I would like to give you some general advice about how to deal with the mind game type questions you are asking about, the type that fits into the pattern of "Tell me why you suck". As I have written above, you basically deny it in all instances. "I do not suck." I have given examples of how to express this in a polite way above. Let's consider what is behind such questions in greater depth. When high level CIA or KGB agents are being trained, they are taught how to resist interrogation by the enemy, should they be captured. This training is very complex and arduous, but the first thing they are taught, the cardinal rule in all instances is: never confess. The HR rep or whoever is asking questions like those above is essentially acting like a penny ante interrogator; they are soliciting a confession from you. Dealing with such interrogation is simple: never ever confess. It's a simple rule, obey it always. 

Don't start making bogus contracts. Contracts that have been falsified in any way, such as having a falsified date, are invalid. Ask your employer for a letter on official letterhead that states "[your name] was employed at [name of company] between the dates of [enter starting date] and [enter ending dates]." and make sure it is signed by an official agent of the company. Provide the letter to the immigration department. That is proof of your employment. 

If you left your old job because it was a "toxic work environment" it is ok and right to say that. That is not "badmouthing your employer". What you want to avoid is an unsupported, subjective criticism, like "My boss was a jerk" or "My coworkers were assholes." Subjective judgements, especially negative ones have no place in an interview. If you stick to the facts, you are fine. One way to phrase your previous situation is: "My previous workplace was very politicized and success at the company had nothing to do with performance. I wanted to find a place where my work performance would be appreciated." 

Jivan, you have the right instincts. I have a different outlook that will put things in a whole different light for you. First of all, advertising a position and then asking someone who answers "What salary they expect" is incredibly insulting and un-businesslike. When you advertise you are the offeror, since you made the first move it is your duty to make the offer and that includes the amount and all terms. That is the proper and businesslike action. When somebody advertises a good or position and then tries to elicit amounts from respondents, that is called a "come on", and is incredibly unprofessional and disrespectful. If somebody were to call me up and ask to hire me and make an insulting come on (or other incomplete offer, such as one lacking a date of hire), if I did not walk out the door right then and there, I would say coldly: "You called me, I appeared and presented my credentials, if you want to make an offer, make it in writing." Then I would bid them adieu. If somebody comes to you unasked, on the other hand, then they are the offeror and they must state the terms they will work for you. In my current position I approached the company, so I made them an offer of terms, as was proper. Either way, the gentlemanly action is to finish the deal in a single stroke without a counteroffer. When you put out your offer, it should be your best offer to the employee. If they reject it or make a counteroffer, that is the end and it is goodbye. Likewise, when someone comes to you with an offer, you should either accept it or reject it, that is the noble thing to do. Making a counter-offer is not necessarily rude or unbusinesslike, but it reflects on your character and should only be done after careful consideration. To make a petty counter-offer designed to extract a few nickels is contemptible and the mark of a knave. You should never hire such a person, nor sully your honor by doing such a thing. These are the standards of behavior among noble men, and should make clear to you the nature of your current associations.