On another note, since then Reserved Political Positions have remained in some form or the other. (Full disclosure- the book above is by my grandfather, but has been quoted by Bidyut Chakravarty in his book The Partition of Bengal and Assam) 

After India's Pokharan tests in 1974 many expected India to be a more assertive voice in the international scenario. But that did not happen. Nuclear policy too, lost its way amongst domestic problems. 

While the tank battles are better documented, the role of the field guns are not so well recorded (at least not in available documents). I know that 3.7 inch howitzers were part of the first artillery unit of the Bangladesh Army from this website. Beyond this it has been difficult to pinpoint the guns in action at that point of time. 

The KGB possibly had more refined techniques. In any case absolutist states have unbelievably good homework on every area, community, family and individual. It is the rare exception that needs to be questioned. However, Hinkle's above mentioned report provides a detailed analysis of the structure and practices of the Russian KGB and the state police in Communist China in the 1950s. On the basis of input from experts, and former Communist prisoners, Wolff and Hinkle detail out Communist arrest and interrogation systems from investigation to “trial.” Some of the methods used by KGB: Night Interrogation- Prisoners interrogated at night Sensory Deprivation- use of blackout goggles, earmuffs, hooding Persuasion- “Futility,” “emotional love” approach Foul Language - Prisoners cursed during interrogation Psychological Contrast- “Fear up, harsh,” “Mutt and Jeff” approach Preliminary Humiliation On November 16 1971, the Belfast tortures and the "five techniques" came to light. The British government detained for 9 days and tortured fourteen Northern Irish men. During the time of their detention they were subjected to "five techniques" – food deprivation, sleep deprivation, hooding, noise bombardment, and forced standing. The government tried to defend their position by claiming these men were criminals. The refinement of many "methods" seem to have attained fruition by the time of KUBARK where all these interrogation methods have been discussed. See also this. These methods include (but are not limited to): Detention Deprivation of Sensory Stimuli Threats and Fear Debility Pain Heightened Suggestibility and Hypnosis Narcosis There have always been supporters as well as detractors of such methods within agencies. Individual views vary widely. As mentioned earlier, the support for torture has come in many forms. 

The Mogao Caves near Dunhuang are laden with Buddhist art spanning a period of 1000 years. Most of the images are religious, but there are also images of everyday life. There are scenes that show travelers on the Silk Road, and some portray bandits. The Logistics: The Silk Road goes through some of the most challenging terrain in terms of vast deserts and high and rugged mountain ranges. The terrain, the weather and many other risks did indeed result in higher transit costs. Bandits and robbers certainly added to the risk. But several systems were in place to reduce the risk. Few people ever traveled the full length of the Silk Road. The goods were transported by a series of routes and agents. This mode meant that local agents, familiar with terrain, politics, and bandits of their own region, who were better suited for the task, would ensure safe transit. 

In fact there is a formula: W x L x P / T x O Where: W = whether the agent is the wrongdoer L = the number of lives that will be lost if the information is not provided P = the probability that the agent has the relevant knowledge T = the time available before the disaster will occur (“immediacy of the harm”) O = the likelihood that other inquiries will forestall the risk Torture can be justified in this mathematical equation. Ref: Torture: When the Unthinkable Is Morally Permissible As always, there are opposite views. 

Simply put, the decimal system is more convenient for most types of calculations. As you point out, there are systems that still use base 60. And there are others such as binary and hexadecimal which are applied in other areas where they are applicable. But the main reason for its decline is the unwieldiness. 60 as a base is difficult to use because you have to remember at least 59 unique names ( as opposed to decimal where twenty-one, thirty-one, forty-one etc follow the same pattern). To mitigate these difficulties, arithmeticians looked for a smaller number. This led to the decline of the 60 base. See this page 97. It is also important to note that various geographies and cultures have used various systems over time, and the sexagesimal system is predated by various other systems: 

There are certainly references to "poison" and these come from Diodorus, Arrian, Plutarch and Justin. But these seem more like many of the other fantasies that the Greeks spun- especially if you consider the methods of preparation of the poison and how Alexander was told in a dream about the antidote. Also, the only reference to anyone being wounded, by these accounts is that of Ptolemy. There is no mention of it being used in the battle of Hydaspes. All in all it should be discounted as a 'tale'. The fact that much of the Greek accounts of India were fantasy (while of course much was also authentic) is easy to ascertain today simply due to the ludicrous content. 

The well-known Venetian glass industry dates back to the tenth century. Venetian glass makers did not specialize in flat glass products but a certain amount of window glass was manufactured and part of it was exported. In the fourteenth century mirrors were made by coating plates of glass with an amalgam of tin and mercury. English settlers introduced glass making into America. The first manufacturing establishment in America was a glass factory. This was erected at the beginning of the seventeenth century at James Towne, Virginia. The crown method of manufacturing flat glass was replaced by the cylinder process. 

In support of "Buddhism" as a dominant religion, we can undoubtedly say that art and architecture discovered from the past indicate overwhelming Buddhist influence for over a millennium. The earliest religious architecture are Buddhist— viharas, stupas, cave paintings, chaitya halls, monasteries, and also statues. There is no Hindu temple until the time of the Guptas, and even these were small. While Brahmanic religious literature exists from this period, such as the Upanishads, the Dharmasashtras, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana(up to 1st Century AD), Pali Buddhist literature from this period, now surviving mostly outside India, is much greater in volume. Also, much of the earliest Sanskrit literature was Buddhist, such as that of Asvaghosha and early Mahayana. Other literature is either secular or Buddhist-influenced, such as Tamil Sangam literature and Kavya literature, covering the period up to the 6th century AD. With special reference to Tamil Nadu in the South: 

However, as with most religions, power and hegemony grow with time, and the need for constructing authority, identity and community has to be provided by narrative and legend. 

Shikhandi/Amba: Born in one life as Amba, she comes back as ambiguous/female Shikhandi to take revenge on Bhisma. During the great battle at Kurukshetra, Bhishma is unable to fight Shikhandi, who is fighting as a man, but whom Bhishma knows to be a woman. 

When Bangladesh became a separate country from Pakistan (transforming from East Pakistan into Bangladesh) they adopted a Bengali song written by Rabindranath Tagore in 1905, called "Shonar Bangala" (Golden Bengal). Since one of the reasons for the aspiration of a new nation was the Bengali language itself, this seemed to be the right thing to do. However, what is interesting is that even prior to Bangladesh becoming an independent nation, they never really adopted the national anthem sung in West Pakistan, the Qaumi Taranah. Instead they had their own alternate Bengali anthem, "Pakistan Zindabad". In this case, it was therefore practical to have a new anthem to prove your independence and break from the former nation, creation of a new national identity. An important political requirement of any nation is that it have its own sovereign identity, so a national anthem proclaiming uniqueness and homogeneity (in this case the Bengali language being an underlining factor), becomes a good practical fit. However, it is important to remember that the aspiration itself, for a new national identity, is often fuelled by passion, and therefore its role cannot be neglected. In the case of Bangladesh there were passionate reasons for the demand for a new country, besides political ones. 

India's huge intelligence failure, as well as the new paradigm of war under a nuclear threat prompted change in its military doctrine. In line with the report mentioned above, India in turn developed what is known as the "Cold Start" doctrine, although this has been denied by the defence establishment. But the story hardly ends there. 

On the question of effectiveness of torture as means of eliciting information- the methods used were not seen as torture. They were seen as effective "pressures". These were "scientific" methods that could provide results. These were a part of "Verschärfte Vernehmung" and directives to that effect were in fact given. In June 1942, Heinrich Himmler, head of the Gestapo, authorized the use of limited physical abuse during interrogations, ‘where preliminary investigation had indicated that the person could give information on important matters such as subversive activities’. 

It is all fictionalized, just as any other "Historical" serial on Indian television channels. Please ignore or take it as a new story/fanatsy. As a general rule, each episode in such serials is 23 to 27 minutes long, based merely on "drama"(melodrama?), not on fact. The episodes are built in a manner which is purely sitcom, with no basis on any record, because the drama being portrayed is so "unrecorded". The idea behind such serials is purely entertainment, and all viewers also accept it as such, without any desire for "fact". There have however, been the occasional protests on legitimacy/accuracy. For example, check the Facebook page where there is a comment that it is historically inaccurate, as well as an online news item where people are protesting about such inaccuracy. 

Rice growing spread to hilly areas. The slopes of high valleys were cultivated through the construction of step-like terraces, which could be stretched out along contour lines. The rice-growing regions in China are rain-fed due to the monsoons. The cultivation of Asiatic rice (Oryza sativa) next spread to all of the tropical and subtropical regions of Asia, and then to the hot temperate regions of Asia, Europe, and America. Beginning in the Bronze Age, some metallic hand tools (knives, small axes, points of digging sticks) were made, though they were still not very effective. Beginning with the Iron Age, new, much more powerful tools (axes, hoes, spades, iron-tipped sickles) were made and used more and more widely in the agriculture of the “Old World.” 

The India-Pakistan war in Kargil lasted from 6 May to roughly the end of July 1999. It was the fifth large-scale conflict between the two countries. Pakistan planned to use four independent groups from four infantry battalions and two companies of the Special Service Group (SSG), which were already located in the FCNA (Force Command Northern Areas). These were: (1) 4 Northern Light Infantry (NLI) Battalion, the FCNA reserve located in Gilgit. (2) 6 Northern Light Infantry (NLI) Battalion (ex 62 Infantry Brigade) located at Skardu. (3) 5 Northern Light Infantry (NLI) Battalion (ex 82 Infantry Brigade) located at Minimarg. (4) 3 Northern Light Infantry (NLI) (ex 323 Infantry Brigade) located at Dansam. SSG: The two companies of the SSG were to be allotted in smaller teams varying from 32 to 94 numbers among the four battalions. The groups were also allotted shoulder-fired Air Defence AD missiles of the Stinger variety. This coupled with 12.7mm AD machine guns integral to the NLI Battalions, gave them a modicum of air defence capability. Militants: Some militants from the Lashkar-e-Toiba, Harkat-ul-Ansar and Afghan war veterans were also grouped with each battalion to give it the facade of a jehad. After the intrusion, 800 or more militants were brought to the Skardu area for further reinforcements. Artillery Support: Pakistani artillery numbering 20 batteries was to provide fire support to the intruding groups from the Pakistani side of the LoC. This ensured that each intrusion had the support of three to four batteries. Observation post officers from the Pakistani Army were also grouped along with line and radio communications.