Actually eating and breathing through the same hole (the throat) is a terrible piece of design. It means we can choke on our food. It comes from our vertebrate heritage, where fish's gills were joined to their mouths, so they could gulp water across them to breathe. As this was the only bodily opening available, the lungs were also accessed through the mouth. Arthropod and mollusc lungs have their own separate openings, which is a much better idea. 

As discussed in comments and other answers there are several issues: -Adding bouyant balloons to a bridge would reduce the weight load, do nothing to reduce the wind load (in fact it would make it worse.) -Lift gas would leak over time. Here's my solution The neutrally buoyant cable car / ski lift! This is basically just like a normal cable car / ski lift, except that the weight of the cars / chairs is reduced by a buoyant balloon. This enables the spans to be much larger. During high winds, all cars have to be towed in to the base stations to prevent damage. One issue is ensuring the cars are indeed neutrally buoyant before they are released, otherwise an unloaded car would pull up on the cable just as much as an overloaded one would pull down. Varying the amount of bulky lift gas seems inconvenient, so it would probably be done with ballast weights. Finally, if an intermediate support were needed part way across the span, as mentioned in my comments on the question, you could make an A-frame from 2 cables tethered to the canyon floor to left and right of the direction of travel, held in tension by a balloon. It is unlikely but conceivable that this would be more economic than a steel pylon on some worlds (i.e. those with a very dense atmosphere.) 

This is exactly what the Spanish Inquisition did to Jews and Muslims who had failed to convert to Christianity, or those who ("worse") had publicly converted (because they had been threatened with violence if they did not) but continued to practice their original religion in private. Any suspected Jewish or Muslim household that received a visit from the Spanish inquisition better have some ham (a ubiquitous food in Spain) in the cupboard, otherwise they would be taken away for torturing. $URL$ $URL$ 

It seems you want a hedonistic god, seeking joy and taking no regard or responsibility for how his actions affect others. Roman Bacchus / Greek Dionysus wasn't too far from that. Assuming he was not a real god and the faithful simply believed what they wanted to believe, probably the only thing that kept this fictional personality from being less regarding of others was the affection the people had for wine, and their god of wine. $URL$ 

A few examples from island nations: Singapore's metro system has 200km of railway lines $URL$ The UK invented the railway and has an extensive domestic network. It is now possible to take the train to France via the channel tunnel on a Eurostar passenger train, or even take a car or truck across on board a Le Shuttle train. It was decided not to allow vehicle owners to drive through the channel tunnel, but they can drive onto the train and cross that way. I'm not sure of the reasons why this method was chosen, but I suspect accidents, breakdowns and disposal of exhaust fumes would be issues in such a long road tunnel. Freight trains have also been important in the UK, both as shuttles in the mining industry and for long distance travel, and routes through the channel tunnel connect the UK with the rest of Europe. $URL$ Japan's Shinkansen was/is one of the most advanced trains in the world. The map on the linked page shows only the Shinkansen lines (not the extensive local railways or metro systems.) Note that all major islands are linked by Shinkansen, though Hokkaido looks underdeveloped compared to the rest of the country. $URL$ More examples here $URL$ As castor says, the golden age of the railway was ended by motorised road transport, not boats. Prior to the invention of the motor vehicle, the railway was king. 

Pure water has the chemical formula H2O. It has the properties it has, there is nothing you can do to change that. The closest you can get with pure H2O is water / ice slush. This can form naturally when water is cooled down to 0 celsius while being agitated. It's called Frazil ice . But if left long enough it will go hard, just as old snow does. To make goo, you need to add polymer to water. Surprisingly small amounts are required. This small 85g box of Jell-O is enough to make an entire bowl of solid dessert. Foaming is caused by a group of chemicals called surfactants. they lower the surface tension of water and cause bubbles to be more stable. These also tend to be organic molecules (not necessarily polymers but the gooeyness also helps to stabilize the bubbles.) Common soap is made by reacting fat with caustic soda to break the fat down into fatty acids and glycerol. Substances that create these effects are often of biological origin (nasal mucus, algal slime, etc.) These would have nutritional value, but would therefore unfortunately be colonized by bacteria, fungus and other nasties if left in the open, so you wouldn't want to consume thm But you can get a similar effect when you mix two salt solutions, rapidly, causing a solid to precipitate instantaneously. This is the process used to make the beads of silica gel which is then dried by heating to form the hard granules of drying agent that you find in new purchases. There are also clays which are very sticky, such as bentonite. While I wouldn't recommend eating silica gel or bentonite, they shouldn't do you any harm and are of no nutritional value, so if they are from a very clean environment such as a lifeless planet they should be bug free. 

To add to Rumguff's excellent answer: In our own system Jupiter has 4 moons (the Galilean moons) of about the same size as our own moon, and saturn has one (Titan.) At some time in the future, the sun will have expanded and it's likely that all five of these bodies will have "goldilocks" temperatures at once (Saturn is about twice the distance from the sun as Jupiter, so Titan's going to be a lot colder than the others.) The one big caveat is that these five bodies have surface gravity similar to our own moon, which is insufficient to hold onto a decent atmosphere. High atmospheric pressure has virtually no effect on the freezing point of water, but it raises the boiling point, and if there isn't enough atmospheric pressure, liquid water is simply impossible. Titan is currently the only non-planet in our solar system that has an appreciable atmosphere, with 1.5 times the surface pressure of Earth, but this will surely partly evaporate when the sun expands and warms the solar system. So, we probably need a system with bigger moons, which probably means bigger gas giants and a bigger star. That said, our own moon is much larger in comparison to Earth than the other moons of the solar system in comparison to their respective planets. So there are processes that can form large moons. Apart from that, the only other caveat to having 5 goldilocks bodies in our solar system in the distant future, is that Io has intense volcanic activity due to tidal warming from Jupiter and the other moons, which will probably render it always unliveable. 

I wouldn't use liquid nitrogen. I would use liquid carbon dioxide, CO2. There are a few reasons for this. Physical CO2 can exist as a liquid at ambient temperatures under sufficient pressure. Nitrogen cannot as its critical temperature is much lower. In layman's terms, at any temperature above 126K (-147C) the density (and other properties) of nitrogen gas and nitrogen liquid become identical, so there is no distinction between gas and liquid and no vaporization cooling occurs when pressure is released. So, if you use nitrogen, your dragon is going to need a way of storing liquid nitrogen, and a means of generating it. CO2 on the other hand, can exist as a liquid at ambient temperature if sufficient pressure is applied to it (56 atm at 20C). When the pressure is released through a simple valve, molecules break free from the attractive forces in the liquid, which requires energy and therefore causes cooling. This is exactly what happens when a CO2 fire extinguisher is used. (though the idea is to suffocate the fire, a side effect is the production of dry ice.) Fun with fire extinguishers (don't try this at home!) $URL$ When CO2 vaporizes it requires 3 times as much energy per unit mass than liquid nitrogen, therefore its cooling effect at ambient temperature would be greater. Ironically, it is precisely because of this that it has a higher boiling point temperature than liquid nitrogen: -78C at atmospheric pressure instead of -195C. (As an added complication, the freezing point of CO2 is higher than -78C, so it can only exist as a liquid when its boiling point is raised by high pressure.) $URL$ Chemical / biochemical Where does the dragon get her gas from? If it is nitrogen, she will have to get it from the atmosphere and liquefy it in some way, either via an expander or via a separate refrigeration cycle, both of which seem biologically impossible. If she uses CO2 she can generate it chemically, and it may then already be under pressure. She may do this in a variety of ways: