The "primitive simplicity" is considered an ideal not impossible to achieve even nowadays, opposed to that Adam and Eve had "before the fall" in the "Garden of Eden". 

Consider how Postmodernism has been used by the Right-wing recently (examples here, here, here, here and here), despite most still seeming to believe it's a "Left-wing movement". Of course, that's nothing new. Consider, for instance, Benito Mussolini's quote: 

I'm inclined to think that the answer depends on the belief. Those who defend monotheism will answer like virmaior, who denied the right of the question itself to be presented here, or like Alexander, who thinks B is the "correct answer". Those who think too quickly on the subject, and have no opinion whatsoever, will be inclined to go with the Zeitgeist, and also choose B. Those who see monotheism as a huge lie and essentially an evil enterprise, one destroying not only cultural diversity, but also intertwined with biodiversity erosion and other ecological problems: Laozi, Voltaire, Nietzsche, Freud, Russell, Sagan, Dawkins, Hitchens, Vidal and many others, including me, will try and be able to understand that A is, perhaps or probably, a viable definition. The first group will most probably: a) don't understand it; b) don't even try to understand it; or c) pretend they didn't understand it. Just my opinion on the subject. And if, on the Philosophy realm, we need to cite an author -- be on a question/answer website or any other modern Agora -- then I think it was much better to live in Antiquity, where Philosophy meant to do the questions that came to your brain, and there was no difference if they were your questions or someone else's, only that you wanted to gather more opinions about, i.e. try to understand. 

I tried The Antichrist but it was too complex to me (I was between 18 and 20 years old). I tried Zarathustra, but since each part has a different style (in one he speaks frankly, in the other he is completely ironic, etc), I couldn't get it until I found a succinct commentary some years later (I was about 25 then). When I had 23 I found Ecce Homo, and only then I could finally understand what his main goals were. From this point on I could read him without bigger problems. The books I considered more easy to grasp (because there was a clear line of thought) were Beyond Good and Evil, On the Genealogy of Morality and The Antichrist. To read other rationalist, materialist, revolutionary thinkers also helped a lot (people like Schopenhauer, Russell, Dostoyevsky, Mark Twain, Thoreau). Long story short: begin with Ecce Homo. 

I've done a translation of the Dao De Jing myself, from the chinese version available here, and the aid of several different translations, in english and portuguese, and some slight different versions of the original (noted in some of the english/portuguese translations). Most translations seem too "mystic" to me. Many (like James Legge's) were made by christian scholars, so they may have altered some passages to promote their own religion, or just by ignorance (writing "eternal life" when the original says "longevity", for instance, or translating Dao as "God"). I'm not such a profound student of chinese culture yet, but I studied some of the things Dao De Jing is about: nature and ancient peoples. As a biologist, I see more sense in translating 常 (cháng) as "usual", "most of the times" than most philosophers do, translating it as "eternal", "fixed", "immutable". Also living 3 years in a indigenous small city in Amazon forest (São Gabriel da Cachoeira) taught me a lot about the way they think. They say, for instance, "we study nature not to rule over it, but to follow its way". That's a daoist idea that indigenous peoples usually follow. Considering their asiatic ancestry, and the points in common between chinese and Yanomami language (at least 3 points not present in european languages), I think they have more in common than most scholars have ever thought. That's why I think my translation is in some aspects better than many scholars'. Two main differences: I translate Dao as Nature, since they are the same to me. And I translate De as Spontaneity, since this makes perfect sense in the overall text (and also in the Zhuang Zi), and is not so vague or full of other meanings as "Virtue". I haven't translated it to english yet, but I think Google Translate can do a decent job at that. And you can ask me if you have any doubts. The pdf is here. 

I read your question as Is computationalism falsifiable? In the comments, Not_Here argues that it is, because we would just need to demonstrate that minds can solve non-computable problems, e.g. the halting problem. However, to experimentally demonstrate that a mind solves the halting problem, we need to show that it correctly determines halting for all possible inputs. We immediately run into two problems: First, we have no general way of checking the answers - after all, the halting problem is non-computable. Second, any experiment can only deal with a finite number of inputs, and we would need to test them all. Essentially, the claim that a device (which always answers) solves the Halting problem is itself only falsifiable, but not decidable. We could find out that a given model of minds is able to solve the Halting problem, but that only tells us that this model and computationalism are inconsistent. It is not helpful in determining which one to let go. If you wish to avoid using theory for non-falsifiable stuff, I would recommend the word paradigm. 

In a), you essentially want all pairs $(n,m)$ with $n < m$ in your relation. For b), consider the following process: Start with some element $a_0$. Then pick some $a_1$ such that $R(a_0,a_1)$ - you can do this by Sentence 2. Then pick $a_2$ such that $R(a_1,a_2)$, etc. In a finite structure, there would need to be a repetition at some point, meaning that there are $i < j$ with $a_i = a_j$ (Pidgeon hole principle). Then you use Sentence 3 (possibly very often) to obtain a contradiction to Sentence 1. 

What is going on here is the implicit use of a criterion like Popper's falsifiability to assign the burden of proof; and a helping of Laplace' "I have no need of such assumption". If a sufficiently specified God is discussed, then it becomes reasonable to ask for evidence for either existence or non-existence. We have climbed Mount Olympos, and found no sign of Zeus, etc. However, typically such debates are about very unspecific notions of God. The believer could still offer evidence, by specifying God however he wants, and then suggesting matching evidence. The New Atheist argues that until that happens, the default position should be to assume non-existence - just as we do with many other hypothetical constructs. 

The point raised in the quote is not the same as the question that you are asking. In the quote: It is a difference whether we define what one is, and then we define what two is, and so on, or whether we define the abstract concept of (natural) number (as pointed out by Mauro Allegranza in the comments). Of course we can say that natural number refers to the totality of the numbers we have defined, and that is a separate definition, and we may or may not be happy with it. (If you want to learn more about problems with this, look for non-standard models of Peano arithmetic). Your question: There are many concepts of numbers of some kind that differ from the natural numbers. Examples are integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers, real numbers, complex numbers, (transfinite) ordinal numbers, (transfinite) cardinal numbers, surreal numbers. They have all nothing to do with the point raised in that quote, though. 

In my original I have 人 instead of 王 in chapter 25, so I read "people is also great" instead of "the (sage) king is also great". The original here also uses 人, though all three translations there translate 王 (the "representative of Heaven and Earth" -- Heaven is the top row, Earth the bottom row, and their representative, the middle row, connects top and bottom). Anyway, from Daoist general point of view, we humans are bound to the rules of Nature/Dao, just like any other species. Since we're not different, we don't deserve any "special treatment": DDJ 5 

Dogs of grass, or straw dogs, were small decorative objects specially made for a ritual celebrating life, and destroyed after the ritual. Just like we are born, live, and are finally destroyed in the end. Considering also that our own instincts are usually enough for a good life, the Daoist mindset puts us closer to the other animals than the Western monotheisms: DDJ 57 

And what was he talking about, when referring to "postmodernist absurdities"? Why does he consider postmodernists as being not "serious intellectuals"? Isn't Postmodernism a Left-wing movement? 

I've read many times that left and right in politics come from the French Revolution. But reading the Dao De Jing, chapter 31, it looks a very similar definition. The left is the place of the "second commander", the "ordinary", the "folk", the "festivities". The right is the place of "war", "first commander" closer to the king, the "mourning" and elaborate/artificial/sad rituals of the noble families. Other translations get to an even closer resemblance. So, is this just a coincidence? Or perhaps both sources (Chinese and French) have drank from the same spring? Where exactly the concepts of left and right in politics were first used in a way similar to those we use today? 

Science has indeed advanced a lot, as well as philosophy, but most people have no access to them, and no concern in learning them. We can even say there are too many people who cannot even read (they may read a line or two, but to read a full page and get all the meaning is too much). Of course some social classes benefits a lot from all this ignorance (see the postmodernist attack on modern science), and that's why things will be the way they are now for a long, long time. Another point: your question is focused in Western thinking ("one" god). Most people in the world have mythologies, they use many gods to explain things, and they don't seem to have the same "belief" kind of thinking that monotheists do. So, their mythologies may be adjusted to modern science more than monotheists beliefs usually are. So you may be entirely missing the point. I suggest you try to understand how other civilizations think (and please, don't go for it and stop at Buddhism, like most Westerners do). 

90% of human beings are right-handed. 10% of human beings are left-handed. By the way, any bilateral animal has the concept of right as being different from left, they just don't need words for this. Many species of snails curl for one side much more than to the other, in such huge imbalance (9x1) as ourselves. Looks like this is explained by the Hardy-Weinberg genetic theory, but I'm not sure about the details. 

An approach to make sense of the necessary vs contingent truth distinction is by considering a theory $T$ and a model $M$ of that theory. Theorems of $T$ are the necessary truths in $T$. Statements that hold in $M$ but are not theories of $T$ are the contingent truths. If we follow this approach, then the question of whether AC (if true) is a necessary or contingent truth essentially depends on the question what our chosen foundational theory is. We could consider all models of ZF as potential mathematical worlds, and just explore one where AC is true right now. But we could just as well start with ZFC as theory, and thus deem AC to be necessary. Ultimately, this question does not really lead us anywhere, I believe. 

Fundamentally, category theory does not seek to model "having a structure". It rather starts from the realization that the way how we use the structure is typically via the structure-preserving or reflecting maps; and that it is only the maps that really matter. For example, in topology the topology is just to define what continuous functions are. Everything else can be expressed in terms of continuous functions (not at least because we can recover the topology on X by looking at the continuous functions from X to Sierpisnki space). Sticking with topology, one can then see that for many results in topology, the precise nature of the continuous functions is irrelevant. Most theorems have natural counterparts in the setting of computable functions. This is because the relevant categories have very similar properties. 

Your argument shows that a naive implementation of utilitarianism that defines global utility as the sum of personal utilities would not work if utilities are allowed to include both positive and negative infinity. For this argument to have any bearing on utlitarianism at all, you would need to argue that both positive and negative infinity are indispensable as potential values of individual utilities, and you will find this to be very difficult. Note that we already run into big problems here simply by considering probabilitistic events: What would be the expected utility of tossing a coin to either receive $+\infty$ or $-\infty$? All formal approaches I am familiar with tend to demand that utility values are real numbers, and hence disallow infinite utility values. In particular in a context where we are going to aggregate different utility values, it may even be prudent to demand that utility values come from a bounded interval, to avoid running into this situation: SMBC comic 

There are some misconceptions here. First, we do not know whether quantum computers are better at some stuff than classical computers. There are problems where we know quantum algorithms that are faster than all known classical algorithms, but so far noone has been able to prove that are no equally fast classical algorithms. Second, there are many computational tasks humans are very bad at, despite the tasks being very easy. A core aspect here is that for something like combinatorics calculations, we are using concious, higher level style reasoning. A "hardware" implementation in our brains might have been much better, but just never evolved (being good at combinatorics is probably not strongly selected for). So from us not being good at something we cannot conclude that the basic computational machinery of our brains is not suited for that task.