Sadly, in North America, there is no rating beyond what each manufacturer decides for itself. I suspect that in the US especially, some thought goes into liability (i.e. if someone freezes to death in a bag that's rated to 0F and it's 20F out, they could be in trouble). Certain manufacturers gain a reputation for conservative ratings, others for optimistic ratings... and sadly, some manufacturers are all over the map (i.e. don't use an internally consistent rating system at all). Fortunately, there is a standard that is (hopefully) coming to North America, called EN 13537. It is currently applied to all bags in the EU and certain manufacturers elsewhere. The standard establishes a way to test sleeping bags, and then provides each bag with a set of ratings from an lower "you won't die" limit, all the way up to "you will be sweaty" upper limit. There's another wrinkle though, which is that a lot of the warmth people attribute to their "awesome" sleeping bag, comes from a combination of other factors: sleeping pad R-value, sleeping clothing, tent heat retention, site selection, and what I'll call metabolism (i.e. whether you are a "cold" or "hot" sleeper). So when you ask whether a 15F bag is really good to 15F, I'd say that it's impossible to know without getting the bag and trying it, at least in North America. I think if you know you have controlled all the other variables, and are a "hot" sleeper, with research you can likely find out which manufacturers are conservative raters, and go with them. In Europe, you'd just need to know where you fit in their spectrum of ratings and buy similar bags to that in a different temperature range (much easier!). An example that might help explain what I'm talking about: 

I think you need to separate this into two parts: Money spent before the trail starts, and budgeting while on the trail. Before you start, you're going to spend money on gear for sure. Your sleeping bag that was good enough for a weekend trip is now your home... Do you really want to put up with that limp, cold bag for 5-6 months? Same goes with a lot of things. Every book you read about the AT is going to suggest you cut the weight as much as possible, in order to increase you chances of success. If you can buy new lightweight gear, particularly tent/backpack/sleeping bag, and that saves you 5-6lbs on your back, it's huge. Of course, that's also the most expensive stuff :) That being said, there are cheaper and more expensive options for everything! As an example, Walmart brand blue foam mats are $5-10, very light, and do the job for many people. Thermarest (and others) make inflatable, very light, high R value mats that are infinitely more comfortable, but cost $100-150. Literally every piece of gear is like this :) So, for gear buying: 

I would call it a reasonable risk to camp in the desert without a tent (but with a tarp available if it was to rain!). I've "cowboy" camped 40 or 50 nights in the desert and never had any company try to join me in my sleeping bag :) That being said, I would heartily recommend shaking out your clothes and shoes before putting them on in the morning. In the desert setting, just be careful where you setup camp - anthills can make your campsite miserable, as can popping your inflatable mat on dried spiky things strewn about canyon floors. 

With just the Ibuprofen and compression, I was able to hike 10-12 hours a day, 30+km for 5 days, and only truly suffered for the first 2 days, it started healing almost immediately once compression was added. Just taking the Ibuprofen, I have not successfully shaken the shin splints off. 

I think though, you're forgetting that for lots of people, it's the hiking that's the pleasure, not necessarily the tenting. So the "being close to nature" happens all day and into the evening by a fire. Not necessarily while sleeping. I agree that it is nice to be in nature (especially when you can just cowboy camp). I also like a tarp with bug netting around the fringes, as it covers off the bugs issue. I agree with you that a tent keeping you safe from wildlife is just wishful thinking :) Perhaps for some people this is the equivalent for "putting their head in the sand"... and if that's what it takes to get them out into nature, power to them! 

It's a trick! Don't use it! Rappelling/Abseiling is the answer though. Some people use it for belaying twin or double ropes too. 

Your best bet is probably to switch out all your cordage and attach something like a LineLock to each tie-down point. Those things will grip even really tiny cordage like Spectra (which is definitely a good choice for your lines). There's an online store that sells them as a package (bonus, their spectra cord is very bright). Well worth the effort to switch it out on your tent. According to that store (which I've bought from before with no issues, FWIW), 12 LineLocks + 60' of cord will be 1.65oz. EDIT: An alternative that I've used to those LineLocks is another product made by the same company called a LineLoc3 (sold here). The nice thing about these ones is that you would attach them to your tent (the other ones are usually closer to your stakes) and then if you find your tent sagging or billowing in the wind, you can reach the tensioner from inside the tent to tighten it. In either case, you have to choose cordage that won't slip. Both stores I've linked to here sell a specific cord diameter that is known not to slip in the locks they are selling. It seems that Line Locks work on the thinnest stuff and LineLoc3s on slightly thicker cord. 

The only meaningful thing I can think of is that the R-value of a pad is crucial to being warm in colder conditions. If the manufacturer of the foam padding you are buying provides the R-value (or the material used, and you can find the R-value independently) then you have a good way to compare to "brand name" mattresses, which should all provide their R-value in the specs. So, assuming your cut-to fit measures up when it comes to R-value, I would absolutely encourage you to keep using it. Some people (myself included) prefer the comfort of an inflatable pad, but ultimately that's a personal choice. When money is an issue, going back to the good ol "blue foam pad" seems pretty reasonable to me. 

Part 1 - how do I deal with loneliness/solitude? For me, the key to not freaking out when I go out alone into the wilderness is feeling prepared. Usually on the first night of a solo trip, especially in bear country, I'm going to be nervous. I fight that by making sure I do everything correctly (as far as I know anyways!): food well secured away from camp, pile of rocks to throw at aggressive bears, headlamp in reach nearby. Ideally, I also try to hit camp the first night too exhausted to stay awake long. Whenever my mind starts wandering to the noises in the night, I try not to focus on what it could be. That being said, I have definitely spent long nights listening to mice (BEARS!), deer (DEFINITELY BEARS!!!), and owls (FLYING BEAR?). I've just learned to accept this will happen and remind myself that although I am not sleeping, my body is still getting rest by lying down. Part 2 - does the loneliness make it more or less enjoyable? I would say definitely rephrase this as solitude over loneliness. I've found that not having people to share the views and experiences makes them somewhat less vivid in my memory. I've taken to journalling in the evening to help me remember in the future how I felt and what I saw. The huge advantage of being alone in the wilderness is feeling focused on the experience of the wild, rather than the people you are there with. That sounds somewhat silly, but I've taken a small trip solo that I had previously done with a group, and it felt like much more of an adventure. Another fun part of solo hiking is that you will meet more wildlife, especially if you walk softly in the early morning/evening. Does dealing with solitude in wilderness make me feel like a stronger person when I return? When I finish a difficult solo trip, I feel like I can do anything I set my mind to. I wish I could say that the feeling lasts forever, but it fades pretty quick. 

A fuller history: They were approved for a few years (2004-2007) for use in Yosemite, which is a proving ground for bear-resistant containers. In 2007 I believe there were a couple incidents where bears were able to puncture an Ursack and "suck" food out of it. This led Yosemite to ban them from the park (and ultimately some other national parks followed suit). Since then, Ursack has released new versions it claims work better, along with an aluminum liner (that basically turns it into a more traditional container). In my personal experience, I have used an Ursack with an odor-proof liner (Ursack sells these as well) on the PCT, CDT, and many other trails in black bear and grizzly country. I'm not sure how well the Ursack itself would hold up to a sustained attack by a determined bear. My experience suggests that the odor-proof liner does it's job well enough though - I've had bears and other pests (rats, mice, etc) in my camp and they never seem to figure out where the food is, even if I've left it right by my tent. The worst I've had is mice a couple times nibbling at the seams of the bag (no damage done). From what I've heard from other hikers, you almost have to "defend" your Ursack from bears. You tie your Ursack to a tree nearer to your camp than you normally would do a hang. If you hear a bear going after it, you're going to have to actually do something - make noise, throw rocks, whatever, to get it to go away. Because the Ursack is a soft container, even if a bear doesn't get in, it's going to slobber all over everything, crush all your food into mushy bits, and generally make a mess. All that being said, it has one obvious, major advantage over traditional containers - weight :) 7oz vs 2 lbs 9oz for a comparably sized container! 

I hiked all of the Pacific Crest Trail (~4000km) and the Continental Divide Trail (~4200km) wearing shoes 1.5 sizes too large and 2-4 widths too wide (i.e. normally size 11.5D but wore 12.5EEEE). The main advantage was no blisters. I sometimes slipped around a bit on weird terrain, but overall did not notice any downside major to this setup. 

It somewhat depends on how warm you sleep and how much you're willing to layer up in your bag. I've met people who claim they used one 30F bag the whole trip (with thick layers at the start, and used as a quilt through the rest of the trip). I would call them "ultralight freaks". The more normal setup is to start with a 0-20F bag, depending on your normal warmth level, then transition to a 30-45F bag/quilt once the weather turns (and send home the extra layers). I've only met a few people who used synthetic bags on thru-hikes, and they were all quilt users, so assuming you go for down, I would aim for these companies (in this order): Western Mountaineering or Feathered Friends, Montbell, Marmot (only 800+ fill, the rest of their bags aren't so good), Mountain Hardware. There are a bunch more of course, but when you're going to spend 130-150 days in a sleeping bag, it's worth getting one that will still be lofty at the end of your trip, and for that you have to shell out for good down fill. If you're more interested in quilts, Jacks R Better, or Nunatak if you are literally made of money. You mentioned a 5 month hike starting in March - by my calculation you would be done in August which should make weather issues moot, even in Maine. So you would likely be fine with your summer bag til then. Note I have not hiked the AT, but I have hiked the PCT and CDT, and listened to endless gear talk from my hiking partners. PS: if you are totally insane, do what this guy I met on the CDT did: used a garbage bag as his sleeping bag for the first half of the AT (he started later though - June). Sound comfortable? 

Keep the inside of your poles clean. If they get soaked or sandy or muddy, clean them out after your trip and let them air dry. Clean the actual lock mechanism occasionally. Depending on the pole type, there may be a rubber cylinder that does the locking, clean it, and consider lightly abrading it with sand paper (not enough to remove any material, just make it rough!). Buy replacement locking mechanisms - these are pretty cheap, often $10 or less for everything needed. Makes a big difference! 

Lanolin: Yes, otherwise known as sheep grease. Sold in pharmacies as an aid for breastfeeding mothers. It is essentially a lubricant wax that will keep a blister happy and not stuck to what you put over it. You put a daub of this directly on the blistered area. Polysporin or that type of thing does not last as well as this stuff. Lambs wool: Take a bit of this and cover over the lanolin. Regular cotton balls do not cut it. Athletic Tape: Use large strips of tape to cover over the blistered area and enough on each side to keep the tape attached. Make quite a few layers. You'll know it's enough when you put your boot back on and walking no longer hurts. 

I've gotten shin splints on long hikes - once 2 weeks into a hike, and another time 2 months. I wasn't able to determine how I got them though, which has really annoyed me! I get that I could probably prevent them with proper stretching or warming up or something, but I'd be just as happy to understand why I would get them well into a trip. On the first hike, it was after a really hot day (40C+) but nothing was special about the trail, just pretty easy walking. My pack was fairly heavy for me, due to lots of water, maybe 35lbs. I hiked 30km that day. On the second hike, I got them the day after a very, very rainy day. On the rainy day I had a quite light pack at ~18lbs, hiked maybe 40km. I'm not sure what other details might be relevant. I would say in both cases I was in reasonably good shape, certainly well past the breaking in period of a long hike. 

I have suffered pretty badly from these on a couple long hikes. Here's my best suggestions from my experience: 

Shoes and a harness. Some places don't have belay devices or carabiners attached to each rope, so check on that beforehand, as you may need to provide your own. That's it. Chalk and a chalk bag is something you'll probably want pretty quickly and often comes packaged with the harness. For climbing shoes, look for something comfortable to wear for a couple hours but tight like a slipper. Imagine that you're going to be standing on your toes a lot, so you want a direct link from toe, to shoe, to wall. The same tightness should extend all around the toe box (i.e. gaps along your big toe or towards your smaller toes are bad). For a harness, just aim for comfort - you'll spend a lot of time hanging on the rope early in your climbing career, so a bit of padding won't hurt you. Lots of harnesses have a ton of "gear loops", but for indoor you can get the simplest one possible, just somewhere to hang your chalk bag, if that. Padded leg loops are worthwhile though, as is a simple way to get in and out of it, and an obvious way to check that you are properly strapped in. Belay device - hopefully they have a GriGri attached to each rope. If not, consider buying one if you can spare the cash. Otherwise, just get a simple ATC-style device and call it a day. In order to attach your belay device to your harness, you'll need a carabiner. Most people prefer medium-large pear-shaped locking carabiners for this purpose, but any large, D-shaped locking carabiner will do the job too. 

Whenever you stop, lie down with your feet up. If a cold stream is nearby, sticking your legs in it would be preferable. Take NSAIDs (Ibuprofen would be the my preference). My personal, probably body-destroying dosage is to take a lot. I'm ~200lbs, so if it gets bad I'm taking 4x200mg tabs at a time, every 4 hours. I've gotten by on 2x200mg but it was painful. Wear compression on your shins. The best thing I've gotten was a neoprene calf sleeve, but I've also done it successfully with just a normal ACE bandage. Anything that provides compression on your shin really, I once doubled up a stretchy ankle brace and used that. If you are far enough out that you have to camp with shinsplints, sleep with your feet and knees raised (put a log under your tent, or use your backpack under your knees).