In addition to war time rapes, there were also quite a large number of rapes during the occupation. The situation was relatively better for Japan (after an initial frenzy): the Japanese government organised "comfort women" to pleasure American soldiers on a large scale. 

Ormond Castle was named after the hill it stood on, Ormond Hill. It is now impossible to trace how the name came about, but the Scottish antiquarian John Pinkerton says it was apparently an ancient moot-hill. Incidentally these were known in Scottish Gaelic as , which may provide a clue as to Ormond's etymology. 

Matters came to a head when Edward III's fief of Aquitaine was confiscated. In the ensuing war, Edward advanced his claim on the French throne. Out of political considerations, it became expedient for the French bolster the legitimacy of the House of Valois over bypassed claimants from female lines. Salic Law, including the prohibition of transmission through the female line, was "rediscovered" to do just that. 

The Red Scare One source of strong support for the Socialists had been immigrants from Europe. Many were socialist at home, and brought their ideological allegiance with them to the United States. Immigrant nationalities established their own language federations within the Socialist Party, with the Finns being a particularly successful example. In a climate of nativism and anti-foreign discrimination however, the immigrant base of the party were poorly regarded. In fact, war time hysteria did not abate with the armistice, but instead morphed into the First Red Scare and xenophobia. Fueled by news of the October Revolution in Russia, the American public became gripped by paranoia over leftist radicalism. It is in this context that Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer launched his grossly heavy handed debacle. In a series of illegal searches, seizures, and nearly indiscriminate arrests, federal and local police seized thousands of supposedly foreign "radicals" for deportation. 

The Wilkinson passage is probably sourced from the mention of Tofu in Qing Yi Lu, a miscellaneous book by Tao Ku (A.D. 903-970). While more accurately dating to the Five Dynasties (907-979), it is conventionally assigned to the corpus of Song Dynasty (960-1279) literature. 

As a sidenote, perhaps the lack of ocean-going capability is a feature, not a bug. Tokugawa Japan is famous for its sakoku policy. As one component of the closed nation, Japanese ships were not supposed to to sail to other countries, which are necessarily across the ocean. Thus, there was no need to build ocean going ships, so not only were the coastal sengokubune economically efficient to operate and cheap to build due to the lower requirements, it was also politically correct. 

But this seems to contradict contradicted by most other sources. For example, he appears to have been in the United States on 2 May, and appointed on 20 May to the command of USS Essex after war had begun. Some sources also consider the United States Congress to have declared war when it passed the Act for Protection of Commerce and Seamen of the United States Against the Tripolitian Corsairs. But obviously that wasn't the start of the war, but rather the American reaction. And also less of a declaration of war and more of a force authorisation bill. 

Politically, the cause of feminism faced stringent opposition from more conservative elements of society. Despite taking part in the revolution against the Manchurian court, and being recognised for their role, women found themselves excluded in Republican politics. Mere months after the revolution, a gender equality clause became conspicuous by its absence in the temporary Republican constitution of 1912. This is despite promises of equality the revolutionaries had made to the women in their ranks, notably by temporary president Sun Yat-sen on 5 January. His promise was lambasted at the time and died with his abdication to warlord Yuan Shikai. A gathering of Nationalist representatives in 1924 declared one of their goals to be the "establishment of the principle of equality for women in law, economy, education, society, and to promote the development of women's rights". This promise was only partially fulfilled in 1947, when the Republic adopted a constitution declaring all citizens, regardless of gender, to be equal under the law. That said, due to the lack of a functional democracy throughout most of the period (and beyond), the delays on this issue had limited practical significance. 

So why did rocket artillery go out of fashion? As @CsBalazsHungary correctly observed, the problem was that rockets were inaccurate. Exacerbating this weakness is that during the 18th century, conventional artillery steadily advanced. Rockets were left in the dust as canons became more accurate and longer ranged, and smaller and lighter. As a result, rocket artillery became essentially abandoned by western armies by the time of the American Civil War. Artillery were far superior by World War One, and rockets didn't begin catching up until the interwar period. 

Fundamentally, the core purpose of silk is to be be made into clothing (or later, writing material, and perhaps bedding). In this sense, what is probably the earliest silk remains, dating to about 2700 B.C., were excavated from the Qianshanyang Historical Site in modern Wuxing, Zheijang. At least some of those silk would have been made to be worn. 

Wikipedia has this map for the area occupied by the Middle Mississippian and Plaquemine cultures. These two were primarily centred on the Mississippi embayment: 

There never were many Polish Calvinists. Poland showed some promise for the Calvinist cause at the start, but these early hopes bore few fruits. Calvinism, and Protestantism in general, failed to take root in the general Polish populace. Without strong leaders and facing competition from Lutheranism, Polish Calvinism soon lost its momentum. 

Therefore, Baldwin of Boulogne was not legally empowered to simply declare himself king. Nor is there reason to believe that either the Pope or the Emperor would have supported him in creating a new kingdom. Constitutionally speaking, making Edessa a kingdom was a non-starter. Now, he could say to hell with it and style himself king of Edessa, but no one would respect that. As a mere son of a count in Europe, his takeover of Edessa was through rather questionable means. When the crusaders were electing a king for Jerusalem, he was neither their top nor second choice. With neither political nor popular support, the diplomatic reality of the time made creating himself a king untenable. Especially because it would surely set himself up for conflict with Jerusalem.