If you feel the role you are assigned to is not what you anticipated, feel free to look for other work. But if you have not found it before starting the job, then go ahead and take it and stay at least a year. First you have to learn to navigate the real world of professional work. This job will teach you that even if it is not the perfect job. (Hint there are no perfect jobs, you have to make compromises in all of them just like there are no perfect relationships). Technical things are about 10% of what you will learn in your first job. The first thing you have to learn is that it cannot always be interesting work, but if you want the interesting work, you have to do a good job at the uninteresting stuff you are actually assigned to do. Why would a company want to give the better work to someone unless he or she has shown that they will get good work from this person? Entry level people almost always get the least interesting work because they are the least valuable. Next lesson is that your assignment is not set in concrete. You don't have to be stuck there forever in that particular company. It appears that other jobs are more interesting, so you can transfer to them later. If it is still the copmany you want to work for, consider that as a valid way to get your foot in the door. Then make contacts in the area you want to be in and after a suiotable period (most companies want you to wait 6 months before competing internally for other jobs), then apply for and get the job you want. As a known quantity, you often have improved chances over an outsider in compteing for a job unless what they know about you is not positive. 

I would suggest telling them what you did wrong and what you learned from that and what steps you would take to avoid making the same mistake again. 

You can be fired years later after being hired for this kind of lying if it is found out. What you did was seriously wrong and no reputable company will hire someone if they find out. You can't salvage the problem at places where you have already lied. The background check will fail. So your best bet is to remove yourself from consideration for those jobs. This is the absolute best thing you can do to salvage your reputation. Once you fail that background check, then people in your industry will know you are a liar and the word will get out to their other friends in the industry. Again, what you have done is seriously wrong, you cannot salvage the situation now at those companies. Then fix you resume so that you lie about nothing. Not fudging dates, not giving yourself a title that HR at that company will not recognize and certainly not lying about who your employer actually was. No fake educational credentials either. If you worked as a consultant for one company and were assigned to another more famous company handle it in your resume something like: Jan 2016-Sept 2016 - Senior Dev at XYZ Corp. Worked onsite at ABC Corp and duties included.... 

Now you can use the cover letter to mark some of these factors down without having to say specifically it was the cover letter. In fact by weightin/analyzing the other technical attributes you see, you might even find out the strongest candidate is someone who has not directly worked in some of the technologies you are intereested in. 

Try your local library. Often they have meeting rooms and possibly you can arrange for one of them. Our rec center also has meeting rooms for a very small fee. Or if there are any local offices in your area, you could go to them and ask them if you can borrow their conference room on a particular date. Local non profits might be willing to accomodate you if you can trade the use of thier conference room for some volunteer work. Local restaurarnts might have a private room that would be quieter. If there is some place you go to often, ask about it. If you can't find anything better than you already know about, then tell them at the start of the interview, that you work out of your home but construction is ongoing in your building and that is why you are at a restaurant (which is bound to be quieter than construction if you pick a non-meal time). At least they will understand why there is background noise. 

You might want to discuss this with a therapist. But what you need to do is learn to compartmentalize. When you are at work, then leave your home life behind until the times you get a call and have to deal with something. Consider work to be your oasis from your stressful homelife. A therapist can help you with strategies for how to do this. It's good the place you work at now is not bleeding edge because you don't need the added stress of bleeding edge problems. You don't need to be super hero here and wildly efficient, you need to be do what is expected. So reduce your own expectations a bit and that should help. Aim to be a satisfactory employee not an outstanding one. As you gain control back of your work life, you can aim higher, but for now, don't put unrealistic expectations on yourself. Organize your work so it is easy for someone else to handle things if you get called away from some sort of emergency. For instance, when you get a call, make sure everything you work on is saved and write your boss an email telling him or her the status and where things are while you are gone. This take five minutes and is five minutes well spent. Your arrival at the emergency five minutes later is not likely to actually affect the situation. Start your work day with a checklist of what you need to accomplish and then do something little on that list. It helps to know you have accomplished something and makes tackling the bigger jobs easier. Break the bigger things down to individual steps on the list, so you have more to cross off. You also need to investigate with a therapist ways you can reduce the emergencies. For instance, taking your partner off the shared bank account and giving them a spending allowance only accessible through another account can reduce the overspending part. And honestly, you need to decide if this is the right thing for you and your kids. They might be relived if you left this person. Yes he or she is ill, but he or she is also not doing what it takes to get better either. And sometimes you have to give up on people who are ill when they are also destroying your own ability to earn a living. I had a friend who had to deal with a husband who had brain surgery for cancer and in the process it removed the part of his brain that let him be nice to people. He turned into an abuser but she didn't want to leave because it wasn't his fault. Eventually though, she had to leave to protect herself. You sound as if you may be getting to this point as well. Discuss with a therapist. 

You may be more visible to people outside the company than you think or do you never enter the building or go to HR or go to the lunch are, etc. Also visitors are often shown through the building and may walk through your workspace from time to time. Further, allowing one group a special priviledge of being able to dress as they wish when others cannot will generate lots of resentment and may be an issue that HR would prefer not to have to deal with. It is easier after all to make rules apply equally to everyone. 

The main thing you get as a new supervisor in a situation like this is supervisory experience to put on your resume. Try to stick it out for a year just for that reason. In the meantime, make note of all the things you will do differently when you have a management position where they actually let you manage. Use this as a learning experience even if it isn't the learning experience you originally intended. Next, document in detail all the problems with the employee who is not performing. Not just one issue but all of them. As big a list as you can come up with. Then ask for a meeting with your boss and HR to discuss how to handle this employee. Press to put him on a Performance Improvement Plan. Without HR in the room, tell your boss that this situation is why you need to have the normal authority of a supervisor to handle performance problems. Phrase it as removing the burden of dealing with problem employees from him. 

First, for the sake of your own career, the very worst action you can take is to behave as if you are unmotivated. You are still being paid (a salary you agreed to) and you still owe them the work they are paying for. Next, you need to learn a bit about office politics. Yes even in programming you need to know and practice office politics. Why didn't you get a raise? Perhaps they don't see you as as valuable as you see you. Now that may be a misperception on their part or one on yours. So act to fix the misperception. First, start speaking up about your ideas. Document them. If others are actually getting credit for your ideas then that is entirely your fault for not letting management know they were your ideas first. Next you need to really examine of you are as valuable as you think you are. This is really tough but many people espcially those with less experience overrate their skills. Often they also underrate the contributions of everyone else because they are not really aware of what those people have done or are assigned to do. So the first step is to have an honest talk with your manager about performance not pay raises. Ask him what you need to do to improve your performance. Tell him you want to be his star performer and need to know how you can get there. And listen carefully to his answer without arguing his points. Really think about them. Even if they are wrong, why does he think that about you? What can you do to change his perception? If he tells you that your performance is fine, then you are in a better place to get that annual pay raise. If he has things you need to change, then change those things. Performance and pay raises aren't just about who writes the most code either, attitude is a big part of it. Teamwork is a big part of it. Learning the business domain is a big part of it. Do I recommend that you search for another job right now? No. First you need to work on your political skills and whatever performance issues you boss may bring up. Fix these things first before looking for a different job so that you will have a better chance to be happier in your new job. There is no point in changing jobs just because one thing made you unhappy at the first job. All jobs will have something to make you unhappy. 

Your disagreement is not on style at all. Your disagreement is on how much a manager should control the output of the person doing the work. He is being insubordinate. You have set a standard that he disagrees with and refuses to follow. You need to evaluate if this standard is important enough to lose this employee over because he clearly feels that it is his right to set his coding standards not yours as his boss. If it is important enough, then you sit him down in a private place. Tell him his performance does not meet your standards and that if he doesn't start to meet them, he will be fired. If you believe the person should have the freedom to determine how to do the work as long as the end result meets the standards, then you need to apologize to him for trying to interfere. 

Generally the notice period in the contract is the notice period and you are legally obligated to pay if you violate it if the contract specifies a penalty. How enforceable it is will vary from country to country, but I am pretty sure that countries like India where long notice periods are the norm have enforceable contracts in this area. However, you present this to you new company and say you must work out the notice period or, if they want you to come earlier, then they need to pay you the money to legally get out of your contract. A good company would not want you to knowingly violate your contract as they could then expect the same unethical behavior from you when you want to leave them. A company that doesn't care if you meet your contractural obligations to others is highly likely to not care about meeting their contractural obligations to you. So consider their reaction a litmus test on how they will treat you if you become their employee. 

If they persist, then you need to interrupt sooner and more firmly. Don't let them get more than a sentence out on the other topic. If they still persist, you can tell them they are wasting everyone else's time and to stay on topic. You are the lead, these people are not your friends, they are your subordinates. If they can't get a clue after two or three redirections, you need to take them aside after the meeting and tell them their behavior is not acceptable and to clean up their act.