As we are talking Medieval level of technology, I assume you need time for keeping calendars, as timekeeping on the scale of hours/minutes could be easily done using clepsydrae. Also, I understand you mean "solar day" lasts ~9 years, not "rotation period", i.e. time planet rotates around its axis (See wikipedia article on Venus for the example of extreme difference between two). Now, because of this peculiar geography I assume you have a need to know the time of "rotational day" for calendars and historical records. Achieving this would be relatively easy if planet has magnetic field with magnetic poles not coinciding with geographical poles, as the angle between magnetic north and true north will depend on geographical location. As your people move with solar day, the year for them will end when magnetic pole will point to true north. 

In short, yes, availability of some kind of valuable mineral resource is enough to build city in inhospitable remote place. The resource does not have to be particularly precious : if its extraction generates profit even after extra cost imposed by geography, it is enough. As an example, please consider Russian city of Norilsk: it is located in place that is probably closest thing to Antarctic desert and without the bonus of geothermal heat! Primarily they extract nickel or, but also some precious satellite metals as well. $URL$ 

Weaponized nanobots from last global war, designed to set off powder and explosives spread world-wide and are self-perpetuating, but no technology exists in post-apocalyptic world to neutralize them. You also could add nanobots preventing electricity generation and/or semiconductor electronics, if so required by your story. Granted, nanobots are a somewhat handwavium device, but, on the other hand, at this point we don't know what they are truly capable of. 

Before getting to technicalities (branch of knowledge, skills worth preserving) you need a highly self-organised self-governing group of people with a sense of mission that could do the job. Most likely they would be followers of religion that gives you sense of living and death, gives meaning to your suffering and strength to not be fearful of death and allows for a rise of some kind of warrior code (maybe among caste/clan of warriors). They would have a developed law system (not necessarily a complex one, but strictly adhered to), that will satisfy the need for justice and would be envyed by outsiders. In post-apocalyptic world they would appear most likely first as followers of some highly revered figure, maybe considered prophet. This group must also be self-perpetuating, either through recruiting new members, or natural growth. Preserving knowledge MUST be essential to its stated purpose: rebuilding God's Kingdom, or whatever purpose you give them. If the group considers knowledge evil and root of problems, they won't try to preserve it. Examples: early Church communities, highland clans (these are less likely to be concerned about knowledge preservation), Jewish people throughout most of their history, etc. Once you have your group and where it exists (decaying cities, as early Church in late Roman Empire; group of highly protected sheltered compounds in srarcely populated areas, what would likely be a feature of some reclusive Christian denominations in US) it can be easier to determine what kind of knowledge they need, as it is highly unlikely they could or will attempt to preserve all knowledge. 

They already have high voices. Their vocal cords don't make low sounds very well, so a hiss would come more naturally than a growl. The hiss is an imitation of another animal that hisses when angry and dangerous. For example, perhaps your species hisses when threatened because a certain species of poisonous lizard or snake that lives in the area does the same thing, so the hissing sound is immediately associated with danger. 

Depends on two things: one, how intelligent your dragons are, and two, how non-threatening they look to your goats. Are your dragons the human analogue of your planet, or are they a threat to some other species that is a closer human analogue? Can the dragons speak to each other or to the humans with the complexity of human language? If they can, they're probably clever enough to figure out how to keep a herd of their favorite food captive, or at least learn how to do it from others. If they are not, I wouldn't count on them building fences anytime soon, but I could see them being smart enough to keep tabs on one or two wild herds in their territory and take steps to keep them within the territory, such as scaring them away from boundaries or creating obstacles like trenches or felled trees. This latter case would be much more like standard hunting (just with "their own" pet prey) than like proper domestication, but I'd say it's valid. Complicating the matter is the fact that your goats will likely be terrified of your dragon, if the dragon is as large as you say and looks and acts typically dragon-ish. They will know the dragon is a predator out to eat them, and unless your dragon has some way to make itself seem like a friend, it will have a hard time doing any proper domestication of them. To avert this, it may be worth considering possibilities for a symbiotic relationship. Perhaps the goats trust the dragon because the dragon gives the goats something: a home, protection, warmth, a nutrient or treat of some sort, safe breeding grounds? The bottom line is that for the goats to trust the dragon, they need to get something out of it that is worth members of their herd dying when the dragon gets hungry. Maybe the dragon helps them harvest a certain type of fruit that is a much more efficient energy source than grazing but grows too high up in trees for them to reach, for example. There's room for a lot of cool speculative symbiotic evolution if you take this route. 

Actually, cleaning of cesspits and latrines was a well rewarded, if not we'll respected job since Medieval times to 19 century, you might want to consult this article: $URL$ Up to 19 century many houses in Europe had cesspool in basement, sometimes it caused wooden beams to rot and floor to collapse, as in the case of Emperor Frederik I in 1183, when he and his guests fell 39 feet down into cesspool in Erfurt Castle. 

What you likely need, is a world with iron ore not being abundant or not being within easy reach. There are several ways for this to happen: 1) very prehistoric civilization (more then several million years ago) depleted most easily recoverable iron ore deposits 2) due to peculiar geology, no young mountains on land, or the rest of land was recently (in geological terms) under shallow seas and to reach iron ore deposits you must go down more than a mile, etc. So if the only iron you can get is low quality bog iron, and even that is sparse you'll get the world you want without redesigning laws of physics. 

Your best option still is, surprisingly, zeppelin, as long as you use helium as lifting gas. Choice of helium over hydrogen is obvious: it is non-flammable. As for gas escaping bullet punctures, it is, contrary to common perception, not a significant issue: the lifting vessel is NOT pressurized, so the pressure inside and outside of it is practically the same. This was proven during Cold War when Americans were sending balloons with spy tech over Eastern Germany, (e.g. Project Moby Dick) and using prevailing winds to collect them. To big surprise of Soviet pilots, intercepting them proved very difficult: gas was escaping them so slowly, that they usually were able to complete their journey, and huge difference in speed made intercepting them using fast jets very difficult. Zeppelins also used separate chambers in lifting vessel to minimize risk further. Bigger problem would be choice of engine: you would need to use internal combustion engine, as steam engine is just too heavy. 

Realistically, you would use the same approach opposing sides used during Cold War: if you know orbits and time of satellites passing your location, you can plan accordingly, and hide only when satellite is overhead. Then you can dig yourself down, and you won't need to go too deep. 

Pick some events of importance to early agrarian societies. Basic examples: the new life of spring (plants in bloom, baby animals, etc.), the autumn harvest, the winter solstice. Flesh out some pagan traditions that would have come about in response to these events. Physical offerings, bonfires or mass candle-lighting, music and dance are some options to start, but don't be afraid to make them more specific. Pick certain symbols and details that cultures might latch onto over the years. Establish at least a few major religions of your world, based geographically. Write out some myths and stories for them. Think about which ones would be most central to that religion. According to your world's history and geography, assign these religious meanings to your celebrations. Consider which cultures were dominant in certain regions at certain points in history; this will affect how some religions will adapt to the existing religions of others, for example to avoid persecution. Give the holidays a few hundred years for the pagan traditions and religious traditions to merge and evolve. Not all aspects of Christmas are Christian, for example, but not everyone knows this. 

I feel like there are a couple of different cases to consider here, and which case is applicable depends on what exactly you mean when you say your scenario involves "comparing DNA." What exactly does it mean for two species to be "genetically similar" in your scenario? Same number of genes? Same possible gene variants for particular genes? Same number of chromosomes? If the DNA comparison is very granular, something like gene-to-gene, your scenario only makes sense if the two creatures are already quite similar, having comparable gene "slots." It's highly likely that two creatures with the same chromosome and gene counts could already interbreed, so the pursuit of making them compatible is pointless. The other answers here have already discussed this case in much better detail than I can. On the other hand, if your scenario could accept the lower-tech alternative of classic breeding based on gene expression rather than on direct DNA comparison, then you have a case of forced convergent evolution going on. You could theoretically breed any two creatures in the world to look more and more similar to each other. You could take a certain shark species and a certain dolphin species, for instance, and (with enough time and patience) make them both separately look like a halfway point between the two. Or, as Theik proposed, you could simultaneously breed a tiger to look more wolflike and a wolf to look more tigerlike. However, since the two species would have come from very different genetic starting points, it's extremely unlikely that you'd be able to get them to interbreed. tl;dr: If two species are similar enough for "comparing DNA" to make sense, they're probably already breedable.