This happened to me and could be the symptom of a physiological change related to poor diet which is manifesting itself as a lack of mental fortitude. I don't adhere to the pseudoscience of "finding" a motivation, because in reality your motivations today will quickly fade. For me personally, when I was heavily training for endurance this happened within a 6 month period. I completely lost mental fortitude and slight pain would cause me to stop or slowdown completely. It almost seemed like a physical depression. I massively increased my post-workout carbohydrate intake, which consisted of around 4-5 large peaches and other fruits. This is essentially when I learned the importance of post-workout nutrition. In my opinion it comes down to the neurotransmitters in your brain and the physical resources your body has, not a lack of motivation or fortitude. Perhaps increase your carbohydrate intake pre and post-workout, or increase supplementation with vitamins and minerals. 

First of all, 20 pullups is quite a feat, good job! I assume you are doing them with proper form: chin over bar on top, elbows locked and body still at the bottom. If you are doing something else, or eg. kipping pullups (basically, using your momentum in any way), the first thing you should do is transition to strict form pullups. Doing 50 pullups is as much a matter of endurance as it is of strength. Personally, I've had a lot of good results doing weighted pullups, which build up strength. This will allow you to literally "fly" once the weight is off. What you want to do is to use a dip-belt and hang progressively bigger weights on it. You could also use a backpack (and fill it with eg. bags of sand) but it tends to hang awkwardly and it messes up your center of mass; because of this it also limits the amount of weight you can add. Using a dip belt takes care of all this. You should start low, a few kilograms added only (so as not to stress your joints too much). You should be able to add about 2 or 2.5 kgs every week. You can combine weighted pullups with any sort of program. As for the program itself, I've again had a lot of luck doing "ladders". Basically, do 1, then 2, then 3 up to as much as you can, and then all the way back. Add a final "max effort" series at the end. If the last series is close or above your maximum, increase the max next time. The idea is to completely slaughter yourself. Doing ladders is beneficial because it will help with both strength (low reps, especially on the way back) and endurance (the high reps). All that said, though, I don't think I know anyone who can do 50 strict form pullups, so this is all purely academic. Also, when you say you can do over a hundred with pauses, is this with hanging all the time or with letting go of the bar? If you are hanging through all this, then you are way beyond me and this advice might not apply to you at all. === Bonus: Most people will find chin-ups easiest (with mixed grip in the middle and pullups the hardest) but this depends on how well some specific muscles are developed and even your technique. They all target slightly different muscle groups, though, so for the best overall results you should probably try to use all grips (and even vary your grip width). If you must focus on one, the most popular choice are pullups. 

For SAMBO you are going to want to focus on core strength as much as possible. Do not isolate your training...SAMBO is a sport which utilizes compound movements such as throws and take-downs which all require muscle and tendon strength and stability. If you are a strong male, buy yourself a pair of 16KG or 20KG Kettle Bells, the best athletes in the world use them for a reason, Fedor Emelianenko. IMO Kettle Bells are the only way to go for a incredible home workout.Kettle Bells will also greatly improve your grip strength and your overall balance. The idea of isolation training is a western one...very rarely will you see this with training in eastern countries. Also, do all your basic stretches. I do not believe you need to become involved with yoga for a sport like SAMBO, although it won't hurt, I believe there are better ways to train more effectively. Maintain your cardio by cycling and running. 

Does reducing fat solve my above problems? P.S.: Before I got my full-time job, I was only 62 kg. I didn't have the body fat scale at that time but I think the amount should be about 13-15% based on my shape, at that time I actually ran faster (about 22'12" for 5 km but now need 22'50"), did more push-ups (about 30 at that time but now having trouble even completing 20). However, after 1 year of full-time job, my weight increased to 73 kg because I didn't have ANY time to exercise, and left that job on contract maturity because it damaged my health too much. 

It's important to note that your weight varies daily based on all sorts of factors, most notably water retention (can account for a significant weight difference - we are mostly water after all). It is also important to weight yourself at the same time each day, preferably in the morning. Still, some variance will happen so it might be a good idea to weight yourself daily but plot the eg. 7-day average and consider that your "real" weight. If you are doing everything right, it should be going down, even if some days are higher than others. Finally, depending on your weight lifting program, you will start putting on muscle mass, which weights more than fat (if you consider the same volume), but depending on how much fat you need to "shift", this effect can take a while to be noticeable. 

Try picking up a new sport...I recommend Tennis for both you and your wife. If you are both new to the sport, you will be on the same level. Also, Tennis has a very large competitive edge to it. 

The quick spread and breakout of popularity has to do with the general mindset shift of Western training to a more Eastern training and fitness. In the West people have always trained to "look good" by isolating certain muscles i.e. bicep curls and machines that focus on a specific muscle, in contrast a Eastern regime is more functionally geared and involves compound movements with the use of kettlebells. Kettlebells DO NOT isolate muscles unlike a traditional dumbbell. IMO 

I'm not sure which of the books is better. I think I managed to grab more useful information from the first, but the second is better written and should probably be your first choice. Now, neither of the two is an "exercise bible", but they do provide more than enough information to train yourself without weights. 

How far along in the program are you? I suggest waiting about a month and re-evaluating. Novices can increase the weight quite fast on SS (I know I did) and very soon you won't be able to recover in time, thus hurting your goals. Pushing yourself too hard might result in more downtime down the road - focus on adding weight to the three exercises you do. It should be ok, though, to up the deadlifts to twice a week (so pull-ups just once). You'll probably manage this for a good while, and once you can no longer keep up, hopefully you'll be able to replace one day with power cleans. 

I'm a man, 25 years old. My electronic scale tells me 69 kg and 18.5% body fat, and my fitness seems to be bad when compared to my friends at similar age: 

I run very slow. Most of my friends run 5 km around 20 minutes but I need 23 minutes at race speed. When I run with my friends together, I always lag behind them whenever an upward slope / stairs are encountered. My friends seem to not lose speed when going up the slope, however, for me I think it is natural for the speed to be reduced as physical phenomenon. My ankles feel very stressed whenever I run, and get pain after long (starting from 8 km) runs, coming with swollen feet, exactly like this article describes ($URL$ Therefore I am afraid of long runs, and my longest race is only 10 km in about 48.5 minutes. However, the pain and swell can be relieved by jumping into the sea and float for 10 - 15 minutes. I tried to run along a coast highway, and for about 8 km each I went down to a beach and floated on the sea until my ankle pain disappeared, and continue running, and ran 20 km in total on that day. Adding salt to the insult, the pain comes almost immediately if I try to run uphill or on uneven ground, probably because of increased stress on my ankle, therefore I never do any cross-country race but I cannot avoid it in my orienteering. Some of my friends start, stop and turn very fast in their run, i.e. have great acceleration. However, if I need to run long, I must start my run slowly with only little acceleration, otherwise I will get exhausted very soon. For comparison, a bus always start much slower than a motorcycle. In my 10 km race, I think I used nearly a km until I reached cruise speed. I cannot tolerate heat. Even though I can run 10 km at the above speed in winter, in summer (e.g. at 32℃ 80% humidity) I can't run anywhere near the above speed for ANY distance. If I attempt to run at the race speed, I will become overheat in less than 1 km and have to stop. In contrast, I always run with sleeveless and athletic short even under 10℃ and get sweating if I run hard enough when my friends are already wearing t-shirt. The same holds in swimming as well, the so-called "swimming season" in my region is April to October but I seldom swim in July to early September because the water temperature is SO DAMN HOT, like 29℃ sea temperature under the afternoon sun, where I cannot tolerate and must exit the water maybe only 100 to 200 m of swimming. The pool is worse than, the water temperature can reach 32℃ where heat stroke is a real concern. However, I LOVE swimming out-of-season when the water temperature goes below 24℃, and swim for an hour in the middle of winter where the water temperature is only 16℃. Fat is a good insulator of heat, does that mean I am too fat if I can swim comfortably in the middle of winter? 

I started indoor rock-climbing a few months ago, renting equipment from wherever I was climbing at. I've decided to take it a bit more seriously and invest in some equipment, and the first step are shoes. However, there's quite a lot to choose from and I'm not sure how to pick - the only difference I really notice is how they lace-up. What should I look for in a good shoe? To reiterate, I'm a beginner and I intend to climb just indoor (for the foreseeable future). 

Do you have a pull-up bar or access to one (ie. in a park or a playground; you can hang off most things)? If not, you can invest in one of those doorframe pull-up bars - they cost about 20-30 dollars usually, which is not prohibitively expensive. If you do decide to head out to a playground, look for a place where you can do dips (you'll need two parallel bars at shoulder width and hip-height, approximately). The reason I suggest these is that you need to do these "hard", compound exercises if you want to gain muscle; push-ups will only get you so far (and that's not very far indeed). It is also relatively easy to progressively load them further if required - you can use a backpack and fill it with weight. These two exercises will work most of your upper-body and require minimal equipment. If you are concerned your abs aren't getting worked out, you can also invest in an ab-wheel, which costs about 10-20 bucks usually and is also a very good tool. For bodyweight exercises in general, the way to make the exercise more challenging is to decrease the leverage you have - eg. for pushups you can raise your legs on something, which'll stress your shoulders some more (and in general, you'll be lifting a higher weight) or you can try to push your arms more forward (ie. don't keep them bellow your shoulders but further up towards - or even beyond - your head), this will work your abs and lower back muscles more and is harder. Still, to answer your actual question, if you are determined to "make" your own weights, the best solution is probably bags filled with sand. Take some of those small bags which you use to pack stuff in the fridge, fill them with eg. 1 kg of sand (don't forget to double or triple wrap them, they can break and sand everywhere is not comfortable). You can then put as many as you need in a backpack or a bigger bag/container and easily calibrate the weight you need. Note that it's actually non-trivial to figure out how to add weight to bodyweight exercises (and doing something intended for dumbbells with homemade weights, you'll outgrow fairly quickly). If at all possible, I would try to assure access to at least a pull-up bar and exercise with it.