Therefore the axiom is as counterfactul as the axiom: You can find 10 different natural numbers less than 5. Of course, in a system having this axiom you can claim the existence. But you cannot really find these numbers. The same is true with the axiom of choice. Cantor and Zermelo were of the opinion that every set can be well-ordered. Zermelo axiomized this belief in his axiom. He meant that this can really be accomplished. His paper is entitled: Proof that every set can be well-ordered ("can be" - not "has some well-order" or so). But he was in error. This error is not only manifested by Brouwer's argument, but also in pure logic it can be proven and has been proven: 

Yes, actually even someone who could conceive of actual infinities, namely Georg Cantor. Here are some quotes of his. They have been stated in private letters but meanwhile exist in printed form: 

There cannot be any successful experiments because free will cannot be proven. In any case, whatever the results of any experiment would be, it could be interpreted as determined. The complete history of the universe including every "quantum jump" in atoms, nuclei and particles could be like the determined frames of a movie. I do not say that I believe in that possibility but at the end of times God could lean back satisfied that everything has happend as he had scheduled it. (Of course it must have been a boring movie for him.) 

To describe consciousness or conscious reality takes about 1000 billion numbers, namely coordinates and states of the neurons of a human brain. Nothing infinite or uncountable is required. Further, the really real numbers that can be defined, such that two mathematicians know what they speak about, are not uncountable. To believe in an uncountable set of "real numbers" requires to miss the fundamental mistake in the concept of countability or "finished infinity" (for closer information see chapters V and VI of $URL$ and is certainly not a better indication for a large capacity of consciousness than the belief in Gods and Goddesses or in the flying spaghetti monster. 

Originally mathematics, namely Euclidean geometry, counting and the four basic arithmetical operations is a branch of physics. The basic activity is finding labels (numbers) for sets of material bodies while properties like shape, mass, colour, etc. are disregarded. Same activity can be observed in other sciences, for instance classifying in botany or geology. All results of this mathematics can be experimentally verified. Also higher mathematics like analysis belongs to physics and sciences. This understanding has prevailed until far into the 19th century as can be seen from the fact that most universities have faculties of "sciences and mathematics" and mathematicians have lectured about theoretical physics (Cantor for instance lectured about mechanics). In principle the whole contents of mathematics can be reduced to this scientific basis, namely to the handling of integers - as far as real mathematics is concerned. But mathematics without abbreviations would be very elaborate and tedious. Simple examples: 2^3 = 2*2*2 = (2 + 2) + (2 + 2), and 2 = { } U {{ }} U {{ } U {{ }}}. Harder examples 7^7^7 = ..., and 7 = ... Therefore lots of abbreviations have been invented. And some mathematicans believe that these abbreviations stem from or belong to a "higher sphere". Like priests of the god of thunder have thought about their profession. 

Russell's idea "might it [matter] not also make it [space] discontinuous?" is wrong (like many of his statements). While we do not know whether space is grained or continuous, we cannot determine the nonexistence of space between two orbits from quantum mechanics. For unbounded states, i.e., for free moving particles with positive energy, there is no quantization. They can, according to Schrödinger or Heisenberg and even Bohr, cross the space between two orbits and exist at any point of their trajectory. Further Bohr's theory has turned out insufficient. Electrons are not orbiting on fixed circles or ellipses but are existing as "clouds" with positive probability in every distance from the nucleus. The grained structure of space however is suggested by the following: According to modern physics there exists nothing unobservable or unmeasurable (an electron has no position or momentum unless we measure it - and it does not exist with higher precision than we can measure it, according to the uncertainty relations). In order to define distance, we have to measure it. This can be done most precisely with interference of light. The shortest lightwaves are best suited. But even if we could collect all energy of the universe into one single photon, its wavelenght would be larger than 10^(-100) m. Therefore it appears nonsensical, from this standpoint of modern physics, to believe in shorter distances. 

I think that this quote says it all. We know that in the accessible part of the universe it is impossible to name infinitely many elements, for instance the natural numbers. Every physical realism will prove finitism. There is no largest number known, but there is a largest complexity of (mathematical) expressions, given by the number of atoms accessible to us. Infinite sets do exist as names and illusions like the spaghetti monster or unicorns. 

On the other hand there are also peer-reviewed journals in other fields where the unscientific character is even more suspicious. 

Water is necessary but not sufficient. Wheat is necessary but not sufficient. Salt is necessary (for many tastes) but not sufficient. Baking is necessary but not sufficient. Water + Wheat + Salt + Baking, is sufficient for bread. (Some sour dough would improve the bread but is not necessary.) 

I am really surprised. Believing in the axiom of choice means that you believe in what has been proven impossible, namely to well-order the real numbers or any uncountable set. In order to well-order the elements of a set you have to distinguish them. That cannot be accomplished other than by names. But there are only countably many names. This has already been understood by Brouwer. 

How do we know if a mathematical proof is valid? It is a matter of convention and majority agreement. There are proofs by Euclid, Archimed, Euler, Gauss, and others which at their times have been accepted but today would not pass. Further the personal opinion of authorities was always important. Cantor proudly mentioned (in a letter to Schwarz, 1870): "Dieser Beweis ist von Herrn Weierstrass als vollkommen streng anerkannt worden" (This proof has been acknowledged by Mr. Weierstrass as totally strict). In the course of modern logic the criterion for strictness has been increased, usually with reference to machine-provable theorems. And modern logicians are convinced, like their ancient colleagues were, that now eventually the non plus ultra has been reached. - From history we learn that we don't learn from history ... Of course all this is built on sand. Cantor's proof, for instance, is based on an absurd premise: The list must be completed such that all natural numbers are used up. Further, if accepting the result of the uncountability proof, then we have to tolerate "real" numbers which cannot be defined because there are only countably many definitions. So we can answer the question, at least about Cantor's theory, by stating: Everybody not acceptig finished infinity and undefinable definitions knows that Cantor's proofs are invalid. But this knowledge, although spread among a lot of mathematicians (see chapter V of $URL$ is suppressed in the official journals and forums by the majority who believe without deeper knowledge in what the "experts" tell them. And the experts keep their flag flying. Otherwise they would no longer be experts. 

Gödel's work was successful. See Christoph Benzmüller, Bruno Woltzenlogel Paleo: "Formalization, mechanization and automation of Gödel's proof of God's existence", arXiv (2013). Gödel's logical deduction has passed an automated proof checking procedure. An overview including the philosophical environment (Anselm) is given here. 

So my question: Is "peer-reviewed" a guarantee of scientific quality or even truth or not, and if not, what ethical standpoint should be assumed and expressed toward it? 

What would be some implications of mathematics not existing and to be discovered? Transfinite set theory would be a meaningless game because nearly all of its objects would not exist and could not be defined. Of course set theorists will not agree to this argument, at least not in public. To deal with this from a philosophical point of view, I can recommend Cantor's philosophical writings, which however are in German or French: G. Cantor: "Über die verschiedenen Standpunkte in bezug auf das aktuelle Unendliche" and "Mitteilungen zur Lehre vom Transfiniten", Ztschr. f. Philos. u. philos. Kritik vol. 91, p. 81 - 125 (1887); vol. 92, p. 240 - 265 (1888). Some important paragraphs have been translated by Mückenheim into English: See Chapter IV of $URL$ 

To answer the first part of the question: The set of all sets does not exist in certain variants of set theory (for instance Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory ZF) but in other variants it is accepted. In most accepting variants it is called a class because certain special properties of the notion set do not apply. But if a set theory is applicable to reality, then all things that exist must exist in this theory, and there cannot be anything excluded. The set of all physical objects and all ideas derived from them does certainly exist. So it is somehow justified to talk about the set of all sets. But we talk even about the pink elephant although such an animal does not exist. The "the" is here justified as hinting to something that is not a real object but is, as an idea, common knowledge of most people. In most cases of similar nature, including the (among mathematicians) well-known although not always existing set of all sets, the "the" is used because of this general knowledge, I presume. 

This logical law called syllogism can be formulated, using set theory, such that its truth immediately becomes obvious: Let A be a subset of B and B be a subset of C, then A is a subset of C too. A prime number is a natural number, a natural number is an integer, so a prime number is an integer. You cannot break this law other than by cheating, i.e., applying two different meanings of identity, for instance in a temporal development: Every tadpole is a frog, every frog can croack, so every tadpole can croak. 

Here are some philosophical statements of Kronecker from his Public lecture in summer semester 1891 at Berlin – Kronecker's last lecture. "Sur le concept de nombre en mathematique": 

Although modern set theorists are the largest (and loudest group) of mathematicians, always claiming that their theory is the basis of mathematics, this can easily be shown wrong. Everybody who is realist enough to consider as mathematics only what we can express and use in discourse must reject the actual infinite of set theory. But that does not mean to reject modern mathematics because this is in clear contradiction with set theory. A simple example is Scrooge McDuck wo daily earns 10 $ and spends 1 $ dollar. According to analysis he will become infinitely rich, according to set theory he will go bankrupt (under certain circumstances). According to set theory an irrational number like pi is defined by an infinite sequence of digits. Accordingt to analysis pi is simply a limit that can be approximated as closely as you like but never be reached. For finitists I would recommend MatheRealism. There the teaching is that the stuff expressing ideas and numbers is limited by physical ressources. This is important because mathematics has to be expressed by physical means. There can be very large numbers, if they are easily expressible, but it is impossible to express numbers the so-called Kolmogorov complexity of which is larger than the ressources available. The Googol 10^100 or the Googolplex, for instance, can be expressed by few bits. But there are smaller numbers requiring more bits than are available in the universe. The basics of MatheRealism have been collected in chapter 7 of $URL$