Determine Maximum Chainring Difference by subracting the number of teeth in the smallest chainring from the number of teeth in the largest chainring Determine Maximum Cassette Cog Difference by subtracting the number of teeth on the smallest cassette cog from the number of teeth on the largest cassette cog Determine Total Drivetrain Capacity by adding Maximum Chainring Difference to the Maximum Cassette Cog Difference Record the Maximum Cassette Cog (the number of teeth on the largest Cassette Cog) 

I guess you are struggling with a lack of stopping power? Ben Delaney from VeloNews has a funny take on it: "’cross brakes don’t slow you down, but instead just squeal to warn the guy in front of you that they’re about to be rammed." (He also wrote a great review of the brakes I am about to suggest: $URL$ Try these: $URL$ they are linear pull cyclocross brakes. They should provide more than enough power. If that's not enough power for you, you could do a full blown V-brake like the shimano XT. If you are stuck on the look of cantilevers, try avid shortys, I run avid shorty 4s on my bike, but the Avid Shorty Ultimate seem to be pretty awesome, too. they work just fine for commuting and cross. 

If they work, use them. When I've been unable to find the right pads while touring I managed to find some that would go into the calipers and initially I planned to just ride to the next bike shop. But they worked as well as the originals so I kept them until they wore out. The key factors: 

They don't mention the feature in the manual for that light, but my light definitely has it. And some of their new lights have a lit up ring around the button on the back, so it's likely to be present. The other solution is more common: have multiple rear lights. Many people use two (I use a battery powered flashing light as well as the constant, dyno light) 

What you know right now is that there's quite a lot of it and it's quite greasy. Which is useful, but not especially useful. One thing that occurs to me is to question whether someone else might have oiled the belt for you? Has it been in a shop, or do you have someone else in your house who maintains a bike? Is there a source of fumes where you store your bike that could be breaking down the belt? Or could someone have spilled chemicals on it? There's really only a few possible sources of that grease on your bike, which I guess is why you're confused. The bike is new enough that the bottom bracket will be a sealed unit, so there should be no grease coming out of that. The hub should be sealed, but does contain grease. Plus external sources as above, which is why I'm focused on those. I suggest cleaning it off and once everything is clean trying to see where the new dirt comes from. Right now it's spread from the source to cover everything, so there's no real way to tell. If you can put it in a workstand then clean off the hub, cogs, belt and everything, then reassemble it and test it you should be able to see whether anything is coming off the bike. I'd rotate the pedals enough to move about 15cm of belt, then run my finger/white cloth on the belt to see whether you can pick up new grease being laid down from one end. If not, ride it a few metres and check again - visually inspect everything to see if there's new grease appearing. If not, ride it a few hundred metres and check again. Eventually you'll have ridden if every day for a week and if it's still clean the answer is "oil got on the belt from somewhere else". (it might stay a mystery, especially if someone did it deliberately then realised their mistake and doesn't want to own up to it). 

But I would'nt do that for especially heavy or nice bikes. For my families "posh" bikes we have a stand on the floor which was simply a 200x10x2cm piece of wood, with blocks of pine nailed to it in pairs such that they could grip a wheel. If you space the blocks 5cm apart for a normal road bike wheel then it works quite well. Obviously there needs to be at least 40cm between the pairs of blocks, depending on handlebar width. We have it placed about 30cm from a wall which means the wheels are behind the plank of wood that sits on the floor, and are against the wall so they wont roll anywhere. I would get a picture, but I'm away from home for another couple of weeks. 

I noticed that Paul's Components make an adapter that enables SRAM shifters to be mounted to a road bar by exploiting the Matchmaker system. I live in England so anything from Paul's is très expensive, and I cant help but think... isn't it just an appropriately sized clamp with a screw thread? therefore can't any 31.8mm braze on adapter for front mechs be used in the same way? My overall aim get a 10 speed shifter onto my bullhorn bars, and I have some time trial brakes already so cant use bar end shifters. The appearance is very important to me, I don't want anything that looks messy or completely bodged which is why I don't want to have multiple bar ends or anything. 

material compatible with your brakes (resin/sintered) they fit properly (no extra wiggling, test by pulling the brake lever on then trying to roll the bike forward and backward. If there's slop in the brakes you may well have problems. they lock in place using the proper fasteners. I've heard of people using cable ties to hold "wrong" pads in place. That kinda works in an emergency. Be very careful. 

The good news is that you're willing to compromise on price. That means a fairly light, fast bike that is comfortable and can carry loads is very doable. If you prefer an upright you could buy a titanium-framed touring bike and build it with decent components, probably ending up under 10kg for the complete bike (without panniers). A better solution IMO would be a recumbent, also a touring bike, but with suspension and a much more comfortable seat. "more than 40 miles" is easy on most recembents, so you can shop through the faster ones looking for a match between fit and load capacity. I would be looking at something like the M5 Shockproof 559, or HP Velotechnic Streetmachine, or Bachetta Giro 26. Recumbents will be heavier, but much more comfortable and faster (except uphill). You can spec those up to a considerable degree from the base machine, because the bikes are built to order.