They're genuinely not trying to be rude or impolite. But how I can impress upon them that I actually need an answer without being rude, impolite, or improper in return? I already mentioned in an email to them two weeks ago that I had to know because I was pursuing other opportunities: 

... but I feel like that's way too impersonal and detached, and the websites I've read tend to agree. But I just don't know what to put there, or whether I should just take it out entirely, or what. 

It's not meant to be offensive. You take it to be dehumanizing, as treating you like an object. And in a sense, you are correct. In a large business, people simply are things, each of which has a function (your job), a price (your salary), and a value (how much you add to the company). To people like Senior Vice Presidents, workers are assets, exactly the same as the office in which you work, the equipment you use, and the product you produce/sell. You may not like the fact that you boil down to just another number in someone's figures, at the end of the day, but that's the truth of the matter. But there's no need to be offended by this! There is absolutely no negative connotation in a manager calling the people he manages "resources". My manager refers to me as a resource to other business people, and we have an excellent relationship, both professionally and personally. This issue is in your mindset, not in your manager. You are taking insult to something where no insult is intended or even present. Instead, focus on what your manager is actually saying: 

My manager is knowledgable but not well respected. He does not like to share knowledge, but would rather prove that he knows more than others. This is his first time in a supervisory position, and I am his one and only subordinate. He has the ability to be Jekyll and Hyde; one day I am praised and given credit for work I've done, the next day he will take the credit for work I have done, or will completely disregard my projects, only to replace with his own similar versions. For these reasons and more, I've come to lose respect and not value or trust his opinion of my work. I believe he is threatened by my abilities as this was previously solely his department and was recently expanded to add another employee (myself). I am looking for suggestions of coping techniques. What are ways to deal with a boss who takes credit for your work? I do not want to appear as a tattle tale, but I am not intimidated by him. Leaving the company is not an option at this point, and opportunity for movement within is limited (for the time being). I have been respectfully biting my tongue, and have kept composure with him. I have gone to his superior more than once (which may be seen as disrespectful by some, but my position requires me to work semi-closely with his superior, so I felt comfortable) I hope to move up within the organization and don't want to burn any bridges. 

I'm not sure what to do in this situation. I'm about 80-90% certain that if I just wait it out they will offer me the job. But I can't just stop looking and shoot down other potential opportunities without the certainty. What else can I do? I really want to say something along the lines of, "Look, I genuinely want to work for you, but I can't wait around forever and you're about to lose me." But obviously I can't, and I wouldn't want to deliver that kind of threat/ultimatum to them since they're not just another option or a leverage point for me; they're where I'd like to end up, if all goes right in the world. I've got nothin'. 

This is missing the point entirely, in my opinion. Because you are a resource. It's very likely that your manager was referring to people as "resources". This is very, very common in corporate settings. I hear people referred to as "resources" every single day in my office. We often say things like: 

If you look past the supposed slight, you'll see that he is actually protecting you from the other manager. He is protecting you from having to put in overtime or from becoming overworked in order to meet this other manager's demand and whatever his deadline is. And that's a good thing. It means your manager is putting his project and his people first. If you don't like your manager, or if he treats employees in a poor manner, that's something different, and it's a product of his character. But his usage of the word "resources" has absolutely no bearing on that, and he uses it appropriately for a business setting. 

I am a newer employee (less than a year) with a growing company facing change on various organizational levels. My current position is/was a newly created position, that I am well suited for. I have had praise for my work, have gotten recognized for going beyond what is asked of me, and feel that I have begun to network well within the organization. A newly created position has just opened up that is quite a few pay grades higher than mine. It is in more in the neighbourhood of assistant/managerial responsibility in a different department than my own. However, quite of a few of the responsibilities of the new position are already being performed by myself in my current position. On one hand, I feel like I have a very good chance due to the fact that I am already performing majority of assigned duties, perhaps to a less intensive degree than to be required. I already have rapport with the manager specific to the department, and can already rehearse why I'd be perfect for the job. On the other hand, the paygrade jumps a few levels (although how positions are graded seems to be a bit of a mystery among staff), and I've only been in my position for a short amount of time. I fear that it will backfire and will be seen negatively to having been trained only to leave the position. Because this was a newly created position, I know that there is no one trained and available to fill my place should I be promoted. My current manager is difficult to work with and not liked by many people. Apparently, that was one of the reasons they had trouble filling this position internally. That said, it is not my motivation for applying. I am truly interested in this new position, regardless of the paygrade. It is aligned with my career goals, although I wonder if I am jumping the gun. Would it be inappropriate for me to apply? Could it be reflected negatively? 

I have been searching for a new job for about three months. I had a fantastic interview about a month ago with a place that I really, really would like to work for. It all went very well. But they seem to move incredibly slowly when it comes to this kind of thing. I've communicated with them since then, and the selection/hiring process is moving along as it ought to be. They're just taking their sweet time. Meanwhile, I've gone through the entire process of two other companies, one of which is going to give me the final interview next week and (assuming all goes well) make me an offer. A very good and attractive offer, too, one that would be a big step forward for my career. I really want to work for the first place. They have the environment that I want, the culture that I want to be a part of, and some fringe benefits that I can't get many other places. But I can't just blow off every other opportunity and assume they're going to give me the job. I followed up with them once again today, and they simply said: 

In reading the other answers, it seems to me that they try to skirt around the issue and circumvent the actual question by saying something like: 

In the jobs I'm applying for, none of them have a contact listed, and I'm unable to identify a hiring manager in any way. Right now I've got a generic line at the top of the cover letter: 

Just to offer an alternative theory to the other answers: What you should do is almost entirely contingent on your company culture and the practices established by your companies HR for hiring. I do know of software companies where teams are considered sacred (if you will) and the team has the final say on all hiring and firing. Granted, the teams are generally well established, well organized and require very little supervision. That's why they are allowed that responsibility and can basically override their boss on team building decisions. If your workplace functions in that way, and if your team is a well established team, then you might consider having an informal (off the record) chat with HR regarding the situation. If there are established guidelines for hiring that say "the team will have a say in who is hired and who is fired" then you may have some grounds for filing a formal objection. But, be very careful doing this, I can't imagine your boss will take it very well. Even if the objection were successful, and you were allowed to hire this person, the working environment could become pretty nasty if your boss and one of your co-workers despise each other. And you won't look so great either (in your bosses eyes) for forcing the issue and bringing them on to your team. If, though, your company culture is that the boss is the boss and has the final say in all hiring and firing, then you are simply at an impasse. You could protest, certainly, but I'd only recommend protesting if you really feel that this is something worth losing your job over or, at very least, forever altering how your boss views you for the worse. If you have other job options though, and feel you could leave this job easily, and you feel very very strongly about this then, well, perhaps you could speak up. Just understand, you may be putting your job, as well as the jobs of your co-workers, on the line by doing something like that. At that point you must ask yourself, "is it really worth all of that risk to try and force this person that my boss dislikes onto the team."