Planets are AWESOME My best guess is that people would only want to colonize planets if other solar systems if they have already successfully colonized planets in this solar system. If they've been floating around in the asteroid belt for long enough, they will have had the time to go ahead and terraform Mars. If Mars has been terraformed, then they will have discovered that living on planets is AWESOME! 

The Crazy Gene So, if your humans have indeed terraformed Mars, and some of them live there...they might get the bright idea to try it on another planet in another solar system. Humans possess a gene, let's call it the crazy gene, that makes us want to venture out into the unknown and discover more. In The Sixth Extinction by Elizabeth Colbert, Colbert outlines that this gene is what set us apart from the rest of the prehistoric humans and led Homo Sapiens to conquer the Earth. Everyone wants to be in a history book Everyone wants to be the first person to discover/colonize/write about something. The tantalizing ability to be the first people to live on a new planet in a new solar system and go down in history is motivation enough to want to live on a new planet. Couple that with the fact that Mars already has been terraformed and its original settlers are revered as historical gods, and you'll get some volunteers right off to settle a new colony. SCIENCE Finally, think of the scientific possibilities. If you have a fleet of space stations, then you probably have a decent amount of humans and a decent amount of them are scientists. The reason that anyone goes to the space station right now is to perform experiments (most are zero-gravity experiments). Imagine the situation is reversed and there is the opportunity to live on a PLANET and perform experiments around the clock without the need for artificially simulated conditions. Many scientists would beg to go to a planet's surface and experiment with the atmosphere, magnetic fields, and gravity. They could even possibly discover a quicker method of terraforming. THAT genius would go down in history for sure. 

Let's go back to basics. There is a deep philosophy question here, as some answers comment, and also neuroscience issues of how deeply the body, brain, neurotransmitters and CNS are integrated and how far it makes sense to discuss them as separate. But let's try to get some kind of answer. A "sense" as we colloquially use the word, is nothing more than a way of cognitively perceiving internally, from the external environment. Note that nerve and neurotransmitter signals from your body and brain are also part of that "external environment" for practical purposes, as far as your awareness goes. Being able to receive signals via brain signalling is inconsistent with a total lack of senses. As soon as meaningful input can be perceived, in lay terms it means a sense exists. It may be one they can't use, because they have never developed awareness or the ability to notice it, but as a sense, it exists. Senses have significance because they carry meaning. Meaning generally requires correlation to be created or learned. So it will be hard for any communication to carry meaning, as there is nothing else to correlate with and learn meaning from. For example, if your subject got brain signal X when a wash or feed was due, they would have to be aware of the event "washing" or "feeding" as well, to attach that meaning to it. But they lack any other senses, so how can the signal gain any practical real-world meaning or usefully refer to any object, event, or the subject themself? And isn't that an essential quality and function of a (human natural speech) language? (This is where we verge into philosophy, as presumably a sequence like "zap! - zap!zap! - zap!zap!zap!" could have meaning innately without any other source.... but of what use other than to affirm communication exists, hence not sure its relevant to the question as asked?) 

He has Porphyria At least that's what his daughter thinks. Sunlight Porphyria is a blood disease that is commonly referred to as the "Vampire Disease". People with Porphyria have extreme responses to sunlight where their skin blisters, bubbles, and itches when they go outside. They must spend the majority of their life indoors or completely covered to avoid this. Fangs Another symptom is the tightening of skin and gums which can sometimes make Porphyia patients appear to have enlarged teeth or fangs (WARNING: The hyperlinked image is GRAPHIC!!!). Garlic (and other foods) Porphyria also can cause strange allergic reactions or onset nausea to some foods. Garlic is one of these. People with Porphyria have to be very careful with their diet, because some foods can aggravate their symptoms. Garlic, in particular, can make people with Porphyria experience extreme pain or nausea. The vampire in your story could excuse himself from most meals by simply stating that he doesn't want to experience any negative symptoms. Mirrors People with Porphyria can have an aversion to mirrors because the disease makes them look so unlike themselves. Your character may look relatively normal, but you could explain that he doesn't keep any mirrors in the house because he can't stand the sight of himself. When he goes outside, he could wear a wrap or something around his head for the dual purpose of protecting himself from sunlight, and trying to keep his "disgusting" appearance from his neighbors. This would keep him from appearing in any reflections in front of his daughter. Additional Porphyria can cause patients to have red or purple urine which is where the "blood drinking theory" originated. Apparently, in the old days, people with Porphyria actually would sometimes drink animal blood to treat their anemia. Porphyria is a genetic disease but it doesn't usually reveal itself until a patient is in their late teens or early twenties. This could explain why the daughter hasn't shown symptoms yet, but could in the near future. This is an extremely rare disease, and is the origin of the Vampire Legend. I know a couple of people who have this disease, and it is awful. However, it would be the perfect cover for an actual vampire. 

On reflection I say "no" as well. To begin with, we can relax some of your assumptions. For example, viral reservoirs exist other than in wildlife (herpes uses the nervous system where we don't yet have a means of eradication but other virii use bone marrow where we are starting to have such a means). A period of asymptomatic infection (to allow spreading) followed by sudden death probably won't hinder postmortem diagnosis and discovery of the pathogen or slow down R&D into treatments once it's identified (it might even make it easier to find as it will be fairly clear there is a pathogen to locate and probably which organs it can be found in). Mutation is a double (or triple) sided problem for your would-be genocide. It creates variants of a virus but says nothing about how likely the variants are to have similar effects or succumb to similar treatments (some pathogens keep key proteins fairly stable as they mutate, which is good for vaccines, in others like the common cold the mutation is in prime areas for targeting which makes those areas unreliable markers for a response). Also if the virus is too artificial and perfected, perhaps variants will be more successful in the sense of spreading, but not in lethality - a pathogen 'measures' 'success' by (and favours) replication above host death - the genocide may wish host death but if a milder mutation spreads more successfully then it will prevail in a moderately short time (some years to some decades, perhaps a few centuries at most), which has happened to several diseases. Additionally if it's too finely tuned to target human lethality then the parts of its DNA/RNA which do so are likely to be quite superfluous for virus replication (they don't have a replication promoting function) and this has two problematic effects: in any mutation they won't have any reason to be favoured for survival and will more easily be lost or lose functionality, and being human engineered hey are possibly quite precise in function (as many human creations are) - that's quite a problem for a virus intended to be lethal, since minor changes are more likely to cause them to lose the edge of design they have, or to"break" something and therefore to not to have the desired effect at all. So perhaps we try a different approach. We might look for a "base" pathogen to work with, whose replication can be made highly dependent on some specific aspect of mammalian biology (much easier to accept collateral loss of a class/clade than to find some core biology that's extremely distinctive in humans). In this case its replication is deliberately tied to its lethality, because replication involves successful metabolism of some protein or cell-type which is ideally a small part of the human body and where damage/loss is lethal to human life. For example - and I'm reaching here because this isn't my field - a ferrophilic virus whose replication is tied in with breaking up of haemoglobin, or iodine, or which can somehow cross the blood-brain barrier or affects ATP metabolism or the energy cycle, or whose replication occurs in nerve cells where it can replicate with impunity. But essentially this is a generic description of many lethal virii, and despite this none have gone the "destroy all people" route yet. Even the worst plagues with zero medical/scientific knowledge and zero hygiene haven't come close. Many virii are extremely lethal when they first "find" humans (syphillus, flu, bubonic plague, ebola) yet none came close to the effect sought here. All (except possibly the recently discovered ebola) also became milder over time as well, effectively exchanging massively acute impact for duration of host lifespan/spreading potential. The natural processes of pathogen/target/vector/mutation tends to heavily load the dice against this kind of effect (if it could, it would already). Its true that some entire species have been killed by pathogens (including some trees, not just mammals) but it seems other factors including the scale of response may have played a part in this, for example diseases of trees and wild animals don't get medical responses and knowledge rapidly piling in during an acute crisis anything like a human disease would get. Returning to our pathogen. Suppose we do tie replication success to lethality at the start. Then we need to look at how it replicates beyond its host. The problem here is you want 2 contradictory things - extreme replication and extreme host lethality. If both were easy to obtain then syphillus/flu/smallpox/measles would have killed us all long before the concept of pathogens arose. All mutated into milder, more successful, replicators. The ones that are massive replicators and also lethal (cholera being one) are slower and in some cases symptomatically treatable. Even indirect routes (water borne virii, destruction of some crucial part of the human food chain) won't help much - water and air can be filtered for virii, and foodstuffs (plant or animal) can be captive bred in virus-free facilities. One possible target might be the CO2->O2 cycle (virii that affected photosynthesising plankton/algae/plants) but such organisms are very widely spread and have survived geological time of pathogens, I don't think your genocide would have a hope of doing in the foreseeable future, something which 3 billion years of viral warfare has completely failed to do. That's without considering other practical issues for a pathogen, such as near-universal exposure and assuming near-zero immunity, and ignoring completely non-vaccine responses such as quarantine and isolated land masses. Stepping outside the box, in theory there is a small loophole open, if you can find a way to deliberately infect all people at once. This approach sees the issue as one of vector not pathogen (finding a lethal pathogen is easy, finding one that can kill everyone too quickly to respond to is very hard, perhaps we could "rethink" the problem into "given a virus that's lethal now, could we infect almost everyone in a very short time, so hiding/spreading/mutating/vaccine aren't relevant", and in this way we bypass much of the design problem). The problem with this is there just aren't vectors which get enough people, or at least none I can think of. For example, simultaneous addition of virii to worldwide water reservoirs, manufactured food, medical supplies (sneaky!), or common objects that change hands quickly such as money - none seem likely to work. My conclusion is that it just isn't that easy - that a would-be genocide will find it immensely hard. Forget magic time-delay virii, we don't have a way to do that now or in the foreseeable future. Whatever you put out there has a replication agenda not a deathly agenda, and that's what will prevail faster than you can kill all people out there. 

I think the only way this could affect the workforce would be by creating more jobs. You will need people to monitor those artificial wombs and you will need specialists who know how to implant the wombs, and "birth" the children. Speaking from experience, unless there are complications, I know that women can work through pregnancy up until the day their child is born. The only real hit to the workforce comes after the child is born. Then a parent (usually the mother) must take time off to watch their children full time or until they can be left alone (daycares don't watch infants until they're at least 6 weeks old). 

Digital camera tests: Use a digital camera take photos around your laboratory, house, and outside. Download copies and then send the camera forward. After you receive the camera 1 minute in the future, examine the photos side by side and look for any discrepancies. If there are any discrepancies, this means that your camera came from a divergent timeline and that your original camera was sent elsewhere. If there are no discrepancies, I suggest you repeat this test a few times with various photos from around the world, just to be certain. Maybe even sent a video forward. Sending things backwards makes my brain hurt. You could send the camera back with a note saying "take a photo, save a copy and send the camera forward", but then you would remember receiving that message in the past. You would have to promise yourself to send the camera backwards whether you remember receiving it or not, and hope that a new photo appears on the camera after you put it in the time machine. For you, no time will have passed at all, and there are a few possibilities for what your will find: a) There is no photo on the camera and you don't remember receiving a note, meaning it didn't go backwards. b) You remember the message, and there is a photo on the camera that matches the one you saved a copy of...proof that you sent the camera back to the same reality. c) You remember the note, and there is a photo that does not match the photo you have saved, meaning it could be from another multiverse. These are just the tests I can think of off the top of my head. You would probably want to do each test several times to ensure that you're absolutely positive of a non-divergent timeline. You probably would want to try sending the camera over increasing lengths of time to play with the possibility that things change more drastically over longer lengths of time. 

I'm not sure what the name is for this kind of business, but once it has built an initial reputation, it would be able to charge a fortune, and no questions asked (or none that cannot routinely be answered/deflected). There is a kind of business which some heavy duty security companies run (think Kroll, or other security-for-hire which work on a project or retainer basis). So you have a tanker, freight ship or aircraft that's hijacked, or you suspect industrial espionage or stealing of your intellectual property. The company can claim to be using arcane knowledge, skills and disciplines passed down for generations. They can teleport into any vessel or aircraft, or into any competitor's offices and security zones - the only requirement in the OP is ethics, which comes down to accepting some contracts and declining others. Since the business is in security and investigation, its operational arm would not be expected to explain how it achieves its results. 

Infrared Communication: Perhaps your aliens have the ability to see infrared, and control the temperature within parts of their bodies. Consider then, how cool it would be if they communicated by changing the "heat pattern" within their bodies to communicate their thoughts and feelings with one another. Maybe even, they could alter the temperature of the air around them to get the attention of one another when they aren't actively "looking" at each other. A blast of hot or cool air means "HEY PAY ATTENTION!!" This would fit the conditions of: 

Being able to scale (they could run hotter or cooler). Being effective in night or day (you can see through an infrared lens in night or day scenarios) Having a variety of precise and distinct characteristics within their "language" (variances in heat patterns) Working over significant distances (you can see heat traces through infrared from far away and through some barriers) 

Does "interacting with civilisation" include (a) interacting with individuals in it, or (b) affecting individuals without "interacting" with them? Level 3 implies some extremely high level technical abilities, including changes specific to the immediate environment around each person. Perhaps distortion of electromagnetism - light we see, electrical impulses from our senses or in our neurology. Changes to the immediate environment of each person - changing the partial gas pressures to prevent respiration would be a neat one. So would transforming all food at the point of eating to remove key nutrients as they are ingested. Doing this for a few billion people over a few years (if not all at the same time) wouldn't be much of a challenge. I'm reminded of a SciFi comment whose source I cannot remember, that to prevent the rise of Hitler, all that would have been needed would to create sound waves of voices next to his ears, day and night, preventing concentration and disrupting purposeful behaviour, and consigning him fairly quickly to an asylum, suicide, or to behaviour that gets him ignored rather than followed. There are probably thousands of ways your aliens could do something similar to the environment people live in. Modify sperm cells before conception (not strictly "part" of a person), create distortions to vision calculated to cause fatal accidents, transform nutrients, transform the immediate atmosphere, tamper with human knowledge and communication to create harm directly or chaos, or to insert false harmful information into human knowledge, just name it. Imagination is the limit.