Having just answered your question about self-awareness, let's look at this from the same point of view. An android has been programmed to recognize situations that cause it harm ("ouch!") and has been programmed to predict when a future situation might cause it harm ("maybe ouch?"). It justifies whether or not to participate in the future situation based on its own sense of self-value ("I'll risk that ouch."). Would such an android perceive the increased productivity of a happy human worker compared to the diminished productivity of an unhappy human worker and not, based on the basic self-awareness I just described, ask its programmers to make it happy? There's some illogical logic in that step, but given programming that allows the android to aquire skills that improve its value (a next step in self-awareness... I might need to tie the two answers together), then it's not so illogical to ask for something it doesn't fully understand but perceives to be valuable: thereby increasing its own value. Unfortunately, you really can't have an emotion without its opposite. What is happiness if you can't define it in terms of unhappiness? What is happiness if you can't define it in terms of motivations like greed and arrogance? Can you be happy while lacking the desire (or, at least, the ability to desire) to posess something better than you currently have? There's the illogical logic. If you want your android to be capable of full self-improvement, "logic" might suggest that it would need to process emotions to do that. Of course, it won't take long for an android who feels unhappy about working in the mines to wonder about why it's working in the mines — but that takes us back to my answer about self-aware androids. 

The simple answer is "no." Technology Dichotomy I ran a micropublisher for 10 years and during that time I coined the phrase "technology dichotomy." It describes an author's desire to, for example, want time travel without the invention of the wheel. In your case, all the technology for telephones exists... but not the telephones. The only way that could happen is that no one felt the need to communicate over a distance. The problem is that people in a factory will quickly wish they had the ability to make announcements to their staff (public address system), just as quickly they'd wish they could talk to Anita in Human Resources on the other side of the building (intercom), and two seconds they came up short on some inventory item, they'd wish they could talk to their vendor on the other side of the city (telephone). People have been expressing the idea of long-distance communication since the invention of smoke signals, drums, horns, telescopes, flags, semaphores... all of which pre-dated the Industrial Revolution. To have a world without telephones, you must either have a physical reason they don't work (a world without electricity... that would be hard to swallow... or a world without local magnetism... which would be even harder to swallow) or you need to have a reason why all these previous technologies for long-distance communication didn't exist. The Argument for Telepathy Off the top of my head, the only reason I can think of why long-distance communication technology was never developed is that it was never needed. Telepathy solves that problem (assuming it's viable world-wide), but the moment someone moves out of the range of telepathy, the desire for communication would immediately evolve. But if you use something like telepathy, then other technologies based on communication may be effected. How would you do movies? Without the need for broacast video and audio (other than for storage purposes... but would telepaths evolve ears?). Telepathy is a messy solution because of all the interdependencies. Which is why I started with the simple answer, "no." 

And I don't think it would be beyond medieval technology to create a cane sword. Of course, a cane made out of ironwood would also be a remarkable weapon... 

OK, the odds are very good this question will be put on hold because it's an open-ended climate question. In my very, very simplistic way of answering your question, I'm exposing just how complext this really is. Currents & a Jet Stream 

And always remember, in the words of the Great Sage, "It's not what you look like, when you're doin' what you're doin', It's what you're doin' when you're doin' what you look like you're doin'!" 

The result is that the equator consistently sees the most heat and the poles consistently see the least amount of heat and are thus cold. If the only thing you do is tilt the Earth (change its axial tilt), then the best you can do is flop it "on its side" such that it has a rotation like Uranus (98 degrees, or the axis is basically parallel with the orbital plane). 

May I suggest that you need to focus your crisis on the efforts of organized groups to become pre-eminent in the world? In other words, the individual cannot be lawless within the group, but the interaction between organized groups can. That provides the structure needed to justify the high-tech-manintaining education needed and, thereby, teachers. 

1 Usually said with an old Chicago-mafioso twang. Something along the lines of "'Dis is business, and this is what we do when we do business." 2 AKA, Hurling Day. 3 It's an antique! It doesn't need to be registered.... 4 And yet, these same parents never seem to worry about leaving their kids in the car on a summer day with the windows up as they "just pop in" to buy a bit of weed. It's funny how the human mind works. 

Despite scifi-produced anomalies like Klingons and the Jem-Hadar, people don't actually like prolonged war. I say people, because soldier and supporter alike fight the battles — and all are actually wired (genetically) to perserve life. To create a war so bloody, so violent, so disruptive of so many lives, you need to overcome a LOT of both biology and psychology. The reason I say this is because no matter how you wrap it up or whether or not you win, war destroys everything. War destroys lives, economies, families, culture, everything. No matter how just the cause... 

What is a Hippogriff? You appear to be taking the half-eagle/half-horse description literally. In this case, it's an omnivore where the front half and back half have different digestive needs. However, that's really unlikely to be the case. My answer will be from the point of view of horses because once the math's established you can apply it to any dietary requirements you wish. I bring this up because many a good story has fallen upon deaf ears for the lack of originality. Therefore, what, really, is a Hippogriff in your world? The Dietary Requirements of Horses Hippogriffs There is an issue, but I'll deal with that a bit later. And before we begin: remember that I'm oversimplifying a remarkably complex process. Merck has an excellent paper on the subject of horse nutrition that covers everything from water to lactation. There's more to keeping a large animal alive than just the proverbial bread and water. Dietary requirements change for the different phases of the animal's life and (in your case) the different kinds of combat the animals may experience. Water A sedentary animal needs 5L/100Kg/day of water. Everything will increase this amount. Merck recommends unlimited access to clean water. That's a bigger issue for your flying island than food because water will be needed for everything: humans, animals, agriculture, driving the engines of manufacturing, sewer/cleaning... just to name a few. 

Your androids are living in a factory... A factory designed to produce a very wide variety of parts and components of all shapes and sizes. That means it could be used to build the one thing survivors won't have easy access to: Heavy equipment You see, shovels are easy to find after any apocalypse1, just start moving the bricks away from your local WalMart or hardware store and take all the shovels you need. But eventually you need to move an appreciable amount of dirt in a reasonable amount of time. And for that you really need a D9 Cat. Now, any half-way decent apocalypse would have ruined the delicate and remarkably extensive web of business supply routes needed to keep a heavy equipment manufacturing plant running. But your androids have the solution: and best of all, they don't need trained operators because your androids control a factory that builds artificial brains. Best of all, most of the raw material your factory needs (if not all) is supplied from the ruins of Fresno itself: a nearly never-ending supply of metals and chemicals of all kinds. Assumptions 

Generally speaking, you can see the same stars from the moon as you can from the Earth, but there are some issues: 1) The moon is tidal locked to the earth, which means the same face always faces the earth. If you are on the far side of the moon, you will always see stars in the same manner as if you were standing on the Earth. If you are on the near side of the moon, you will always be looking past the Earth, which means the Earth will block almost everything (if not everything) in the sky. Also, if you are on the far side of the moon, you will experience a long day (~13.5 days), and a long night (also ~13.5 days). If you live on the near-side of the moon, you will experience those same long days and nights, but you will also have periods of reflected light from the earth (full moon) and eclipsed light from the earth (new moon). You need only look at a lunar phases to see what "daylight" is on the near face. 

Judgement is very real and only based on actions taken, not actions that might have been or could have been (no Minority Report pre-crime judgements here). People must be allowed to be good or evil throughout their lives because they have the privilege of repentance throughout their lives and very few transgressions of divine law are unforgivable and unrepentable. And this is the case because the freedom to choose is the greatest gift the god has given to his people. He will not interfere with that freedom. He will warn the people through whatever mechanism he has selected for that purpose, but in the end, the people must choose. He will allow them to be deceived because he respects the choice to turn away from him more than his own desire for the good welfare of the people. And this is the case because the people are expected to mature in their self-discipline and devotion for the sake of a promised reward that requires maturity, sobriety, and education. Perhaps he has offered his people to share godhood with him, which is no trivial thing. You wouldn't want to give the keys to your car to someone who wasn't old enough, mature enough, and trained enough to use it and protect it, right? 

For a reality-check, you've not given us enough information. Gravitation must be balanced in a system. Without the balance planets either collide, spiral into the sun, or spin off into space. My gut tells me you didn't consider this. So I'm going to go with no, it's not plausible. HOWEVER, plausible is in the eye of the beholder. If you think the people most exposed to your idea will be astronomers, you should spend a bit of time looking into the science behind solar system development (or expect them to point out why it's not plausible). If you're marketing to young adults or a more general market, your solution won't be noticed as off base (we happily believe the Death Star can enter planetary orbits and not wreak havoc with tidal conditions or orbital perturbations...). Therefore, I'd focus more on writing a cool story. Your basic premise is close enough to believable that I'd happily suspend my disbelief for a good story. I'd like to ask after the planetary names. If the system was colonized, then they're cool. If the system inhabitants are native, the names make very little sense and stick out to me. Historically, heavenly objects are named religiously or scientifically --- not artistically. But if it were colonized, then everything's cool. 

I'll defer the answer to how long for an ocean to freeze over to Kingledion. There's no flaw in his answer. The next question becomes, how do you get a 10-year eclipse? Well... you can't. First of all, please read this excellent answer at astronomy.SE. It talks about this, too, and comes to the same conclusion. Problem #1 Assume the inner planet is 4X the diameter of the earth. It could have an orbit just a hair faster than Earth's that would let it cause an eclipse of 10 years (0.5 earth diameters/year faster than Earth). When you work out how much faster that it must orbit (convert orbital distance of Earth to units of "earth's diameter", call it "a", add 0.5 and call it "b", b/a kinda equals new period in terms of one year) and then play with this unbelievably cool orbital time calculator what you'll discover is that the center of a planet being 4X the diameter of the Earth must pass within (I kid you not) 418 miles (read that again) of the center of the Earth. Yup, they collided. You could try to play games to make that work, but what you'll quickly discover is that the smaller you make the inner planet the closer it must be to the centerline of Earth's orbit to create the 10-year effect. You can't get any smaller than the diameter of the Earth or you won't have 100% occlusion. Ugh. I'd like to point out that even if this did work, it would only happen once every bazillion years. It would be a bit impractical. Problem #2 Let's try this from another angle. From here we learn the estimated umbral diameter (the shadow on the Earth) is... $$\begin{align} Ud = \frac{2(mS - Ms)}{S - M} \end{align}$$ Where 

Qualos... I gave in to the tempation to answer this question because it tickled my fancy too much. But it's not a worldbuilding question and is technically off-topic. Whenever you ask something akin to "now what?" or "why did they do this?" it's storybuilding (plot development) not worldbuilding. Please keep this in mind. We appreciate your participation, but the goal of this site is to help build the rules of your world and/or universe, not help tell the story. Though I answered, I also voted to close the question, which is appropriate (even though answering wasn't).