With a wooden shaft the thin light arrowhead would not have enough weight to fall tip first. You would have to add some weight to the tip. Romans used lead to balance their sling darts and javelins, you could do the same thing. Or you could shape the shaft so it has more weight in the front. 

I would say that there are not any significant differences between these groups. Not significant enough to make any difference in their ability to survive. Any trait that would prove difficult would be compensated for by some tool or clothing. Some groups would endure cold better than others. But that would probably last for just a few generations. "Asian / mongoloid" eyelids could prevent some particles from touching the eye, but other groups could just make a better hat, cape, mask or goggles. Over time their appearance could change, probably making the darker skinned groups more pale. Generally they all should be more hairy. And "negroid" lips could get thinner. But that is about it. 

Trying to open a volcano before the natural eruption would only help the situation. If you would make a hole into the volcano, you would release all the pressure and heat, it would probably make a lava eruption and cause a huge calamity near the volcano, but no pyroclastic wave. (maybe a nuke would have different results, but then you could use the nuke by itself and just open the volcano to make it seem like a natural disaster for a few days, before somebody would investigate) 

Related to my other question. What would be best conditions for a natural super colony of pearl oysters and the best conditions for them to produce pearls naturally. Shallow or deep waters? Slowly decreasing, long shore or rocky waters? Periodic currents around the island or continuous current? (To increase the chance of sand getting into the clams) Warm water? Coud it be combined with a coral reef? Reefs forming circles around the island or a star / squid like layout? I would also like if the conditions allowed the pearls to wash up to the beach. You can have anything you want as long as it can create a paradise for the clams. The conditions don't have to be caused naturally. I have a lot of handwavium to make it happen. (If it would be impossible to do with just one island consider if several islands could make enough glitter. And then I'll join it together with MAGIC or something) 

I'm going to go a different direction and say don't let the people know that the 1% are going to be escaping this hell-hole of a planet. Lets start with how do we keep the thing a secret while designing it? Don't let anyone know what's it's true intention is. No one below UltraProject Director needs to be aware that the people on this vessel will not be returning to new Venus. If anyone starts to question what the thing is for, you can offer them a place on your ship; after all if they know about it, they're probably a good person to have on board. If they want to "spread the truth", then kill them. They were already doomed anyway, you're just advancing the time table. Kill their family too for good measure. Reducing living family members to zero also reduces the chances of media inquiry, and again, these people were already dead anyway... Now, about who we populate this station with. Surely the great thinkers (or at least the highest elected politicians) are reasonably assured a place, as well as few "minor" dignitaries from the third world who we don't vehemently disagree with, all for the sake of appearing diverse. Our families need to have boarding rights too. The surviving laborers who created the ark should come along to, because routine maintenance and custodial work will need to be done. The Engineers and Scientists need to come, probably several astronomers, physicians, doctors, and computer scientists. Celebrities and media personalities (including celebrity scientists, sorry but Tyson and Nye aren't coming) won't be invited, because we don't want word to spread. Finally, the venture capitalists who invested in this business will come, because they invested in it to finance the building of the thing. They may find their new positions as fry cooks and grill line workers a little bit less glamorous, but that's just how things are on the ARK, we all have a part to play, my part is deciding what functions are useful and who boards, your position is fulfilling the utility you are assigned as payment for boarding. 

Far south-west of the main continent exists an island in a shape of crescent moon with dense jungles and slender mountain peaks and a single city named Kalt stands in a place where the islands' central lake opens to the sea. (large lagoon with a big river flowing into the sea) This city does not have any slaves, yet it is rich. The inhabitants mine metals from the lake, where a big volcano once stood. And its beaches are full of pearls. The sand glitters with the iridescent dust from the shells and pearls ground by the sea waves. Could there really be a beach like that? Could the iridescent dust last for a long time or would it decompose? If most of the pearls were collected by the inhabitants, would more wash up to the beach, if there are lots of clams living around the island? 

In the year XXXX Australia and NZ are released/break off from the states of Commonwealth as the situation in Europe escalates. EU breaks down, as many states start to leave and when Greece says it is not able to pay its debt back, German banks are ruined. Several european states are quickly dominated by foreing economies. Share prices rapidly plummet down and are quickly bought by Russians. Without its buyers China starts to press on USA, to pay back its' astronomical debts. Rich companies start to control USA and large portions of land are sold as a form of repayment. As conflicts in the middle-east start to settle down and I.S. is defeated... Egypt and Syria, ally them selves with The New Persia (Iran and Iraq) and starts to support Russian Federation as the new northern economic power. Without the support of other states Australia has to develop its own industry, the plan is to create industrial zones in the dry main land, the plan is funded by a rich yet mysterious investor from Singapore. As people start to move into the main land, projects for terraforming the desert start to progress quicker than expected. NZ is cooperating with Australia, supplying them with agricultural goods. It is not enough, so Australia looks for partners in Asia. Vietnam and Laos profit from their new trade agreements. Soon other island states start to join in. Japan starts to supply Australia with technology and United Korea (I hope that happens after the olympic games) doesn't want to fall behind. As the small island states grow more dependent on A and NZ, ideas about creating a federation start to pop up and USO is born. With the other former economic giants crushed under their own weight USO, China, USA and RF are only remaining. USO starts to invest into Africa and southern America, creating a new granary for themselves and also supplying their new industry. How is this? 

Lets assume you are travelling at an appreciable fraction of C. Chances are you have some sort of shielding so the front of your ship (and then the front of you) doesn't get abraded away by the interstellar medium. Could you figure out some sort of measurement device that uses the activity of that shield? Could you then combine that with a known density of the interstellar medium? 

If he's even remotely close to a large city and you wanted a landmark for your story, I'd suggest going with skyglow. I live about 20 miles outside of Wichita, and am surprised occasionally just how pronounced it is. Smaller suburbs have reduced, but still visible sky glows as well. 

I'm gonna say it wouldn't happen, at least on the computational level. While a doctor, jeweler (for making the scalpel, needle, etc), geochemist (for mining and refining the materials needed by the jeweler), microbiologist (for penicillin to fight infections) and textile factory worker (Where do you think you get the threads for stitches?) may be able to get together to make a Kidney transplant happen, computers would be way more complicated. Every CS college grad at least in some way understand Turing machines and bit-wise operations, but the entire computer science industry is standing on the shoulders of giants. If you got the right group of highly advanced specialists (Manufacturing, hyper-mathematics, programmers, system designers), it could be done, but if you just took an average sampling of people, I'd be highly incredulous if you said you got the right people to build a computer. 

Reread your story, and it sounds a lot like the climate debate, which is obstructed by approximately 1/2 of the United States. With such a "far off" and possibly "based in science fiction" problem, you're not gonna get any action. 

Making bolts or arrows out of ice is not a good idea, the arrows could break under the strength of the crossbow, because the force has to come from the back of the projectile to the tip, that produces vibrations and bending. The long thin shape of an arrow is not optimal for these reasons, and it is the projectile that modern crossbows use. Arrows also need fletching, that you can not make from ice, because it needs to be flexible at least a bit. The smaller thicker bolt could work, but the kill would still not be guaranteed, since it could break easily if it hits bone, because you have fairly thin point made from a very brittle material. You could compensate for the vibrations with a tube, or go full Slingshot channel and use pressurized gas to propel the projectile. BUT have no fear, for I have found a different solution, that still uses ice projectiles and crossbows. But they are nolonger sharp and pointy. The answer to this problem is quite simple. Shoot hailstones instead of icycles. You get lots of ice bullets and this type of crossbow. Round projectiles are ideal even for a brittle material like ice. Hailstones have good aerodynamics (all round things have), they are heavy, they withstand the shooting as well as the impact.(as proven many times in nature) In nature they still do some harm, but if you use a crossbow, you can propel them far past their terminal velocity. This projectile also doesn't lose its functionality if it's in a warm environment, yes it will melt eventually, but while it still has enough weight it will work just fine, while the arrows and bolts will become dull. But even this projectile can be very light compared to the intended ammunition (lead), so unless you have a very powerful crossbow, don't expect good range or accuracy. If you want to make the bullets somewhat pointy, you could use a tear shape, like on sling bullets. 

People have an interest in keeping their interests at the forefront of society's priorities, and these people aren't going to be alive in 500 years, so what do they care? 

If you're working in a high radiation environment, it's likely that there is going to be strong EM interference. While we commonly think of radioactive waste giving off Ionizing radiation, they also give off other types of radiation as well (RTG's rely on this). There may just be too much interference in the environment that these robots exist to rely on radio communication. 

These machines are cool, but also very expensive. The primary benefit is of course the same benefit that humans and other legged creatures have over tanks -- They can easily maneuver over rugged terrain that treads could not be able to deal with. That being said, in a world with aircraft (Although b.Lorenz points out not all celestial bodies have an atmosphere capable of supporting aircraft), there is no real reason to go with n-pedal tanks. If you really are interested though in such a device, I suggest you look at Boston Dynamics new Hybrid robot, and compare it to some of their previous inventions like the Big Dog. By using a creature with knees, but using wheels instead of feet, the hybrid has the advantages of a bipedal locomotion, while eschewing the complexity of multi-jointed ankles. 

North Korea has been a problem child in the world-at-large for longer than most of the world has been alive. The DMZ is one of the largest permanent military operations in the world, and every act made by the nation is scrutinized thoroughly and treated with the utmost suspicion. A sort of prejudice against any action taken by N. Korea has formed in the world consciousness. Tomorrow, Kim-Jong Al* usurps Kim-Jong Un in a violent takeover because he's sick of seeing his people in a famine state, he's sick of his people being denigrated, and he's sick of constantly wondering if eagleland will get sick of his nations antics and use nuclear weapons to make South Korea an island; but most of all, he's sick of the embargo that keeps him from upgrading from iPhone 6 to the iPhone 6s. Given the current hostility towards anything North Korean, what would he have to do, and what would the world have to do, in order to bring North Korea gracefully into the world economy? At this point it seems like the mistrust would run too deep to gracefully let the nation become a world player. *A fictional "Second Prince" to Kim-Jong Un if you will 

Rust cloaks (red dust of mars) Reds (red planet) (or Communists) Red colour- rouge(fr. But also similar to rogue) There could be a name that derives from their reputation or function. Vultures x Settlers Or you can go with mythology and find names of children of Ares. Amazons, Thrax, Phobos etc. Then there is an option to name them after a first colonisation ship or a first martian settlement. So you can name them anything you fancy. 

I do not know if more dangerous rays can trigger the same reaction in the skin as UV light does, but I expect they don't. These people would most probably suffer lack of melanin as well as vitamin D. So they would need some sort of artificial sunlight source. Expect european people to be a bit paler if they do not attend their artificial sunlight exposures, but otherwise there shouln't be much difference. Tanning and skin color have very little to do with each other. One is a reaction of skin on dangerous environment and the other is a genetical predisposition. 

What would happen? Probably the same thing that happened with diamonds. Natural gold would be still as rare as it was, and the manufactured gold would be for electronics and industry in general.(if the information would be public). If the government managed to keep this a secret, then people would ask, where is this gold coming from? SO there would need to be some kind of coverup... Government paying treasure hunters to excavate gold from spanish ship-wrecks and then manipulating the numbers, fake international transactions, fake gold mines in desolate locations, etc.