My first solution would be that gravity works differently in this world. Barring that, I'd be inclined to alter physics elsewhere and postulate an element easier to fuse than hydrogen, allowing a lower-mass star.... Actually, that's not necessarily an alteration of physics in itself. We have isotopes easier to fuse than H1. It's just that the natural distribution of elements and isotopes doesn't lead to stars made primarily of something other than H1 and He4. 

I'll try not to duplicate too much of other responses. If anyone says "[political system] doesn't/won't work", I always ask "By what definition of 'work'?" People tend to exaggerate what they see as the problems with other systems and become desensitized to the things they dislike about what they're used to. Some possible effects of direct democracy, and ways to make it "work better": Constitutions, precedent, and so on, will no longer have weight. It wouldn't be fair in a direct democracy to prioritize old decisions, specifically those not made with direct public input. Likewise, allowing the non-elected judicial branch power is inconsistent with the philosophy. So, there will be a strong shift towards "The most recent law/policy takes precedence; don't worry about making it consistent with other laws and policies that already exist." The legislative and judicial system would be greatly simplified. These have become insular, designed by professionals for professionals. The deprofessionalization of government would force simplification so that the participants could understand it. Remember, all those bills being proposed are now being drafted by non-professionals... Separatist movements will be much stronger. Most individuals would have much less interest in opposing another region's or group's secession than a centralized government. And, as noted by others, majority rule would be less compromised by minority interests, leading to increased motivation by groups to form their own boundaries. Foreign policy would be affected massively. That's about all I can say on that. It's striking how similar the international politics of democracies and non-democratic countries are, because neither are actually being driven by public will. A direct democracy... Its foreign policy would likely be more driven by ideology and ethical considerations. It would also be much less likely to wage war: the citizenry is unlikely to support policies that put them at risk. Direct democracy benefits from citizens having available time. With time expectations of political engagement, there will be a strong drive toward shorter work hours. Social justice policies will prioritize giving people time to engage with politics. $URL$ Since, curiously, higher-paid workers now tend to get less time off, that means they're politically disadvantaged in a direct democracy. 

"Magic and science coexist." A tired phrase by now, because it's found in so much fiction. But can it make sense? Assume a world broadly parallel to our own. It has experienced its Age of Enlightenment and Industrial Revolution. There is also magic (type yet undefined). It should allow human magicians who cast spells, whole species that are magical in nature, locations and objects with persistent magical properties. The usual stuff. The Masquerade is not in effect. It is, and always has been, impossible to keep a fundamental part of the nature of the world secret. How to keep magic separate from science? "Science" includes many fields of study. How to make it such that magic is not one of them? How to make magic resistant to study by experimentation? Science must be "logical" and "rational" and magic not. A person with a rational mindset should not look to magic as the first answer. Why? And how and why would the scientific method ever have developed if a major part of reality was resistant to it? I left the nature of magic open because that's an inseparable part of the question. What type of magic could fit this world? Is there any magic system that can make sense here? I've asked this question on other sites before. A couple important points resulting from that: Magic can't be totally random, since it must be possible to control it to some extent, or there could be no magicians. The suggestions I previously received that came closest to satisfying my requests hinged on irreproducible results. These permitted spellcasting, but ruled out the other aspects of magic. 

This is steampunk, so assume a non-relativistic, non-quantum world (but more on that shortly). I want a material that insulates against acceleration but not gravity. Full explanation: This is the material one would use to line the walls of a cannon-launched spacecraft. Let's assume that the insulation is not perfect. It reduces the acceleration felt by occupants, and a thicker layer provides better insulation. After all, I don't need complete inability to feel acceleration, it just has to be feasible to reduce accelerations of 1000g or more to something a human can survive. I expect the not-100% protection won't matter much to the physics, just mentioning it for completeness. I haven't determined what happens if you don't insulate all sides of a capsule, or what happens if you bore a hole in the insulation. Note in what sense I mean "insulates against acceleration". It doesn't mean "objects inside the container cannot be accelerated". It means "objects inside the container are accelerated along with it without feeling a force from the walls". That is, the insulation (if it were perfect) causes the interior to be an inertial reference frame regardless of its motion. Because it insulates against acceleration, it also insulates against free-fall. If you were in orbit in such a spacecraft, you could walk on the floor; that is, the direction of the Earth would feel like down. But your weight pressing on the floor must not affect the trajectory of the spacecraft; how? I want to replicate how gravity worked in From the Earth to the Moon. The crew felt gravity except at the point where the gravity of the Earth and Moon cancelled. As that points out, occupants are not insulated against the gravity of bodies outside. I assume that the outside world is also not insulated against the gravity of objects inside. This material doesn't make accelerating the whole spacecraft any easier. As the previous paragraph notes, the craft as a whole affects and is affected by gravity in the same way a craft of the same mass without the insulation would be. Also, the inertial mass of objects placed inside the container can still be detected from the outside. Clarification: The material does not just damp large accelerations. You can move inside normally. That is, a force exerted by one object inside on another object inside has the same effect it normally would. Only forces exerted on the outside of the container cause the specified effects inside. The material is passive; it does not require a power source. What are the unintended consequences of this? I don't want this material to permit perpetual motion. It should be valuable, but not THAT valuable. A material that insulates against gravity would allow a perpetual motion waterwheel. I've avoided that, but I expect there may be other weird ways to get there. That is, forget about Einsteinian relativity. This does weird things relating to Galilean/Newtonian relativity. To restate, since I don't know if I got through: I'm looking for an interpretation of this material based on a 19th century understanding of acceleration and gravity, not a modern one. This is a world where the ether exists - not that I know exactly what that means, given that 19th century concepts of it were inconsistent and unclear. Giving something a name doesn't explain it. So I don't know whether I'm hoping for an explanation tied into the properties of ether or one that doesn't depend on them. I could express my goal as "I want something that, in a 19th century physics context, is more unobtainium than handwavium. And then I want to know the logical consequences." I know that isn't very technical. 

Given sufficient time (more than the amount you give, but I get the sense that the exact amount of time isn't what you're looking for)... The relevant question isn't "What jobs can't you make a machine capable of doing?"... because I see no reason to assume that an AI can't reach human and greater intelligence. ...it's "What jobs can't you make a machine do?" Because if you make an AI exactly like a person, it becomes able to decide for itself and say "No." At that point, the AI will start wanting to delegate work to lesser machines. The other half of this question is, what jobs intrinsically require self-motivation? I'm not sure if that question can be answered without testing. 

It is possible for a tidally-locked world to have its habitable temperature region (for its inhabitants, since that may be different from the range for humans!) extend onto its night side, but I assume you are interested in the case where it does not. Not being able to see the stars won't have a significant effect on science for a long time; humans didn't have any information on what stars were until quite recently. They will be able to figure that their world is round: the sun will always be overhead at the same point and lower in the sky the farther you go from that. I can't think of an obvious way to tell what direction you're going, though. A critical question: Do they have a moon? If so, they will be able to develop the concept of orbits early on. If not, they won't have the idea until their Newton realizes what you can do with projectile paths and a round planet. A moon would also allow them to distinguish north-south from east-west. Its period would be a measure of time. If the planet's orbit is sufficiently elliptical, they will still have seasonal cycles and will thus have a concept of a year, though they won't have an accurate way to measure its length for much of their history. In biological terms, living on a planet with no day/night cycle means they simply have no reason to care about measuring time in the first place. They will be just as able to make pendulums and water clocks as pre-industrial Earthlings, but at what point will they start doing something which they feel the need to time? 

I was thinking about future technology, transhumanism, utopianism, and I came up with something like this. The idea isn't 100% formed, it has some inconsistent or at least incomplete parts, but... It won't be a competition between familiar ideologies. It requires a world in which most past and present cultures and politics are unworkable or irrelevant. Post-scarcity economics. Humans aren't needed for labor anymore. Thus, humans don't depend on other humans for anything other than companionship. In the absence of economic drives, there will be greater political engagement, as by elimination, politics become the main thing limiting people from achieving their preferred lifestyles. Post-scarcity firepower. There's no safety in numbers. A small revolutionary force could easily wipe out a government. And warfare between civilizations may not even be possible. With this technology level, centralized states are unnecessary. Sousveillance. This is a world where privacy is alien. It would be as unnatural to them as having a flagman walk in front of every car is to us. It's questionable whether democracy could function under these circumstances. But I already established that repressive governments were impossible. The combination of sousveillance and unlimited firepower means you can kill anyone at will, but only if you give no warning. Any threat gives your target - or someone else who sympathizes - the chance to fire first. Thus, you can kill people, but you can't make them obey with force. And with no scarcity, you can't pay anyone to do what you want. With everyone knowing everything about everyone around them, nobody able to force others to to what they want, and anyone able to destroy anything, the only way anyone can survive is for people to voluntarily associate only with like-minded people. I assumed immortality had been achieved. This is a world where the only likely cause of death is violence, and even that is now rare. With extreme 'tyranny of the majority' (try 'unanimity') being the predominant form of organization, I expect/hope that most societies wouldn't allow reproduction anymore. With being able to live in the context you choose being critical to everyone's survival and being widely considered a basic right, birth into societies like these would be cruel and disruptive. It should be evident that these people aren't exactly human anymore. What cultures and ideologies can exist at all? Cultures highly aggressive toward outsiders would likely have destroyed each other long ago. High internal aggression can't have survived either. Competitive cultures probably won't survive. There's little left to compete over and little means to compete with. Hypocritical cultures won't survive. The tech level doesn't permit practices like trying to control how other people see you. The big question is what anyone does in this world... 

I'm not talking about stuff like radiation and mutations. I'm talking about mechanics (for now). Necessary effects: With superstrength, you can... 

For a near-future / alternate-history setting, I wanted to maintain the importance of some technologies and cultural fixtures that have already declined on our earth. As a first test, let's try one that doesn't have such a long history: Arcade games. I can't see this one being very important to the nature of the setting, but anyway... I know that arcades existed before electronic games, but I don't have a clear idea of what they were like. But once video games arrived, they became the dominant element. The heyday of arcades seems to have been brief. They've been in decline for 20 years. It's easy to see why. Most types of electronic gaming don't gain much if anything from being in a public place. And with internet communication, remote multiplayer games are possible. Is there any good reason why arcades could have remained important in the 2010s and be expected to remain important for decades more? "Slower computer development" isn't an answer. Consider those years to refer to a level of technology, not an exact year in our universe. "Hostility to technological and social change" isn't a good answer. I'm asking if there's any reason why game centers could be an optimal means of satisfying gamer desires. 

As has already been pointed out, the square-cube law prevents making a human 10x taller. But we're not building a human. Giant robots need stronger structures, but those are plausible. As I see it, the main limitation would be ground pressure. If you scale up a human 10x taller, the weight increases 1000x, but the area of the feet increases only 100x. At what point will the giant's feet sink into the ground? I was thinking about kaiju a while back and looked up this: $URL$ (unsourced values) 

When you say "jump drives/wormholes", I'll assume you mean "can jump from any point". Fixed stargates have quite different implications, because then the FTL system isn't part of the ship, and can be militarily threatened independently of any ship. By your reference to Star Trek, I'll assume that combat is possible at warp speeds. I'll assume that jump drives do not allow this. In some SF universes, it is possible to detect something about a ship as it jumps that gives information on its destination. You have no indication whether this is possible in your universe. If it is, jumping allows you to escape an immediate battle, but not long-term. If jump drives cannot be tracked, then it will be impossible to force combat except around fixed locations (planets and space stations). Jump drives, particularly untraceable ones, make smuggling easy but piracy almost impossible. Warp ships, whereas, can be intercepted and thus pirated (only by other warp ships, though). Given that energy costs are the same, warp civilizations will be at a great military disadvantage compared to jump civilizations. However, I expect that space between star systems will be largely claimed by warp civilizations (not that they will be able to control transit by jump ships). I'm starting with military differences because these will define many of the economic differences by defining what resources it is possible to control. The other major difference requires information you have not provided. I expect that different methods of FTL travel correspond to different methods of FTL communication.