In one of the pacific islands colonized by the Germans, one tribesmen accidentally killed a member of another tribe at a wedding with guests from all the appox 12 tribes on the island. The result was an every tribe v. Every other tribe in a 10 year civil war until the Germans kidnapped all the chiefs and threatened to kill them until there was peace. The civil war was not about one tribe conquering the other but soley about rrvenge . 

These generals were given these titles because they performed a great victory there (in the eyes of the king). 

I was reading about Rhodesia and found that there were Blacks serving in the Rhodesian military. The caption of this picture asserts that they were the majority of the millitary! I would have expected the black soldiers to frag their white officers, "misplace" equipment, or openly go rogue. What kept these Black soldiers loyal enough to not do this and what convinced (other than desperate wishing) the Whites that they would be trustworthy? Were they Ndebele from Matabeland who Shona such as Mugabe would come into conflict with after independence? Were they vetted followers of Abel Muzorewa who promoted loyalty to Rhodesia in exchange for better rights? (Note, Abel would only come to power briefly in 1979 and the picture is from 1976) Were they just paid extremely well? $URL$ 

The citation for the tar shower is from a book from 2007 but perhaps that book quotes some medieval work from somebody who has never been there (haven't read it). The Latin name for the Dead Sea is "asphalt sea" so some monk might have thought that the sea was compromised soley of liquid tar. Nevertheless, the valley does contain tar pits and it is possible that one of these deposits was higher than the city and spilled upon it. 

There was Atlit Detainee Camp, a prison built by the British to hold Jewish immigrants. POWs from the Arab armies as well as Palestinian irregular forces were put there but all were released shortly after the war's end in 1949. Contrary to the wishes of the organizers of Israel Apartheid week,it was not an extermination/torture camp. For a few years after the war, however, Arabs in mostly Arab areas were under military administration but were transitioned to regular civilian administration. 

In 1950, the USSR boycotted the UN over the Chinese Nationalists, rather than the Chinese Communists being represented there. During their absence, North Korea invaded the South and the UN voted on whether to invade. Had USSR been present, they could have vetoed the resolution to go to war. Was the ambassador simply unable to get Stalin on the phone and ask for permission to break the boycott to perform the veto? OR Did Stalin want the war to go on as an opportunity to defeat the west? 

I have seen pro Arab sources cite surveys like these (see image) that demonstrate that most of the privately owned in Palestine land belonged to Arabs. I have seen Israeli sources assert that much of the privately owned land conquered in 1948 (and 1967) belonged to big landowners (often in Syria) and not to individual Palestinians who claim they lost their land. How much of the land was owned outright by individual peasants and how much was owned by big landowners, and how much was sort of like an English common and collectively owned by the peasants of a village but technically owned by a village head? Given the late Ottoman Empire's reputation for meticulous record keeping and overall competence, does this information even exist? 

Abraham is taking advantage of the loose meaning of the words "sister and brother" to avoid admitting to the King that he lied. At this point, Abraham has no fear of reprisal because the King only found out that something was amiss because God threatened him. Abraham has a big, bad, deity on his side. He could simply tell the king that he lied because the Philistines are a bunch of savages who would try to kill him to take his wife and then flip the King the bird and move his tent somewhere else. In short: A universally regarded Jewish commentator from 1100 asserts, using older sources (approximately 1000 years older), that Abraham used the words brother and sister in broader terms. These older sources refer to even older traditions. 

Because Christianity isn't a national religion. It wasn't similar to the case of the Arabs who were Muslim and they brought their religion as they conquered in one big wave. Europe was pagan and a few individual preachers travelled to cities with lots of people who would go to their lectures and the religious spread was initially centered around those places. Those shotgun dots are urban areas. 

How about Boudica's campaign in which the overabundance of disorganized peasants caused her to ultimately lose? 

The English colonies you mentioned ended up better because they tended to be better to begin with. The successful ones had either a lot of structure or few natives. India and Singapore had established economies and political systems before the British got there. They didn't need to be built from the ground up. Cape Colony (south africa) was a dutch colony for 150 years before the British got there and there was also something to tie in to. Australia and Canada had few natives. The French colonies had a lot of natives without a lot of structure. The Saharan ones also had more nomads and raiding was a common part of the nomadic economy. These nomads had to be contended with. Rather than adapting an existing system to fit their needs, the French had to impose a new one from scratch. The Belgian Congo was very poorly managed. The Germans didn't rule their colonies for very long and didn't invest as much as the British did in them. The Dutch colonies tended to be stolen by the British but they tended to be pretty good while they lasted. 

In 1947 Egypt, Transjordan, Iraq, and Iran were extremely friendly towards the British and the Trucial States and Aden were British protectorates. Saudi Arabia was extremely friendly with the USA. Even if Israel itself was not a perfect fit for the Communist Bloc, it could still be used as a proxy against Western assets. When Nasser overthrew the King of Egypt in 1952, he demonstrated that Egypt and pan-Arabism was a more natural ally of the Soviets than Israel could be. Indeed, by sponsoring Nasser, the Soviet Union gained influence in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Iraq, North Yemen, and weakened still pro-Western Jordan and Iran. Nasser even inspired African American Nationalism in the United States and his rhetoric of anti-colonialism weakened American resolve in Vietnam. 

Look up Adelsverin. It was a German settlement enterprise founded by German noblemen. The nobles seemed to come mostly from the Rhineland. 

Amos 9:7. The Philistines were brought up from Caphtor and the Arameans from Kir in a manner comparable to the Jews from Egypt. 

In 13th century Vietnam someone overthrew the Ly dynasty and forced all the members of that family and its nobles to change their name to Nguyen. When that dynasty was overthrown, its supporters changed their name to hide from the next dynasty. This happened several more times and as a result, nearly 40% of Vietnamese have the name Nguyen. Internet says the name derives from a Chinese name "Ruan." Ruan was a place fairly north in China but its people were displaced and moved south. There is an instrument with the same name. Why was Nguyen chosen to be the loss penalty for the defeated dynasty? If I go by the etymology the internet claims, perhaps the new king was trying to drive home the point that his quarry were really foreigners who drifted in. At one point, the founder of the Ly Dynasty's founder was from what is now Fujian, China, but not Ruan. It would seem that if he wanted to invoke the foreignness of the Ly, he should made the people change their name to Fujian. Does anyone have a good answer to what the name means and why the King chose it? 

Had the declaration been printed, it would have been subject to the stamp act. Paying for a stamp for a declaration would refute the content of the document. To avoid the problem, the founders wisely wrote the initial document. Now an independent country, subsequent printed editions no longer required stamps. 

Very few. The revolt was only (temporarily) successful in the Judean Highlands. The only cities were Jerusalem, Bethlehem, and Jericho and they were rather small and didn't have much of a Roman civilian population. (Why would they want to live there? Maybe a few merchants had offices there) Most of the action took place in sparsely mountainous areas and was against the Roman military. Simply put, there were very few Roman civilians (non military/government) to be potentially killed to begin with. 

Short answer: By the era of the Babylonian conquest, Israel was an internally weak power sandwiched between two warring superpowers. After Nebuchanezzer, the remaining kings of Babylon did not have long reigns. Several were assassinated (hinting to the instability of the country. Then the Persians invaded. Long answer: The Land of Israel is sandwiched between Egypt and Mesopotamia (Babylon/Assyria). When either Egypt or the Mesopotamian is strong, Israel fell under the influence of the strong one. When both were weak, that is when Israel, Aram, Philistines, and Tyre flourished and were independent. When both Egypt and the Mesopotamian were strong, they would conquer outward toward each other and their natural meeting place was Israel. Israel was never strong enough to resist either great powers and would have to submit to one of them. Judah was officially conquered by Bablyon in 586 BCE but was under Babylonian hegemony before then. According to the bible: Josiah died resisting Egyptian conquest and his son Jeoahaz was an Egyptian puppet.Jehoiakim was also installed by the egyptians but he switched his allegiance to babylon after the egyptians suffered a major defeat. The babylonians then had a setback and Jehoiakim switched sides again, which caused the Babylonians to depose him. Jeconiah, the next king was 8 years old and the babylonians got rid of him. Zedekiah, the last king attempted to court the Egyptians and then the Babylonians decided to end the puppet dynasty and rule Judah directly. 

The body is able to manufacture vitamin D from exposure to UV light. Dark skinned people will receive less sunlight than a light skinned person because much UV is blocked. I once visited Baltimore, Maryland, and saw an unusual number of young African American men walking with bow legs and canes. Papers on the internet suggest that Ricket's Disease is more prevalent among African Americans, even with 20th century nutrition. In the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, did anyone comment on Ricket's impacting the quality of their slaves in the North (where there is less sunlight)? 

I was on Wikipedia on Friday and I cant remember how I got to this page but there was a Jewish American banker from Pren, Lithuania, born in 1869, died in 1939 in New York, whose last name began with an "S" who introduced the concept of a bank account that gave the owner interest. My history and cookies delete are set to delete every session. Who is this man? 

The colonies had governors/owners but all of their governing rights came from the king. Officially, colonies were not permitted to go to war but the governors/owners still occasionally participated in low level squabbles with each other. Maryland was owned by Lord Baltimore (Calvert) and Pennsylvania was originally owned by William Penn (not sure who owned it at the time of this conflict). Because of practical limitations, the owners didn't have absolute control over the behavior of the people in the colonies. Basically two farmers have a dispute. One turns to the Pennsylvania authorities but the other doesn't like their decision so he turns to the Maryland authorities. What we get is a squabble between two groups of farmers that we call a "war." The "militia" is comprised of local farmers. 

Converting from comment to answer: Genesis 11:29 Mainstream medieval French Jewish commentator, Rashi, holds that Sarah (Abraham's wife) is the same as his niece, Iscah. 19:2 Abraham tells Abimelech that Sarah is his sister. (In a a similar incident,in Egypt, Abraham tells Sarah to say this, implying that it is a fabrication, or at least misleading) 20:12 Abraham justifies what he says as being technically true "And also, indeed, she is my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife." Rashi comments: