With body odor, and other personal issues, be very careful how you approach the subject. If you can, defer to HR or at least have a mediator. If you cannot, then be sure to bring up the topic privately and with compassion. No one is able to smell their own natural odor, because everyone normalizes to themselves. It may be that the candidate does not have a strong sense of smell. It may be that the candidate does not have access to facilities such as a shower. It may even be that they use too much of a particular perfume/cologne, and just need to change brands. If you don't know the exact details of their life, give them the benefit of the doubt. 

I find that most situations can be solved by a frank discussion with the people involved seeking to find the best solution for all parties. With that said, have you informed this candidate that they have offensive body odor? If you have, and they have not changed*, then your critique need only say that the candidate does not follow instructions well. If you have not, then the issue is not with the candidate, it is with you. You have identified a problem and then failed to attempt to correct the problem. 

At this point you should be saying "Well, that's not very useful. What do you really mean by 'it depends'?" With that, lets segue into talking about branding (not branding). Before you get/acquire/talk to/meet clients, think about how you want them to perceive you. How you talk, how you act, what you wear, your professional courtesy (or your lack thereof) are all part of your personal brand. It's easier to understand with some examples. Close your eyes and imagine—wait, open your eyes and finish reading this first—you're walking into a bank. Imagine you walk up to the teller. What types of clothes is the teller wearing? The janitor walks out of a back room; what types of clothes is the janitor wearing? Now imagine you walk into a different bank (not in Hawaii) and the teller is wearing a Hawaiian shirt and shorts. Would you trust this bank with your money? To further the point. Imagine you're checking out at the grocery store and the bag boy is dressed in a full suit with a top hat. Would it make you feel uncomfortable? These examples are set to illustrate the point that there are expectations for different roles and meeting or challenging these expectations can have very real consequences for business. With all that said the exact choices every company makes for these experiences is part of their brand. Grocery stores use t-shirts and jeans for staff so that they're approachable. Banks use formal attire to give a sense of security and trustworthiness. So how does this apply to behavior? Your behavior is part of your brand. At a bank you expect courteous formal behavior. At a bar you'd expect informal friendly behavior. How you behave will directly affect how you are perceived. As far as deciding how you should behave. First determine how you want to be perceived. Pick some keywords: 

I'm using "Jane Smith" as a placeholder for my birth/given name, and "Alice Jones" as a placeholder for my chosen name, and "Ally" as a short form of "Alice", though those aren't my real names. I am changing my name to "Alice Jones" for various reasons that I consider very personal, such as not wanting to bear my abusive parents' surname "Smith", and strongly disliking the meaning of my given name "Jane" for spiritual/personal reasons. I don't want to disclose these reasons to employers - the last thing I need when applying for a job is to talk about childhood trauma. I'm currently studying at university. I go by "Alice Jones" all of the time with my friends and with other students. My professors call me "Ally Smith" because they're much more used to the idea that someone could have a nickname / preferred name than a preferred surname. All of my achievements, such as GCSE and A level certificates, as well as stuff like my bank account, is under the name "Jane Smith". So I'm currently using "Jane Smith" on my CV. I want to switch to using "Alice Jones" on my CV as soon as I can, because it makes me feel much more comfortable. In addition, all of my friends call me Alice and sometimes I slip up and refer to myself as "Alice" in a situation where I'm supposed to be "Jane" - eg. I'll wear my "Alice" namebadge, or I'll mention that a friend said "Hi Ally" when telling a story. When someone says "Jane", it sometimes takes me a couple of seconds to realise they are talking to me. However, right now I don't feel like I can - for one thing, all of my references know me as Jane, for another all my certificates are under 'Jane Smith', and for another I will have to provide my birth name for bank details / tax forms and I do not really want to go through explaining to my employer that I'm changing my name to "Alice Jones" from "Jane Smith" for super personal reasons. I'm planning to get a legal name change, but probably not until after I am financially independent from my parents (which will be when I leave uni at the latest) since they'll be furious if they hear that I've changed my name. My question (which is similar to others I've seen asked but subtly different) is: WHEN should I make the changes? Should I make the de facto name change ASAP, or should I wait to put 'Alice Jones' on my CV until after I've legally changed my name to 'Alice Jones'? Should I get my name changed before I leave university, so that my degree certificate shows the new name, or should I not get it changed until after I've started at my first job, so that I'll be able to get employment using all of the certificates/references that know me as Jane Smith, and then I can look for second/third jobs knowing I have the reference from the first job that knows me as Alice Jones? Should I change in between uni and employment, so that it's not awkward (I don't have to tell everyone to change the name they address me by), or should I change it whilst in either uni or employment so that I don't have to be stuck in a name-changey looking-for-job no-references-with-proper-name limbo? Should I start using my new name for my online presence now, even when I'm not using it on my CV, so that I can build up an online presence in preparation for the name change, or should I always be using the same name for my CV and my website and similar things? If I put "Ally Smith" on my CV until I can properly change my name to "Alice Jones", will people think that is weird and unprofessional? (My real name is much more unusual than Alice, and the short form is much weirder and more informal than Ally.) Would you find it awkward or suspicious if you interviewed a candidate who put "Jane Smith" on their resume and introduced themselves as Jane, but then after you hired them, they said that they actually wanted to go by Alice? More or less awkward/suspicious who said that their former references would know them by a different name or that their uni certificates were under a different name? I already know that I am, eventually, going to make Alice Jones my legal name - it's just a question of what the timeline should look like, which really confuses me.