See Corbett's contribution to Shopen et al. ed. Language Typology and Semantic Description (2nd ed.), esp pp.268--73, where he discusses default genders. Oneida has three genders (Masculine, Feminine, Zoic) in the singular, but only two (Zoic, Masculine) in the plural (groups of all females are marked as Zoic). Mixed groups default to Masculine (Lounsbury: 1953:52). 

On the other hand, there are good reasons for treating FOR, THE, and CATS as separate grammatical words in the English "for the cats". There is no strict constraint on the sequencing and adjacency of the preposition, determiner and head noun in this phrase. It is possible to add words between FOR and THE, e.g. "for the majority of the cats", and it is possible to add words between THE and CATS, e.g. "for the seven most unexpectedly agressive cats". There are even constructions where it is possible to disrupt the usual linear order of FOR, THE, and CATS, e.g. "The cats I bought the food for..."; These kinds of things should be very restricted or completely impossible in a language where the equivalent of "for the cats" is a single grammatical word. As for the Basque case, I am understanding that the Basque comitative postposition does not have a specific position with respect to a head noun, (i.e. it is at the end of the NP) so it not be considered an affix by the criterion I named above. One possibility is that it's a clitic (its linear position is not fixed, but it forms a phonological word with the adjacent material). Since the shape of =(re)kin is depend on the adjacent element, that is probably a good reason for writing it without a space. See Hualde 2002 on Basque postpositions. Good, J. (2011) The typology of Templates. Language and Linguistics Compass Volume 5, Issue 10, pages 731–747, October 2011 Hualde, J.I. (2002) Regarding Basque postpositions and related matters in Erramu Boneta: A Festschrift for Rudolf P.G. de Rijk, ed. by Xabier Artiagoitia, Patxi Goenaga & Joseba Lakarra, 325-339. Bilbao:Univ. del PaísVasco/Euskal Herriko Unib. Supplements of ASJU 44 

number of phonological combinations a particular string can represent their subset with respect to the given language's phonology and phonotactics 

In addition, the strictly binary system also fails to account for the reality of [+low] generally decreasing the (ease of) articulatory "implementability" of either [+round] or [+front] due to physiological constraints, again, as if [+low] were somehow opposed to [+front] and/or [+round], at least to some extent. The same is true of the derived, nasal subsystems in which much stronger nasalization is required in the open vowels for their nasality to be perceived than in the closed ones. Hence my question in a somewhat different wording: 

3. Glimpses of what the distinction might be about So far, I have been able to put some pieces together from various online sources, most of which where non-linguistic and none actually discussed the essence of the difference. My current understanding, then, is very roughly as follows: 

Strong hypotheses are simply strong claims, perhaps too strong, as they include a lot of details and particular assumptions, making the hypotheses as wholes difficult, if not impossible, to test and defend. Weak hypotheses are more careful and focused more narrowly on a single aspect of a phenomenon - one that is easier to test, before one ever moves on to the other aspects. 

As a matter of fact, there still are a number of linguists believing that some or all of the families considered to belong to the putative Altaic stock are related one way or another. "Core Altaic" and "Extended Altaic" The traditional "core" members were Turkic, Mongolic and Tungusic, with Japonic and Koreic being added in more recent decades. As to Uralic, to my knowledge, none of the proponents of the Altaic hypothesis believe it belongs to the putative stock. "Ural(o)-Altaic" The so-called Ural-Altaic hypothesis is now considered dead even by Altaicists, who consider Uralic either similar due to areal convergence, or related only very distantly, perhaps within the even more controversial Nostratic superstock. "Eurasiatic" & "Nostratic" Whether the families included in Altaic form a standalone taxon or not, proponents of the so-called "Nostratic" hypothesis, or a very similar "Eurasiatic" hypothesis, seem to believe that most or all of them belong to a larger stock together with at least Indo-European, Uralic, and depending on the version, variously also Kartvelian, Dravidian, Eskimo-Aleutian, Chukotko-Kamchatkan, Yeniseian, Nivkh, and even Afro-Asiatic, which is by some proponents considered its sister rather than mere daughter. "Trans-Eurasian" as the most recent work I think it was Martine Robbeets, a firm believer in the unity of the various Altaic families, who first coined this less-worn name for the hypothetical stock. Hence, Trans-Eurasian is probably what you should try and look up if you want to find the most recent work on Altaic. Some of her papers can be found on-line, e.g. Swadesh 100 on Japanese, Korean and Altaic (2004) [PDF]. An interesting discussion can be found in Transeurasian Verbal Morphology in a Comparative Perspective: Genealogy, Contact, Chance (2010) [Google Books]. See also her bibliography here. Summary and Where to Look Next Contrary to what @cyco130's answer suggests, there are widely accepted families that prove that historical linguistics can go, at least, twice as deep as just "a couple of millenia", and the temporal ceiling itself is a matter of controversy, which might also be one of the reasons why the Altaic debate is far from settled now. On the other hand, @cyco130 is also definitely right in that the evidence for Altaic is simply not sufficient and quite imperfect at the moment, and until the adherents make a major breakthrough (if they ever do), it is certainly safer and more correct not to lump the families together (unless you emphasize that you are using the label as a short-hand only). After all, areal convergence is just as interesting and worth investigating as genetic relationships. Now, to direct you to some further information, I have just come across this blog article that gives a nice summary. Some of the most recent critiques that can by no means be neglected have been written by Alexander Vovin (an expert especially on Japonic and Koreic) and Stefan Georg (and expert on Turkic, Tungusic and Mongolic, among other things). To be sure, some of the criticisms have been addressed or replied to, especially by G. S. Starostin & A. V. Dybo's In Defence of the Comparative Method, or The End of the Vovin Controversy (2009), or G. S. Starostin's Review of: Koreo-Japonica. A Re-Evaluation of a Common Genetic Origin. By Alexander Vovin. (2010), but it would appear critical views are prevailing. 

You see, there is method to the madness. Not always a perfectly reliable method, but it's undeniably there. 

No. Your friend is right about Uighur being Turkic. But Persian is not Turkic; it's Indo-European, so lexical similarity between these languages is going to be VERY low and limited to a few loan-words. From what I can tell, the only thing that's similar is the alphabet, both having been derived from Arabic. 

where and are verbal inflections that make it clear who killed whom. If we consider word order, then ASL and BSL both are like Latin: they have default word orders, but a sentence might deviate from it (for example to highlight the boy or farmer, or a contrast from an earlier sentence), which means that word order itself cannot unambiguously distinguish, for example, agents from patients, like English word order usually can. But that doesn't matter so much, because the distinction is marked on the verb. As a rule, if verbs act this way in a given language, then noun phrases tend to be more head-marking too. It's rather like how Hebrew, Berber or Ainu do possession and this appears to be a linguistic universal. So for instance, "the farmer's boy" might be translated as "the farmer, his boy" in both ASL and BSL. So here there doesn't need to exist a genitive case either*. (See curiousdannii's answer for a counterexample). That said, a pronouns are a slightly different consideration. For example English and Norwegian are both languages where pronouns have two forms, which have something to do with case, even though the nouns do not inflect for case. ASL is the same! Here are some examples from ASL: 

First of all, we need to restrict ourselves to cases in which -man shows reduced pronunciation, namely /mn̩/; Since this may differ variety from variety, we need to stick to a single variety at a time; after all, a variety (such as a dialect) can and should be considered a system of its own, with its own rules etc.; We need to check whether the reduction is phonologically or otherwise conditioned, i.e. whether we can predict it from things such as word-length, its components etc. Quite clearly, we cannot - if we are to believe the above-mentioned sources. Examples like <Batman> /ˈbæt.ˌmæn/ vs. <batman> /ˈbæt.mn̩/ vs. (hypothetical) *<bat man> /ˌbæt.ˈmæn/ appear to prove this. See also no. 8. Orthography is a source of bias we need to take into account, hence the spelling <man> shared by both /mæn/ and /mn̩/ has to be considered irrelevant. Now, unlike /mæn/, /mn̩/ doesn't ever appear as an independent word. In my view, the latter form is much closer to being a suffix, whereas the former is indubitably closer to being a compound member instead. Even though it is obvious that it was a specific stress pattern that has given rise to the reduced pronunciation, and that the formations once were true compounds, strictly synchronically, they need not to be, just like in woman, which is not only not a compound synchronically, it should even be considered monomorphematic in my view. Again, bear in mind that spelling has to be ignored here. The relevance of the fact that literate native speakers consider a word as a compound may also be questioned, mainly due to the above-mentioned spelling bias, but also due to synchronic co-existence of affixes and words sharing similar origin and parallel miniparadigms (the connection of /-mn̩/ to /mæn/ may well be secondarily reinforced by the homophonous /wʊ.mn̩/ ~ /-wʊ.mn̩/). We could provisionally assume that the words mentioned in no. 3 represent the continuum (a) derivative ~ (b) compound ~ (c) phrase and generalize the pattern based on stress: 

First off, let me say I'm not sure why your question has so many close-votes: it is directly about the etymology of a word, and so is definitely within scope. Okay, comes more-or-less directly from Latin. Latin has the word which apparently can mean "avoided". This word is made up of (out of) and (a trick). This is evidence against any direct descendance from Greek, because these elements in turn come directly from Proto-Indoeuropean. I couldn't find any etymology for Eleusis though. But the most likely explanation is a coincidence. 

There are plenty to choose from! Just take a look at this map. Here are a few examples from that page: 

Atypically for a sign language, many JSL morphemes are derived in some way from the writing of the society's spoken language (I could suggest that's because Japanese has quite an unusual way of writing, but that's by the by). For example 井戸, which means a well (where water is drawn from under the ground) is signed by holding the index finger and middle finger of both hands crossed so that the fingers resemble 井. Similarly, the word ルール (which means a rule), is signed by its striking appearance, with each hand fingerspelling (and also resembling) a ル. Another example is the syllable へ which is signed with the thumb and pinkie extended, and hand pointed downward, as though to suggest the shape of the letter へ. Many of the JSL Latin manual signs seem to be derived in the same way from the Latin alphabet. Also, the JSL Latin manual alphabet does not seem to have been imported or exported, or else we would see something similar in neighbouring countries, for example Taiwan or Korea (which each have related sign languages) or USA, which from which JSL borrows quite heavily. These two things lead me to conjecture that the JSL Latin manual alphabet was innovated in Japan sometime before the ASL manual fingerspelling alphabet was introduced. Unfortunately, JSL history is quite scantily documented, so that it's hard to find any sources. 

I'll answer according to a theory of language change mostly associated with Croft, according to which change comes from intra-speaker variation. In an evolutionary model of language change, changes may be propagated via neutral selection (linguistic variants randomly come in and out of existence, but more frequent ones should be the most durable) and via replicator selection (where variants produced by certain prestigious groups people have a better chance of enduring). We expect innovation (upheaval in customary forms) to happen more frequently when there is greater variation in the community, and when there are groups of people with whom prestige is associated. An urban setting doesn't necessarily have to have both of these, things but they tend to. We should expect innovation in urban settings especially when (i) the residents are coming in from various parts of the country where different varieties are spoken (more variation), (ii) within the urban center itself, there are people who are considered prestigious, and whose speech tends to get disproportionately emulated. If these two conditions are met (and additionally we assume relatively free interaction between speakers), then, according to the theory, we should expect the relatively rapid emergence of a new urban speech variety. So I think the answer to the question is that this is a valid assumption, since the factors encouraging language change tend to be very frequently present when new urban centers form. Some downloadable papers: Croft (2010): The Origins of grammaticalization in the verbalization of experience Baxter et al (2009): Modeling language change: An evaluation of Trudgill's theory of the development of New Zealand English 

It is exactly as you say. "uitsluitend" is the present participle of uitsluiten, which means to exclude. Also it's an adjective meaning "exclusive". I am sure you could find exactly this information in any dictionary. I couldn't quite work out why you believe these meanings are opposite though. Obviously if you exclude something/someone, you are being exclusive. The meaning is identical. 

Sign languages generally do not have rich case systems because they tend to be much more head-marking than, say, English. By this I mean that a translation of your Latin sentences into a hypothetical sign language might be something like 

*: Some sign languages are invented for didactic reasons and they artificially include morphology from the culture's spoken language. An example of this is SEE, which means Signed Exact English. These tend to be falling into disfavour now. 

English has two-way distinctions, as you say. The examples you gave are more or less universal as far as I can tell, but some others aren't. For example, English has "here" (that means "close to me") and "there" (that roughly means "not close to me"). It's a two-way distinction. Japanese has a three-way distinction "koko" (close to me), "soko" (a little way off, or close to you), and "asoko" (a long way off, or neither close to me nor close to you). I'm not sure if that's the kind of thing you're after. 

It is well known that consonant lenition or weakening tends to be far more common cross-linguistically than the opposite process called fortition or strengthening. Now, some languages have been considered as having undergone the historical change of affricates to plosives. Here's a list of examples I've been able to collect so far: 

I would add that, phonetically, voice is a matter of timing, more precisely of the VOT or Voice-Onset Time, which refers to the time when your vocal folds begin to vibrate with respect to the moment of release of the consonantal "blockage". Generally, there is a continuum of values, spanning from voiced consonants, having a negative VOT, to voiceless aspirated ones, which have a positive VOT. Voiceless unaspirated consonants would probably have zero VOT or one that is slightly positive but still close enough to it. Languages may differ in how exactly they segment the VOT continuum and how they employ it within their phonological systems. That is why it may be quite tricky to compare voiced/voiceless consonants of one language to voiced/voiceless consonants of another. In two-member systems like that of English, it is sometimes more convenient to talk about fortis consonants and lenis consonants, one of whose phonetic correlates may be zero-to-positive/negative-to-zero VOT, depending on factors such as the position of stress (again, phonetically, fortis/lenis usually refers to relatively greater/lesser energy needed to pronounce them). An interesting case could be some German loanwords in Czech. Both languages have a fortis/lenis consonants of a sort, but they differ in the specifics. Czech, for instance, has borrowed the word <Blech> "sheet metal" from German, but the lenis stops in the source variety of German had a VOT value so close to the VOT of the fortis stops in the latter, that the latter has borrowed it as <plech>. Similarly, <Gesicht> "face" has been borrowed as <ksicht> "mug, kisser" (slang "face"), and so on. Also, wrong VOT values seem to be one of the most common and typical pronuciation mistake among Czech (and other Slavic) learners of English: our lenis VOT is way too long (too negative), which isn't a big problem, but our fortis VOT is way too short (too close to zero), which may sound like English lenis. Moreover, English fortis stops can have their VOT considerably longer in certain positions, producing aspiration, which never occurs in Czech (at least not systematically). Hence, Czech /b/ does sound like /b/ to the ear of a native English speaker most of the time, but so may Czech /p/. The issue is a bit more complicated, because lenis segments are generally shorter than their fortis counterparts cross-linguistically, which is fairly frequently, though not completely universally, compensated for by the length of the preceding vowel (vowels tend to be a bit longer before voiced and shorter before voiceless consonants). Hence, languages might employ phonetic clues other than just VOT to make distinctions between the different series of consonanants more conspicuous and easier to perceive. Now, as mentioned above, some languages may not employ the voicing distinctions systematically, hence replacing [p] by [b] doesn't change the meaning of a word (although it may be perceived as "sounding odd") - in such cases, we usually say that voicing is not phonological. It doesn't mean, however, that we cannot describe the level of voicing (VOT) of a particular consonant when it is pronounced. It may only differ in a way that makes it difficult to choose the right cover symbol. But that's a topic for phonology rather than phonetics, and I'm not sure how deep in this topic you would like to immerse. A brief summary: