Here are three scenarios that could answer the third question "How can I use the light-based technology to implement a darker edge to the culture?" 3a). The dark side shines a light: A common scenario for future energy is that we have giant solar panels in space, which convert sunlight to electricity and then beam the energy down in the form of microwaves, to a receiver on earth. You can simplify this by assuming they're converting sunlight to microwaves directly by shifting the frequency [1]. Or perhaps they simply have mirrors in space, which focus the sunlight onto receivers on earth. In any case, you have a civilization with potential death-rays in space. 3b) A thought flickers by: In animal experiments on the brain, using light to trigger activation in specific brain cells is a common technology, so you could build on this to describe a machine-brain interface. Unplug the cable in their neck and that fiber-optic cable takes in and transmits ambient light in the room. That light could be surreptitiously altered to mimick the signals usually going through the cable, or induce an epileptic seizure. 3c) You can run, but you can't hide: There's a whole lot of fiber-optic cables in this society. But we can transmit light at any frequency, including invisible ones, and change the frequency upon arrival to suit our needs. You can do away with a lot of cables if people would just build their houses in a material which is transparent to some frequencies. The light can then be modulated to another frequency inside the house. This cuts down a lot on cables for both power transmission and data transfer but has at least two downsides: 1) You risk frying people inside the house or someone's neighbour, if they get in the way of the beams, happen to stand at a focal point or a place where waves interfere constructively. This happens rarely, but is as accepted a risk as the risk of fires from household electronics and car accidents are in our society. 2) Everyone's houses are transparent in some frequency, so you can illuminate a house and, with the right camera, see everything that's going on inside. Everyone's data transmissions are also readily available to bystanders unless they use encryption. [1] $URL$ 

Torpedos make use of the enemy ship's electric and magnetic fields. Background: Some SciFi settings feature propulsion systems based on expulsion of ions or plasma. Yet others feature a strong magnetic field around the ship, a field which may contain plasma. This field is "pushed" by the solar wind. These are not farfetched, but mimick designs in use today or on the drawing board at NASA. In any case, there's a "medium" consisting of particles or magnetic fields, in close proximity to enemy crafts, that a missile could "push against" using electric or magnetic fields. This creates an analogy with torpedos that push against water. A missile with this propulsion would be able to "sneak onto" enemy vessels by showing zero exhaust and be able to "latch onto" the fields of large vessels, like a missile following the wake of a ship. 

Will they want a universal time? Universal time is a recent concept which rose to importance with the invention of the train. Before the train, two cities may both have defined "noon" as when the sun was at its highest in the sky. This is a pretty universal definition of noon, but the clocks of the easternmost city were say, 10 minutes ahead of the western city. This was no big deal. Not even that, the citizens would say that if the clocks in both cities showed the same time, then one of the clocks would be incorrect. What's the use of a clock if it does not relate to the clockwork universe and matches the sun? Today, we have divided the world into 24 time zones for the sake of convenience. Clocks that won't miss a tic in a million years may still be up to half an hour "wrong", depending on their location in the time zone. We have done this because we are now in "simultaneous" communication with people all over the planet. If civilization expands to 10 light hours, this will no longer be the case. In addition, the super-accurate clocks people carry along will become out of sync due to the effects of relativity. Maybe our priorities in time-keeping is the exception? A curiosity in-between the pre-industrial and the spacefaring time periods, when "simultaneous" and "synchronized" was both real and important concepts. 

Some of those on the autism spectrum have trouble with understanding idioms and naturally do not use them themselves. The carnivores could easily borrow some aspberger traits and be fully functional as a society. It gets easier when society is organised for that kind of mind. I'm no writer, but I imagine that all kinds of interesting portrayals of society could flow from an "aspberger species" premise 

For questions like this, I resort to the categorisation in wikipedia templates. At the bottom of the Biome article you find a list of biomes like tundra, swamp etc. Going to the bottom of the Grassland article I scroll down to the bottom and quickly find tables with words like savanna, pampas, steppe and prairie. To the reader, words like "prairie" and "steppe" hopefully bring up more vivid pictures than "grassland", so just drilling down to synonymes via wikipedia may enrich your map. True a thesaurus lookup for grassland bring up many of the same synonyms, but on wikipedia, more information on the habitat is only a click away, so that the fictional land can be quickly populated with suitable plants and animals. You could also use Google earth for inspiration 

It turns out that 5 martian orbits equals exactly 10 771 orbits of phobos while two martian orbits equals exactly 1088 orbits of Deimos. Therefore: 

Putting it in the distant past Locating it far away Limit it to a small geographical area Invoking a cataclysmic destruction that wipes out all evidence 

Jaqminqi - Selfless curiosity We, the people of Zhark prime, hold these truths to be self-evident: that all Zorks are created equal; that they are endowed by the Vraaagh with certain obligations; that among these are the participation in experimental studies of axiology, the sharing of knowledge, and selfless curiosity. To humans, "curiosity" is a positive emotion, adding enjoyment to non-repeating tasks, as well as something to pursue in your free time. The Zorks have a different viewpoint. They evolved as packs of hunter-gatherers a few steps down in the food chain, on a planet with wildly changing climates and many small continents and islands, with unreliable food sources. The pre-historic Zorks were continually on the move into new biotopes and curiosity and inventiveness were vital when the group were to learn how to survive in their new home. However, curiosity came at a cost. Would you spend a month going hungry, trying out new techniques for hunting that elusive prey we havn't named yet, or play it safe by digging up those roots we are familiar with? What will motivate the first group of hunters to attack that heavy-looking grazer with a new hunting strategy? Who's curious enough to learn the taste of those berries which may or may not be poisonous? Who's curious enough to cross that mountain into unseen territory and report back, instead of maybe surviving where we are? The Zorks have thus evolved to treat lack of curiosity in an individual with the same disgust that humans reserve for freeloaders in a group. To the Zork, the very concept of "curiosity", or "jaqminqi" in their language, is just a subset of "altruism", on par with sharing ones food or throwing yourself on a grenade. As Zork civilization arose, the concept of jaqminqi were applied to trying out new forms of government, rules for social conduct and even new ethics. The latter, an experimental axiology in human terms, demanded that groups of zorks should force themselves to shift their very notions of right and wrong, to see if new ethical frameworks would help the group fare better than before. Zork breakthroughs in medication, mass-media industry, brain-computer interfaces and Zhark Prime wars III to VII are generally attributed to experimental axiology. 

Stirred spin-foams In loop-quantum-gravity, space-time is a superposition of spin foams. It is thus readily available all around us. What the robots have done is to stack these superpositions so as to store energy locally. Their batteries do not exhibit a strong gravitation field like ordinary warping of space-time would result in, nor does the foam represent matter composed of elementary particles. The robots can however produce both by orchestrating the collapse of the spin-foam superpositions. 

Commenting on @tim-b 's answer. Temperature: Since temperature is related to the speed of motion/vibration of atoms, the materials inside will appear "hot" to an outsider. Interestingly, an object's temperature is proportional to the square of the (root-mean-square) speed of the atoms, while Wien's displacement law states that the peak in the black-body radiation spectrum is proportional to the speed, unsquared. It should therefore be possible to distinguish a hot and a time-sped object from afar. What about the speed of light? One caveat on light: for a photon, wavelength * frequency = speed of light. If the speed of light is always observed as a constant, but the frequency of anything inside the bubble speeds up, the observed wavelength will reduce, giving a blueshift as you state. But then you can have scenarios where something inside the bubble is observed as moving faster than the speed of light to an outside observer. This breaks relativity. If the speed of light is allowed to increase within the bubble, frequency and lightspeed will increase in lockstep, giving no blueshift. Then people start hacking the system Regardless of how you solve the speed of light problem, you would be able to transmit a signal into the sphere and have it exit the other side having travelled faster than the outside speed of light. This violates locality and opens the door to both faster-than-light travel and sending messages to the past. This is looking more and more like a explanation for why this alien race went extinct. I'm calling for a ban on all time-bubble research! 

This is a ruin near Naples but.. strumming guitar... ♪♫ This could be Corinium or anywhere ♫♪ Neapolis or Rome, Could be Oppidum Batavorum, or Caesar's second home 

Usage: Really great for predicting the position of Phobos and Deimos with respect to the stars and the sun. Several eclipses could be predicted. But note how this does not take into account the rotation of mars. You'll know the position of the sun with respect to the moons, but not if the sun is above the horizon. We don't know if the martians cared much about cycles of light and darkness, but here too we can make metonic cycles.