I have never used carbon frames or components, but I've had similar issues with aluminum posts in aluminum mountain bike frames. In all cases the clamp was a hand tightened quick release type. I also helped friends with this issue, some of them had carbon frames or seat posts. Possible causes and correction applied where as follows: Clamp is not providing enough clamping force. Adjust the clamp. Almost always this kind of clamp has some quick release lever in one side, and a corresponding bolt or nut in the opposite side, tighten it a little bit at a time until problem disappears. Seatpost or inside the seat tube is dirty or oily. Debris, sand, mud, oil or even water between seat tube and seat post will create this kind of problem, also accelerating wear of both even when no apparent slippage occurs. Clean both and make sure they are reasonably dry before putting them back together. How does all the stuff get in there? mainly the rear wheel trows it, it sticks to the seatpost and then, during cleanup it runs down into the seat tube. Some frames are more prone than others to collect dust. Shall this be the case, there are commercially available neoprene or rubber protections that seal the clamp area, but on the cheap you can use scraps from old inner tubes. The quick release lever is producing too much friction: due to dirt and/or damage or wear, the quick release may be developing too much friction, giving the false feel of tightening, but the force you excerpt is being wasted. Inspect the clamp and be sure it is not dirty or deformed, specially around the quick release pivot. Friction surfaces of the quick release and their counterparts shall be clean, smooth and dent free. Some clamps have a plastic, teflon or steel "cushion" that help these friction surfaces slide. This must be well shaped and clean. The friction surface of the quick release lever can be lubed with oil or light grease. That also helps reducing the force required to securely tighten the seat post. Dents and small deformations can be sanded down and polished with very fine grit sand paper. There is dirt caught between the clamp and the neck of the seat tube: Dirt or other materials caught in there can also prevent clamp force to properly tighten the seat tube. Clean it, the the inside of the clamp and remove any stickers or loose paint. (Special attention with repainted frames here) The inner surface of the clamp can also be lubed and it helps, but very little. Clamp is misaligned: The seat tube has a cut part in the neck, this should be aligned with the clamp's gap (Unless some weird manufacturer says otherwise). Check alignment, special attention if the clamp is an aftermarket one. Wear: If your problem has been happening for a long time, chances are the seatpost or even the inner seat tube is worn out, thus having too much "play" between them and being too much flex for the seat tube to take up, so tightening it is not effective. To be sure seat post and seat tube must be measured with a precision caliper. Shall wear be the problem, hopefully changing your seat post is enough to solve the problem. Final considerations: Never use excessive force to tighten the seatpost (or any other component), specially with carbon components, you'll cause too much stress and reduce the time to failure of the component. 

I'll share my personal formula, which I use myself and in a couple bikes I often perform maintenance to, and that are ridden by other people. These tips are for V-brake or "linear pull" type, but the same can be applied to other types too, at least caliper and cantilever, as long as they are cable actuated (i.e. no hydraulic). First of all, I check brake pad alignment. This step is critical for good braking performance, and this bit is the one that can affect your noise problem. It also affects the perceived "correct" distance between pads and rim, but this topic slightly falls outside your question, so, I'll just assume you have your pads aligned. In most a linear pull (v-brake), cantilever or caliper type brakes, the distance between pads and rim is determined by the "length" of brake cable relative to the length of the casing, adjuster barrels, cable stops and other items in cable routing. Cable slack increases brake lever "travel" which means how far you have to move the lever until it effectively starts braking. This distance is the critical parameter for me, this is personal because it depends on your hand size and the combination of lever/grips you use. Also, your hands have a natural point in which they "squeeze harder". This is the point where it takes less effort for you to actuate the levers. Your levers should move so they begin the real braking action just a little before you reach this "hard squeeze" position. This way you have your hand in optimal position when you need to brake hard. I start by screwing down any adjusting barrels or bolts to a minimum (or near minimum). This will loosen the cable a bit, increasing pad to rim distance and also the "travel" of the brake lever, this means you'll have to press deeper the lever for the brakes to actually touch the rim. These barrels are usually located between the lever and the cable, or between the cable and the caliper (if any). Now I loosen the bolt that holds the cable to the caliper or the V-brake arms, and while pressing the pads against the rim, pull the cable so there is no slack, and tighten the bolt.. but just a little! only enough to avoid the cable from slipping out from just the spring that separates the pads from the rim. Here is the trick: with one hand, hold the cable between your index and thumb, in such manner as if you loosen the bolt again, your fingers will prevent it from slipping out. Now, slowly depress the corresponding brake lever until you almost reach your "hard squeeze" distance, meanwhile, the cable will slip between your fingers, but the pads should remain pressed against the rim. Without releasing the cable, tighten the retaining bolt again, this time tighten it fairly tight. Check the lever travel and give the final tightening to the retaining bolt. Repeat for other other lever if needed. Now spin your tires in the air to check whether it rubs the rim. Re-check any bolt you have loosened for proper tightening. Don't panic if you don't achieve the perfect adjustment in the first try, you have a second resource: the adjusting barrels. The adjusting barrels have two purposes: One is to fine tune this distance. They work by taking up or giving out cable slack. Usually they consist of a "hollow bolt" the cable goes trough, and is bolted to the lever assembly or the caliper. The other end of the bolt receives the casing. By "unscrewing" the barrel, they add distance between the casing and the lever or caliper, thus reducing cable slack. Almost all these adjusters have also a locking nut that you screw all the way down to the lever or caliper, so it prevents the adjuster from moving "on its own". The other use of this is to re adjust the brakes as pad wear increases the distance between rim and pad surface, so you keep the brake lever travel in its optimum. In an ideal setup, this is it. But there are other considerations: Rim truing and dishing: The rim should be straight and properly centered. Untrued rims will rub the pads in certain part of a wheel revolution, but not all of them. A rim that's not correctly "dished" (i.e. centered) will rub against one pad all the time. V brakes can be easily adjusted toward rim centering because they have two independent return springs, each with an adjuster bolt that regulates it's tension. By balancing both sides' tension you get the pads the same distance from rim. Also a deformed rim may have bulges or cavities that complicate things further. Cable condition: cable and its casing should be in good condition too, not rusted, not overly worn, not sharply bent. Bike fit: Levers should be positioned properly, according to bike style, riding purpose/technique, sizing and personal preference. Component combination: In some cases, certain combination of specific components, brands, designs, can make it very difficult or even impossible to achieve correct adjustment. This is very unlikely to be your case, as you stated your brakes worked fine before. As you see this is a practical approach that doesn't deal with millimeters or such. When you finish go for a safe test ride and repeat the procedure if necessary. The first times you'll net a few tries before you conquer it, when you get used to it, you'll be able to do it in one attempt and without needing to move the adjusters. 

Further up, it is more important wether the shok absorber is the correct fit for the bike frame and the discipline in wich it will be used. For example, a shock designed exclusively for XC may never excel on DH for a normal wheigted rider. If you are buying a complete bike directly from the manufacturer or a reputable dealer, they should only offer the correct shocks for the frame, so it's up to you to choose a bike that fit your intended use. Also if the same bike is available with different shock options, make sure the one you pick is suitable for your riding. Finally, getting the right equipment is only the beginning of a customizing process. If you are changin the type of bike, you will have to go throug a fitting and fine tuning cycle that will be somewhat affected by your own ability to adapt to a new geometry, weight and ride characteristics. This process involves fine adjustments to the shocks. Most shocks have at least these adjustments: 

There are hoses threaded for Presta (Or Dunlop, it is the same threading) or Schrader. The end that attaches to the pump usually has dunlop/presta threading, so, if this end is long enough can easilly be used as an extenssion for a modern stick pump. By the way, I managed to get the example picture by typing int the search term "bike pump hose" on eBay. There will be many different options, most are generic replacements for various types of pumps, but these small hoses usually are sold as "adaptors" so the word "adaptor" may be somewhere in the product name too. Use the reference picture to locate the type of hose you need. If this option is not accesible for you at a reasonable cost, all the DIY aproaches are valid, but the easiest would involve a replacement hose for(from) a cheap pump. A very easy trick for the hose to pump fitting would be to source a good valve stem from an otherwise unusable inner tube. Use the one you like the most (Schrader or presta). 

All these can be diagnosed for sure with close and careful visual inspection under good light. Nevertheless to be sure you can disconnect the cable, remove the chain and carefully move the derailleur along its designed travel. You should feel clear resistance from the spring and the mechanism should quickly return on itself when you release it. If it presents lag in the return, re-check the above. The obvious solutions are clean the derailleur and lubricate it's pivots. In case of a misplaced spring, it can be relocated using long fine nose pliers, just be careful. If the spring is too damaged, maybe is better to change the derailleur or try to find a spare spring somewhere, if it's free, better. If the derailleur is bend or otherwise deformed, you better get another one. Almost only steel ones can be rectified but it is rather difficult and time consuming, it's not worthy most of the time since steel derailleurs tend to be cheap. Do not forget to inspect and test the shifter lever. The easy way is to disconnect the cable from the derailleur and while gently pulling it outwards the housing, actuate the lever back and forth. The cable should move accordingly. If the shifter is the indexed type, the cable movement should be crisp and without lag. Generally, the lever just needs some lubrication. I do not recommend dis assembly of indexed shifter levers as many are rather complex. When you finish reassembling the system most sure you'll need to adjust derailleur properly. Sure you'll find lots of methods/tutorials in the cloud or in other questions posted on this site. If any of the above help you diagnose the problem better take your bike to a local shop. 

This is my mental experiment on this. The O.P. states he would install a bigger cog on the left, and a bigger chainring on the right, resulting on a higher (faster) gear ration on right side and a lower(slower) gear ratio on the left. Now, if the freewheel is installed normally (i.e. freewheeling on coast) then this happens: If the freewheel is on the higher gear side, then it wants to move the bike faster, but the fixed side wants to go slower, so the transmission seizes. If the freewheel is on the lower gear side, then the fixed side would move the bike faster than the freewheel side, so this side is actually coasting while the fixed side does the real work. Now you start trying to slow down, but the fixed side is always engaged, so the freewheel side never gets to be in use. Second try: Somewhow the Freewheel is installed backwards, so it freewheels when you pedal forward, but engages on backpedalling: If the freewheel is in the higher gear side: when you pedal forward the bike moves with the low gear ratio in the fixed side, the higher side freewheels because the hub rotates slower than the freewheel cog. Now stop pedalling, the frewheeling side engages so the tire tries to move the crankset and since it has higher ratio it tries to move the crankset slower than what the fixed side tries to move it, the transmission seizes. If the freewheel is in the lower gear ratio side: When pedalling forward the fixed side dives the bike with the highest (fastest) ratio, the hub rotates forward faster than what the lower ratio tries to, the freewheel sees this as backpedaling (crankset rotating slower than the hub) so the transmision seizes. I think that such arrangement woul not work, instead it would create potential catastrophic failure of the components due to them trying to drive one another with different angular speeds. However, I don't think the idea is to be dismissed, I think the goal of having one one ratio to accelerate and other to brake is to use two differently sized freewheels installed to engage in different directions. For this experiment I'd rather install a dual crankset with two identical chainrings. Option 1: small freeweel engages while pedalling forward. The bike moves forward when pedalling normally using the higher ratio, then when trying to coast, the small cog starts freewheeling and the larger one engages, trying to move the crankset a little bit faster. When it does, it might result on a temporary engagement of the small freewheel that depends on an obscure relation between the angular position of the pawls inside the two ratchets, but as you are trying to slow down the pedals, the process repeats until you come to a stop (maybe a very jerky one). Whether or not this works whould depend on how much each freeweel can rotate before engaging (i.e. how long the ramps are) compared to the difference in gear ratios between them. Option 2: big freeweel engages while pedalling forward. The bike moves moves forward using the lower ratio, the smaller cog is reverse-installed so ir freewheels. When trying to slow down the small freewheel engages, making the crankset rotate but slower than the ratio of the big freewheel demands, so it won't engage. This would give you different ratios for accelerating and braking, but would not satify the O.P. desire to have the lower ratio for braking. Feel free to comment any corrections, I'd be happy to edit accordingly. 

I have experienced three types of this kind of missperception where visual clues and psychology play a big role: An almost uniform slope but curvy road designed for cars. Obviously, when cycling you go on one side of the road. This, combined with the banked turns makes you feel like turns towards one side are much easier than opposite turns. Naturally the banking alters the actual slope angle at the sides of the road, but also the perspective of the road against the presumed vertical pines around it accentuates the difference between the expected effort and the actual effort of riding each next curve. Another case is a short stretch of road that first goes down and then goes up. When traveling by car on that place, you feel that the first part is a steep descent and the second part is a steep ascent. But when traveling by bike, the "feel" is not as much. First in the descent you don't get as much "free speed" as you expect, so you "pedal hard" to help overcome the following ascent, but when you actually climb, you feel like if you where 2 or 3 gears lower than you are (effort wise). In this case, the lack of a visual reference of a horizontal line in the traveling direction fools the brain. The third case is a coastal road that leads to a climb but before the beginning of the climb, there is a diversion that goes down to a boating club. Since both the main road and the diverted exit go along for a few meters, when you go over the main road you visually feel like you are ascending, but with very low effort. I.e. the brain is fooled into thinking the climb starts sooner then it actually does. However, I have also experienced "temporal" delusions that Include wind effects, bike condition and physical condition. Wind effects are pretty obvious. I know places where winds regularly change during the day, so you may have better luck climbing in the morning than late in the afternoon. Sloppy maintenance on the bike can lead to more perceived effort, thus leading to feel a flat like it was a climb. At least in my case, I do my own bike maintenance, but sometimes I'm less careful and omit some revisions. So I take my bike (fooling myself) thinking it is in perfect working order while in reality, hubs, chain or derailleur pulleys needed deeper cleaning... Finally, something that has happened to me a lot, is that riding a route, I feel pretty energetic the whole time, but the truth is I'm more tired by the end of it, so the sloped in the last part of the route are perceived steeper than they actually are. With flats it means you'd feel them like climbs. This can be proved with large looped routes. If you start in what usually is the middle point of the route, at first you will feel like the climbs have been flattened (respect to your memory of them) and at the end, you'll feel the opposite.