There are tubeless tire boots available that you can use to patch a puncture that sealant won't seal. Really, you can use the standard vulcanizing tube patch kit as well and it's cheaper. Just don't use the glueless type- they barely fix a tube, let alone a tire. Fixing a tubeless puncture that won't seal is an at home operation, though. You have to clean all the sealant off of the area, let it dry, apply glue, apply the patch, add sealant back and reseat the tire. Reseating the tire without a compressor is a crapshoot- you may get it with a floor pump, you may not. If you're running tubeless you still need to carry a tube with you for that reason. There's basically no good way to fix a tubeless tire trailside. 

Knobs and pavement don't go together. At all. Knobs are made to dig into loose riding surfaces to optimize traction. They can't do that on pavement and, among other reasons, that's why road tires don't have knobs. What you're likely feeling with the higher profile knob is more warning before the tire cuts loose. The lower profile knobs on the Land Cruiser almost certainly grip pavement better, but offer less warning before they let loose. The best tire for grip on pavement is a slick. Slicks offer the most rubber in contact with the pavement and the least deformation under side load. The flip side to that coin is that when they're ready to cut loose they offer virtually no warning, and when they're gone they're gone- your chances of recovering traction are nearly zero. To kind of answer your bonus question, cornering techniques don't differ so much by tire, but by riding type. There are differing cornering techniques for road vs mountain bike riding. I would say that cornering on dirt is much more dynamic than on pavement. EDIT: in response to your question in the comments: 

Assuming you're talking about road, I think you're very much understating the important of team dynamics and strategy. Personal fitness is very important, but understanding how to work with your team is crucial to winning, even at lower levels of road racing and especially at higher levels. While I think it's true that training programs have become increasingly individually specific, the importance of cooperation with the team and strategy of road racing has increased at the same if not a faster rate. 

Get the proper bolt and make sure it's tensioned to the proper torque. If you're still having problems with the crankarm coming loose then there's probably another issue. Typically if you have a crank of that style that wont stay tight it's due to the pinch bolts not being tight enough and allowing the crankarm to come loose at some point in the past. That can damage the interface and cause the crankarm to come loose from the spindle on a regular basis. If using the right hardware and torque doesn't solve your issues, take the bike to a reputable shop for a once over. 

A lot of this has to do with how the spokes were prepped when the wheel was built, as well as the material that the nipples are made out of. There are two primary materials that spoke nipples are made out of- brass and aluminum. Brass is strong, cheap, easy to work with and doesn't have the same tendency to seize that aluminum does. Aluminum nipples are typically a tad bit more expensive, can be more temperamental when building or truing the wheel, and more attention needs to be paid to spoke preparation because aluminum nipples tend to seize to the spokes. The upside is that aluminum is lighter than brass so you can shave off some grams in terms of rotating weight. For round spokes, you'd be surprised how far you can turn the nipple without damaging the spoke. For most wheels in decent shape, after a third of a turn or so, the spokes will usually break loose from the nipples with a distinct "ping!" sound and an obvious drop in resistance to being turned- this is especially true of aluminum nipples. Go much beyond a half a turn without movement and you're risking snapping the spoke or damaging the nipple. If the nipple doesn't want to let go, you can try a tiny bit of penetrating lubricant and let it sit for a while. If you have flat/aero spokes you aren't afforded the same wiggle room in terms of what the spoke will tolerate in terms of torquing a seized nipple free. As mentioned in the comments there are tools made specifically for holding aero spokes in place while tensioning them. 

Deflate the tire about 90%. Grip the tire where it meets the rim and pinch it together with your fingers. Do this for the circumference of the wheel. You want the bead of the tire the part closest to the rim to release completely. Now grab the tire in one hand and the spokes in a another, hands about a foot apart. Gently pull your hands together in opposite directions. The goal here is to get the flat tire to slide on the rim, straightening the valve. You don't need much about 1/2" to and 1". Use your fingers to jiggle the valve back and forth to get it to pull fully out from the rim hole. Optionally use pliers but take care not to crush the valve cap threads. If it helps put a valve cap on to pull up and out. Here's your answer --> With the valve position fixed you can now visually inspect the valve. If you see cuts on the side of the valve body you might have a valve flat that air will leak from. Fill the tire back up taking care to keep the tire bead on and no inner tube bulging out from the rim. If you saw cuts in step 6, jiggle the valve and make sure you don't hear air escaping. If you do the valve is damaged, replace inner tube. Optional: A bit of slightly soapy water works here too. Cover the valve body with soapy water. If you see bubbles leaking, that's bad, replace tube. 

Sorry to hear someone vandalized your bicycle. I've been a bike mechanic in the past and there is a point of no return for rims in my opinion. This issue is that point can be subjective based on bike use and needed quality. From this point on, the wheel will tend to come out of true easier due to the weakened rim. Interesting, what you did by stepping on the rim I've seen done at shops and recommended in how-to videos. You can get a spoke nipple wrench and improve the rim by truing between the brake pads. Grep "how to true bike wheel" on Google for a start. I've seen side-to-side improve a bit in extreme cases but up/down hops will be harder to get out. If you do take the self-serve option remember use little corrections at first. Also, attempt to keep all spoke tensions even. Taking it to a shop is an option but labor plus and parts will be a chunk of cash towards a new wheel at the end you'll still have a wheel on a rebuilt rim. Finally I don't know how the bike shops are in your area, I would give you a free assessment if you came to mine. After all this, if the wheel refuses to stay in true sorry but it would be replacement time. 

Your valve has slipped partially inside the hole in the rim where it exits. Normally it's on average about 1-1/2" outside the hole. You'll need to inspect the valve body to see if it's cut. You can't put a pump on it because the main body of the valve is stuck. First fix the valve body position, then inspect... Here's how to fix: 

It doesn't matter what it's made out of, bike stuff gets stinky. Especially the stuff that goes on your hands and your feet since they're similar appendages that you keep similarly wrapped up and pressed against surfaces that don't breathe well. There are a lot of active wear specific detergents out there- Sportwash, Sport Suds, WIN, Nikwax, etc etc. I've tried none of them, but probably should. Most of these detergents are supposed to be especially well suited at removing odors from synthetics. I see a lot of folks recommending castile soap or oil soap for leathers. This is usually for larger pieces like jackets and handbags. Given your situation, I think you're probably overthinking it. A soak in warm soapy water using a bar soap that you'd use in the shower followed by a brisk hand scrub and rinse should be sufficient. Air dry them, and if you're really worried, use a light leather conditioner once they've dried. They're going to get stinky again, and quickly. There's just no way around that. Your hands are just funny looking feet at the end of your wrists that you're pulling these leather socks over and perspiring heavily into. Wash them as necessary with mild detergents and realize that- just as with almost everything else you purchase for the sport of cycling- the gloves are consumables and they won't last forever. 

I'm going to see how many answers I can say this in today - don't overthink it. A 100mm full suspension 29er is going to be able to shred anything you can throw at it for a long time. That's a good amount of travel to start with, and on a 29er it's going to feel like even more while staying efficient. The epic has a really well balanced geometry as well. It's not too twitchy, and it's not so slacked out that you have to fight it through twisty slow stuff. Full squish 29ers are great 1st mtbs because they are so versatile. Plus if you end up really enjoying mtbing, then believe me, you will end up owning more than one bike down the road so don't sweat your decision- you made a good one. While you own the one you have, swap with buddies, go to demo days, take advantage of opportunities to ride different styles of bikes instead of just guessing what type you think sounds good for your next purchase. Keep in mind that everything is a trade-off. More mm of travel equals more fun to point down technical descents, but less fun to get there, and less precise handling. Heavy big squish bikes can be really taxing for riding cross country, which I'm assuming is what you'll be starting off doing. Regarding your 2nd question, you can safely go up 20mm in the front (fork) although it will slack the geometry out a bit. The RockShox Reba that came installed on that bike can be converted to 120 by removing a couple of spacers inside the fork (it may only be 10mm of spacers that can be removed in newer models, ask your dealer). As for the rear shock, that's a bigger can of worms that you probably don't want to open. 

I've snapped a chain twice. Once the chain was very heavily worn and it snapped at one of the factory links, the second time it was also heavily worn but it snapped at the Connex Link which I may have re-used (I can't remember if I did or not). Both times I was heavily on the pedals, taking off from the lights, and it is not a pleasant experience. Based on this I'd recommend 1. Get a chain wear indicator. (Sounds like you have one now) and check the chain regularly and definitely replace it before the chain wears out. 2. Don't re-use master links. Replace them when you replace the chain. Also note that some can be installed the wrong way (The Connex link is like that, make sure it is installed correctly). 3. For chains with a connecting pin, don't break the chain in the same spot twice. 4. Use a proper bicycle chain lubricant. Things like WD-40 can just dry out and prematurely wear your chain. 5. Don't continually break and re-connect the chain. Use a chain scrubber if you want to clean it, rather than breaking the chain too often. Although I've given up on the chain scrubber now, I just wipe the chain down with a rag, lube the chain, then wipe off the excess and ride. Doing this after rain helps keep rust off too. I carry a compact chain tool and a Connex connecting link, just in case. But I'm more vigilant about checking my chain wear and replacing the chain now, so I shouldn't need it. 

I tried the GoPro for a while and there were several things I didn't like about it, or where I felt it fell short. I'm now looking at buying one of the "tough" cameras produced by almost all of the major camera manufacturers which have several advantages over something like the GoPro or the ATC3K. Things I didn't like about the GoPro are... - The weight on my head when used on the helmet (could cause my helmet to shift). - No screen, so you can only review footage once transferred to the computer. Transferring also takes a long time. You can get an add-on screen now, but this will add bulk and weight. - No zoom, so for instance the wide angle cannot even show red-light runners, as the lights on the far side of the intersection (perpendicular to my direction), are too far away to show up on the video. - Menus are difficult to use and you have to remember the abbreviations they use. - The square shape is bulky. I didn't try it strapped to my arm because it would be too uncomfortable whilst cycling. - The handlebar mounts are kind of bulky and can be fiddly to fit. - It interfered with my wireless speedo when mounted right next to it (the speedo numbers went haywire). - Enclosure can fog up requiring the purchase of, and fiddling with, anti-fog inserts. Olympus, Panasonic, Sony, Canon, Nikon, Fuji and Toshiba all produce "tough" cameras that are resistant to water, shock, dust and so on to varying degrees. Of course the models vary but typically they have these advantages over the GoPro or ATC3K