Wikipedia sources this from the website for the 1st Infantry Division Band, which indicates this happened on the notorious "Thunder Road" between Saigon and Quan Loi, but the description on the band's website does not date the incident. Mother Jones says this happened in March, 1969. There is also a list of campaigns the band served in.The last campaign listed is the first Gulf War in 1991.However, none of the others have any description of combat, so this incident during the Vietnam War was probably the last time for them. 

To think outside the Matryoshka dolls for a second, Stanisław August Poniatowski was allegedly a lover of Catherine between 1755-1758 (and the father of her daugher Anna), and was placed on the throne of Poland in 1764. Although the Sejm voted him in, Russia was essentially in control of Poland at the time and they voted Catherine's candidate in. (They'd had to do it before in 1736 for Augustus III under Empress Anna). So although Poniatowski had to do Catherine's bidding, such as standing by while his country was dismembered, as King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania, he nominally outranked any of his Russian counterparts. 

I don't think we can get an exact answer, but we can at least set some parameters and make a reasonable guess. First, This light bulb in Livermore, California has been burning since 1901. It's been off for a few brief periods since then, but the point is to demonstrate that early filament bulbs lasted a long time and were left on. The first electric arc street lighting was installed in Los Angeles in 1876 and in London and Paris in 1878. These were likely turned off during the day. Now, we go back to the time just after Edison perfected his incandescent light bulb. The Menlo Park Museum website has this to say: 

The 1974 "Mr. Neutron" episode of Monty Python's Flying Circus features an increasingly unhinged American military commander (played by Michael Palin) bombing everything into smithereens in a demented series of attempts to take out the frighteningly powerful stodgy homebody, Mr. Neutron (played by Graham Chapman). While not directly addressing MAD, it is an indirect satire since the "Commander" character is a take-off on General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling Hayden) from Dr. Strangelove. 

Having done some archery, I can attest to the fact that you can get a lot more people on the line, shooting at the same time, if their movements are at least broadly in sequence. The combined benefits of the physical impact of more archers in the same space, and the moral impact of a thousand arrows hitting at the same time rather than a steady stream, seem likely between them to make up for any lost efficiency through the faster archers waiting to shoot. The other point which occurs to me is that using a war bow in battle is really tiring. Unless the enemy are in the final stretches of a charge, you don't want to tire yourself out too fast! Nor do you want to blow through your stock of arrows, as each man can carry a strictly limited number, and an archer with no arrows is a poor light infantryman. 

Wiki says he professed himself to be a Protestant. Do you have reason to doubt this? And why would the only alternative to a Calvinist Protestant be for him to be an atheist, when there were many other Christian sects and denominations? 

The premise sounds unlikely, unless Chinese people of the period had either effective birth control (of what form?) or were killing children after birth, e.g. by exposure. Otherwise population growth is much more frequently limited by infant mortality, war, disease, availability of food etc etc. People will keep having sex, whatever you do; unless there's some other way to deal with the consequences, babies will keep resulting from it. Don't see any way round that really. 

I seem to recall emigration restrictions on Frenchmen being one of the reasons for the small population of French colonies in North America compared with the English colonies, but I'm afraid I can't place the origin of that. Equally in the early days of a united Spain, Aragonese were forbidden to trade or settle in the American colonies, as these were Castilian claims whereas Aragon's sphere was seen as the Mediterranean. You'll notice the common factor between these, however: they involve a state restricting emigration from the home country to places it controlled. Few pre-modern states would have had sufficient control over their borders to prevent individuals leaving their territory at all. Edited to add: And of course exile, whether self-imposed or otherwise, has often been a pressure-release valve, which it would rarely be in the interests of the state to stop up. 

Aquileia is at the head of the Adriatic, but on the mainland, and closer to Trieste than Venice. Actually, Attilla's next target was Padua, but in 452 Pope Leo I somehow persuaded him to stop. Recall that the islands in the Veneto were settled by by people fleeing the various Gothic, Hunnic, and Lombard invasions near the end of the Western Roman Empire. Attilla was likely more interested in richer prizes (such as Rome) than pursuing a few soggy refugees into a swamp. 

It's unlikely that the lights on Christie Street stayed on all the time; it's a bit more likely that the lights in the Menlo Park lab were always on. In 1880 Moseley street in Newcastle was lit by J.W. Swan's independently-developed incandescent lamps. Edison and Swan soon began selling lighting systems to early adopters, wealthy individuals who lit their mansions as status symbols. So the chances of some light somewhere being on all the time increased. And then came the summer of 1882: 

My reasoned guess is that this moment in 1882 is your answer. Although an 1890 fire put the Pearl Street generating station out of commission for 11 days, it is likely that one of the buildings on Pearl Street had at least one light bulb on the whole time it was in service. In the meantime, of course, the use of electric lighting spread rapidly (in 1888, Tamworth NSW was the first town in Australia with electric street lighting), reducing the chance of a completely electrically-unilluminated Earth as time passed, until the Livermore bulb first turned on in 1901. 

Because people are quibbling in comments over the meaning of "overpopulation", it might suggest that this question is broad or unclear. So let's look at it from a different angle. In the 1960's, Dr. John Calhoun, working at NIH, conducted his famous (some would say infamous) "mouse utopia experiment". Mice were placed in an enclosure (named "Universe 25") where they were provided with an unlimited supply of food and water. The only constraint was the size of enclosure. For a while, the mouse population exploded, as one might expect. After a while the population leveled off, and in the crowded conditions, several peculiar patterns of behavior emerged. For example, there were gangs of unattached male mice who would get into violent fights with , and individuals that Calhoun dubbed "the beautiful ones" who would do nothing but eat, groom, and sleep. Eventually, all of the mice just went about their business, ignoring each other as if they were on their phones all the time, and the population plummeted. In fact, none of the mice survived despite having unlimited resources. The devolution of the mice's social behavior (called a "behavioral sink" by Calhoun), and only that, led to their extinction. Other researchers produced similar results using rats. It isn't clear how well this experiment applies to human behavior, and Calhoun's methodology has been criticized, but it is a good example of the effects of overcrowding that we should think about.