Is there any limit to how many times larger FTSE 100 firms could be than the output of the entire economy, for instance? EDIT: To be completely clear, I am not using the FTSE as a proxy for the wider stock market or private sector more generally, so I'm pretty sure survivor (or selection) bias is nothing to do with the answer. I am literally asking about the size of the group of the largest $x$ companies listed today relative to the total economy. 

In answer to the narrower question of how significant an economy South America would be, here's a rough comparison of current (2016) GDP: 

In most countries, interest rates are actively managed by the government or central bank in pursuit of various policy objectives (some closely linked to investment, some, like stable foreign exchange markets, not). Investment in turn is determined by a wide range of factors other than interest rates. Basically I don't think that your assumption of a close link is valid. 

I assume you mean openness to international trade, and that you're interested in both policy choices (does the country want to be open) and physical constraints (can they be open). The main factors that come to mind are: 

Economists are generally more interested in the aggregate output of different sectors of the economy rather than the number of firms or outlets. The difference between lots of small shops and a few large shops is quite different to the difference between the majority of GDP coming from industry or services. If a country has a lot of small retail outlets and a few large manufacturing firms, that suggests that there are much larger economies of scale in manufacturing than retail. The aggregate output of agriculture, industry and services are normally reported in GDP tables (here's an example for Rwanda). A larger services sector is normally associated with richer, more advanced countries. These images compare countries based on the relative size of industry, services and agriculture, and the proportion of the labour force working in each: 

As I understood from my lectures, a multiplicative function means that the marginal product of one factor increases when another factor increases, and decreases when another factor decreases. The extreme cases (leontieff or additive) don't have this property. At the moment the teacher explained this, it made sense to me. If one factor increases, it expands the capacity of the other to produce more. I think it makes sense. 

The theory of present value states that the price of a stock is the discounted value of the infinite stream of future income of the company. Several countries have had very very low interest rates, very close to zero. Yet, stock prices have not gone to very very high values, or even infinity. Why is this the case? Is this a proof that the theory of present value is incorrect? Or maybe investors think companies will not last "forever" (which they cannot, as earth's lifespawn is finite)? 

The "common man" conception of money is not helpful to think about these issues. Money is not ONLY currency and notes anymore. These are just a TOKEN used to distribute goods and provide exchanges. They are not the real stuff. For example, when you make a bank account transfer, you are not moving TOKENS. Why would you? Banks are given these tokens by the central bank in order to keep a smooth movement of payments. So Apple does not have 80% of all tokens of the US economy in a vault somewhere. Why would they? It's dangerous! They have such ownership of wealth, but in the form of a current account and other assets. So you need to think differently between a claim on wealth, WHICH CAN BE TURNED INTO TOKENS, and the TOKENS THEMSELVES. 

That is how an analyst is likely to approach it; in reality, if the private sector and/or unions have a strong voice in government, the process might resemble more of a negotiation between two sides. 

Pick a range of possible minimum wages to analyse, perhaps based on cost of living estimates, 90th centile wages, union demands, benefit payments, previous minimum wages, etc. For each possible minimum wage, attempt to model the likely impacts on (a) the wellbeing of people affected by wage increases (e.g. decline in poverty), (b) the overall level of knock-on wage increases throughout the economy, and their effect on inflation and tax revenue, and (c) unemployment. Perhaps also expected rates of compliance and any enforcement costs (though enforcement is often minimal). Present this information in an easily accessible way and offer politicians a choice of a few reasonable options. Unless you're talking about a small change (say, increasing the minimum wage 5%), a final decision is likely to be made by cabinet, based on the expected effect on the ruling party's electability. 

This is quite a common response to an exchange rate crisis (which normally also suggests broader economic problems). The consequences depend on how diligently the government applies the ban, the relationship between government and businesses that trade internationally and how far the official rate strays from the true (black market) rate. First, it is almost always possible to buy and sell currency on the black market, and perhaps legally in neighbouring countries. The black market rate is likely to follow the downward trajectory of the currency prior to the ban. Exchange controls create risk for currency traders, so buying and selling on the black market tends to be expensive (i.e. the rates for buying and selling move further apart). Second, lots of businesses urgently need foreign currency to import inputs and goods for retail sale. They will try and find a strategy for obtaining that currency. They may be able to buy it on the black market. If the government is able to sell some local currency at the official (overvalued) rate, it may also sell foreign currency at the official rate to firms it sees as a priority (e.g. oil importers or friends of the regime). For instance, tourists entering East Germany were forced to buy a certain quantity of local currency per day of their visit at the official rate, giving the government a source of forex. If these strategies are not possible, companies may try to create symmetry in their import/export businesses, so that they can use the foreign exchange they earn themselves to cover their imports. Government may or may not intervene to prevent this. Importing firms without a viable strategy are likely to fail. All in all it makes international trade more difficult and expensive, so prices of imported goods are likely to rise even more quickly than they were under the sliding exchange rate. The most reasonable motivation for this type of exchange control is to prevent people and companies from shifting their savings into another currency, which could cause a general banking collapse. If you see the exchange rate falling continuously, you would be tempted to convert your savings from local currency to dollars, which hold their value. If everyone does this, the exchange rate slide accelerates, banks can't cover their liabilities, loans are called in, and banks and businesses may fold. The Soviet bloc is a common example of the use of official exchange rates but they've been used by governments in trouble all over the world, recently in various African countries, a few in South America and less recently in Asia. 

But debt is bonds, accounts payable refer to money owed to suppliers ($URL$ Is it under "Other Current Liabilities"?. How can I know? Anyone has experience looking at balance sheets? I'm learning this. 

I am looking at the balance sheet of Coca-Cola ($URL$ but I cannot guess where loans with banks are. These liabilities accounts are: 

I think this is because of liquidity. If I am a poor household, and I own stocks (maybe via my pension?), if the price of those stocks go up, I cannot consume such extra income. Actually, if the stock market crashes, my capital gains can be wiped out! So in a sense, this is not "actual purchasing power", as it is the case with direct income like wages or transfers. So, to the day to day interest of a household, capital gains should not be relevant for their wellbeing. 

Thank you Brian for the suggestion, and the others too. It took me a long time to find it in the Coca-Cola report, and it was under Current Liabilities: 

Risk is important. A bond (or even a credit) is backed up by the company's assets. Companies go bankrupt because of a mismatch between assets and liabilities maturities (e.g. cannot pay a bond of a loan), but not because they are unsustainable in the long run. If a company goes bankrupt, debtholders are the first on the list (after workers, in some countries) to receive compensation. Sometimes they do assume losses, when the debt is negotiated at a lower value. The shareholder is the last one to get any money out of the assets of the company. So being a shareholder is more risky than being a bondholder. 

Yes, you are describing the (British) East India Company. A royal charter granted it a 15 year monopoly on English trade with "all countries east of the Cape of Good Hope and west of the Straits of Magellan". Also noteworthy, "at the height of its rule in India, the British East India company had a private army of about 260,000 — twice the size of the British Army". 

Within the WTO framework, this would fall under the government procurement agreement, as it is a restriction on who the government can buy from that limits opportunities for foreign firms. 

My understanding of conventional wisdom is that average long-term growth of advanced economies is expected to be significantly lower than the average long-term growth of the value of the largest firms in the stock market (e.g. the total value of the FTSE 100). I also accept Kenny LJ's argument that GDP (and the stock market) can grow exponentially, indefinitely. But if the largest firms in the stock market, taken as a group, always grow faster, doesn't that suggest either 

The Caribbean is included in Latin America for good measure (and because that's the way the World Bank cut up the data). The US is 3.5 times the size, the EU 3.1 times, and China 2.1 times. The economic area would be almost 3 times the size of the Brazilian economy. In terms of pros and cons, there are probably larger political than economic issues involved. Source 

In poorer countries, agriculture tends to be lower productivity than other sectors, so those countries tend to show up as greener in the labour share than the GDP chart. 

Money has to be used in all transaction. So Q refers to all transactions. In the early literature Q refered to commodities. This includes everything, from inputs to outputs. So you should include not only GDP but also intermediate transactions. Using only GDP is like thinking that only final goods were bought using money! This is plainly wrong. 

ST Debt & Current Portion LT Debt 25.23M 25.94M 6.45M 7.06M 7.53M Short Term Debt - - - - - Current Portion of Long Term Debt 25.23M 25.94M 6.45M 7.06M 7.53M Accounts Payable 79.48M 69.45M 109.87M 162M 251.98M Income Tax Payable - 2.52M - - - Other Current Liabilities 111.6M 110.91M 111.11M 157.49M 198.4M Dividends Payable - - - - - Accrued Payroll 49.42M 49.4M 51.19M 68.99M 84.74M Miscellaneous Current Liabilities 62.19M 61.52M 59.91M 88.49M 113.67M 

I have a question. A company is worth 1 million dollars, in terms of present value of revenues, discounted at rate R. Can I borrow 1 million dollars from a bank and buy the company? If the bank charges me R, I am indifferent? Or, can I issue a bond for 1 million, with coupon R? Am I indifferent too? Do these things happen? Do businesses ask for credit or issue bonds in order to buy companies? 

No, because money can be destroyed and counterfeited. For example, I have a shop, and you buy something from me. I could burn the money. The number of goods have not changed, but money has. Similarly, evildoers can counterfait money, adding it to circulation, without changing the amount of goods available in the economy. 

I think the flaw in your reasoning is expecting that foreign capital inflow would lead to more ₹ in circulation. When investors bring in capital, they are buying ₹ that were previously in circulation. This additional demand without additional supply is exactly what drives the price of the ₹ up. There is no increase in the quantity of ₹ circulating unless the government/central bank responds in some way. 

The most generic answer is that governments can basically tax whatever they want, according to whatever rules they choose to invent. I have seen situations in which goods or services have been taxed by both the importing and exporting governments. Having said that, there is a clear international norm that taxes such as VAT (the equivalent of sales tax in the vast majority of countries) apply in the importing country, after import duties (so you pay tax on the import duty and transport costs). I don't know about the specifics of the US and Canada; I believe in particular US state sales taxes don't follow international norms. NAFTA may also specify. 

I believe that the UN Comtrade database is the main data source for this kind of query with substantial country coverage. It's broken down by HS code. It has its issues. Reporting is based on national authorities, so you should usually expect data on imports to be more accurate than exports because of the tax implications (so Uganda's imports from Kenya are likely to be more accurate than Kenya's exports to Uganda).