There is nothing wrong with enjoying sex, so long as you don't mind suffering. Let me turn the question around on you: If you were never able to have sex again, even though your desire and drive to do so remained, how would that make you feel? Judging by your question and the comments you have made, I would assume this would cause you suffering. This is all that the Buddha is saying. Such a mind-state of clinging and craving will plant the seed for potential future suffering. You cannot suffer because you can't have sex, if you don't want to have sex to begin with. Likewise, a mind free from craving, free from anger, and free from delusion, seeing clearly the transient, unsatisfying nature of all impermanent phenomena, is a mind with no potential to suffer. This is the Buddha's teaching: This leads to this, that leads to that. That is all. It really is true, I can tell you from my own experience. If you give the Buddhas teaching a fair chance and put it into practice, you will likely see very quickly in meditation how perturbed the mind becomes by the constant craving for sensuality. I am very much like you, in fact. Before my first meditation course last year, I loved having sex, and indulging in sensuality. I thought it was great, and the more I got, the happier I was. When I attended the course, at first it was very nice, sitting in silence. It was very peaceful. For the first day, at least. After this, for the next few following days, my mind was bombarded with lust. All day, for several days, my mind cried out for the object of its desire, and every time it did, I brought it back to the present moment. This was true suffering. My mind was inflamed. Not because I needed to have sex; clearly not having sex will not kill you, but instead, because in this meditative state, I could clearly see how this craving was inflaming my mind. I can tell you this, this lust is like a thirst that is never quenched. The object of your desire can never quench your thirst; as soon as you have it, it is gone, like sand falling through your fingers. As soon as you get it, it's gone, and before long you need more. This is why we are always in search for more, never knowing peace, always wanting. We're chasing a mirage of water that will never quench our thirst. A simile by Ajahn Chah illustrates this well: 

To progress along the path, to realise what the Buddha did, we need a vehicle. If the vehicle uses imagination as a method, then imagination becomes the path. Imagination is not mindfulness, but is used to train mindfulness. 

No self does not mean disappearances. Acknowledging Anatta means we are mindful of others more than self. If I'm driving a bus, I'm mindful of the safety of all my passengers, not just myself. I don't disappear and let the bus drive by itself because it is reckless to the passengers. Disappearing is not Anatta. 

Samsara exist because there is enlightenment- free from Samara. Just like wealth exist because there are poor. Only if one is free from Samsara can one see Samsara. If everyone is in Samsara, then how can one see Samsara? That is what Buddha is here to teach 

In this way, one can see that the Buddha was purposeful in the manner in which he spoke, and as such would not be doing so simply as a cultural norm. 

There are a few things which come to mind that Buddhism may say about your current spiritual path; Surely, the practices you have described will bring you some beneficial results. But without proper insight, guided by the Noble Eightfold path, they will not lead you to liberation from old age, suffering, and death. And this is evident by the way in which you describe the body. The body is in fact a prison, not a temple. This body is not ours, and by its very nature seeks out death. Pursuing health is a useless endeaver, as the Buddha said : 

Some people perceive impermanent as self, some perceive permanent as self. Both permanence and impermanence are self. The idea here is when the self perceives a permanent "impermanent" or permanent "permanent" then there is suffering when permanent "impermanent" becomes impermanent "impermanent". To be free from suffering, one must realize everything is impermanent - even have to realize that "impermanent" is impermanent. 

There are many types of suffering and stress, anxiety, fear etc are mental sufferings. Thus wanting to be free from suffering is natural and knowing the path is the right view. 

Remember the Heart Suttra. In emptiness, there is ...no eye, no nose, no ear, no mouth, ... Thus in emptiness there is no soul. The concept of man and woman are created by human beings. 

Lately when sitting, my head will abruptly turn at weird angles very suddenly. I'm not always able to catch it to stop it before it happens; sometimes the movements are really bizarre ( my head moving straight back, leaving me looking at the ceiling if my eyes were open). Is this a common/known occurrence in meditation, or do I need to see a doctor? 

We can sit here all day discussing the Dhamma, but in the end, the only thing that will truly convince you of the Buddhas teaching is to give it a fair chance yourself and put it into practice. Seeing first hand that what the Buddha says is in fact the way that the mind and body work together is the only way to know for yourself the path that leads to the cessation of suffering. 

I could easily have written your query. At this time however there are a few differences which may be helpful if shared. Am in my mid 40’s. Never thought that it was actually possible. Met a Venerable at the local Vihara who stated otherwise and has taken me under his wing so to speak with ordination to be the outcome. Yes, it’s a long road, lots to learn. But if it’s truly in your heart, it will be. Make yourself visible and learn as much as you can from as many as are willing to share. Have you decided upon a school of thought? So much to consider. Please forgive for giving what equates to being advice, but the same is also my personal experience. Hope this is helpful in some small way. All the best to you. 

You got it somehow. True self or true nature of the mind is luminous, reflecting everything as it is. It is the buddha itself. Everyone has this true self and everyone can follow the Buddha's path to realize the true self. 

Buddhism is about non-attachment. The more we are attached to bliss, the more there is no bliss. The more we look for bliss, the more bliss cannot be found. Practice renunciation. 

there is suffering - the itch There is a cause of suffering - possibly any cause there is cessation of suffering - after 10sec the itch is gone- And this should be enlightening. but if you examine the itch instead of the object of meditation, the itch will be there, and there will be no progress. Focus on object of meditation. There are paths to the cessation of all suffering - Realising everything is the 3rd noble truth - What you're doing now, meditating and realising itch will go away. Ultimately everything will go away because, everything is empty. And because everything is empty, sentient beings didn't see it, they suffer, so compassion arises. 

The Buddha does not admit to a self AFAIK, therefore the presumptions your question are based on don't have a great base to start on. However, conventionally , this can be said in regards to your question. 

Many people say many things. Unless a teaching contains the Noble Eightfold Path, it will not produce noble disciples: 

As far as I understand, noting only ceases upon cessation(nibbana) itself. That is to say, the meditator does not stop noting. I'd also invite you to meditation.sirimangalo.org Ven. Yuttadhammo gives Dhammapada talks there on Tuesday nights, 9pm eastern time, Dhamma talks on Thursday, and does Q & A Saturday nights. He also offers 1 on 1 meetings in an online meditation course format for more serious meditators, so this may be of interest to you. 

In some schools of Buddhism, everything is mind. Even the random effects are created by mind, which is karma. In other words, the random effects do not exist outside the mind. Which means, since the random effects exist within the mind, it does create experience. 

If the patient is a devout Christian and saying "may god bless you" helps him to recover, by all means say "may god bless you". If the patient is a BUDDHIST, saying "Namo Amitabha" and remembering the three refuge can be helpful.. 

Living in present is the phrase used by Buddhists to refer to mindfulness. Mindfulness can be something like "When we walk, we walk. When we eat, we eat." Mindfulness can also be non distraction, being here. 

Would really depend upon which school of thought you follow, and at that, which lineage. Some are as strict as to say that definitely yes, not permitted. Then there are most others that are more mainstream or even liberal in the interpretation of Buddha’s teachings. The question I would ask myself is - is there any other source that I can use without alcohol, and go from there. This, only if you are especially conservative in your approach to the precepts. If you do continue to consume Kombucha, perhaps consider switching to one with a lower alcohol content. They do vary among brands, sometimes widely. The bottle that I am looking at now states .5% by Vol, but I’ve seen both higher and lower amounts in other products. Please also consider the caffeine content if you are sensitive. 

A person can choose between being a layman or a monk, but not both. Layman has to work to earn a living. Monks have to focus on the practice and uphold Buddhism. Both have complementary roles to play. Layman work to support the monks community. Monks pray for peace, harmony and success of the working community. 

Renunciation! There must be renunciation from the bottom of your heart before you can be easy on your meditation. 

Because to create something from something else means to go against the law of cause and effect. Buddhist believe that if one plants orange seed, one will reap oranges. One plants apple seed, one will reap apples and so forth. One can't plant apple seed and reap oranges - it is totally absurd and illogical. One can't have something totally unrelated create something else totally unrelated. Thus buddhist does not believe in a creator.