The white hole would the equivalent mass of a black hole. It would be able to orbit the white hole because this is a massive object. In fact, its mass would be the same as a black hole of the same size (and, therefore, the same mass). 

Source: Impact Event Remember three-quarters of the Earth's surface is ocean and the land surface area is mostly uninhabited, so meteorites two or three feet across on impact could be happening all the time and we wouldn't notice a thing. This means life could evolve and survive without too much trouble. Open a window, look outside and appreciate this is the sort of planet you are living on, and Earth didn't too much trouble allowing life to evolve, survive and thrive here. 

The amount of light will be 0.0178 of the light received by the Earth. Less than 2%. If vision is in the optical range, their eyes will have to maximize their light catching capacity. Basically they will be very big. Visiting Earth would be blindingly bright for big eyed aliens. However, there is an alternative vision scheme. This was proposed earlier for another answer, but it certainly fits here. This article by Robert Freitas called "Extraterrestrial Zoology", originally published in Analog, July 1981, has an interesting discussion of alien senses. Vision, of course, is simply the detection of one narrow set of wavelengths of light within the entire electromagnetic spectrum. One alternative to “visual” sight is infrared (IR) vision, or seeing with heat waves. The rattlesnake is quite good at this – the creature has two imaging eyeballs operating in the visible, and two conical pits on either side of the head which permit binocular IR sensing of temperature differences as little as 0.002 °C. The theory of optics predicts that alien infrared eyeballs with resolution close to that of the human eye could have apertures as small as 4 centimeters at 93,000 Angstroms (the peak wavelength of black body radiation emitted by a warm human body). This compares well with the size of the eye of the Indian elephant (4.1 cm), the horse (5 cm), the blue whale (14.5 cm), and the largest cephalopods (up to 37 cm). The fact that rattlesnake have binocular IR sensing and that optics can allow for IR eyes having the same resolution as the human eye, then alien organisms living on a low light planet would be able to see quite well if they evolved infrared eyesight. The ability to see such remarkably small heat differences means excellent vision even on a cold planet. Visiting Earth would be blindingly bright for infrared eyed aliens too. Aliens with infrared eyesight would look grotesque. There would be large holes in their heads where we have eyes. 

The tarot is a system of symbols arranged in intuitively meaningful patterns. Like most intuitively meaningful patterns they can be ordered to suit someone's purpose. 

Immortals can't die. Any combat will be non-lethal. Establish appropriate rules of engagement on both sides. The soldiers on both sides line up, face to face, one on one, and play rock, paper, scissors. Which side wins the most number of rounds of the game is the victor. 

However, this mass limit might be overcome by the meteorite's velocity and its attendant kinetic energy. Also, it is probable that the meteorite's velocity will be reduced by its passage through the atmosphere. This suggests a possible minute meteoric missile which can have the equivalent power of a bullet of a given mass and carrying its equivalent kinetic energy. This is complicated by the range of masses of bullets. This answer is for guidance, but should provide sufficient information to devise a suitable lethal 'meteor bullet'. 

Most of the answers to date have dealt with single timelines or a multiverse. Actually the multiverse concept needs further refining because there a variety of multiverse concepts. This answer will deal with what the OP calls the "diverging timeline universe". This is more correctly called the branching timeline universe. It's also the most difficult time-travel friendly universe to test and be assured time-travel is safe. This form of time-travel forms a timeline whenever a time-traveller arrives anywhere in time. Past, future or present, it doesn't matter. History branches from the time-traveller has arrived and presumably continues onwards until the end of time. Testing this time-machine by sending anything into the past or the future, it result in precisely nothing. No slips of paper with random numbers, lottery tickets, apples or mangoes (some examples were in alternative timeline versions of this question) will materialize before or after being dispatched by the time-machine. This does mean the operator of a time-machine cannot distinguish things are travelling into branching timelines or what they thought was a time-machine is a perfect disintegration machine. The only way a time-traveller can be sure they exist in branching timeline universe is to travel in their own time-machine and see where it takes them. if it works, the time-traveller will be visiting different past and futures to his merry content. Until he decides to go home. One consequence of this kind of time-travel is that it is effectively impossible to return to your timeline of origin. Return to your initial present and a new branch timeline will be created. It may look like home, but it won't be, and people in that initial present will never see a returning time-traveller. Yes the time-traveller will experience many alternative branching timelines and many alternative versions of his initial present. But anyone in his genuine initial present he never see him return. Also, those branching timelines may only visited by one time-traveller in their entire existence. This is one form of time-ravel that can never be tested in advance of taking the plunge and the time-traveller does it himself. The positive side is that there is no possibility of any form of causality violation. Time-travellers can never their own actual past. They enter other versions of their own past and make whatever changes they like, but this won't violate their own history. Time-travel in a branching timeline universe will be soon discontinued. Time-machines will leave and never return. The probability of time-travellers arriving from other timelines, branching or not, practically zero. There may be time-travellers wandering like transtemporal Flying Dutchmen (irrespective of gender) who never return to their actual points of origin. This answer has addressed one form of time-travel neglected by commentators and other answers. This form of time-travel is highly resistant to testing. Time-travellers be warned! What look's like a time-machine may, in fact, be a very effective and practical disintegration machine. There's no way of knowing in advance. Prepared to take a chance? 

Hasn't seen her skin, eh? Well, she looked like one of these delightful creatures then her species would be somewhat less than warm and fuzzy. 

Essentially you would need to reconstruct human biology, certainly at the cellular level right down to rewriting our genome, possibly making gross morphological changes to anatomy, to become like that of the Tardigrada. It's not a matter of 'siphoning off' some mythical super-power and transferring it into humans. The most probable outcome for modified humans would be they could hibernate in highly stressful conditions. Good for long-range spaceflight or waiting out getting lost in the wilderness. Basically nobody knows whether hibernating like a tardigrade would preserve or protect a dying human being or their brain. The same with the speed with which this process would act. The problem is you asking for the unknowable. The only way to find out would be to genetically re-engineer humans with a tardigrade biology. Until we do that, we won't and don't know. 

Cramer even provides a plausible mechanism for generating the tachyons to power this hypothetical drive. 

Basically there isn't a big problem resurrecting Jurassic flora as so much of it survives in the contemporary world. 

This is a suitably low tech solution. Tattoo a suitable identification tag or code somewhere on their bodies where it can be easily seen. For example, on their foreheads. 

Titles are cultural dependent and reflect a given society's history. For example, Supreme Leader might indicate a history where dictatorships or absolute rulers had been the norm. While First Among Equals is the result of a democratic tradition. One suggestion that appeals is First Citizen because it sounds democratic, however, it does have an ancestry that suggests more absolutist power. 

This was originally reported in the BBC documentary How BAE sold cyber-surveillance tools to Arab states. 

Make your world finite but spatially bounded. This means anyone walking towards where the edge would be will find themselves inexplicably turned around, even though they were still walking in the same direction and to their own minds they didn't turn around. They will arrive back at the place where they started. The Arthur C Clarke short story "Wall of Darkness" uses this concept. It also has a wall, the existence of which is never explained, but possibly it was built during an earlier time to stop people having the inexplicable experience of finding their world was spatially bounded. I suspect Clarke was putting a science-fictional twist on the sort of flat-earth world that appeared in various fantasy short stories by Lord Dunsay. Clarke was a fan of Dunsay's fiction. The concept of finite but bounded space appears in certain versions of cosmology. It is quite reasonable to use it for what is essentially a fantasy world. There is no need to explain how and what it is, just show what happens when people reach the "edges" of their world. Effectively they never get there. This also explains why no-one has looked over the edge. They can't get there to do it. 

Wormholes. That's the usual answer for time-shifted phenomena. Admittedly the wormholes have to be created prior to viewing either the past or future. This is the conventional description of wormholes and how they might be used. However, the best example of using wormholes to observe both the past and future was in the science-fiction novel The Light of Other Days (2000) by Arthur C Clarke and Stephen Baxter. After all, if you want clarketech, why not borrow from the Clarke himself. The Clarke-Baxter wormholes were extracted from the quantum foam, IIRC, and originally used as ubiquitous peepholes to spy on people everywhere. Only later did they discover the other wormhole mouth could open into other times. Their novel focused on observing the past, but, in principle, if you possessed the technology to open a wormhole here and now and where and when the other mouth of the wormhole opened. The observing both the past and future would be possible. The chances are that the machinery for generating wormholes will be large, clumsy and immobile. The one or more sets of mouths of the wormholes could be attached to a visor to enable observing the past or future, This assumes that the other sets of wormhole mouths are in the same relative spatial location as the visor-wearer who can use them to look through to see either the past or the future. 

Simple. The Fukdahrooles join the police forces and subvert from within. The civil population will turn against the police. Genuine police officers will develop an extreme siege mentality & go hard on the civilians. It will become self-sustaining, right up until the collapse. The Fukdahrooles' top echelon joins the economic, social and political upper class. They've got the money and new money is always welcome. They lobby for tougher laws to keep the unruly civilians in their place. Slash funding to social welfare education, health, public transport, and urban renewal programs Civilian unrest will increase. The Fukdahrooles organize civilian resistance to harsh policing, cuts to social spending, and the growing super-rich skimming the cream off the top of the society. They will issue guns and weapons to the proles. Organize street gangs of dispossessed children, teenagers, and the chronically unemployed. Rinse, repeat until the collapse. 

This answer proposes an alternative concept to speculative weapons of mass destruction. The global war was fought by armies of autonomous military systems and weapons platforms. Basically, "killer robots". This killed the majority of the world's population. However, there were small regions where the killer robots were excluded from taking lethal action against human beings and their resources. The reasons for these exclusion zones can be left as an exercise for the OP. Thousands of years later the killer robots are still out there. Humans survive in their small enclaves. By the way, killer robots can include orbital weapons platforms armed with laser-weapons and the dreaded "rods from the gods". This can accompany flights of drones patrolling the skies and armoured death machines trundling across the landscape. This scenario assumes that the world and its major nations have all adopted killer robot types of military systems. At some point conflict breaks out and the killer robots become an unstoppable force waging war on a global scale. This leads to an inevitable collapse of civilization. Only small enclaves of survivors remain. 

The Wikipedia article on Hohman orbit transfers is useful. My superficial reading of it suggests the velocity you require is only 8.8 km/sec. Far below your delta V of 100 km/sec. What may help you is the fact that Hohman transfer orbit is the perihelion of the departure planet and this connects to the aphelion of the destination planet. Therefore, search the times when Earth is perihelion during the 1980's and Jupiter is in aphelion. Do a quick estimate of the time taken at 8.8 km/s and find which Earth perihelion is most likely to connect with a Jupiter aphelion. This will give you your launch window to Jupiter. Right now I'm afraid the question about going on to Pluto will take more research. This may be a useful first step. However, the Interplanetary Transport Network concept may be worth looking at. It uses gravity assists from one planet to travel to further destinations and uses less energy. The references at the bottom of the article has downloadable PDF's on the subject. The American Scientist PDF mentions the profile of a trip to Jupiter. The inevitable YouTube has this enter link description here about the IPN and there are other videos in the links menu. Apologies if this is turning into link rot, but time is short and research is long. I hope I've given you something to start finding an answer.