As written it is false. Some employers care. In my experience, many do not. In my experience, unless you went to a very prestigious school and are applying for a job where such school attendance traditionally matters, then most hiring managers wouldn't care much. Still, there are certainly some managers who attribute a lot of value to the prestige of the school you attended. 

If "laid-back" was a term actually used by your boss in this context, he is basically telling you that leaving "right at 5" isn't sending off the kind of signals he wants from his leaders. 

You can always ask, but you need to interpret the response correctly. Anything that isn't specifically codified in a contract you should consider as opinion, subject to change at any time. For example "Well, we have plenty of work to do that could keep you busy for a long time." could all end quickly if a key account falls through, the economy changes, or management decides to bring the work in-house. (I had a contract end abruptly 1 month early. I have reason to believe that it was due to management wanting to make their numbers look good so that they could attain their annual bonus. They dismissed all contractors.) Part of the appeal of bringing in contractors/freelancers is that they can be easily dismissed as soon as conditions change. If it were me, I'm not sure I'd bet my financial moves based on a single client. If you had a stable of dependable clients, it might make more sense. (It's not unlike holding stock in a single company, versus holding diversified index funds.) 

If by "pass on the contract" you mean show them the written offer, that's okay. But that's not something I would recommend unless Company B explicitly says "We don't believe you have an offer." 

I wouldn't want to work at a company where I felt the CEO was actually misusing funds. But that's something you would need to decide for yourself. 

I'm a strong believer in looking inward for an answer, going with it, and then not looking back. Your fears (and perhaps your gut) are telling you not to accept this counter-offer. I tend to agree that situations seldom change for the better this abruptly, unless the people at the source of the problem are removed. But we cannot answer "which job should I take?" questions here. Only you can provide that answer. Only you can weigh the options and decide what is best for you. 

Your options are to listen to your boss and do what you are told, or do something else and put your job in jeopardy. Do the best with what you are given, and keep quiet until you are permitted to "speak of this" if you value your job. Be prepared to hit the ground running for the 1-month knowledge transfer which will start in a few weeks. Document whatever time permits. Work on issues as they are presented. Clear your decks as best you can. Clearly, it's up to your manager to decide what you will do. Listen carefully and carry it out to the best of your abilities. 

Your assumption is mostly correct. Verbal agreements can be legally binding [I AM NOT A LAWYER, BUT I DO WATCH JUDGE JUDY OCCASIONALLY]. But such agreements are very, very difficult to prove [from personal experience] and thus to enforce. Anything written into a contract can be binding and thus "enforceable". The wording could be as simple as 

Wanting "a more technical position" is a very valid reason for a job change. This is a good area to discuss. Be prepared to talk about what this means to you. Focus on the parts of the new position that excite you, but don't dwell on the parts of the old position that you don't like - some of those may still apply (hopefully in lesser amounts) in the new position. 

Performance appraisals should be a thoughtful, in-depth analysis of the performance of the employee for the entire year. Hopefully, you have kept notes about performance throughout the year. And hopefully, you have conducted regular 1-on-1 meetings throughout the year - in which case, the appraisal should have no surprises in it. Writing such appraisals takes a lot of time and thought. I typically write an appraisal in draft form, let it sit a few days, then go back and revise it several times before I am satisfied. I use my year-long notes from all 1-on-1 meetings as input, along with any metrics and project notes, as wells as notes from the prior year's goal-setting sessions. It's a time-consuming process. It makes complete sense to discuss the almost-completed appraisal in depth with the employee so that they understand your assessment, and understand what they have done well, what they haven't done as well, how they can strengthen their already strong points and work on the weak points. Their feedback can be included in the appraisal in many shops. In some shops, it is required to discuss the appraisal with your manager, in order to include their feedback before completion and/or before discussing it with the employee. You may wish to ask your boss about that. But it should never be a "let's craft an annual performance appraisal" meeting. 

Unless this was your first every job, it would make sense to include the job in your resume. That way, there is no gap to be addressed. 

I don't know if the relevant laws allow you to refuse a transfer, or allow lowering your wages. I'll assume you do know, and that you will go along with the transfer, then answer the questions you actually asked. I'll let others weigh in on "rights of refusal". 

Companies (particularly larger ones) spend a lot of time and money analyzing labor markets, preparing budgets and assigning an expected increase in labor costs. Those budgets are cascaded down to departments and affect the size of raises that managers can give without seeking exceptions. In some companies, exceptions can be extremely hard to achieve, often requiring many levels of approval. 

I always do a phone screen first, and in that way weed out the candidates who obviously don't fit the position. This tends to avoid the problem most of the time. Still, a few seem good on the phone, but in person clearly aren't a good match. As the hiring manager, when I bring folks in for an interview, I always speak with them first, followed by others, then ending up with me. If I quickly determine that the candidate is clearly not a fit, I just end it there. I don't want to waste everyone else's valuable time - both the candidate's time and the other interviewers' time. I thank the candidate for coming in. I tell the candidate that I don't think she/he is a good fit for the position, and give them a very high level reason as to why. If relevant, I invite them to submit their application for a different role at some point in the future, then I walk them out. I don't do this when I need more input, when the candidate is on the borderline, or when I am not sure. I wouldn't allow others to short-circuit the process this way, just me - it's my decision to make. And I don't end up doing this often. I feel that I'm being very honest, professional, and courteous. 

You have indicated that your work has become noticeably poor. This would be bad, since flexible arrangements are sometimes denied to poor workers here. You have indicated that you do not want to disclose the nature of your illness. While not strictly necessary in my company, it would be very awkward to request this sort of flexibility without indicating the real nature of "why" you wanted the flexibility. You have indicated that you are often unable to think clearly and quickly. That's not good for an IT worker being trusted to work independently. You indicated that you want to work from home so that you can catch up on your sleep. Catching up on your sleep isn't something you can do while you are working (from home or elsewhere). 

First of all do not resign until you have accepted a position at a new employer. Otherwise, you risk jumping into an equally-bad job simply because you are in a difficult financial situation. It's important to be on a payroll continuously, even if the situation is bad. When you are ready to resign, just simply say "Thank you for the opportunity, but I found a great job and I need to give you my notice. My last day will be in [whatever the usual notice period is in your locale and industry]." No need to go into any depth, or burn any bridges here. Just quit. 

Some companies would start from the beginning, others would shorten the process. There's no way to know how this particular company will handle your interview process, should you be granted one. Simply prepare as if this were a new company and you'll be covered either way. Additionally, make sure you have a very good story why this time will be different and you won't turn down an offer. The company will likely be wary regarding that. 

You probably don't need to explain why you didn't do something unless you are asked why. You really need to consult your lawyer first if you are trying to build a case. Otherwise, when you aren't sure what to write - ask HR how specific your answers on their report need to be. 

You can attempt to stretch out your negotiation as long as you choose. One of several outcomes will happen 

Yes. If you aren't capable of performing an activity that is assigned to you, you should discuss this immediately with your supervisor and determine what action needs to be taken. That might be re-assigning the task to someone else. It might be spending time learning how to do the task. Or, it might be something else. Either way, the solution starts with a discussion. Don't wait - do it now. As @HLGEM correctly points out, bosses don't like surprises. He'll be happier to learn of your problems now than if you wait. 

Obviously, that was a mistake. You should have agreed to a starting date that was 2 months or more after your resignation date. 

These two opinions are not necessarily exclusive to each other. Using a recruiter might not land you a job with a significant difference in pay, but it still might be in your best interest to use one. I believe that once you find the particular position of interest, the hiring company won't care if you came in via a recruiter, or on your own. The budget for the position is established ahead of time without regard for how you arrived. That said, a good agent can connect you with some positions that might not yet be publicly listed, and can work on your behalf to suggest to the hiring manager that you are "worth it" even if you are a bit above their target budget. You might wish to do what I did years back when I had been laid off. I spent some time on my own seeking a position without finding what I wanted. So I went to a local agent. He sent me on a few interviews, honed in on exactly what I was looking for, and ended up hooking me up with a terrific company. I don't think I got a significantly higher salary than I expected, but I'm pretty sure I would never have connected with this particular job on my own. 

This one is easy. You reply to them and say something along the lines of "Thank you so much for considering me, but at the moment I'm not looking for a new position. I'm very happy in my current job." You could add "Feel free to check in periodically." if you don't mind staying on their list of potential clients. If you prefer not to receive periodic emails, @Hazel wisely suggests adding something like "I'll let you know when I start looking for something new". This keeps you in a positive light, and lines up the possibility to work with them again at some point in the future, should you need their services. 

If this is the US, they are mostly asking the question so that they can report the results to the EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunities Commission). 

It's not a matter of etiquette. Instead, it's a matter of convenience. I almost always conduct an initial screening by phone. When I arrange phone interviews, I have the recruiter set up a time and ask if it would be easier for me to call the candidate, or for the candidate to call me. Since it's easy for me to arrange my schedule such that I can be at my desk near my phone, I will go with whichever the candidate would prefer. Often, it's simpler for the candidate to duck out of whatever they are doing and call me. But sometimes they plan on being at a particular place and would prefer that I call them. Either way works fine. Nobody feels awkward. No breach of etiquette involved. 

When I need to ensure time to get something done, I make an "appointment" with myself. That way, it's on my calendar for a specific time, and I won't plan any other work, or attend any other meetings during that timeframe. The research doesn't really need to be "between jobs" - particularly if you a never ending stream of tight deadlines. Instead, find small spaces (1 hour, 2 hours) within your work week for researching. Even the busiest of us have time for career growth if we make it a priority. I tend to get in early each day and do a bit of research-type activity after I have read through and answered all my overnight emails and planned out the rest of the day. I also tend to eat at my desk often, and use that time to read and research. Others use time at the end of the day to try out new tools, read, and research. You could also have a chat with your boss. Explain that you would like to research a particular tool or method, and talk about how it might benefit the group as a whole. Then ask if it could be considered a formal project, and if you could devote X hours per week to it. That way, you could more formally assign workweek hours to it. 

Presumably, you are attending these seminars and events on your own, not as a representative of your company, nor on company business. Thus it's perfectly reasonable for you to hand out your own personal cards, containing your personal contact information. That's a very reasonable way to network. However, it's not perfectly reasonable to include your employer's information on the card, without their permission. You could always ask your boss if it would be okay to put company information on your own personal card. If they wanted you to have their business cards, they would have provided them for you, so most likely the answer is "No", but the only way to know for sure is to ask. 

You should determine what rate you could get elsewhere - now, and over the next six months. Then determine what non-monetary value you get out of this job (experience, work culture, travel time, etc), compared to other positions you could get elsewhere over the next six months. Then compare the two and make your decision.