Since you are only able to train on weekends, you want to make the most of your time. Train on Friday and Sunday, full body. There are a lot of full body routines out there to choose from. But be sure to focus on the compound exercises that deliver the most bang for your buck. (Squats deadlifts, presses, rows, etc.) designing a specific schedule of exercises and progression would be specific to your goals. I'm assuming you're mainly interested in general strength and conditioning. Now, because of the timing of your training sessions, you'd be best off keeping intensity high and volume low on the Friday session. Don't take any sets to failure, and no grinding reps. Save that for the Sunday session when you'll have plenty of time to recover before you train again the next Friday. On Sunday, do higher volume and moderate intensity work. Here, you can take some sets to failure, or near failure, and the odd grinder will be tolerable. Consider doing deadlifts only on the Sunday session. If you really want to do something on Saturday, consider just doing some LISS cardio. You could also do some HIIT cardio at the end of your Friday and Sunday sessions. On the other hand, some brisk walking or biking during the week would be more beneficial, if that would fit for you. (E.g., walking or biking to campus.) Be certain to attend carefully to your recovery between the Friday and Sunday sessions. Get lots of sleep and food. Actually, that applies every day but, I get it, you're in school. Best of luck. 

The Wilks score is used to compare powerlifting scores for lifters of different body weights. A coefficient 

depending on the body weight "x" of the lifter in kilograms is multiplied by his or her total to arrive at a sort of "standardised" score for comparison. (It appears that it may also be used to compare individual lifts.) There are specific (sex-dependent) values given in the linked article for a,b,c,d,e,f. Is there any online source explaining the theory behind the Wilks score? The linked Wikipedia article does not explain where the denominator polynomial coefficients (a,b,c,d,e,f) come from and why the formula has the specific form given, and Google wasn't of much help. The quintic polynomial (a+bx+cx2+dx3+ex4+fx5) appearing in the denominator has three real roots. The negative root can be ignored as meaningless, and the two positive roots (roughly 13.5kg and 283kg) are presumably to be considered "out of range". Thus, I would guess this formula was obtained by fitting some collection of data. But what data? Alternatively, perhaps there is a theoretical model explaining these coefficients? (The only, admittedly crude, model I can think of is a multiplier very roughly like x-(2/3), which doesn't resemble the form given for Wilks, though the curves do have roughly the same overall shape on a sensible body-weight interval.) There must be some published literature on this, but I could not find it. 

brianmac.co.uk said that LIEBENSON, C (2006) Rehabilitation of the Spine: A Practitioner’s Manual says "if a lack of coordination is seen when walking backwards it indicates the gluteus maximus is weak." The muscles that let me walk backwards without all kinds of twisting were the gluteus minimus (activated by the hip hitch) and the gluteus medius. Trouble in the single-leg squat indicates issues with the gluteus medius. There are three exercises listed on that page, of which the wall press was the best for helping me feel the muscle. 

Runner's World has got this completely covered here. The gist of it: Run until you're breathing hard, then put one hand on your belly and one on your chest, and breathe so the bottom hand moves and the top hand doesn't. I also found two of their three exercises helpful: the "Hundred", where you lie on your back with legs raised slightly and pump your arms with each breath, and the chest expansion, where you inhale while sweeping your arms overhead. 

You are not going to be doing plyometrics when you're 70. And with the exception of muscle nuclei, most of the adaptations your body makes to exercise decline so fast that you will not really be far ahead if you exercise for 10 years and then quit. The benefits of exercise that will last your entire life are 

I want to maintain my bodyweight but increase my performance on exercises like pull-ups and skater squats. Assume that I find ways to create progressive overload that stimulates the muscles to improve. When eating a maintenance diet, does the proportion of protein matter for the adaptations the body does to get stronger? Is high protein needed to build the new nerve cells or muscle nuclei the body creates when it becomes stronger without adding muscle? 

In this case the tight antagonist and strong surrounding muscles still exist so your body may come to rely on them again. In the case of the gluteus medius you would need to stretch the hip adductors to prevent this. Others say the cause is an overloaded muscle which becomes too fatigued to fully contract, but that this is a cause rather than an effect of tight supporting muscles. 

Anything I am missing? Which is most important? My BMI is about 26 right now and I can complete about 12 consecutive pull ups at the moment. Which grip(s) should I be using? I a not a cross fitter so my goal is not a "kipping muscleup". I can do that already with no training. 

What is the ideal exercise foundation that will prepare me to for muscleups? Some ideas I am considering are: 

I used the time predictor from this site: $URL$ Based on your 1500m time I am getting 38:13 for the 10k. 

I have been exercising regularly for about 2 years and completed my first half Ironman earlier this year. I am currently recovering from ACL injury (from recreational basketball game). It has been about 3 weeks since surgery and I can put some weight on it again. I am told that rehab will be about 3-4 months. Maybe I can start swimming again relatively soon but expect it will be at least a few months before I can do most of what I was accustomed to. I know my VO2 max will fall (it probably already has to some degree) but how large of a decrease in VO2 max is expected during recovery? 

The time predictions about may not be accurate because 1500m is not very close to 10k (more accurate predictions can only be made from recent races of similar length). The point is not to go out too fast and pace yourself, which will allow you to pass a lot of people who tire more than you for the later part of the race. Here is another calculator you can use to help decide on your intended pace for the race: $URL$ 

Your cardiovascular fitness and genetics are likely to play a larger role on your heart rate than your body fat% Normally I would recommend long durations of lower intensity exercise in order to build cardiovascular exercise (long slow runs, etc) however you say "I feel I am quite adapted to this routine". Can you tell us what your resting heart rate it? Some people naturally have higher resting heart rates than others. As you continue to exercise and your bodyfat drops I would expect your resting heart rate and heart rate at your current intensity level to also decrease. You weight is not the primary causal factor of your cardiovascular fitness, just a symptom. 

Both bench dips and regular dips have a reputation for being bad for your shoulders. So if you start to feel any impingement, quit. Push-ups, on the other hand, if done as the push-up plus variant, are great for your shoulders because they train the muscles that protract your scapula like few other exercises do. (Bench press doesn't, because you pin your shoulder blades to the bench.) Dips might be harder, but there are many ways to make push-ups harder as well. Source on push-ups: T-Nation. 

The bar tends to slip down until my fingers are like hooks and the bar is barely touching my palm. Should I be gripping tighter? 

One extremely simple way for a single person is to record the total calories on all the food packages you purchase when you get home from the store. Over a few weeks, the packages you buy and finish will average out. The more accurate way is to use MyFitnessPal, where you can scan barcodes, pick from a database (eg, you can enter fast food calories just by typing in "Wendy's cheeseburger"), or enter your own recipes and portions. MyFitnessPal also calculates fat and protein calories and makes graphs, which is instructive. It's usually quite surprising to see how things work out. 

According to rdlfitness.com, you should not tilt your pelvis. Tilting the pelvis forward risks hyperextending the spine if the hips come off the bench. Tilting the pelvis backwards shortens the hamstrings at the hip, so when you flex the knee as well you can put the hamstrings into an overshortened position of active insufficiency. If you do lying leg curls, which they do not recommend, keep the pelvis untilted and the spine neutral to protect your lower back. 

I can do pull-ups in the 6-8 range, but I can't flexed-arm hang with my chin over the bar for more than a few seconds. Have I unwittingly been using momentum to get my chin to the bar without a full range of motion? Or might my anatomy make the flexed-arm hang difficult, with my top range of motion being slightly lower than my chin? 

You will not be able to improve your cardiovascular fitness much in time for the race Focus on taking it easy for the week leading up to your race and concentrate on pacing Aim for a small reverse slit, perhaps 19:33 for the first 5k and 18:40 for the second 5k Good night sleep before race day. Have a light breakfast (banana or oatmeal, etc) several hours beforehand. 

I am a barefoot/minimalist runner with lots of experience on hilly trails with the terrain your describe. In addition to more bones than any other part of your body, your feet have multiple muscles such as the anterior tibial, which enables the foot to move upward; the posterior tibial, which supports the arch; the peroneal tibial, which controls movement on the outside of the ankle; and the extensors. The best way to strengthen them is to gradually increase exposure to type of loose gravel surfaces you mention. The more minimalist your shoe the more you will feel the ground which is either a positive or negative depending on your goals. Having said that, based on my experience I actually would question the loose gravel being the primary cause of the pain and soreness in your legs. For people used to running on flat surfaces (of maybe with treadmills on a slight incline) the type of running that will cause the most soreness is downhill running. The fact that you mentioned a need to change running form downhill strengthens my theory. If I am right then focus on your calf muscles (and other muscle groups worked while running downhill). If you want an isolation exercise try calf raises, however I would recommend squats and deadlifts because they will work more muscle groups that will help you as a runner (including your core). If you prefer running outside over the gym, don't mind looking funny and don't frequently have access to hilly trails, trying running backwards (I am not joking). Running backwards is great for strengthening your calves, quads and shins (and will help you improve balance).