I don't usually stand when someone enters my cubicle, but I've been wondering lately if I'm supposed to. I'm an intern so almost everyone who comes to see me is a supervisor in some way. Is it rude not to stand? Also, is it rude to offer someone a chair without standing first? 

I just started a software development internship and I'm working on two really fun projects. Project A is self assigned to help me learn a new language and environment, and B is the same thing but a manager recently added some additional requirements. I had to go home early today to make sure I didn't go over my hours and I was really disappointed because I was on a roll with project A. If I wait until after the weekend to continue A I may not get a chance to work on It for a while because I'll be expected to make a lot of progress on B. I have plans to eventually combine the two projects. I have no big plans this weekend and want to work on project A, but I'm already at the max hours I can work, so I want to just work on it and not clock my hours. On one hand I don't think it would be a big deal even if it was obvious I worked from home because who cares what I do in my free time? On the other hand I had a previous (retail) job where I was told that working off the clock was a fireable offense. I know I'm probably overthinking this, but regardless if it is allowed or not why would it not be allowed? Is there any reason why I shouldn't just risk it now and ask permission when I get back on Monday? 

I understand that you are upset that a co-worker buggered up and lied to implicate you (apparently getting away with it), but if there is no proof I would not expect for the company to necessarily do anything visible to you. The fact you felt they believed you and you did not receive a reprimand yourself is an indication. In the other cases you mention involving minorities (and the majority of the work force) there may have been no doubt about where responsibility was, or the worker was honest and owned up to it, so reprimands were easy to dispense. You might want to ask your manager privately and verbally about the situation, if you are on good terms. They may be building a case to dismiss the person for all you know. Going to a hotline or HR and crying discrimination is really a nuclear option. You can be pretty sure they have written documentation to cover each of the reprimands - you could easily be on thin ice in trying to prove a negative. 

There is a reason why people are issued offices, and it's not just for the ego boost. Partly it's so conversations (personal and on the phone) can be private, but also typically we might have confidential documents such as performance reviews and such like around when we're not. I would say lock the door and have a slot installed for papers, if you think that's necessary. Management should be on your side on this. 

Write the information in a Word document and print it 'n' times. It doesn't have to look like a card. Print it on pink paper or whatever if you want it to stand out. I would not go about designing my own business card without documented permission, companies can get snippy about that sort of thing- technically you'd be violating copyright on their logo, for example. 

I don't see any reason NOT to tell them why you need time off. I will be in the same situation next month and unless I said something would probably be asked to stand at the booth. I plan to say something along the lines of "I know (company name) will be at the career fair at school, may I have time off to attend it myself?" They'll say yes, because its school and there is even a chance it will trigger a conversation about plans after graduation/intentions with the company :) 

Early last month I was offered an internship and verbally accepted over the phone. I was then emailed an offer letter, and a bunch of information and forms to fill out. The email said to let them know if I had any questions and told me what day/time to show up. I did not reply to the email but did fill out some forms it linked to. All of our communication has been over phone/skype/email because I attend school out of state and flew home right before my first interview. Now, it's been a month, and that was our last communication. The internship starts in about a week and a half. I don't have any questions to ask (at least not any that I feel are worth asking before I show up in person -- maybe I could ask about the dress code). I am worried that my failure to respond to the email and continued silence will make me look bad, or they will think I'm not serious about the internship. I don't think they are going to take the internship away or anything; I just don't want to make a bad impression before I even meet them. Should I send an email now just to break the silence sooner than later, or would an email the day before saying I am looking forward to my first day be sufficient? 

Companies are supposed to use the exact job title, but software engineers--particularly in high-demand categories--are difficult to find. If the hiring team was having a hard time sourcing enough good candidates for the position, they could have reframed the title in the ad to attract more candidates; it's usually more difficult to rewrite a job req and so it's sometimes left alone. In addition, the recruiting software can constrain the choice of title (although it shouldn't). Or sometimes companies will advertise a single generic ad for software developers as a kind of fishing expedition, then redefine the actual position to fit the actual hire. And, finally, in larger companies tech employee titles go with particular pay grades, and their performance evaluations are based on meeting all the criteria of that grade level. Sometimes a hiring manager finds a more junior candidate that s/he really likes and wants to hire, but doesn't think they have the experience to meet all the evaluation criteria. So the manager will scale down the position to give the employee some growing room and prevent them from getting a bad performance review in their first couple of years. Not saying that your situation is any of the above, but it's worth clarifying with your manager and/or HR. I'm not sure I agree that titles are meaningless; words like "senior" and "lead" and "associate" can make a big difference on a resume, especially when you work for big corporations. (If we were talking about titles like "Supreme God of Cloud Elasticity" I'd say yeah, who cares...but we're not.) If your offer letter does indeed say "Software Engineer" and not "Associate Software Engineer," then check the contract/employment agreements that you signed. They should have the same title. If they do, go straight to HR. Either there's been a mistake, or HR has rebuilt its job classifications. Happened to me once, and for a very brief time I was a Purchasing Manager (something I know diddly squat about). If both titles don't match, check with your manager AND HR to find out what happened. You need to discover if there was an error that should be corrected (and if that error comes with back pay but I'll bet it doesn't). If HR says that "software engineer" was simply the generic term, not the specific job classification, while the one on the employment agreement is the "real" title, shift tactics. (One of which is that you should always check such things before you sign an employment agreement; they're a lot harder to fix once you're an employee.) First, what is the title of the position above yours? It might not be Software Engineer, so check. Then ask if the two years of excellent work you've done since your hire now qualify you for that level (in other words, promotion). If your manager tells you that it doesn't, ask what else you need to do to reach that level. Then decide what to do with whatever you hear. Unless there's a specific grade-level issue, most managers I've known are pretty good about working to give you the title you want. Hopefully that's the case here. 

If your employment contract does not prohibit it, then it comes down to the laws in your jurisdiction, local culture and any other restrictions. For example, licensed professionals may be required to adhere to a code of ethics that prohibits such 'moonlighting' activities without written knowledge of all parties, even if their personal ethical standards and laws applicable to the general workforce would permit it. 

You can, and should, tell them. You can also lead by example, by leaving on time yourself. If necessary, return after they have gone home. In some cultures (Japanese comes to mind) it's considered slacking to leave before your supervisor. 

I can tell you that, for me, having Mensa on a resume would act as somewhat of a negative from a hiring point of view. I deal with and hire highly educated and highly capable people almost exclusively (post doc to masters), and this would not be a good indicator of a team player in my estimation. It would also not help with mediocre academics, it would actually hurt because I would judge that the person will quickly get bored with the less interesting stuff I have to get them to do, and will just phone it in, like they did before. Others may well feel differently (if you have intelligence, as it were, that the interviewer is also a Mensa member, it might help). I'd rather see some kind of extracurricular activity than a club membership (maybe in your case you've contributed to open source or answered SE questions). 

To establish a contractual relationship, you should formally acknowledge the purchase order (and therefore acceptance of their terms and conditions). It costs nothing to be polite when doing it. Without the acceptance they're actually left hanging as to whether you're really engaged, because usually the P.O. imposes additional conditions that were not present in your quote, so it's really another offer, not the acceptance of an offer. Typically you will find a lot of boiler plate text on a purchase order that is (not surprisingly) entirely in the favor of the purchaser-- it's worth reading it and seeing just what you are agreeing to. At some point you might want to have a lawyer draft up a pro forma contract that cancels out the most egregious of that B.S. If you're in a field where large amounts of value are being handled, or safety could be an issue, you need to do that first. 

You need to separate your personal and professional relationships with this co-worker for a moment and ask yourself a fundamental question: Can your co-worker do her job adequately on her own, without your help? You mention that she "keeps coming back" to you for help, and also that the manager has explicitly told the group to stop helping her. And your manager physically separated you after a production error. Typically, a big, embarrassing team error is when a manager would foster increased communications/ collaboration between team members by bringing them closer. The fact that he did the exact opposite makes me wonder if he blamed the mistakes on too much personal interaction. So...I think what you've got either way is a very clumsy manager who needs a lot of coaching (or to become an individual contributor). More important, HR needs to get to the bottom of your co-worker's performance to really understand how to proceed. If she really is underperforming and coming to you for help because she can't do her job, your manager is right, however badly he's making the point. She needs to make her own mistakes and either be coached until she can perform on her own or moved out of the role. If she can't do the job, you're not helping her by masking the problem and you might even be contributing to her eventual termination. If a good manager can figure out where she's lacking, s/he can add some coaching/training or even switch her role to make her successful...once the problem is diagnosed. The co-worker has to be working on her own for that to happen. And remember, you're probably also not helping your own performance, because you also have a job to do and you can't do it if you're doing hers. If your co-worker is NOT underperforming, then the manager's actions need to stop and HIS performance needs examination. So...start with an honest look at what your co-worker is doing and how it affects your work, and then let your good sense (and morals) take it from there.