If it is a lighter then air airship the bird of that size should be able to damage the envelope enough that it would crash. If it is a regular aircraft of some sort the bird should still be able to destroy especially it's smart about it. Aircraft require a relatively delicate balance to remain airborne and controllable so even a little damage in the right spot can crash them. I don't exactly the kind of aircraft you mean, but breaking the tail will render most types of airplanes and helicopters unflyable. The tricky part is the airship's speed, if it is faster then the bird, the moment the bird makes contact with can be very dangerous, depending on the difference it can cause the leg to break when the bird grabs it or worse. So generally yes, but could be dangerous for the bird if the aircraft is fast. 

And there are a LOT more that I'm forgetting, so no there is no reason why magic has to be in medieval settings, but it does tend to be more hidden in modern settings since compared to modern weapons a magical person isn't as overpowered and have to keep it on the down low so that they aren't experimented on or shot by paranoid neighbor etc. 

Dragons can live in really inaccessible mountains and far away from major human settlements. In open plains with good visibility and 20 mm anti-air machine gun humans would have a pretty good advantage against a dragon, but on narrow mountain trails, where there is little warning and no place to take cover and no vehicles to transport heavier weapons/ammo, not so much. They might also culturally be too important to completely wipe out, as long as they don't pose a threat to major (rich, powerful) cities people might leave them be. They'd still be hard to hunt with civilian weaponry (like shotguns and rifles) so if the government doesn't think that your village is worth protecting from dragons, there could be some dragon issues there. Ultimately, look to real animals: bears occasionally maul people but they weren't driven to extinction completely because it's fairly rare and they are seen as important as a species. 

Pitchfork, a fairly common and reasonably light device, great for keeping folks away while doing damage. And unlike an ax there not much of chance of it getting stuck. Finally it has that nostalgic, traditional feel to it as people've using them to fight monsters since forever, but you don't usually see them in movies and such, so a bit of a forgotten charm. 

One of the ways to approach this may be to imagine yourself in the demon's shoes, it's very hard to give depth to someone when you always think of it as very alien. So take humans, they often have some depth and have cultural differences and personalities, but most of them are OK with killing animals for food. Now if your demons need or really like to eat souls or some such, it puts them in conflict with humans and they would seem pretty evil from our perspective, but they can have a society and belief systems as complex and diverse as we do. Some demons can be sadistic psychopaths that like to kill things and soul eating is just gravy, some might do it for the thrill of the hunt because their home life is bland and things are getting stressful at the office. Some might be OK with certain humans but just really like those souls. So they can be "evil" but just as complicated and deep as humans 

Ammo I would say that the biggest disadvantage for kinetic weapons is ammunition, which is bulky, (very) heavy and dangerous to store in large quantities. If in your world there is a portable way to generate enormous amounts of power (by converting some matter, say) then it maybe logistically easier to use that rather then normal ammo. Especially if the infantry in question operates in remote areas, separated from supply lines for extended periods of time. Of course in that case you have to think about the energy generating device, and weather or not it can be used as weapon in and of itself Accuracy Another consideration is accuracy over longer ranges. D.E.Ws would be less susceptible to gravity or wind. However they may be more susceptible to other things, like fog or heavy rain, depending on their nature. Versatility In theory D.E.Ws can have different power settings for different tasks, reducing the need for multitude of different weapon types (anti-tank grenades, sniper rifles etc.) so once again, logistics are greatly simplified. In situations where the nature of the threat is unknown of one is arming a foreign army/freedom fighters it is much easier to just supply one size fits all type weapon 

I've read a good number of FTL equals time travel questions and answers both here and on other sites, but for the life of me I just do not get the connection. Let's take a really simple case: say at 12:00 I teleport to some place 30 light minutes away from Earth. If I then pull out a telescope and take a look at Earth I will see the past from 30-ish minutes ago, but if I then teleport back to Earth I'll be back at 12:01 or whatever. I'm not going to end up in the past just because I was looking at it a minute ago. And if I go to a place where time flows differently due to gravity or some other time shenanigans there might be a mismatch, such as spending only 10 minutes there but returning to Earth to find years have passed (or vice versa) but either way it'll still always be in some sort of future. I read several explanations involving "light cones", still don't quite get what they are (so if you bring them up, imagine you're talking to small child) or why should I even care about them, if I have a teleporter then the light comping from an object is not the most up-to date information I can get about it. Several articles also brought up a "light on a train" thought experiment where a light is flashed in the middle of a moving train and is picked up by light detectors, and a stationary observer and an observer on a train moving in opposite direction will see the detectors going off in different order which is supposed to prove something about different frames of reference. But the same thought experiment can be done with sound instead of light and it would have the same results, but as far as I know it's quite possible to break the sound barrier without time travel. Anyway so the question is: assuming a magical teleporter exists is there any logical reason that it has to lead to time travel? And if so, what is the exact mechanism? 

In MMA fights are usually somewhat realistic in a sense that rules are meant to prevent injury rather then enforce a style, as such most of them look less flashy then movies, but flashy moves are still possible and even sometimes effective, look up Anthony Pettis off the cage kick, or a nice flying armbar ($URL$ Some fights have been just generally impressive in terms of their ferocity (Don Frye vs Takayama). So I would look at various impressive moves and fights in MMA because they were all done by regular people in real life, and such are about as realistic as can be asked for. Granted they are not common, but then I'm guessing you are not writing about common fighter either :)