In your position I would buy one of the charging setups and see how it works in practice. If there's a problem, you will need to add a voltage sensing switch. Either way, you need to buy the charger so there's no harm buying it. A voltage sensing switch is easy enough to make, either using a zener diode or just a voltage divider into the gate of a transistor. $URL$ is one example (but without a bigger transistor on the output that will not handle the current your charger uses). I would go with the simpler approach of buying a power transistor that can handle the 500mA your dynamo puts out, the 15V or so maximum it's likely to put out. Use a variable resistor to work out what voltage divider ratio I need to make it work, then substitute a pair of resistors in the final version. That's 3 components and it should be easy enough to put them in heat-shrink or epoxy to make them weatherproof. You'll probably pay as much for the connectors as the components :) 

My theory is endorphins. Our bodies generate them when we exercise. Or not, when we stop. All those days of steadily pumping out the good stuff makes the tour feel great but when I stop, ooops. I suggest you not try replacing them with synthetic endorphins as those are illegal and tend to be more addictive. There's also a body habit transition, where a bunch of the cycles in my body are set up for big exercise every day and suddenly I'm back behind a desk 8 hours a day. Half an hour each way does not cut it, I'm barely warmed up by then. So I bloat (very thirsty in the morning but then water retention), feel stiff but twitchy, and after the first couple of days tend to lose interest in food. This is my body saying "hey, you used to exercise, what happened to that?" What works for me is: 

I suggest taking it back to the shop you got it from, as it looks like a manufacturing defect. Since the bubble isn't visible on the inside it's clear that the layers of cloth inside the tyre have separated, and that's not supposed to happen. You should be able to get a warranty replacement. Sheldon Brown has an explanation of how the tyre is made that may help you picture what's going on: $URL$ 

An ugly solution would be to build a cable pull adapter for one lever, then use the other lever to pull that back and forth. That would give you more cable travel and more indents, so you might be able to get the indexing to support more gears. I fear that some hubs have variable travel between gears, though, so that's not guaranteed. If it does work you're going to have the ungainly adapter hanging round somewhere on the bike where it can move. Which is going to be messy and I'm not convinced of its longevity. But it would be easy enough to make one and see whether it works, assuming you already own the hub/wheel to test with. If you do, I suggest building one and seeing what happens. Maybe even build a double beam version to start with rather than machining up a travel adapter. Then slide the cables along the beams until you find an arrangement that works. 

[This turned out to be quite long question, but I couldn't find anyone discussing my particular situation - long, training-like ride followed by a workday as a developer. It seems that all considerations are intertwined.] A bit of current situation: My company is moving (in 1-1.5 months) to new offices that will have shower facilities and that made me consider cycling to work. I'm 189cm (6'2") high weighing ~120kg (265lbs). 10 years ago, I commuted 12km (7.5mi) for a short-term work, at the time weighing ~105kg (230lbs). Started with a 47 minute ride and got down to 18 minutes after 3 weeks (average speed of 40kph or ~25mph). That was on a 70's-era steel road bike with shifters on down tube (don't recall the maker). The primary goal is to get in shape, while enjoying monetary savings in fuel costs and possibly a shorter commute (time-wise, more on that later). The ride will be about 30km between two cities. It will consist of 6km/3.7mi fast (3 lanes) city road (60kph/37mph allowed, 80-90kph/50-55mph actual speeds); followed by ~20km/12.5mi of highway with shoulders and high congestion, avg. speeds of 25kph/15.5mph most of the span; ending in 4km/2.5mi of "slow" city traffic. Elevation is negligible. Weather is mostly hot, with temperatures in the 30-40C/85-105F range with 90+ percent humidity for about 6 months of the year, and about 25-30 rainy days. I won't cycle in rain/extremely windy weather. The first consideration: I know it will take several months of training before I can make that ride, and I'm planning to light up as a Christmas tree for safety/visibility. Considering that, do you think that this plan is insane and I should drop the whole idea? Can you elaborate as to why? Regarding bike setup (from my research and budget): [I know my weight is usually on the top or over-the-top of the range for most appliances (e.g. Segway and most electric bikes are rated to 115kg max.). I haven't seen any restriction for rider weight in specs, but that maybe because there are not a lot of people with that weight buying this level of bikes?] Bike: I'm inclined towards mainly because all reviews praise its comfort for long rides and its rigidity. Now, I'm not sure what constitutes a "long" ride - maybe the reviewers are talking about 100km/60mi rides and for my intended purposes another bike will be more suitable? Pedals: I'm thinking of Shimano's 105 (PD-5700, steel not carbon) with SH-11 cleats due to praises of durability from reviews. The wider plate should be better for me considering my weight. Am I right about these? Should I consider something else? Better? Can I get by with something cheaper (i.e. PD-R540)? Is 6 degrees of float is enough for such long rides? Fork / Saddle / Brakes / Crank / Gears / Handlebars / Shifters / Wheels: Stock from Felt. Is there something that i should definitely change/upgrade? Helmet, Lights and Water Bottle: I'd get whatever is in the shop and fits me in size and price. Are there any essentials like air pump or tube fixing kit that I have to get? Now, for the logistics part: The biggest concern is how to go about bringing clothes for changing. 

Or you can use cheap plastic adhesive tape, usually two to five layers. It's cheaper and lighter than any of the above, but it doesn't last especially long. It helps if you de-burr and round off the edges of the spoke holes. After a while you will start getting punctures where the tape has given way and the tube gets cut by the spoke holes. I was surprised to find that even two layers worked in MTB tyres at ~60psi. When every gram counts this is what I've done. It also works as a desperate measure when you fix a flat and the existing fix is damaged. Rim tape also comes in plastic variants that are lighter, last longer and cost more than rubber ones. Often with tapered edges (you really only need it to cover the spoke holes), but they're still heaver than rim tape and costs more. In real life (rather than for one race) I use rim tape. It's cheap, easy to get, lasts ages and it works. 

The problem definitely been solved, and you probably see the solution in use every day. They're called "safety bicycles" because they're, well, safer. A suggested, once you have a safer frame design there are many brake designs to choose from, but on an ordinary your choices are basically air resistance and facial ablation. One cause of the confusion in naming is that when safety bicycles were introduced in the 1890's the existing bikes were called ordinaries because that's what an ordinary bicycle looked like. The new-fangled things with little wheels, low seats and pneumatic tyres were called safety bicycles as a marketing strategy to differentiate them from the other sort. These days it's the other way round - ordinaries are rare, and safety bicycles are ubiquitous. Since then we've gained recumbents (not invented until the 1930's) and the "safety" has split into a whole range of sub-types. 

To me it depends more on road and traffic conditions than age. If your roads are potholes linked by mounds of gravel and inhabited by mining trucks doing 100kph, 16 years old is too young. If you've got good roads with low speed limits and lots of bicycles, I'd be happy picking mother and child up from the hospital on a bakfiets. You should also be an experienced cyclist, used to the bike you'll be using to carry the baby. At the very least you should be long past the point where you ever accidentally drop the bicycle while stopping, for example. Your skill level should match where you're riding with the baby. There's two considerations for the bicycle: use a suitable baby-carrier designed for new babies (they usually have their own extra suspension, and the baby lies flat); I would run the fattest tyres I could get and keep the front one soft, just for a bit of extra padding on the bumps. Usual caveats about making sure the baby does not get cold/ hot/ wet/ dry/ hungry/ bored/ overstimulated etc apply :) In Australia I don't think there are any standards-approved newborn carriers for bikes, but I believe the Gazelle Cabby MaxiCosi was being considered so that may have happened (the problem is that the standard doesn't really have a "baby seat for bicycle" category, and the motor vehicle standard doesn't work). I have seen a baby less than 6 months old in a generic "baby basket" loose in the front of a bakfiets in town. Mother and baby were quite happy with that arrangement. But really, I think it's mostly about the road conditions. Smooth roads, well shared mean you can carry almost anything. 

One way I consider is driving one day of the week, bringing enough clothes for 4 days of work and leaving it in a bag in the office. This has a disadvantage of "loosing" one day of cycling each week. Another possibility is to get a rake+bag setup. I'm not sure if there are bags big enough to fit clothes (+shoes?). Regarding speed: Now it takes me around 35 minutes of driving to get to/from work (door-to-door) and that's only if I get out early in the morning (06:15-0:30). If I oversleep and get out at 07:30-08:00 it might take me 50-70 minutes of slow and annoying driving. Taking into account avg. speed of 40kph/25mph, I can make this ride in about 45 minutes, regardless of time of day. So the question is: am I right in taking into account avg. speed of 40kph/25mph? Or, am I too optimistic and for these distances the actual speed will be lower? EDIT: First of all, thanks for all the help - in the answers and here in comments. For anyone coming here from a search - read both answers below, a lot of good and practical advice there. It is indeed a monster question, but during my research I haven't found anyone in my situation. I suspected that there are people with similar experiences, but it's not talked much about. The questions usually divide into two categories - people that commute through the city at 10mph max in full business-ready attire; and people that train for fitness/competition. My situation, of training-like ride followed by a work day and the logistics + gear required for that - seemed to merit a separate question. I don't think that there's a need for more answers, the two answers below (separate and, especially, combined) are fully encompassing the breath of the question. Nonetheless, I'd like to have the ability to edit it further after I get the bike and have more experience. I'd like to be able to give feedback back to the community on what worked for me, how I managed different aspects of the issue. In the end, I'm a newcomer here, so I'd leave it to moderators to decide if they prefer to close the question, leave it on hold, to make a wiki or something else. But I do feel that there are a lot of tips regarding a very specific (niche?) set of boundaries that are not easily found in the great expanses of the internet and thus it would be beneficial to,, at least, keep it available for future searches (i.e. not deleted).