In my opinion, it would most definitely be the Centaur. A: Above average human intelligence and cognitive ability (in most mythical descriptions of them) B: A human body with arms and opposable thumbs (able to use a myriad of weapons) Ba: can use weapons and in theory has speed relative to his two potential opponents. Unicorn wouldn't stand a chance though I think the Pegasus obviously would being able to just fly away and all. Still, if the Centaur were skilled enough, he/she could just shoot the Pegasus with an arrow. 

I think that a better question to ask yourself would be "How do I have my characters cover/hide their runes logically". Say we are talking about your sword. The runes are going to be etched onto the blade, or the hilt most likely. How exactly would you not have them exposed? They would have to be etched onto the blade after it was made. One reason why they would need to be exposed could be that if they were covered or hidden, they wouldn't' be able to draw out the power source they were looking for. They would need exposure to be able to suck in the heat or the air or whatever. One thing you might consider, and I think this happens often in fantasy, is that the runs ARE hidden or invisible until activated. Once activated they simply flash and draw power, then fade. In the heat of battle nobody is going to have time to look at them and read the spell. And in the case of your blade, if it shot fireballs, and they did read it and use it, they would simply shoot a fireball at themselves I would think. In the case of runes hidden on a doorway or something else, they wouldn't be visible until the person knowing the spell came by and used them. One would assume he'd be by himself or with a trust worthy person in such a situation. 

I'm writing a story set in a world with 3 moons and I have a couple of questions about how that would work. I understand that the tidal patterns would be significantly different than Earths and I'm writing that in as part of the story (wild oceans, unpredictable shores/ports). My question is what would be a logical setup for 3 moons? What I mean is, would one moon be the size of ours (which I understand is unique relative to moons on other planets) the second 1/5th, the third 1/10th ect? What would be a logical size differences between them to be functional (by functional, I mean functional to a "normal" sort of life on the planet)? I'm asking because I'd like to describe how they look at night in certain parts of my story. Also, how much time would pass between when the 3 moons established an orbit and to when one crashed into another? Millions of years? Billions? I'm curious as to this because I'd like to know if there is enough time since they all 3 arrived to have developed life and if there is enough time left over till the crash and cause mass extinction on the habitable planet. 

Cancer While such an accident is quite unlikely, some serious diseases only have cures that an unborn child will hardly survive. Cancer being the most obvious example. 

Not plausible This cannot be done without Batman physics. Anybody who has ever climbed a rope will find it ridiculous. 

The sword might very well hold his friend once in place, given that the ground material is just right so that 

Ever tried this? If you want to offer your friend a rope to climb up on, you anchor your end first. You do not simply "hold the rope". The dynamic load on the rope when someone is climbing it will be about twice that persons weight. It might be possible if your hero finds a well braced position and wraps the rope around his waist, but even then it is a pretty desperate stunt. 

The question has been asked on Quora but without any detailed answers. I'm tagging this "Science-based", but any hard-science answers are preferred. 

Now, the leaders have the assassins brains carefully charted. If they want Senator Bob assassinated, they know how each individual assassin think and feel about Senator Bob. They know what each assassin associates with Senator Bob. (Naturally they also know each assassins inner thoughts about their dirty work) This means that they can broadcast a carefully created neuromessage. Most people will not even notice this message. Those who do will interpret it in their own subconcious way. But to one individual assassin the message will trigger a crystal-clear dream about him killing Senator Bob. Given his training he will know what that means... The benefit of this is that the kill-order can be broadcasted. The leaders do not need to know the location of the individual assassins (and vice versa) which helps maintain security. It is very hard to intercept, since it is intrincially matched to a recipient. The decryption is literally buried in the mind of the recipient. 

One completely different alternative (if it fits your storyline and game rules) is to make the continent accessible but worthless. That is, players can (perhaps with some difficulty) enter the area. They might get a warning "You are now entering barren uncharted territory". They cannot, however, interact with any features there. No mining, no settlements, no NPC:s or buildings present. Your future expansion might be explained (in-game) by some event that triggered colonization into this new continent. 

No way So, in the blue corner we have a minority, albeit a substantial one. Very well armed by civilian standards, but still restricted by current us gun laws. To be generous, we can equate each rebels firepower to an infantryman. The rebels are naturally highly motivated, given that they are in a fight-or-die situation. In the red corner we have the majority population. They outnumber the rebels. They can outspend the rebels, given that they control state and federal institutions. They massively outgun the rebels. When the rebels send a bullet, the government can return an artillery shell. And in your scenario, the regulars are brain washed and led to believe that THEY are fighting the good fight. Meaning they also are motivated. They most likely believe that the rebels are a real threat to them, to their homes, loved ones and way of life. Now, if the scenario had been a democracy (or even a dictator) at war overseas fighting local guerilla, yes the rebels would stand a fighting chance. (Historical examples are plenty). Such a guerilla does not need to beat the invader outright, they just need to deny them victory. Sooner or later the cost of war will add up, and the invader will lose interest. But in a civil war situation? Without massive outside help? Nope. The only difference your guns will make is that more of your minority group will slaughtered with guns in their hands instead of unarmed, but a slaughter it will be. 

Some of it depends upon the tenets and the tenor of the movement and its adherents current context at the time of the start of the decline. This is question begging as I am assuming your question is possible. For example, some historical times in a religion's history could be more mystical in nature versus a more empirical time period. It depends a lot on how the person and culture defines truth. For example, Christianity. It has gone through many periods and some times in that history collapse might have happened, but for differing reasons. Today, many cultures are more relativistic, but in some area empirically based, etc. Yes those are sweeping generalizations and not exhaustive. But, for the sake of argument, lets say you could produce the body of Jesus. Christianity would collapse. That's its entire base. And, you'd have to have a culture that would believe that is the reason for its existence and the continued requirement for its existence. This is not to debate anything. I promise. It's just to look at the complexity of what you are asking. So, maybe you could have some prime condition that created the religion and therefore you can create, perhaps, the demise of that religion. It depends upon the complexity of your system. You could do this with any religion. If the current cultural milieu would allow it. The timing of everything would have to be perfect. 

If I have a civilization of birds, could they, in and of themselves, create an infrastructure of "advanced nests"? Could they build weaponry? These birds, raptors, have an educational system, political, military, blacksmith, etc. So they can do rudimentary things like make a spear, or sew together skins, have a smelter and so on. They are more tribal, so I say "system" but it is not as advanced as humans. I did this before I had seen anything about Guardians of Ga'Hoole, and to me it is irrelevant, as I would like to know the plausibility. Would the birds require help from other species? They don't have hands like mice and rats do. 

Put it in the creek or the well. I guess a desert has a well. That's what we did when I was a kid. Should work here too. 

Put them in "suspension" on disk or some type of archive and sell them as a utility like AWS does. Make people pay to use the minds to solve problems. In addition, make it so the minds can grow and learn and understand and advice. They increase in wisdom based upon their already existing knowledge and abilities. For example, can you imagine what we could learn from a 300+ year old Newton or [insert smart person here + 200 years]? Run that as a service. Run the ability to infuse data into the mind so it can cogitate and respond. It will take time for the "old" mind to learn, but there are so many variables on speed to knowledge to application that time determination for a minimum viable product are unknown. It could be incredibly quick like Spock's Brain and the "Teacher" (and the knowledge "logarithmic fade off"). Too many unknowns, but essentially, use the utility model. There are many industries that would pay: