You have a few options; Get proof, then report him, if it breaks any company policy. In most typical companies this probably would break some form of Code of Conduct (if your company has one). Think of it as if you are in court, the two lawyers could talk a great game to the jury, but it's the evidence that create a guilty verdict or reasonable doubt. Get your ducks in order (evidence) first. Some may think of you whistleblower and that would be the case yes. However if your company does have a CoC handbook, refer to it as most comprehensives CoC's have a whistleblowing section - how to do it properly. Another suggestion could be talking to a HR representative for anonymous advice. As long as you follow things by the book you 'should' be OK. However since you said you have no evidence, then you cannot do anything about that instance. Don't turn into a Columbo and attempt to catch him in the act, concentrate on your own role, but be aware. Thanks @Chad for your thoughts. 

It sounds like you've already done the right thing. There's no reason why you should take a hit because the recruiter neglected to advise you of the salary difference that existed between 'Job A' and 'Job B'. Granted you should have asked, but if the recruiter was the one suggesting that you give 'Job B' a shot then they really should have advised you of any nontrivial differences between 'Job A' and 'Job B'. Salary differences count as "nontrivial". Once when faced with a similar situation I actually sent an angry e-mail to the recruiter demanding that they admit their mistake directly to the employer so that I didn't have to waste my time doing it myself. It had a slightly better outcome in that case (the employer offered me the position at a reasonable salary; although I ultimately declined their offer), but otherwise pretty much played out as you describe. As for what to do next, I don't know. You've already apologized in writing and set the record straight regarding the miscommunication. Beyond that I don't think there's much to do other than put this one behind you and move on to the next opportunity. 

As said in multiple answers, it is a bad idea to ask for a significantly lower salary. However, this is not true in two cases which have not been mentioned: start-ups and consulting companies. A start-up has often a (very) limited budget so it needs to save money, or simply cannot afford your market price. If your price is too high they'll pick without demur another candidate, less skilled but cheaper. For consulting companies, their revenue comes from the difference between what they get from the client and what they pay to the consultant. I've had my fair share of experiences with some that weren't much interested in the quality of the candidate and just wanted to go for the cheaper hire in order to maximize their profits. There are a few cases in which such a job can be worth pursuing, for instance to gain some experience, or to get out of an unemployment period while looking for a better job; just be forewarned that they're going to exploit you. 

That way, the companies that you are least interested go first, and can be used as "practice" to acclimate yourself to the interview process, get a feel to the kind of questions you will be asked, and to generally build your confidence up so that you're not walking into your preferred company unprepared. In your specific case it doesn't sound like you have the luxury of wedging in any practice interviews, and it also doesn't sound like you really need them. You've made it past all the previous rounds, you were honest about your abilities, and they've decided to bring you back for the final round. So I'd say you might as well go for it. The odds seem to be in your favor, and even if you don't pass the coding interview it will still be a valuable learning experience. Prior to the interview, you can prepare by searching for examples of common coding challenges used in interviews and implementing some quick solutions to them. Although it almost sounds like what they are bringing you in for is a trial run, and not an actual coding interview. 

A verbal offer has no meaning unless it's followed by a written contract shortly afterwards. In your case, the delay has largely expired. They're just wasting your time and playing with you by having you wait for so long. You have nothing in hand so far and it's very likely that this offer will never became real so I would advise you to take the other offer, even if it's not your dream job. It already happened me a couple of times in which my manager told me "yeah, we are going to renew your contract" (one time even he gave his word for it), with nothing in writing. To imagine how it ended is left as an exercise to the reader. 

Legal in terms of statutes on the books in most jurisdictions? Yes. But likely disallowed by the terms used in at least one company's employment contract (if not both). Breaching the terms of an employment contract is not necessarily "illegal", in the sense that it's not considered a criminal act and will not attract criminal penalties. However, there may be civil consequences for breaching; ranging from termination from one or both companies, being hit with an injunction demanding you cease working at one company or the other, or in extreme cases, perhaps being held liable for damages (and legal costs!) if one company believes (and can demonstrate) that you've caused them economic harm by assisting their competitor (for instance, by taking internal technical knowledge from Google to Amazon) when in your contract you promised to do no such thing. And note that there's room for nuance. For instance, if an employer agrees to pay you a salary of $100,000/year and instead only pays you $1000/year, that would be both a civil breach and (in most locales) a criminal act as compensation of $1000/year would run afoul of minimum wage laws. So there are cases where a breach can also be illegal. But if we disregard practical concerns and assume that you could get an employment contract that doesn't restrict your right to work for a competing company at the same time, then yes, it would be be legally valid and not risking any civil penalties to work for both companies concurrently. But the odds of you getting such a contract are extremely low. 

The fact that you used the "spoiler tag" in your post to hide the content of your bumper sticker already says that you think it is (or might be considered) inappropriate. Whether your employer has the right or not of forbidding this kind of stickers is, IMHO, not the point. The point is whether you want to be a nice employee or you want to be pointed out as the one who picks fights at every opportunity. The best outcome for you (if you want to keep working there in a nice environment -- or, bluntly said, if you want to keep working there) would be to apologize, tell you employer you didn't realize it was so offensive, and rip the sticker off your car. 

Call it quits. You can resign, stating whatever reason(s) you prefer. You can be honest, and say that you don't feel capable of performing the work required. Or be more vague, and just say that the job isn't what you thought it would be. Or whatever. But if you're going to call it quits on this job, you probably also have to seriously consider calling it quits on a career in programming/web development entirely. You'll encounter the exact same sort of challenges at any other position in the industry. 

A couple of suggestions based on the fact that you want to move on; Find out your notice period (if applicable). Agree a fixed day to provide your answer, sooner the better. Reasoning - secure where you are before considering moving on somewhere else. Ultimately there is no reason why you cannot find another contract when in employment, simply have phone interviews, interviews at the end of the day or beginning instead. This is a commonly done thing nowadays and can in fact impress the future employer knowing that you seem to take your commitment to your current role seriously. The sooner you get a new role the sooner you are out of where you don't want to be. 

In my city there's this large company employing several thousand people, at which I've already worked before during a small period, and where I'd really like to be employed again for a number of reasons. Since it's a renowned place, it attracts between 300 and 600 applicants for every single job opening they post. I've quite good qualifications and experience, and I've been applying for a large number of jobs there in the last ten years (*). I've mixed feeling as whether I should mention this in my job applications, or it would be better to leave it out, and whether it would make any difference. Would that sound as very motivated to work at the company (making me stand out among the other candidates), or just as desperate/pathetic? (*) So far I managed just to obtain a 1-year contract, long time ago.