I think you are conflating two different things. First you want to purchase hardware from your company. Different companies have different policies around this. For most industries - I would expect that if you were to purchase used equipment from your company they would run a multipass delete over the harddrive prior to the sale. You will receive a computer and will need to purchase software(including an OS and any Office programs you would like to use.) Honestly - most of the companies that sell their used hardware that I know of overcharge for things like laptops and desktops. By the time they are at a point where they would be 'retired' (prepared to be sold) they're going to be out of date hardware wise and you will get a much nicer computer by buying a new computer. A 2 year old 'top of the line 2 years ago' laptop is, at best, comparable to a mid to low level laptop today. Plus a new laptop won't have been banged around, spilled on, etc for the last couple of years. Finally you'll get a warranty with a new device. A used device will come as is. But I think your real problem lies with "Our code of conduct says that use of the company's resources for personal use should be limited and not interfere with our business" It sounds like what you want to do is purchase your current computer and use it for personal business along with for business purposes. Thats really the only reason why I would understand your desire to purchase a laptop from your company. From this there's probably some things to clarify. Most companies are unwilling to allow personally owned devices to be used for business purposes. If you purchase a laptop from your company you will have 2 laptops - the assigned business laptop and the purchased personal laptop. This is because companies like to control what has access to their data, network and infrastructure. This is for both business and compliance reasons. The standard 'Do not use your work laptop for personal use' also comes from this desire for security. Typically, in my experience as IT and as a Developer, companies put that warning in their code of conduct for 2 reasons: 1) If they ever want to fire you and need a reason they'll see you were asking questions on StackExchange(or whatever) and ding you for using the laptop for personal purposes. This is pretty uncommon in my experience. 2) The second reason is for the safety and security of their networks, hardware and infrastructure. If you got to www.totallynotavirus.com/virus_download.html and then plug into their network you could be a vector for data loss or breach. Folks on this board my or may not remember the ILOVEYOU worm. 50 million infections in the first 10 days it was released and over 10 billion dollars to clean up in the US alone. Folks would get an email with the subject 'ILOVEYOU' and an attached VBS script would auto run and infect their computer. Emails worms aren't as popular now days (the last big one I remember was in 2007) but the recent data breaches at large companies(Target, PSN, etc) show that there are a lot of dangers on the web for companies with sensitive data. The want you to not use your work computer for personal use to help mitigate these risks. At the end of the day you'd probably be better off buying a non-work computer for your personal business. Additionally very few companies really care if you do some Amazon shopping on your work laptop(or hang out on StackExchange) now and again. However 'adult' or risky activities should absolutely not be done on company equipment. Delicately discuss with your coworkers and peers the reality of the personal use clause in your company. 

I would recommend making it slightly more vague in some ways(never say why you need/want leave) and more specific in others(be extremely explicity about the dates/times/length of time. And example: 

Honestly? Stop stressing about it. In technical positions a resume is largely used as a screening tool. The HR rep checks it out, maybe someone on the team checks it out and, if they are at all interested, an interview is scheduled. When you go to an interview ensure you bring several copies of the most recent, up-to-date resume you have. If/when you are talking about that project just ignore the CSS and jump straight into talking about the XML. There are, really, only a couple of possible results here: 

Motivational posters? Really? I just sort of thought those sprouted like mushrooms in offices, I never thought they actually got intentionally purchased. Instead of presenting options to your team, present the problem. "Hey I noticed the dev office is looking pretty sparse. What do y'all think? I have a budget of $$insert money$$ that could be used" It may be that they don't want decorations and, instead, want an arcade cabinet to duke out Pull Request opinions over a game of Gauntlet. Maybe they want a big TV they can stream starcraft matches on. Maybe they want a big graphic wall wrap of their team/org name. Maybe they want a soda fountain. Maybe they want the whole room done up in whiteboards (That's what I would want). Maybe the light from the windows causes massive glare and they just want some gosh darned curtains. The point is - you don't know what they want or what would actually help the team. If you are willing or your company is willing to spend a little bit of time or money to make it a nice office for the team, give them the opportunity to tell you. Start with a meeting that is framed with the question "If we could do anything to this room to improve it for y'all, what would it be?" Then, with some of those ideas, start breaking it down into budgets. "Well, replacing the floor with one of those big novelty pianos is beyond what we can do right now but you request for hammocks is totally doable..." TL;DR - Ask your devs. They have different needs in their workspace than you do. They know what challenges they face in their current space and can offer both legitimate and ridiculous options for resolving those challenges and making it a nicer space. EDIT: With the additional information you've provided. First - get them the boring, functional things they've requested. In addition to more light/a bookshelf ask if they want any particular books. The rest depends almost entirely on your budget. If you have the money and are considering getting a bookshelf to match any new decor - bring someone in and have a professional plan the room. If you don't have the money and want something more akin to 'hanging posters' then find out what favorite genres or movies everyone has and get some cool posters. Additionally(or alternatively) find out if they're happy with the whiteboard space, I for one would be thrilled to work in a room with wall to wall, floor to ceiling whiteboards.