First thought: You may need to recalibrate some pretty basic assumptions if you think everyone who makes eye contact and smiles is flirting with you. It's pretty much the first thing you're taught in customer service, for one thing. That aside, I'm with Kilisi's answer. You're all dancing next to each other at a nightclub. You touch the shoulders of the person next to you or in front of you, to dance with her. She leaves. Assuming that's all you were doing (you weren't grinding against her back, or holding onto her as she moved away, or something generally unpleasant) then you're probably overthinking this. 

Since you ask "How else could this situation be handled?", I'm going to go slightly outside the box on this and say Use a bug tracker - and if you're even thinking about using code comments, take a long critical look at your coding practises. Seriously. If you think there are bugs in your code, you write a bug report. You use any one of the myriad of issue-tracking systems (e.g. Bugzilla) which are freely available and easy to use and maintain. Hell, use an Excel spreadsheet if you want. Bug reports can be as detailed or as speculative as you like. They can (and should!) include justifications for why there might have been a management decision not to fix them. That's all best practise for software development. If I'm picking up your code to maintain it, I'll be looking for that bug tracker. The chances are pretty good that I'll be doing maintenance because there's a bug which needs fixing. So I'll be assuming that we have a list of bugs, and that it's reasonably complete. If I find there is no bug tracker, I'll be worried. Worse than that, if I find the code is littered with comments saying "this is liable to break", I'm going to be cursing your name. The only way I'll have of finding what bugs we might have in the system is to go through every file, line by line, because I've no idea what other landmines you've left for maintainers to step on. So do the job properly. Put your bug reports in the bug tracker. Make them as detailed as you like. Include names of managers who made the decision not to fix the bugs - this will be vital information for a future maintainer to find the right person to talk to. If you want to add comments in your code saying "This has a known issue - see CR1234 for details" then you're going above and beyond. But really do not consider code comments alone as a suitable means of reporting bugs for maintainers. They aren't. 

There's a very simple answer to this. Overtime pay. Working more than your 37.5 hours in the office gets you pro-rata for the extra hours. Working away from home gets you time and a quarter, or time and a half if it's less than 24 hours notice, plus a flat amount per night away. Driving time is included in your working time, of course. Everyone still gets paid the same hourly rate, of course. But if anyone has to work extra hours, or has to hit the road and lose family time as a result, they get some kind of compensation for that. If your brother-in-law doesn't like that, then he can volunteer for heading off at a moment's notice. If he hasn't got the skills to do the job, there's his incentive to retrain for something more skilled. 

Are the issues your team have with management justified? If they are, are management taking them seriously? You need assurances from management that they are going to deal with these issues. If management are genuinely trying to change and the problem is simply that they've lost the trust of their employees, then promoting someone from the grass-roots to hold management to account on these issues is actually a good thing. But if management are just looking to create an insulation layer so that they don't have to listen to the (justified) complaints, then you'll end up caught between the two, and that's not a good place to be, because you're being set up to fail. As far as the money goes, that really isn't acceptable. If you're taking this on permanently, a promotion always gets extra pay proportionate to the extra responsibility you're taking on. You could perhaps offer them a 3-month trial period at the same salary to see whether team-leading works out for you or not, but that's about it. Unless the senior management are all taking pay cuts this year to keep the company afloat, of course? If they are, then you're genuinely all in the same boat. But if the senior management are all getting their nice fat salaries (and possibly pay rises and bonuses too) whilst telling you there's no money in the pot to cover your promotion, that should tell you everything about their attitude to their employees. If management are clearly exploiting you though, and you do want to move into team leading anyway, a further option you might consider is to take the role for a few months whilst looking for a new job. At that point you'll have team-leading experience on your CV, so you purely take on this role as a slingshot to get you out of the company to a better place. If you're following this plan, do make sure you are seriously looking, and you don't get stuck doing this for too long through lethargy! 

I'm going to put a slightly different spin on this. I don't have piercings, but I do have longish shaggy hair, kind of a "surfer dude" style. And I'm not cutting it for anyone. As a principal software engineer, I'm also regularly sent out to visit customers. This is more important than just a job interview - you're there to project the image of your company as a credible outfit with serious technical abilities, and win them contracts. I can't afford to have how I look affecting this. My solution? Sharpen up everything else. So if I'm seeing a customer, I'm always clean-shaven that morning. Good-quality double-cuffed shirt with cufflinks, ironed of course. Silk tie, full Windsor knot, top button done up. Well-fitting suit. Polished shoes. The principle is simply that if I'm looser from the neck up, then everything from the neck down has to be correspondingly tightened up. When the rest of you projects ultra-professionalism, then something like long hair or a nose piercing becomes simply a minor quirk where a few months later they'll say "We need to call that guy from Acme Corp - you remember, the one with the nose stud", or "I like the long-haired guy for this job". Our main business generation guy is ex-military and in his 60s. He can get by perfectly well with a shirt and blazer without a tie, because his age, attitude and bearing ensure his credibility. For myself though, I find it very much helps me to be seriously suited and booted, so that I'm not just treated as the "tame techie". 

If you're clearly young and keen, there is basically no downside! To add to existing answers though, my one caveat is that when you fill in your timesheet, you MUST list your actual hours worked. There are two reasons for this. One is that if your manager is estimating progress now and in the future, he needs your actual hours worked to know how long tasks took you and how long they're likely to take in the future. If you worked a 60-hour week, you've basically done 7.5 working days. Now if you get yourself a girlfriend/boyfriend and drop down to your standard 40-hour week, you'll only achieve 2/3 as much in that week. As MikeP says, this can be a problem, and the only way to avoid it is to fill in your timesheet truthfully. And the second is that if you just book 40 hours every week, regardless of how long you're in there, your manager may genuinely not know you're doing extra hours. Most companies are fine with people doing a bit of surfing before/after work, and unless you've actually booked that time, your manager may think that's all that's happening. Your timesheet is what tells him you've actually been working all that time. When you get to appraisal time, this could be the difference between your manager putting you down as "does his job and no more - 1% pay rise" or to "goes above and beyond - 5% because we want to hang onto him". 

As far as training and experience goes, seven months is hardly worth mentioning. Whatever skills you've gained in seven months are going to be no more than the basics so you can be mostly relied on not to completely break everything you touch, and perhaps can manage a bit of work yourself with regular oversight. (You know nothing, Dygne Snow. ;) What's more important is them looking at how you've learnt those skills, whether you've had to be told stuff repeatedly or it sunk in first time, whether you have the initiative to look at other ways to approach problems, whether you have the self-restraint to not waste time on interesting-to-you solutions which don't benefit the business, how you work with your colleagues, and so on. An internship isn't really training, it's evaluation of you as a potential employee. 

Have their been any rumours about the company being in bad shape financially? One obvious solution which hasn't yet been suggested is ask the boss. (Edit: Not ask him if he's been stealing, but ask him about the company's financial situation.) If he's genuinely been stealing, then of course he's not going to fess up. But if the company has really been doing badly, then how he responds to you will tell you plenty. If he can tell you that the company is going through a rough patch, then at least bonus points for honesty. As far as the house and car goes though, you can't judge the company by that. He may well have earned them in the past, or he's inherited money, or his partner has a good job too. And for the car especially, you get more credibility with clients if you look the part, so that could be legit even if it did come from the company. They could be coming from dodgy dealings with your company, but it's not a safe assumption. If you're in the UK, a limited company has to file accounts every year. Look up the records on Companies House for starters. I assume other countries have similar systems, but I wouldn't know where to start looking there. Owners and directors are perfectly entitled to take money out of the business as dividends at any time - what you're interested in is how much has gone out. Also check the value of loans and assets, because those are a top way for books to be fiddled. 

One thing which hasn't yet been covered by other answers... You say you're worried about jeopardising the company. Do you or your family members own shares in that company, or is your pay or bonus directly linked to the company's performance? In other words, if/when the financial situation turns around because of all the extra hours you worked keeping the place afloat, will you directly benefit financially from that? If you are so crucial to the company that it will fold if you leave, then typically you should have a reasonable share in the company. This may not reduce the hours you have to work, but at least then you have a strong reason for doing it. It will be (partly) your company, not just the company which pays you a salary. If you're that crucial to the company, you have the owners/directors over a barrel when it comes to demanding this. And if they don't see you're that crucial to the company, that will tell you everything you need to know about how much they actually value you. 

For me as an interviewer, the answer is definitely no. However it is very appropriate to ask this at the start of an interview when you're trying to build a bit of common ground between you. It's an extremely basic interviewing technique. I've even been to an interview where the interviewer told me flat out, "Now, tell me about your favourite hobby. I'm not particularly concerned about the hobby, but you'll be more relaxed afterwards." That absolutely is fair game. The fact that they're wearing something which identifies an interest gives you a clear point to start that conversation. I probably wouldn't be thrown if someone raised this at the end of an interview, but then I've been round the block enough times to not see interviews as a Big Scary. For those that do, this may well be a big change of pace and could be enough to throw them off. 

Read the employee handbook. Everywhere I've ever worked, escalation to your boss's boss is exactly how disagreements with your boss are supposed to go. Chances are that your employee has done the right thing, if they believe a reasonable request has been unreasonably refused. If you're going to complain about your employee not following the letter of their contract, you'd better make sure you're also following the letter of their contract! As Joe Strazzere says though, you do have a problem with your superior overriding your decision without consulting you. They may quite legitimately decide that your decision wasn't right - and that's why they're your boss. I'd be worried if this was to happen without consulting me, because although flexible hours are usually a good thing, there may be some specific issue which your boss doesn't know about which in this case would make it impractical. 

You are perfectly entitled to tell your manager flat out that you will not follow an instruction if you believe it isn't reasonable. Your manager then has the choice of backing down or escalating. For specific decisions about your area of work, and anything technical, you don't fight that. You should get it in writing to make it clear that it's his decision, but if there's a decision to be made then someone has to make a judgement call. He has the authority there. For issues about the way you work though, and particularly about emails and record-keeping, this is a case where there is no possible answer except "no". It harms you, because you might personally be blamed for something which was someone else's decision or a team decision. It harms the product, because it needs people to keep their understanding of how something should work in their head, and people may easily forget details. And it harms the company, because it leaves no documentation for succession management in case either of you are knocked down by a bus, quit the company, or are otherwise unable to continue. This is quite simply a case where you need to refuse to do as instructed.