Thus, for example, when there is "perception of blue" there is sañña (this is sañña). When there is pleasant feeling, there is vedanā. The pleasant experience itself is vedanā. Observing that feeling cease, is observing vedanā cease. So, in this perspective, we experience all those "things", moment after moment. They are in the domain of our reality. In our individuality, these experiences are very inter-related and we refer to them to describe ourselves and understand our process of becoming. Through the skhandha point of view, we are taught how to distinguish each discrete real experience and understand it, its kind and its role in that overall process. Now the pleasant feeling subsides. Right after, to say vedanā is still "there", when it's not, is imagining something else "behind" and declaring it's name is "vedanā". "If they separate, do they cause births of many different persons?" Again, that seems to imply that each skandha is an object or individual self on its own. Somewhat related: 

What we know from these discourses and from the general structure of the buddhist communities is that: 

(I'll assume the actual question is in the body, not in the title). Naturally, no one can answer why someone didn't do something but that specific someone (but if you really wanted to know from the Buddha, you wouldn't be asking this here...). But there are practical reasons that could explain. Writing is not teaching. While you are writing, you are not doing anything to anyone. Being in a cave for years writing a lot about something, and then having a flood take all your sheets away can render all those years useless. Writing is not teaching, and it is visible that the Buddha was primarily interested in helping the actual people he actually met and guiding those interested to become masters of the subject, and then, teachers themselves. As any educator can attest, this is the highest form of education. There wasn't a broad "reading culture" -- though there were written texts -- at that time and place. Thus, there were not many readers. To be of great value, writing requires an author who knows how to write and many many readers who were trained to read certain language(s). Moreover, writing is taking a chance that not only someone trained to read that language will meet your texts, but also that he will be interested and he/she will understand as it is -- an unreasonable expectation -- since there is no possibility of real dialogue. Not only that wasn't common as it is today (nor there were any alphabetization goals that I know of), but understanding (and teaching) the dhamma is hard as it is. It is even harder if, before teaching dhamma, one would have to teach how to read. So, it's just a major distraction and the benefits were hardly guaranteed. Instead he advised people to memorize discourses (real discourses, to real people with real problems) and always welcomed any questions they had -- the suttas are full of FAQs from disciples to disciples, and disciples to the Buddha. That's a real learning setting. And the discourses were texts, though not in written form. Orality, in any case, is not a poor-man's "literacy". 

Laity frequently interprets the above as moderation of sensual pleasures, even though the above passage seems to refer to monks (those "gone forth into homelessness"). Are there suttas where the Buddha or his disciples teach specifically laity on the subject of sensual pleasures (e.g. to be in anyway cautious about them)? Also, a minor curiosity: how the above passage is interpreted by the Theravada tradition, since the suttas clearly teach the abandonment of sensual pleasures for those who become monks/nuns. 

If a person understand such is the case, the above is simply an acknowledgement of the outcomes that are expected. And if one knows this, one shouldn't refuse doing afraid of greed. The entirety of the virtue training is based on this very knowledge: of what actions produce what results. We are encouraged to know and see how doing is not for our good, and how doing is; and we are encouraged to do things for our well-fare and well-fare of others. The greed case likely would be one where "good effects" means producing things that are blameful or not connected to virtue or spiritual life, and there is a desire for these things. 

when it is not useful. For example, when you decide to sit for an unplanned period of time, and you find the noise of the alarm becomes a distraction. 

I'm sorry to hear that. Speaking of our personal practice, is it that important to have some random scientist to "prove" rebirth? Scientists did not proved that asking questions here is beneficial, yet we do it, trying it ourselves and seeing if and how it works. The same goes for making an effort to understand our suffering and training to see how it gets eliminated (and how it doesn't). See, for example, how the Buddha approached Mālunkyāputta (MN 63) who was really anxious with questions to the point he felt he could not go on without the Buddha giving him answers. In a nutshell: 

For the "big differences", we need to see how Ellen Langer and the Buddha defines "mindfulness" (and "mindlessness" when that helps). Ellen Langer writes the following: 

Elsewhere (AN 4.41), this same practice is described as one that leads to 1. How is this to be understood and practiced in detail? What is meant by "perception of daytime, [dwelling] by night as by day, and by day as by night"? Is it as simple as imagining light? Are there ancient or modern detailed comments on this practice? 

On a personal note, this is how I worked with this issue: if I identify the unwillingness to meditate as a hindrance, I do not make concession. Otherwise, I stop, or do not meditate -- at least formally, sitting. (I'll make an adendum to this at the end of the post). For example, in an individual sitting, if it's just hard, I'm in discomfort, or I wish to be doing something else, I make all the effort necessary to continue until my clock tells me to get up. If I'm in "unbearable" pain, I stop -- I had to discover what is "unbearable" pain for myself, so today I'm roughly aware of how much I can push making progress (and without turning the meditation into a nightmare; been there, done that, a lot!). Similarly, if I start a meditation carelessly and then feel very hungry, I prefer to stop, have my lunch and then do a proper sitting -- no need for unnecessary suffering. But only as long as this is the real reason, and not a hindrance. I remember a few times when I had to interrupt a sitting, but two reasons compelled me to do so simultaneously. One was very reasonable, the other was a hindrance. At one time, I only interrupted once the hindrance subsided. Another time, I wasn't able to do so, and I got up. And I could tell I got up because of the hindrance, not because of the counterpart. I blamed my inattentive mind and this compelled me to be more careful and practice more. I've observed that this -- not giving to hindrances -- is extremely important for two reasons: