It's usually wise strategy because you basically provoke them into finding out reasons why they've valuated your skills below their average. They will always find a reason why someone who already works (for X years) is more valuable and deserves better pay. Instead of comparing, concentrate on your value added and alternatives you have. A company has no reason to worry on how unhappy you are with the salary until you'll accept it anyway. Convincing them, you won't accept any offer under X because you can easily get that somewhere else is a good argument for them to reconsider giving you better deal. Unless it's too much for them to be profitable. Or they won't believe you and think you'll take anything whatsoever. Taking what you doesn't like, you risk only being unhappy. Playing high, you risk getting nothing (and sitting 3 months idle, getting much better job afterwards). 

Document the frequency and nature of the interruptions. You can actually create two categories for most interruptions: reasonable and unreasonable. Reasonable interruptions are those that are defined in the scope of your job but also that a given employee cannot on their own accomplish with their skills, time or effort. Unreasonable interruptions would be those that don't fit your criteria: okay so you have to help people, they ask you a question and you answer it. Then, the same person keeps asking you about the same thing over and over. This is an example of unreasonable! Take the unreasonable interruptions and put together some tutorials/FAQ/manuals either in a server folder or a binder, and get everyone into a team meeting. Tell them exactly what kind of interruptions are unreasonable, and in the aforementioned materials they can find most of their answers without having to come find you. Reasonable interruptions, however, no matter how many you get will still need to be tackled based on their priority. You can also implement a sort of ticket system. Tell people they will need to email you with their questions or issues so that you can make structured time to go out and help them. IMO these are good steps you can take without escalating the issue to management and essentially take control of the issue yourself. 

You could ask your boss (in general, in a "who is actually responsible if our service is used as part of something illegal" way) to put up a note that customers take responsibility against the company for making sure that they do transmit money only to legitimate recipients, and put up some examples of scam/illegal behavior. 

If you talk about how you adressed a flaw of yours, then it should be fine. I very much prefer people who tell me how they overcome flaws or how they share tasks in a way that their flaws don't matter instead of persons who tell me that they are perfect. 

US Businesses: Executives in small companies can say whatever they want to investors with caveats. Smart companies know what to say and what not to say, however, and utilize legal teams and industry professionals to doctor releases. Now, the investors know the technology pipeline, what the company is developing, it's why they invested in the company. The executive committee are making what are called forward-looking statements. I'm just going to glance this off Wikipedia because it's accurate: 

You have a set amount of work to be done by a deadline, and a set amount of staff doing the work. You can look at it this way for any number of projects. So take the amount of work, and divide it by the number of people doing the work: can it be done if everyone works an even 40hr week? How people handle their time will depend largely on a number of factors, but work:staff vs. deadline is an underlying principle. For example: For some jobs, working harder during the same shift doesn't net you the same effect as working longer hours, and for others, taking your work home as opposed to burning yourself out terribly during one, long shift is desirable. 

is a bit of red light. It's basically saying you are more oriented in having fun than doing serious job and earning money. Some recruiters are able to deal with it, some are not, and are not willing to, and consider it childish. Your recruiter was obviously of the 2nd type. Of course if the money is not important to you, and you don't need a job quickly, and fun is very high on your priority list, you can just look further for another recruiter. There are some who are specialized with dealing with such 'hard cases'. However, must are not, so you should get used to such reactions. 

Let people with a similar role know that it was a multi-factor decision. We had a situation in our team where a real low-performer (with bad work morale) suppling a certain service to the projects destroyed his relations with every (4 different) project responsibles in 4 projects consecutively. I (one of the project responsibles) explained clearly to his successor that it was not a "we missed a deadline once" thing (It was more a: we missed every deadline, we missed every hour budget, and the work in the end the result had so many bug it was unusable) to make sure the successor knew how big the problem were in comparison to a normal working relation. 

Of course you have right to deny any information to the recruiter, including even the profession you want to apply for, but you must be aware of the consequences. Your financial expectations are one of the most important factors, because they usually represent the position you can fit in. If you don't know how much you want to earn, how should recruiter know? How should she know if she should apply you for junior, middle or senior position, in first line? Most companies expect from recruiting companies candidate profiles that match their expected profile, and not someone who 'would like to be senior, but a junior would match as well'. Saying 

If their temperament permits it, people will get offended even if you speak to them in the most professional, unbiased tone. Just get the point across: If he asks you to do something unreasonable, say "I'm busy, you will have to return it." A reasonable person might even connect the dots eventually: "Oh no! Have I been offending him this entire time by making these requests?" In this case you'd have nothing to explain; you are coworkers, not superior/subordinate. He will task you as many times as you permit him. But I think the way to avoid offending him if it's within your best interest that way is to be frank, direct, and don't allow it to boil over into frustration for yourself. This is for everything but the rest area. If you open something, or turn something on, it's your responsibility to shut it down and so forth. That's just common courtesy, and it should go unsaid. If he doesn't do it, people such as supervisors will catch on. 

You've learned a hard way you need to read your contract instead of hearing what the recruiter is saying to you. The best way to protect you in the future is to stick to what is written and not what is promised. You've said you are working for outsourcing company. Your situation looks quite normal for such companies. They produce nothing, they earn money on lending people for companies that need them. Because they have no guarantee they will get some work for people they hire, they like to 'share' risk with their employees via not-so-decent fixed salary paid when 'in-house' and much more better money when you actually work for client. The 2nd one was what was promised to you, the problem is, getting work for client is practically independent from you. The good news, your company will do everything to get you work for client, because otherwise, even with lower salary, you are the pure cost. The bad news, no guarantee they will success and it's even not dependent on you. On the other hand, outsourcing often means better money, so many people accept that, even if for 2-3 months in year they sit in-house getting half-money or even no-money. In any case, you should always read contract before signing so not to be disappointed when not everything is so bright as HRman have said. 

To put it short: The best way to discipline him is to give him tasks appropriate to his attitude and skills, reduce his value t ohis boss and leave the further disciplining steps to his boss. 

Everything depends if the employee actually was stupid enough to tell that e was fired. normally there is no reason to disclose the fact that somebody was fired at all. If it comes to light in the team that he was fired then the only explanation should be that keeping him in the team would not have been good for the team, together with the instruction not to speculate about the details. 

I think that courses can be useful for entries such as credits offered for continuing education. For example: 

First and foremost**, you can't be retaliated against for anything that you told HR then or now, or any time for that matter. If this ex-manager (I'll refer to them as XMAN) has some kind of vendetta against you or anyone else due to numerous like-minded claims against them, chances are they're already on thin ice. Furthermore, on the merit of "they threw me under the bus in an exit interview," to disapprove of rehiring that person is also unprofessional, since they shouldn't really know what you said to begin. Being said, you don't know what XMAN knows, only that some people left, and some changes got made that perhaps made them a little bitter. Unless they query you directly, you have no reason to believe there's a specific problem, and that it could just be that XMAN didn't like you as an employee to begin with. XMAN certainly doesn't have any obligation to know the events of the exit interview explicitly, so you have no obligation to tell them anything. In fact, as your ex-manager, they really have no reason to speak to you unless they're part of the interview and/or hiring process or somehow supervise you again. If you're being harassed by someone not on your team, go to your new manager and they should go and say "hey, you can't harass my team members." That would represent the most professional environment. **Referring mainly from the US.