Here,Sue (our hypothetical student) is in the mindset to become a Doctor. She works hard for it. But is there anything wrong with that? No, Because as to Lord Buddha one must choose a path, he or she must choose a life (Monk or Civilian). The monk must work hard to reach his goal,Nirvana, And the Civilian must work extra hard to reach good living conditions and Nirvana. 

This is only one story,Let me present the details directly from lord Buddha.. Lord Buddha said that what happens there is more like what happens here.Just like in our world people who look away from pain and go get lost in joy exist there.The people who want an understanding search for truth,They get help from others and they even have discussion sessions with "Brahmas (Beings from the highest realms)". If you think having anything on demand is going to harm concentration or the path to nirvana itself do this. Look at yourself,now you are on the internet.Whatever you wish to have is on demand, you can entertain all of your six senses,go after any temptation for free! Let me remind you... Instead of reading about Buddhism you can do anything else right now.I mean what's wrong with us?, reading texts on some page about Buddhism! This is the difference between common people and people like us.It's the fire that keeps burning leading us to try to find more meaning to life.This my friend is the spark that burns in any wise being in higher realms! Also let me tell you some less known fact! I hope you know about "Albert Einstein's - Relativity" because it will help you to understand this easily. "Lord Buddha said beings in Deva realm have very long lives".The relativity comes in to action making us live in different speeds of time. I know it was a bit hard to understand.Let me tell you a story mentioned in Buddhism that would do the trick. One day a female in deva realm went to a garden with her husband and their friends.While spending time there she died because of her birth karma expiring.She was born among humans,she remembered her last life so she became a follower of lord Buddha and did many good things in hope of seeing her husband again.she lived a full human life and lied.She was born back at her place like she wanted.S she rushed to that garden of her last life they were still there and they asked an amazing question "Where were you in the morning we searched everywhere" she replied saying i was born among humans and lived a whole life time there.They were very sad and said "Oh how short is a human life!" Get ready for the surprise of your life! As to calculations given in Buddhism to deva Realms it has been only five days from Lord Buddhas leaving (death).There are still arahants there who offer doubtless advice to the ones who practice the path. Looking at the Extra long life,A mind that is way faster and better than ours,Being in the company of arahants it is way better than being human! Here in my country (Sri Lanka) where there is a Theravada practice we are often advised to focus on Deva realms because of the growing evilness of the world.Most of us plan to leave here,honestly i advice you the same if you do not reach nirvana in this life.The future world is not for us,it is for "kill or be killed" people. About too much of good karma There is no such thing,Lord Buddha said that any good karma is good no matter the size. This is Lord Buddhas words..... "There is only one friend to the beings who wander in sansara,it is nothing else but their own karma" May triple gems bless you! Please comment if you have any questions. 

I am a Theravada Buddhist.i am curious to know about Lord Buddha's Last words according to different schools of Buddhism. 

(I think you know about who a Bodhisattva is....) While a Bodhisattva is in the heavenly realm (Thauthisa) he chooses the Best time,Best parents,Best cast,Best kingdom,Best country to be born. This is an essential process that all Bodhisattva's go through before being born as a human being. 

These are the Sutras / Suttas By Lord Buddha on Karma. Maha Kammavibhanga Sutta: The Great Exposition of Kamma Cula-kammavibhanga Sutta: The Shorter Exposition of Kamma 

No, Because there is one unique thing about Buddhism. And that is.... Akalika = Timeless As Lord Buddha said there is no need of updating or changing the teaching as it is timeless and complete. Also Lord Buddha challenged saying that no one can add or remove a single teaching as too much or non worthy. So there can be differences in The Language The explaining method The idioms The examples when two Lord Buddhas teach the path. But the core will always be the same. The only difference will be Grammatical and explanatory differences. 

You could try Vipassana Meditation. This Meditation has no complications like what you are facing now. Here are some links, Listen and practice... Impermanence Meditation 1(Six Faculties) Impermanence Meditation 2(Four Elements) Asubha – Anapanasathi Meditation A bag with an opening at both ends (Meditation of foulness) Slaughtered cow (Meditation on elements) Verily my own body, too (Meditation on nine cemetery contemplations) 

Lord Buddha had given such advice to householders on several occasions. Here are the suttas.... Sigalovada Sutta: The Buddha's Advice to Sigalaka Maha-mangala Sutta: Blessings 

I once listened to the same question being answered by a monk. And here are the answers. (Not the exact words but the long story short.) 

What i see is that there are two minds at work trying to find attachments in real life. And then two minds find those in the image of two bodies. Then the attachments grow and the minds get more attached to each other's bodies as it works as the Identity. 

I think it will help if you practice a different version of vipassana.Death is not the only form of vipassana so here are some links that will teach you different practices of vipassana.And please note that what you are going through is not a bad side of vipassana,it is simply a matter of choosing the right one for you.once you have done that everything will be fine. so here are the other forms of vipassana that you could practice without that particular discomfort. Meditation of foulness Meditation of elements Meditation of nine cemetery contemplations 

Say you are poor If you steal that is bad karma. But if you take someone's pen thinking it is yours (given that both pens look alike) you do not gain bad karma because you had no idea. 

A very good question,here is the answer. First thing about the future as to Buddhism is that it is not completely fixed or completely open. Here's an example... If you toss a coin you know