Beyond that, what happens when zombies surround the castle? Sure, they can't get in. But if you can't get out, you die of starvation. A jail is a safer place in a zombie apocalypse. Lock yourself in the cell at night. Keep a supply of food in the cell. If something goes wrong, you're in a locked room. Stab the zombie(s) through the bars. Use the security system to track whether a zombie ended up inside. Keep the section doors locked to limit the scope of any problem. If you do find yourself defending a castle in the zombie apocalypse (perhaps others took all the jails in the housing raffle), try to make the castle more like a prison. Make it possible to lock each room's door. Add chokepoints inside the castle halls that are easy for people to open but difficult for zombies. Add security cameras so as to monitor the halls (a castle that was a museum would work). Add a garden inside the walls. Keep the doors closed at all times. Open only when you have good visibility. Try for a castle with a gate with a double portcullis. Open one to let some zombies into the vestibule. Drop it behind them (perhaps on some of them). Then stab them with spears through the other portcullis. Eventually open it and clean out the vestibule. Repeat until there are no more zombies blocking the gate. Castles have solid walls. They are protected from attack from the outside. These walls are better than most fences against zombies, as they were built with the possibility that there might be attacks by pressing against them from outside. That may make them slightly more effective than more modern fortifications, which assume weapons capable of piercing them. Zombies don't have that ability. Their power is in massing together and brainlessly pushing. 

I don't know much about dialects and can't suggest much in those cases. In regards to alphabets though, I think that there are some obvious steps that you haven't taken yet. First, look up each language and find out what alphabet it uses. 

There'd still be inflation/deflation Fixing the value of money to a commodity doesn't eliminate inflation. It only eliminates inflation relative to that commodity. So one loaf of bread costs one lobe. But your Blu-Ray player may change from fifty lobes to either forty or sixty. The change of prices of everything else relative to loaves of bread is either inflation or deflation. This is also somewhat problematic because if they print too many Lobes, bakers won't be able to afford the ingredients for bread. But if people make the ingredients for bread cheaper by improved growing methods or whatever, they can print more Lobes causing inflation in everything else. More commonly though would be deflation. Because loaves of bread are relatively stable and not getting improved much. So there is a restricted supply of currency but ever more options on which to spend it. Overall there may be less inflation/deflation under such a system, but there will still be some. Different from gold One of the problems with gold was that finding a new gold source would cause inflation. Then when a source tapped out, there would be deflation. This is because gold was the actual money and currency was just a paper alternative. However in this system, you wouldn't just be able to hand someone fifty loaves of bread for a Blu-Ray player. If bakers make too much bread, it will just rot on the shelves. Central banking would spend a lot of time watching prices relative to bread. They also might spend time working on productivity improvements for bread. Cheaper bread allows more Lobe printing and helps to prevent deflation. Deflation is bad because it causes employment losses (or more precisely having insufficient currency to cover all expenses causes both deflation and employment losses). Commodity money used to work because most people farmed. Even if they were unable to trade, they could still eat their own food. So a decade or two of deflation was survivable. In this system, the employment losses from deflation lead to more taxes which causes more deflation (increases the cost of bread). Hyperdeflation would be a potential problem. Exempting bread production from taxes might help with that, although the inputs are still a problem. You could also exempt wheat, water, sugar, and yeast, but fuel and vehicles to transport them would be more difficult. Similar problems with the energy using in milling and baking, etc. 

Unique experiences How do kids get the new Justin Bieber or Katy Perry CD? Even if we handwave things such that they have the latest and best technology (itself questionable), we still have to explain how they avoid people trading for the things they don't have. We can even get around CDs. Maybe the government pirates them or buys them. But how do they keep people from trading for the truly unique? Only Ariana Grande can headline an Ariana Grande concert. So unless the city has some way of hiding the entire outside world from the youth, they will want those live experiences. And of course, they need money to buy them. Technology The concept of a single city that is much more advanced than the rest of the world is common in fiction, but it is not really feasible. One reason is that if it existed, it's too easy for the technology to spread out from it. But a bigger problem is that progress doesn't work that way. One country, much less one city, doesn't dominate progress overall. There are economies of scale to production. These mean that it is much easier to locate Google and Yahoo in Silicon Valley. Or General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler in Detroit. But there are limits to production. The local universities can't specialize in both Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering. They have to pick one. So Detroit and Silicon Valley remain separate. Michael Porter calls these technological or business clusters. A parallel idea is the single brilliant inventor who is equally good at computer programming, civil engineering, and pharmacology. Single people aren't even that dominant in any one field these days. Real progress is made by the interaction of large numbers of groups. Anyway, by random variation, a good number of the brilliant people who can headline progress are going to be found in the larger population outside the one city. Unless the city has some way of pulling them away, it isn't going to be able to maintain dominance for more than a generation or two, even if we handwave achieving that dominance in the first place. Drugs A significant driver of criminal activity is drugs. Addicts naturally want them. Society doesn't want people self-harming by taking inappropriate amounts. Criminals exploit that. Star Trek Another answer compares this to the Star Trek economy. However, this is less plausible than Star Trek. Star Trek requires only that there be some system that obviates most kinds of work. This doesn't even allow for that. If it did, then this wouldn't be just one city. It would be the entire world. This kind of system is not competitive with other systems. That's not really a problem in Star Trek. It's easy enough to do advanced science that a relatively small number of people can drive progress. In our world that takes a large support system. I.e. money, personnel, resources, etc. This wouldn't be a risk-taking system. There is no benefit to risk. This will lead most people to choose the safe route. But progress is made by people looking at the one-in-a-hundred chance. Sure, it's usually wrong. But sometimes it's right. The problem here is that in an egalitarian society, the risk takers never aggregate enough resources to take real risks. It's no accident that Federal Express and Amazon.com were founded by people whose families were already rich. 

Why an element? Are you sure that you want your fuel to be a new element? As others have noted, we've pretty well covered the element space. New elements are just increasingly unstable clumps of protons and neutrons (with electrons circling them) that only exist in rare situations. We already know ways to make use of higher density fuels. For example, nuclear fission is so energy dense that the contaminants in coal would provide more energy if used as uranium than if the coal were burned. We don't use that because it's expensive. Another, even higher density fuel, is anti-matter. We don't use that as a fuel now because we don't have a source for it and don't really have the equipment to manage it if we did. It's not even as far along in the development process as fusion. So if the people in your world discover a plentiful source of anti-matter and figure out a way to harvest it, that would fill much the same space as a new element. And it could operate entirely in keeping with what we know about the universe. What about lower level particles? Why restrict yourself to just atoms? You could instead be talking about something made from quarks other than the more standard proton, neutron, electron, neutrino, and their anti-particles. This wouldn't fit into the periodic table, but it would act more like a new element. Another possibility would be an alternate version of energy. Currently we can store energy as potential energy, kinetic energy, or electromagnetic energy (photons). What if you discovered a more manageable version of a photon? Easier to store as energy? Or figure out a way to use the basic underpinnings of gravity to store energy. We don't know how gravity is transmitted. We speculate a lot. Perhaps one branch of speculation is suitable for your purposes. Perhaps the secret is gravitons. Or something else. If that sounds interesting, I'd suggest a new question where someone more knowledgeable than I could give more concrete suggestions. I think that if you let go of the periodic table, it will be easier to accomplish your real goal. 

Parthenogenesis Women are required to have babies. They have the wombs. Men are only required to provide sperm. We encourage men to have more presence in their children's lives (and wives' lives during pregnancy), but it's not actually a requirement. We don't really know how to do it yet, but it seems at least theoretically possible to generate sperm-like genetics from eggs. Then two women could produce daughters. This is called parthenogenesis. The children would always be daughters because they'd always get two X chromosomes, as that's all that the women would have. To get sons, they'd need Y chromosomes from men. If a society found out how to perform parthenogenesis practically, it could adopt it. Perhaps a country would create a haven for battered women and lesbians. Economies of scale might allow for it to be a generally affordable procedure. Every pregnancy would be planned. Logic Looked at logically, women are the constraining resource on producing children. So logical analysis already favors daughters. Favoring sons is an emotional analysis or it is based on factors other than reproduction. For example, sons are more useful in warfare, as they are bigger and stronger. So it makes sense for a war-oriented society to prefer sons. And of course, most societies have been war-oriented. If they weren't, they were taken over by a neighboring society which was. A society that was generally peaceful and had parthenogenesis would be able to concentrate on daughters without giving up advantages important to them. And females use fewer calories than males. Buildings and doorways can be smaller, as women are. Women live longer and are less reckless. A peaceful, logical society with parthenogenesis. How hard would that be?