In a nutshell, yes it is still in force. The Concorde Agreement was first signed back in 1981 but it has been renewed, with changes, seven times since then. The current agreement was signed in 2013 and expires at the end of 2020. For more details about the specifics you can read the Wikipedia article: $URL$ 

There are many differences between F1 cars and Indy/Champ cars, too many to list here but the basic difference is that F1 cars are more technologically advanced than Indy cars, as you would expect as F1 is the pinnacle of motorsport. Current F1 cars have hybrid engine systems including ERS (Electronic Recovery Systems) that harvest energy such as braking energy and allow the driver to deploy this as an extra boost to performance, typically F1 cars generate around 750 HP plus an extra 100 HP or so when the ERS is being deployed. The rules for 2015 mean all F1 teams have V6 turbo charged engines, with a capacity of 1.6 litres, fuel used is "normal" petrol/gasoline. Indy cars use Ethanol as their fuel and their engines are 2.2 litre V6 twin-turbo, up to 700 HP power output (Plus push to pass, extra ~100 HP). So engine power is fairly similar for both types, the F1 car having a small advantage. F1 cars are very light, they can have a minimum weight of 600 kgs under the 2015 rules and so with driver and fuel included they are around the 750 kg mark at the start of the race (including up to 100 kg of fuel). Indy cars are around 25% heavier at ~750 Kg plus driver and fuel. This is one of the main reasons F1 cars are quicker around a circuit compared to Indy cars as they can accelerate more quickly (better power to weight ratio) and also stop more quickly. They are also more nimble with quicker cornering speeds due to better aerodynamics and shorter wheelbase. Indy cars are designed (largely) for oval circuits which means they have a longer wheelbase to give more stability but this makes then slightly less agile. Acceleration for an F1 car (typical) - I cannot find similar data for Indy Cars but they will be slower due to the extra weight etc. 0-100 Kmh / 62 MPH 1.7 s 0-200 Kmh / 124 MPH 3.8 s 0-300 Kmh / 186 MPH 8.6 s Top speeds for both cars are fairly similar, around the 240 MPH mark. F1 cars are geared to whatever circuit they are racing at though, so a lot of tracks they will be topping out at significantly lower speeds, ie 170 MPH is typical at Monaco (no long straights) whilst around Monza it is over the 220 MPH mark. Indy cars generally race at Ovals and faster circuits so they will achieve their top speed more often. F1 has carbon fibre brakes which perform a lot better than the steel brakes used by Indy cars. In 2006 both F1 and Champ Cars raced around the Circuit Gilles Villenuve, Montreal, Canada. The F1 cars were 5-7 seconds a lap quicker than the Indy cars, pole was set by Fernando Alonso with a 1m 14.942 lap and the Indy Car pole was 1m 20.005s set by Sebastien Bourdais. The fastest laps under race conditions were slightly further apart with the F1 cars around 7 seconds a lap quicker. F1 teams will run on a budget of around £200M per year (for the top teams such as Ferrari) compared to a budget around £15M for a top Indy Car team such as Newman/Haas. Where possible I am referring to current ie 2015 rules but some examples are from different years, in which case I have given the relevant year. Most of this has come from Wikipedia but I have used other sources as well. I will add to this answer wheere possible as I want to get the accelleration figures for Indy cars but that's not very forthcoming! 

You may already be doing this anyway but the only real thing I can think of would be to ensure the kart is warmed up properly including the tyres, so try to do a few laps rather than just one or two. Warm tyres give more grip so you can corner more quickly. The other thing you can do is lose weight! All you can do to know if a faster time is possible would be to try to take each corner slightly quicker until you begin to lose grip and slide or crash. Sliding a kart is usually sub-optimal depending on the kart and the corner involved. Once you know the exact limit for each corner and you are on that limit for every corner in the same lap you can assume that you have set pretty much the optimal time. Of course if the track is outside the wind may play a small part in things, ie a tailwind down the main straight will be helpful, depending on the track characteristics etc. 

In the recent Austrian Grand Prix, Nico Rosberg was adjudged to have caused a collision with Lewis Hamilton. He was penalised 10 seconds (added to his race time) which in effect meant he lost nothing, no points etc. What has been given as a punishment to other drivers in the past for a similar transgression of the rules and are the FIA being consistent? 

The short answer, is that there is far more to F1 than just engines, so even if a team is losing some competitiveness by selling their engines to a rival, they still have other areas where they can compete. Longer answer: In F1, engines are very expensive, typically around $3M per unit. Imagine 4 engines for each car during the season, that's $24M alone for each team to spend. But having said that, by far the biggest cost regards engines, is the development cost, you can easily spend $100M developing an engine, so most of the smaller teams buy their engines, as on their budgets developing their own is simply not possible. $URL$ A lot of the midfield and smaller teams survive on budgets of under $100M a season, some on around half that amount, so they are forced to buy their engines. With recent changes to F1, trying to cut costs to make the sport more feasible, the engine manufacturers are encouraged to sell their engines to the other teams. Mercedes, Ferrari and Renault have all sold their engines to other teams in the past. It's difficult to say if the engines sold are identical or not to those used by the "works" teams - officially they are identical. However, in 2014 the Mercedes team radically changed the design of their engines and their customer teams, Williams, McLaren and Force India, didn't find out until very late and so this may have compromised their car design: $URL$ The "works" team always has a bit of an advantage over the customer teams for this reason, they can plan ahead for engine changes and they get a head start in designing their car around the engine. For the team selling the engines, they get a bit of extra revenue to pay for all that R&D but also they get extra data back from their customers so they can refine the design, maybe iron out some glitches that may make it sub-optimal in terms of performance and reliability. But engines are not everything in F1. Last season Mercedes were generally accepted to have the best engine while Red Bull struggled with the Renault engine which was regarded as being well down on power. However, at Singapore for one, Mercedes struggled and Red Bull were competitive. Chassis and aerodynamic design are also very important. Even if Enzo Ferrari did once say "Aerodynamics are for people who can't build engines!" You usually find the works teams do well not only because they have their own engines, but because they tend to have most money as well! Now, if Honda can sort themselves out they may mean McLaren can challenge the front-runners, but not for another season or two probably. This is all relevant to the health of F1 as the smaller teams cannot compete with the bigger teams and it's a vicious circle as you need money to compete but need to be competitive to earn that money. There is talk of a price limit on engines that would help a little bit. $URL$ Ultimately, if there were no manufacturers selling engines to the teams, the sport would die, or it would be Ferrari vs Renault vs Mercedes vs McLaren (currently) with just the 4 teams on the grid - unless you go down the route of GP2 for example and make it a spec series with all the cars being identical. 

This season could be interesting if Hamilton wins the final race of the season and Rosberg finishes 2nd or 3rd as you would have the unusual situation where the driver with most wins during the season isn't champion. Hamilton would have 10 wins to Rosberg's 9. What I want to know is has this happened in previous seasons and can you give me some more detail? I am aware of 2008 when Hamilton won the title with 5 wins to Massa's 6 - but Hamilton actually won the Belgian GP that year but was given a penalty that handed Massa the win, so you could argue he won the most races that season. Or at least he saw the chequered flag most times. 

My answer is specific to Formula 1 but I suspect it's the same for other formulae. In the example given, none of the 3 cars can keep the racing line as it would likely lead to an accident. In Formula 1 you are penalised for "causing an avoidable accident". All 3 cars are alongside each other heading into the first turn, they should all therefore ensure they allow each other "racing room". The fact that one car is currently on the racing line is not so relevant as the race has just started. Generally speaking the car on the racing line has "right of way" and can take the racing line but if another car is alongside the driver on the racing line cannot reasonably assume the other driver will make way, he cannot simply disappear into thin air so both drivers would need to give racing room. The exit of the corner is a little different as the driver on the racing line can stick to this and the driver on the outside of him would have to give way, plenty of examples of this in F1, watch Hamilton vs Rosberg. You'll need to search "Hamilton vs Rosberg Bahrain 2014" on Youtube or similar as the FIA remove the videos quite often due to copyright issues/Bernie not having enough money. In summary the car that is ahead can claim the racing line but if alongside each other they need to give "racing room" to their competitors. It's not easy to determine what constitutes being "alongside" the other car though which is why there are stewards to judge incidents and penalise drivers accordingly. 

Kind of yes, but it's a bit more complicated than that, as you would expect from F1. For 2016 there are 3 different tyre compounds available for each race, last season there were just 2. The tyre manufacturer, Pirelli, will decide which 3 are available for each race, it varies from track to track. There are a total of 5 compounds for them to choose from, ranging from Ultra Soft through Super Soft, Soft, Medium and Hard. Generally speaking, they will choose harder compounds on tracks that are more "abrasive" ie harder on the tyres and vice-versa. The softer compounds give more grip and so are in theory quicker, but they also wear out more quickly and so the driver will need to pit more frequently if they use the softer compounds. All drivers MUST use at least two different compounds during the race, unless it is classified as a wet race. If it's wet, they can also choose Intermediate tyres, Wet tyres or Monsoon Tyres, depending on how wet it is. They can also choose from the usual "dry" compounds if they feel the track is dry enough. For each race weekend, each driver has a total of 13 sets of tyres, across the 3 compounds for that race. The reason for the changes is to try to make the racing more exciting by giving the teams more options for strategy in the race, varying number of pit-stops etc. I will not comment as to if that has worked or not though! The teams will evaluate the tyres during the practise sessions and then call them "Prime" and "Option" based on their findings. Usually the Prime tyre is the one they intend using for most of the race but this can vary if the track is "rubbered in" more than expected as the tyres will then last for longer. More info here: $URL$ 

By comparing a qualifying lap time to a race lap time, you are not comparing like for like. In qualifying, the teams turn up their engines to give maximum performance. It is not possible to do this during a race as you would likely break the engine due to the excessive revs/power being produced for the full race distance of around 200 miles. Also during qualifying the cars have fresh tyres (and the quickest tyres ie softest) as well as very low fuel loads. This makes them as quick as possible for the lap or two that is required to set a qualifying time. Fuel load is crucial, a fully laden car carries up to 100 KG of fuel at the start of the race, meaning an average lap penalty of about 3-4 seconds - every 3kg of fuel carried adds about a tenth of a second per lap, depending on the circuit. So at the start of a race, when the tyres are in good condition, the cars are heavy and so cannot get near their times from qualifying. As the fuel load comes down, the tyres are wearing out so once again lap times cannot compete with those in qualifying. Most cars will change tyres once or twice per race, so the cars are usually fastest after their final pit-stops when the fuel load is relatively light and they have fresh tyres. But even then, they will be carrying 20 Kg or so of fuel so times are still off what they were in qualifying. Added to that the fact the engines are "turned down" to reduce the chance of a failure, you can see why qualifying lap times are not usually beaten during a race. Finally, with the 2016 regulations, drivers can use their DRS (Drag Reduction System) whenever they like, but in the race they can only use this on the designated straight(s) when they are within 1 second of the car in front. This can account for around 1 second per lap. 

An F1 car driven on the limit is often very close to crashing, oversteer is the main risk for the driver. Oversteer is where the car wants to "swap ends" as there is so much power going through the rear wheels that they want to overtake the front, you don't tend to get this in normal road cars. The driver of an F1 car can solve this problem by either lifting off the throttle (they don't like doing that as it slows them down!) or by steering into the oversteer, by applying opposite lock. This is what you are generally seeing, it happens very quickly as the driver feels it starting to happen, they are doing it instinctively. You will also see a lot of steering wheel action on bumpy circuits as the bumps can feedback through the steering. Some cars are easier to drive, have better suspension than others and so you will see this less while some drivers also have a smoother style, Jenson Button for example. It's difficult to predict the exact amount of oversteer the driver might encounter as it depends on tyre wear, fuel load, how "clean" the racing line is etc.