"Infrared is heat" is a simplification. At a given temperature a particular spectrum of light which excludes any frequencies above a particular limit, quickly ramps up to a peak, and then trails off through the long frequencies. The visible frequencies are the peak at temperatures in the thousands of Kelvins. We can think of humans as having a "visible" range of temperatures as well. Those temperatures where we might have some sort of meaningful direct experience of them. Those temperatures are in the rough vicinity of 300 Kelvins. So we have a mismatch. By the time we start seeing any visible light, we are well into the range of ridiculously hot things that will cause immediate, significant damage to us if we touch them, starting with things like the red of stove heating elements and going up from there. Infrared is a wide swath of the spectrum. Much wider than the visible spectrum. Temperature wise, it starts down below the range we're comfortable with, all the way up to where your stove starts to glow red. Since the lowest frequency infrared overlaps our range of "normal temperatures" we call it thermal infrared. Higher frequencies are far infrared, then mid infrared, and finally the highest frequencies are near infrared. So we already see heat in the same way thermal imaging does. We just see much hotter light. Light from the sun. Of course we can see light that doesn't come from heat as well like fluorescent light bulbs, and thermal IR can be produced by other means than incandescence as well. Now it's important to note that if you are are about the same temperature as the things whose thermal infrared you want to see, you are going to be generating a great deal of light. Any focusing optics that are part of your body will be emitting light you can see. Even the very photoreceptors would be emitting light that would trigger themselves. This is why early Thermal Imaging systems, had to be cooled to below the temperature range of the heat they need to see. Now, as long as we know the amount of interference, we can filter it out electronically, but cooled sensors are still better. So, sensing heat in your own body heat range is a highly improbably evolutionary development. There's no benefit without a filter, and no reason to develop the filter without the capability. There may be some especially odd path where some other capability was re-purposed like an ability to actively cool the surface, although I can't think of any use for that either. Life built around a solvent with a lower freezing temperature than water like ammonia or methane might well end up seeing in what we consider thermal infrared. They would probably regard us the way we would regard aliens that live in molten metal and would not think of their own vision as being 'heat vision' To them, "normal hot things" would emit even lower infrared, or high frequency microwaves. If things with a significantly higher temperature than you are important, you can get some level of radiant heat sensor. Pit Vipers for instance have this ability for detecting birds and mammals, although the capability is at best "something warm is in front of me" rather than vision. 

Giants would use bigger weapons, but they would probably be smaller proportionally. Being realistic, you would expect a giant's sword to be smaller proportional to the giant than a human's sword in proportion to the human. A giant twice as tall as a human would probably have a sword less than twice as long as the human's sword, all else being equal. The size of the enemy would not result in directly scaling up an existing weapon. It might lead to choosing a particular weapon over another or to specific designs. A Boar Spear is the kind of thing you'd want to use against a large, dangerous animal, if you absolutely had to face one alone with only a melee weapon. 

Humans really don't need a beneficial reason to do this to people who are different. Given something to be tribal and insular about, we will be tribal and insular about it regardless of how stupid and pointless it is. We can be tribal about being opposed to being tribal. We can even be tribal about being being opposed to being tribal about being opposed to being tribal, and still not notice what's going on. "Everyone knows you can't trust a stupid Earthborn to do anything right." That's going to be plenty to give you all the bigotry and prejudice you could want. 

The spacecraft used for the transfer is going to have to be believably massive and is actually going to have to go to Mars and come back. That's a big chunk of a real manned Mars mission right there. People can see the thing in orbit and will be able to track it (particularly its engines when thrusting). The exhaust from the engines will also be a dead giveaway for it being significantly smaller than it is supposed to be. It will also be obvious if the rockets launching the components are smaller than they should be. Even saving on things like life support and safety systems would be difficult. You are going to have to design and test the systems to maintain the illusion, otherwise the people doing that design will be suspicious. Or you could bring everyone involved in the design, testing, and construction into the conspiracy and hope that none of them leak anything, and then keep the designs secret so outsiders can't check them, otherwise the fact that no effort was made in designing them would become obvious. You are going to have to have a fake crew. Their training is going to be fairly visible, and so will cost about as much for a fake mission as a real one. They are also going to have to go into hiding for the duration of the mission proper (months to years). To be believable they are also going to have to be the kind of people who would be expected to go on such a mission. Reasonably well known members of the scientific community and possibly from military aviation (the latter probably being less likely for the ESA than for NASA) using a "no name" crew is going to be suspicious, as will an all military crew from the ESA. So you have to get a group of scientists, respected ones who will have a strong interest in having a real manned mission to Mars to agree to go through all the difficult training, and then go into hiding for over a year, then keep the secret for decades afterwards. This would be a massive breach of scientific ethics and a commensurate risk to the professional reputations that's essentially certain to be uncovered eventually, even if the hoax could be pulled off temporarily. The crew are also going to expected to interact with Earth on video (with appropriate time delay) while in transit. So fake zero-G footage will need to be prepared on time scales ranging from immediately to half an hour as the mission progresses. Free fall in an aircraft can't be faked for long enough and the other option is "hiding" on a human habitable spacecraft in orbit. (which would need to be built in addition to the fake Mars ship) and would require getting the crew to it rather than the Mars ship (secretly), then down to Earth to fake the landing without anyone noticing, then back up again without anyone noticing to fake the trip back, and then get them back down without anyone noticing that they came from the wrong spacecraft. A spin gravity habitat could be included on the fake ship, but spin gravity, especially on a small enough diameter to be practical to build with current technology would have noticeable differences from real gravity. It would also make the fake ship more expensive to build, and viewers might wonder why the crew never send videos from the zero gravity area of the ship (at least not pre-recorded videos or ones with time for post production special effects, or short enough ones to be made from a diving aircraft. In short, it's even more laughable than the idea of the moon landings being fake, even if you go through the complete motions of sending a crew capable ship and just not putting any people on it, which would be just as expensive and so would completely defeat the point, and built another long term human habitable spacecraft in orbit in secret.