There's an attitude in the question that I think really needs to be addressed. The idea that those who go above and beyond are promoted isn't limited to just the company you are at. It's actually a basic fact of life. You can absolutely lead a fulfilling life putting in the bare minimum 40 hours work per week while spending the rest of your time on family or other personal items. However that way will rarely, if ever, allow you to climb the ranks. The people who climb ladders do so because they aren't content with their current position and make a personal decision to do whatever it takes to move up. This usually means doing far more than what's asked of you and can certainly lead to quite a few late nights. So the question you really need to ask yourself is: are you willing to go the extra mile? Specifically, are you willing to focus a much greater amount of your energies on furthering your career? If you are, then make those changes. If not, then you need to come to terms with the fact that you aren't going to be seen as a rising star. There is no "right" answer here. Some people are more than willing to sacrifice absolutely everything to get to the top. I personally think that's horrible. Others aren't willing to do more than the absolute minimum in their job; which I also don't agree with. Certainly there is a happy medium to be found but it's up to you to decide what's important and go from there. 

If the manager is someone that is responsible for directing your work, then you do what your manager asks you to do. If the team is no longer able to perform tasks in a timely manner that the higher up wants done then that is a problem between the manager and his/her boss. 

Have you actually asked this person what it is they want to be doing in 5 years? Rather than try to figure out what they want to do, just ask them. If all they want to do is program then you have your answer. They have decided that there is no "career path". Therefore you don't need to worry about it and just let them do what they like. 

Like you, I left college early for a job. At first it seemed like a really good idea. I was flat broke, my grades were only so-so and, quite frankly, I wasn't exactly sure why I was even there. It wasn't until about 5 years down the road that I ran into a few brick walls. To try and overcome these I made some tweaks to my resume. I still listed the University I attended however I left out the dates. I also left off what I was majoring in. If I was asked a direct question such as "What did you get your degree in?" I'd be completely truthful that I did not get a degree but majored in X while steering the conversation to my experience. That said, at the time almost no one asked. Today I run my own company so it's really not an issue. 

If a manager told me this, while handing me a deadline I felt was unreasonable, then I'd politely agree with him and ask which project he'd like to move me to. If you truly feel that you can't accomplish the work in the time involved then your job is to raise that flag to management. Which you've done. Managements job is then to determine whether there are any barriers to completion they can remove or to push the schedule and talk to the affected parties. If, however, management is simply going to try and force you to meet the schedule then this is a recipe for disaster that simply won't end well. In which case, it's better to get the hard part over with now rather than being completely stressed out and dealing with a potential firing later. By politely agreeing that perhaps you aren't the right person to work under these conditions one of three things will happen. Either you're calling his bluff and he'll change the schedule, he'll add another person to help you or you end up without a job. Honestly, if you're fired over it then you likely would have been if you missed the deadline anyway. 

You should try and relax. It's completely out of your hands at this point so worrying about it is pointless. Either they will question it or they won't. I'm assuming (probably a bad idea) that this is in the USA. If so, it's highly unlikely your former boss will actually be contacted. The 3rd party service will contact the HR department, verify employment dates and salary. Then they will pass that information onto the new company. It's also unlikely the old company's HR department will say anything about health issues as any company big enough to have an HR department should know that is private information they have no business passing around. At worst they will tell them you were there for 2 weeks the second summer and quit. They might be asked if you were eligible for rehire at which point the old company would either say yes or no. That's about it. In the future - save yourself some trouble and tell someone if you need to leave early. 

Not exactly a good approach as it immediately puts Bob on the defensive. Further it shows that you simply lack experience and therefore credibility by only using a reference to someone else's opinion to justify your statement. However, if you did something like this: Better way 

Really depends on the environment and manager. If you aren't charging for the time you weren't on the job then I personally don't see a problem. However, some managers don't like to see when people aren't filling out the full 40. So you should discuss this with your manager directly. Most overtime is paid when you exceed the hours for the time period and not on just a daily variance. For example, if you work more than 40 hours in a given week. You might want to investigate this a bit more to be sure that your overtime is paid based on per day hours vs per pay period hours. 

At this point you should full stop and make sure your computer is configured exactly like his is. If the error continues then ask for more guidance. 

I employee a number of developers and I absolutely expect that they put a minimum of 40 hours of time in each week doing what I'm paying them to. Most of my people work far more than 40 (and, yes, I compensate them accordingly), so I'm good with the occasional FB, twitter or even reading a news site. If for some odd reason they literally have nothing to do, then that is a management failure on my part. There should always be something for a developer to be working on. It could be testing, researching a new technology or methodology, refactoring code or any number of other beneficial items, but there is something to be done. 

The following is based on my experience in the USA. I'm not entirely sure what country you are talking about. The easiest way to speed up a hiring process is to get an offer from another company. Basically, start interviewing elsewhere. If your friend has interviewed, received and accepted the offer all within the timeframe that you've been waiting then it's pretty likely that the hiring manager has decided not to go forward with you. Considering that you asked one of the interviewers a question about this which was then forwarded to the recruiter I'm guessing that group deciding against you and the recruiter is simply trying to see if there is somewhere else in the company you might fit. The fact that you've never spoken with the hiring manager directly also lends credence to the idea that you aren't on their radar. Most companies, especially in software, don't sit on their hands for long periods of time when hiring new talent that they want. If they believe you are good and will fit in the environment then they'll move to get you. If they think they might find better candidates but aren't entirely sure then they'll string you along. Either way, if you receive a job offer elsewhere and contact your recruiter to let them know that then you'll find out very fast whether they are interested in you or not. 

Considering this person is not in the 'chain of command' it sounds like you have two choices. Choice 1: Ignore them. Choice 2: Go talk to your direct manager and ask them to step in on your side. Personally, I'd take the initiative here and speak with my manager. It's usually easier to get someone on your side when you are the first person to present arguments. 

If #1, then asking management will result in good information. If #2 or #3, they'll likely keep you in the dark. That said, the fact that a contractor took over your boss's job makes me think #3 is the real reason - but that's just a guess. I'd update my resume. 

Sounds like you actually are "junior relative to these guys." If you don't understand enough to really follow the technical debates without googling them mid discussion then I'm failing to understand how you could possibly think you have valid input for design decisions at all. You simply aren't at that level yet. That's like asking a toddler to create a racetrack when they are just trying to remember left-right-left-right... The key thing you need to work on is gaining experience and learning your trade; not having your voice heard. Once you have the knowledge and experience necessary then you'll be able to contribute to these types of conversations. When you are able to talk intelligently people will naturally listen. If you have some good ideas, they'll be acted on. Now, as to the Sr. guy telling you to get more involved: start studying. Hopefully you are at least aware of the names of the technologies you are dealing with. Spend your nights and weekends really getting to know them. Also, see if you can take that Sr. person out to lunch/dinner/whatever. Sounds like (s)he is already trying to give you a few pointers. Take it to the next level by having them go into detail about what you guys do. Cover the current designs, pitfalls and war stories. Most Sr people I know are more than happy to impart hard won knowledge to an enthusiastic new guy willing to soak it up. Just make sure you actually pay attention.