1. ...Rama "solves" this with a sheer cliff on one side of the sea, against which the water sloshes... Answered by yourself 2.The sea takes up space – nearly 20% in Rama's case – that could be dedicated to habitation, agriculture, and so on. Sure, but if you need the water, and humans do, then you gotta put it somewhere. 3.The sea, especially if it occupies the circumference of the inner surface, is a barrier to all surface-based transportation. Unless there are bridges and vehicular transportation. 4.If the primary purpose is water storage or recreation, then arguably numerous smaller and less obstructive lakes could do the same job with fewer or reduced downsides. In fact, smaller lakes could be even more effective (e.g.: if the goal is recreational coastline, ten lakes 1/10th the size of the sea would have more than three times the sea's coastline; water stored within the hull does not pose a flood risk). You might be right about smaller lakes in terms of storage, but then you have to find ways of containing those so they wont create the same problems you say the bigger body would have. IMO your trading one problem for a lot of little problems, with not much benefit. 5.Water is less dense than the surface and sub-surface material it replaces, which could throw off the balance of the habitat and cause it to spin end-over-end. But surely a technology advanced enough to create all this in the first place has already accounted for that in numerous ways. My two favorite benefits for you are: A) Drinking water. They have to treat it before drinking it of course, but as I said, the water has to go somewhere. And B) Radiation shielding. To be sure, Rama didn't use its water for that purpose, but it could be used that way. Good luck! EDIT: Piggybacking on Flaters answer about the water- What if you did this to help prevent issues of momentum: Make the water slosh back onto itself as opposed to just slamming hard against the wall. Just an idea... 

Leprosy, flesh eating bacteria, gangrene, epidermolysis bullosa, necrosis and aptosis are all illnesses that are what you're talking about and exist IRL. Your evil scientists have found ways to weaponize them, making them far more contagious, incurable and airborne. 

Edit: Its been suggested that a Rocheworld is impossible. Its also been suggested that it is possible. Lets hand wave that for the sake of the question. Thanks. SECOND EDIT with diagram: Some of the responses suggest that my notions of the atmospheric conditions are off. I was wondering if you think this is more "correct"? If so, it removes the idea that the OUT side of the planets would be exposed to the vacuum of space. Hopefully this 2nd diagram is self explanatory. 

I am trying to create a planet with low gravity that keeps an atmosphere and has an ocean that covers the whole planet. Basically I am developing beings (separately from this question) who can live in both water and air and I want them to be able to swim in the ocean and also fly/float in the sky, so I thought low gravity might be a solution to achieve this. However, there’s another post that already asks the question Life in extremely low gravity water and the answers there (plus my own research) led me to believe it’s incredibly unlikely if not outright impossible to achieve my goal in nature. Then I thought lets do it artificially. Ultimately most of the physics would still be the same, still not possible. So the I came up with... Could soft matter infused with nano or pico sized magnets be used to clump together so that we could create environments with it? I envision a planetoid sized sphere of water infused with finely spread nano/pico sized magnets throughout, to serve as the ocean. The magnets would keep the water together, and in turn the size of this mass could be large enough to create its own gravity thus keeping the atmosphere around it. You might not even need a rocky core since the water would kind of be the core. And everything that lives there, or even visits, could become covered in the magnets, or the magnets could seep into them, so that they float, but not off into space. In this way we create an artificial world with the needed parameters. Addendum: I guess I am basically describing a kind of Ferro fluid, but one that doesn't exist in todays technology. Lets suppose a futuristic level of technology where it can have far greater applications than what current Ferro fluids can. EDIT: A) Once the planet is built using this method I wonder if the magnets would have to remain, or if having amassed the water would it still need them... B) I suggested in another iteration of this question (sandbox) that this technology could/might be used to create environments other than this one. I'd like to hear if you think that's possible too... 

Please, PLEASE, excuse the crude artwork (I'm almost embarrassed to put it put up but this is all my work computer can do LOL). The second artwork below is ok. The torso would have a rib cage. It would be the only part of the body with a solid skeleton. And it would made of cartilage which is more flexible than bone. But be careful, those can still snap. So you still don't want your octo-humanoid squeezing through just any space. My cats are pretty big and can still squeeze through the smallest areas, but I wouldn't want them pushing their luck. The rest of the body, even the head, could be malleable just like the body of an octopus. 

IF they were real, would wormholes work in the way that they do in sci-fi (for all intents and purposes "teleportation", travel without movement, FTL, immediately "appearing" at the other location), OR is there space, time, matter inside a wormhole? If a wormhole is meant to circumvent light speed by practically "teleporting" mass from one place to another then there should not be a passage of time and space inside it. One should step into the wormhole and at the other location an observer would see your leg instantaneously coming out of another wormhole, right? Or is there a "place and time" in between, where one could potentially hang out for a while, before stepping out to another place, or even back where you came from? In short I'm trying to create a place that is outside of reality from which one could then step back into reality at any point (not time travel, just space travel). What do you think? Sub-question for extra xoxo: If you could hang out inside the wormhole could you somehow "decide" in there where to come out, or is the exit of a wormhole predetermined upon its creation? EDIT: This is an August 2015 article. First step towards creating a real wormhole? Wormhole created in lab creates magnetic field $URL$ 

SPEED In space, I don't think shape matters at all. I think its all about speed. Imagine a ship that is faster in every way to all the ships around it, flies faster, shoots faster, and computes faster with onboard super (quantum?) computers. In short, you couldn't shoot it down because its faster than your ship and faster than anything that you can shoot at it. But it could still blow the heck out of yours because it shoots faster too. Whenever I see a movie where aliens attack Earth (Independence Day) and alien fighters shoot it out with human jets (Independence Day) it always seems like the two types of craft are on equal or close to equal footing (Independence Day). NONSENSE! The alien ships would run circles around ours. With their greater tech they would totally obliterate our jet fighters and not even take one loss. It would be a total and complete slaughter! No offense to any fighter pilots. And its not because of the shape. Its because of the speed. So all things being equal, except for the speed, the much faster ship would absolutely win. Better yet, imagine a ship that could teleport? One second its there, it shoots the snot out of you, and then poof, before you even know it laser blasts are rocking your ship and you never even saw your enemy. Whichever side achieves either or both of these technologies first will have the upper hand as long as the other side doesn't achieve the same or equivalent tech. Even force shields wouldn't help because those can only take so much damage before they go down too. Sooner or later speed wins. And if you really want to go way out... how about a ship that is made out of energy? Or a ship that can "phase through" objects? Or a ship whose body resides in an alternate dimension?! You cant hit it, but it can hit you, regardless of shape. Those are more hand wavey, but we've all seen worse in sci-fi. Don't just think outside of the box... forget there's a box altogether!