In practice though, you are on a cake and eat it footing here. In theory on a well mapped planet, and given suitable technology, a GPS system could be entirely visual, plotting against a simulation of the skyline, sun, or stars, at almost any point on the planet. 

It very much depends on your god's sense of humour. If he's decided for example that da red wunz go fasta and anything blue can fly then you've pretty much had it. All the rules that you come up with are going to be wrong. If his logic has an internal consistency and lasting effect even after he's gone, messing with the fossil records etc, then the damage is done and you can never get a right and proper answer. If there's no consistency and he's just randomly poking experiments and giggling then it's all about spotting and excluding the results that don't fit. If on the other hand, the red ones continue to go faster even after he's gone and you can ignore aerodynamic lift and just paint it blue instead, perhaps the scientific method remains valid. You just won't get the answers that maybe you did before he came along. 

All the government can do is enforce equal pay for equal work. To do anything else at that point in the system risks amplifying any already existent discrimination by making one group significantly more expensive to employ than another. Whether they should choose to subsidise income by other channels is an entirely different question. 

Areas are large enough to travel for days while small enough for Rincewind to run across at the speed of plot while being chased by everything and dodging the drop bears. The details are only important when they help the plot. Everything is Chekhov's. The height of a tower only if someone is going to be climbing or falling off it. The distance to the next town only if someone has to ride it before dawn. You see a fixed distance to Überwald only when they need to build a railway there in a hurry. Don't let the world define your story, let your story define the world. That way it'll all fit nicely with some far off places to spare. 

Merely preventing disease and injury will not prevent you from needing these services. You've also left 

In summary: Yes, but the air quality is going to be terrible. Choking smogs and thousands dying from the bad air every year. Personal use of coal was banned in the UK for a very good reason. 

In either an offensive or defensive situation it could be worth evacuating the air from the ship before beginning. It's a high risk strategy but it eliminates direct verbal communication and any unprepared combatants very early on. Further combatants can be eliminated by damage to the breathing system or other integrity of whatever suit or otherwise they're using to survive the vacuum. In close quarters this is most effectively done with a blade. Your slow ranged weapon is likely to be some sort of capacitance based electrical discharge device evolved from a taser with a show recharge time, but while it takes down people, it leaves ship systems undamaged. 

If you're careful, you'll be able to create small elected councils at local level, probably based in a small town, this sense of local democracy can be culturally inbuilt as it is in Britain. Cities can also be republics though they're often subject to military conquest by (someone who wants to be) a prince (see Machiavelli). 

The old pantheons had a way round this problem, while they had limits to their powers they also had rules to obey, including: 

Cynical answer: No chance Civilisation is built on slavery. While we look at our current civilisation and lifestyle and think we don't have slaves, the system for outsourcing manufacturing allows us an even lower labour cost. The daily wages for many of the people making our "affordable" consumer goods are below what it would cost to feed and house them as slaves in the west. Whether called slaves, serfs, bonded labour, or given any other of a string of names, civilisations, and empires especially, are built on unwaged labour, slaves. If we consider the Roman empire specifically, we think of arts, temples, decadence. All of this is supported by a vast army of slaves. Without those slaves what we consider to be the Roman empire would not be. It could still be a military empire, but it would be a very different beast. 

Hotter and drier You can make the land drier by making the planet hotter, however the ultimate outcome of this is to make the sea levels rise rather than fall. You can get to a dust-bowl scenario on land reasonably easily this way. Inland seas and lakes would be lost but you would still get fertile regions in the more temperate zones and on coasts. To get rid of the water on a hot Earth you have to make it go somewhere. This leaves you only with the Sandworm option or similar, i.e. "A wizard did it". 

Encouragement is a better incentive than enforcement If you want couples to have more children consider each of the disincentives to having children at all. Things like the cost of childcare, the cost of the career break for the mother (5 children is effectively a 10 year career break). The obvious first step is decent parental leave systems. Protected funded time off work of up to a year split between the parents as they choose. Give them the right to ask to work part time on becoming parents etc. You can also offset the costs by providing free childcare or encouraging a system of communal childcare from an early age so you can have the parents back in work sooner. Maybe universal basic income or even paying people to be full time parents. Always start your research in Scandinavia when looking for parental benefits. As soon as you start considering enforcement then you're drifting towards dystopia (and the answers to the question will also look dytopian). There will be social and even financial costs to people who can't afford, or medically aren't able to have children. If you enforce children are you also enforcing heterosexuality? If not, what are you going to do about those couples who pretend to be homosexual to avoid having children. It's not uncommon in Japan to have fake weddings to pretend to the parents that the children are heterosexual, the opposite could become true in your culture of enforcement. What about those people who are too socially awkward to get into a relationship or who are psychologically incapable of looking after a child (or themselves)? The next step is of course to decide who is or is not allowed/required to have children and you're well on the way to eugenics. 

Of course this is how long a river would be rather than how long it could be, but given a million years or so a river will take shortcuts through hills and mountains that might be in their way, no matter how much the hard rock and the soft ground try to make them go the long way round. 

I have evidence that at some point last night a very large man, with a very large sack, somehow came down the chimney, left a gift under my tree, and departed without my noticing. There are sooty footprints in the carpet leading from the fireplace, remarkable given that it hasn't been used for 70 years, and a gift that wouldn't fit through the door. Given that Santa must weigh a good 120kg, with a sack of equivalent diameter, how can he possibly fit down a chimney pot no more than 10cm across? 

It's this sort of use of antibiotics that's being threatened by resistance, increasing the risk of operations that are currently considered routine and setting back modern medicine by a couple of generations, not a pandemic of TB 

Filling the gaps in the market. As various other people have mentioned, airships are coming back into fashion. They have a set of specific advantages over other aircraft. 

In the age of beheadings you must behead. The reason you're going to end up as a puppet is exactly this reluctance to use the power you have to gain more. Nobody is going to go quietly when absolute power is at stake. Your regents won't let go of power, behead them. One at a time. Turn them against each other if you can. Find evidence of one of them being corrupt, or even better traitorous, get consensus from the others that he must be beheaded. Then pick them off one at a time with evidence, real or otherwise, of collusion or corruption. This can all be done fairly quickly, as soon as they start dying you can begin working on your military. Anyone who stands against you can be accused of being unpatriotic and banished from court, or treachery and beheaded. A wise prince knows when it's time to wield the axe. 

Just be "you" as hard as you can But remember to stick to what you've got, it's important not to pretend to any power or ability that you don't actually have. You mustn't get into a position where there's a risk of "being found out" because inevitably they will. However you're not bound by the primary restriction of their society which is the need to survive. That is enough for you to achieve a level of godhood. When it comes to skills, you have time, plenty of time, to develop any skills you may choose to get. Maybe the first hundred generations won't consider you a god but when you have all the skills and you're still not dead, having given them technology they'd thought lost forever, you will gain a level of reverence appropriate to the old pantheons. If nothing else, tribes tend to be gerontocracies and you're going to be the oldest by a long margin. 

Female ferrets If you don't spay them early then female ferrets must mate every time they come into heat or they die. 

You'd most likely end up with the same effect as either low haemoglobin or carbon monoxide poisoning. The person with the mixed blood would not get enough of their own blood type for their body chemistry and would suffer from oxygen starvation. There'd be no actual reaction between the bloods themselves. 

This sort of thing of course depends on available technology, it's something that cannot be estimated from our point in space and time as we don't know the technology that will be available to future space traders. 

Consider the purpose of religion in a scientific world Religion initially comes under a heading of coping with the unknown, in the long term it's redundant in this role as it is displaced by science learning about the unknown so it's no longer unknown and moves into a different position in our lives maintaining community and identity. In the Western world many people who have religion as an identity never attend a place of worship, they never pray, they don't believe in god. The religion is their background, it's who they are and where they come from. It's a part of maintaining a personal identity in a world where it's all too easy to become anonymous, saying "I'm part of this small distinct group". An upsurge in religion is entirely understandable, even in our very scientific world, when you consider it as part of our very human urge to belong. 

It took 2 civil wars, a foreign invasion, and 500 years of semi-competent, completely mad, or alcoholic, monarchs for the British system to transition from absolute power in the monarchy to all the power being held by Parliament. You can pick up the system at any point along that transition from the one to the other and say the monarch has this much power and responsibility without it falling outside historical precedent. 

Two factors The ability to make a decision and deal with the consequences This is the real big one. It's the one that says, if I do this then hundreds, maybe thousands, even hundreds of thousands, of people are going to die. And not just to be able to make that decision once, but make it over and over again. Could you leave a trail of corpses in your wake to achieve your aims? Caesar can. The belief that they are the person who should be in charge and should be making that decision Your sociopath isn't going to suffer from imposter syndrome. They can happily truly believe they're the best person for the job without worrying that perhaps they're under qualified or out of their depth. Who should be emperor of the western world? Napoleon of course, who else? 

When overpopulation is such that it's cheaper and more acceptable to send a person on a one way ticket than to send a robot. OK, so that's harsh, but you don't need to bring probes back, coming back more than doubles the cost and complexity of the mission. The only real reason to send humans on a recon mission is to drive the plot or if intelligent life is found. Anything else can be done remotely and better by robots. A bot can sit in one place quite happily for years just pumping back data and images, never moaning about potatoes. There's never going to be a panic when you realise the bot is still alive and you have to go back and get it. Obligatory xkcd: $URL$ 

As strong as you like, but you'll have to take the weight penalty for it. Steam power is hot and heavy (and explosive), there are a few questions you need to answer before you can know how strong the arm will be How are you going to heat the water to generate the steam? What pressure are you going to make the steam? How bulky do you want to make the arm? Once you have answered those questions then you can work out how strong it is. In terms of control you have a choice, you can either build an arm that can pick up eggs and pluck flowers, or you can build an arm that will rip doors off their hinges but it's going to really hard to have it both ways. Either way, if you're going to make this realistic by current technology, you might as well give the man a mini JCB. It'll be smaller and lighter.