Under a strict, philosophical, reading of the quote, Dr. Tyson isn't making much sense; interpreting "science" as "the methodology of science" or "the social endeavor of science" this sentence is a non-sequitur. Even if you are inclined to cut him some slack and interpret science more along the lines of "the findings that science produces", then Dr. Tyson is just making a normative claim about [successful/effective] science -- "The good thing about science...". This short, pithy, sentiment is not meant to be an argument that, in themselves, the truths of science will force everyone to believe them; rather just that, no matter to what extent people actually believe them, the regularities of nature correctly identified by the scientific method, are true regularities of nature. In this sense, it's not really saying much at all. Widening the scope of consideration, his goodness claim is also an implicit argument in the context of his science public advocacy. In this case, it would be that you should pay attention to science since it identifies truths about the world (since they can bite you in the ass whether or not you pay attention to them or not). That he feels the need to (indirectly in this case) exhort people about the value/goodness of science indicates that he recognizes that the blunt truth of it doesn't just force itself into peoples' minds. Instead it needs advocates who lead the public discussion with these kinds of statements. From what I know of his professional life, he'd accept that he's taken on this kind of advocacy role and is trying to change people's beliefs. A good example of this is his testimony before congress on continuing/expanding NASA funding. These remarks flip back and forth between science advocacy, and advocacy for NASA's role in shaping the national dialog, and inspiring the nation, i.e. that they "shake loose the shimmers of belief". "Audacious visions have the power to alter mindstates about what is possible" (same @3:33) is a comment about what people believe, not what is true. Construed narrowly, the cited comment doesn't have enough heft to do the work implied in the question. Construed in the context of his more general science advocacy, it is reasonable to conclude that he has concerned himself with intentionally trying to shape what people believe. 

There is, in fact, much more evidence that people have various subjective religious experiences than for any ideas about the big bang singularity. The difficulty is in establishing the connection between these experiences and what most people mean by "god". If you define "god" as only related to these internal effects then you are on pretty safe ground epistemically; however once you start adding more features to "god", e.g. that he/she/they exist outside of people's minds, then you're making a model for "god" that is no longer well supported by the evidence. A different way to say it is "there is very good evidence for the psychological phenomenon of 'god'"; the issue is in using a model for "god" that goes beyond just the psychological phenomenon, and has evidentiary support. Some commentary on the premise of the question My read is that the question is in regards to the "Big Bang Singularity" (my term) -- extrapolation of current models back to "the very beginning". There is no well supported theory for that idea. This article provides a good summary of the issues: 

Is there an implicit idea in Kripe's definition of rigid designators that rules out the following possible world: 

At least for some instances where "is a" vs. "has a" is a question, I'd look at it in terms of essential vs. accidental properties -- is part of the essence of a given class that of the potential superclass? In this view, you'd use a "has a" relationship when the property is (more) accidental. If you do this, then, in principle at least, you could change the identity, and even type (with subclassing rules), of the member that the class "has" on an instance by instance basis -- the feature is mutable in some senses. In most languages it is impossible to change the inheritance relationships for specific instances (and where it is possible it is considered a bad idea) -- the "is a" relationship is baked in when the system is designed and built. Really though, OO design is about constructing a restricted language relevant to a specific domain; when the domain gets complicated enough any of the issues in the philosophy of language could become relevant. 

The question seems a bit like: I have a half-assed quasi-formalization of a cartoon version of science, why am I getting a weird conclusion from it? Okay, that was a bit harsh (please forgive my rhetorical flourish), and the idea presented isn't totally wrong, it's just that it over simplifies things to the point where you've lost some important details. Since you've tried to formalize the problem and discuss it in terms logical proof, your question calls to mind the ideas of Logical Empiricism. Supposed you put on a Logical Positivist hat and tried to formalize all of the evidence as well as TENS itself, in a manner along the lines of Carnap. Could it work out that that formal version of TENS is a theorem derivable from E? Sure, it depends on what E is. Indeed, sometimes the idea of evolution, when cast as "survival of the fittest" is viewed as a tautology, and thus necessarily true; "survival of the fittest" is not really a complete description of the theory, but being a tautology it would enter the formalism as an axiom within this project, an axiom that gets you very close to proving TENS ... maybe. This might seem like a stretch in biology, but it happens regularly in high energy physics (and probably other places in science that have a similar degree of mathematical formalization). For a simple case, if you take conservation of energy, momentum and angular momentum as axioms, and observe neutron decay (and a bunch of axioms that allow for the interpretation of these observations), then the neutrino must exist. In some (many?) cases this kind of formal description and analysis can be useful, if only to really clarify a representation of what you're talking about, but it can't be the end-all be-all of science for all of the reasons that Logical Positivism/Empericism folded. I'll leave off with what I think are a few additional salient points: 

If it were accepted, Creationism -- which involves at least a radical revision of geologic timescales and a correspondingly large change in biology -- would be a paradigm shift in the sciences; all of the sciences. Even what would seem to be a more modest idea, like irreducible complexity, would still require radical reconsideration of large chunks of biology, chemistry and physics. Thus, taken as a whole, these efforts do not lie within "normal science". This question points out one of the issues with the demarcation of science, radical new ideas have to come from somewhere and seem to require some non-rigorous intuitive spark. If you stick to a strict science/non-science split, you run into a dilemma: if you include the non-rigorous speculative phase under the scientific umbrella, you open the door to many wacky ideas, if you do not, you seem to be missing one of the interesting key features of the scientific endeavour: generating new ideas. One way out of this is to be more nuanced: you can differentiate established science (ideas well founded on observations) from speculative science (ideas that go much further away from what is already established) from discredited science (ideas that were once accepted to some degree, and now abandoned) from psuedoscience (ideas that are scientifically discredited, yet still held onto for some reason). As pointed out in Cort Ammon's answer, on a smaller scale there may be individuals or groups who believe in Creationism, yet do puzzle solving; Cort's example of analyzing radioisotope (and other) dating methods spot on here. Note that for this to be carried out, the researchers have to analyze the results as per currently accepted techniques in order to show the discrepancies with the other researched work, i.e. operate within the current paradigm, even if their overall goal is to change that paradigm. The issue is not the existence of an agenda per se, historians of science can point to any number of respected scientists who had an ideological or political agenda and argue that that affected their valid scientific work. However, there are gradations here too. Especially in the more speculative areas, without some commitment that their pet theory is likely to be true, most scientists wouldn't be motivated to continue their work. Note the "likely to be true", this differentiates it from the damaging absolutist ideological commitments that Creationists et al. make. It's not so much about what the motivation is -- drug companies do interesting science in order to make more money -- it's about the degree to which those motivations interfere with the science -- so there is a publication bias towards positive effects-- that is a problem. 

I think that you've implicitly answered your own question: in terms of colloquial, macroscopic causuality, as far as we have observed*, the causal agent needs to precede the effect temporally; If you consider specific formal extensions of the naive concept of causality, in certain physical theories, then you can end up with the idea that time (temporal ordering of events) arises from considerations of the causal structure of the scenario at hand. In any event, causality and time are intimately connected to one another. I believe that you're computer language example is misleading in its terseness. In an imperative computer language means (more fully) ; which clearly involves time; note that is used in one of its temporal/causal senses. This is a problem inherited from English (and other languages?) where it uses the same structure for both causal (and thus temporal) implication and for a strictly logical relationship, which in my interpretation is just a particular truth-table and lives outside of time, except through any temporal features of the two variables. this caveat is here due to conceptual possibility of time-travel, but even that might be interpreted as the causal agent time-traveling to a point prior to, but arbitrarily close to, the time of the effect. 

The objection might be made that "but consciousness is itself complex". Suppose that that consciousness entails a plurality of size F (100,1000 whatever). Then under the model that different people are/aren't consciousness then each may or may not have this plurality of features, and thus has (6 billion)xF features. Whereas the "everybody is conscious" hypothesis just has F of them. You've still added a whole bunch of degrees of freedom by allowing otherwise indistinguishable individuals to have or not have consciousness. However complex consciousness is, it is more complex to say some people do and some people don't have it, than to assume that everyone is equivalent in this regard, unless there is a good reason to infer otherwise. We do infer that some people are unconscious, but we do so when there are observable behavioral differences between them and ourselves (who are necessarily conscious in order to be making the observations). Thus, representing that difference is "posited with necessity", i.e. for a good reason. 

"There is no largest integer", or "largest prime" have purely logical proofs of their non-existence. These sidestep issues of justification that are required for more prosaic evidenced based inferences to non-existence. 

There's a bit of consternation about what is going on with musical artists and the music industry in the wake of widespread dissemination of music digitally. The ease of moving music around as bits, whether illegally (pirating) or legally (streaming), has clearly shifted the playing field in this domain. A recurring theme in discussions on this is the idea that these changes are screwing over many musical artists -- pirating simply deprives them of income, the payouts from streaming are not comparable to what they have traditionally received. Sometimes there is pushback: critics who indicate that the musicians need to adapt to the new market realities and accept that their economic position has changed. To caricature it, it's the "Once the car came along, horse whip manufacturers had to adapt or die." type of idea. Musicians, and their advocates, often respond with "but music is art not horsewhips" and as such has a transcendent value that needs to be valued in its own right. I see this back and forth as a kind of tension or conflict between the role of musicians as artists and musicians as producers of economic goods. The only way I can think of to try and get some perspective on this conflict is to step back and ask "What should the role of musicians be in contemporary society?", but I haven't been able to find any works that address the issues as I see them. In the back of my mind I have Plato's Republic, a work that lays out ideas about what constitutes a "good" society, but doesn't speak too directly to today's world. I'd like to know what contemporary philosophers say about what a "good" modern, industrial society should do to support the arts. There are some points about the role and value of copyright, for example as discussed by Lawrence Lessig, that get at the philosophical (more in the colloquial sense) underpinning of this aspect of how society can/should promote the arts, but I'm looking for more. The only contemporary philosophical works on the role of artists in society that I've been able to find deal with the artist as shaper of public discourse, and don't get at how (or if) society should be structured to support artists in some special way, or the ways that artists should adapt to market forces. 

If in fact your farmer is constrained to always be within a few miles of his home (vertically too), then to within a few feet of elevation (which is probably swamped by topography anyway) the Earth is flat. If the roundness of the Earth never affects him/her then that is all he/she needs to know, and the (local) evidence provides justification for this. What ends up being unjustified is a committed belief that this local model applies globally. In my view, there is no Occam's Razor issue here; this is all about what range of phenomena need to be explained, and what evidence apply to it. 

Identify "spirits" as separate from normal matter Identify entities and/or events where their spiritual nature is the key aspect Identify those entities/events as being supernatural 

This might be a case of an "appeal to consequences" -- an unsound form of argumentation like "you should believe X because it will lead to good consequence Y". 

Popper presented the idea of falsifiability as an (the?) important consideration for the practice of science: when people are doing science they are formulating ideas (often "presenting solutions to problems" in his language) in such a way that that they can be shown to be false. In science, proving an idea false is usually a matter of comparing the idea to empricial observations (though in principle showing an intrinsic self-contradiction in an idea would also serve to falsify it). Although some of the aspects of Popper's work have been refined (or had holes poked in them) the central idea that science involves the process of putting forth ideas that can be proven wrong, is pretty widely accepted in the philosophy of science. 

I'm unaware of any cases where formal mathematical inconsistency is not viewed as being due to, or indicative of, the limited domain of applicability of the theory. Self energy of the electron? Well, Maxwell's equations were formulated in the 1860's; the manifest detection of electrons as discrete charge carrying particles didn't occur until 1897. Even after their discovery there was the possibly that they had a non-zero size, and thus everything in classical EM would be finite (technically this possibility of a non-zero size to electrons still exists, but would need to be handled with quantum electrodynamics). The mathematics of literal point charges can be used as an approximation in those cases where the size of the charge distributions are much smaller than any other length scale in the problem. The Bohr model was quickly found to work for hydrogen (and if I recall correctly He+ ions and partially for alkali metals) but not generally across the elements -- it's applicability (at least now) is known to only be to cases where there is a single electron in an orbital (using somewhat more modern language). The ultraviolet catastrophe indicates that the Rayleigh-Jeans law is (at best) an asymptotic description relevant for long wavelengths, and it is still applicable and useful in that domain. etc. To some extent I'm disagreeing with the characterization of the issues as "contradictions" -- science isn't just logic, so these issues aren't (necessarily) identical to logical contradictions. In particular they don't follow the law of explosion. Another way to say it is: these theories are consistent if their (some times post-hoc) bounds of applicability are taken account of. 

In short, Gettier illustrated a problem with the JTB definition of knowledge by identifying cases where someone "gets the right answer for the wrong reasons". These are cases where the hypothetical person had a justified belief, and that belief was true, but are not cases where the term "knowledge" applies (basically because there is a disconnect between the person's justification and what actually happened in the real world). Gettier cases do not say anything about whether "one cannot always have knowledge that it is true". Indeed, the Gettier cases have little to do with the truth component of JTB (it is still the case that for all knowledge, the belief is true), instead they all relate to the justification.