Plants already produce food from basic raw materials at low cost, and they themselves can reproduce. They make a great variety of foodstuffs and many people eat only plants. Yet there is still hunger. I don't think a 3D printer would change much. 

Air superiority is a thing because of logistics, not because a plane can beat it's cost in ground forces If I have 100 planes, then every potential target in your country needs to be able to defend itself against 100 planes because I can strike any of them. Since your country probably has thousands of targets I might strike, you do not have the option of putting ground forces everywhere. Your only option is to get your own planes, which is also your best option for attacking me. Aircraft don't have a massive advantage in battle simply because they are high up. If they could land and fight on the ground, as your angels can, they would not lose the real advantage of air superiority. If the angels are flying high, the demons can plausibly dodge the crap that gets dropped on them. If the angels fly low, the demons will throw stuff back and the angels may be significantly worse off than if they landed, folded their wings and assumed some sort of battle formation. 

You said that "lifting this dirt would take about as much energy as doing it by hand." In such a a magic-heavy society, magically grabbing a cup from the cupboard would be just like walking over to the cabinet and getting it. If someone is idly rich, they may see using their own energy on tasks like this as "beneath them," just like a stereotypical billionaire has servants and staff to take care of all these incidental details. Using any magical energy for menial tasks could be seen as a waste by upper-class magic users, and these tasks would be delegated to the lowest class of human. Additionally, conspicuous consumption could come into play. Assuming that you can't magic food and materials out of thin air, feeding, clothing, and maintaining slaves would take some level of resources. Owning slaves would be a sign of wealth, and the aristocracy of your world could be trying to outdo each other in such displays (especially in ways that can't be replicated by magic). I could see slave-owning being more prevalent for your middle-class magic users, too. If there is equal energy expended to carry a backpack with magic as with your own back, using plant or animal magic to get food for your personal slave may end up taking less energy than than carrying the pack yourself. 

One useful alternative to lighter than air gases would be to act as a solar balloon: $URL$ A Solar balloon is black and absorbs sunlight, so the air inside it gets hot, so it becomes a hot air balloon that doesn't need a burner. The downside is that it only works during the day. You also get a lot less lift than hydrogen would give you, but without the technical problems that hydrogen would give you, like escaping and being difficult to replace. 

There are reserved IP addresses For example, 127.0.0.1 routes back to your own computer, while 192.168.XXX.XXX addresses are reserved for internal use in private networks, as are the 10.XXX.XXX.XXX and 172.16.XXX.XXX blocks. You can safely use them as fictional addresses knowing that no-one on the internet has these addresses. There are also some IP blocks reserved for documentation, namely 192.0.2.XXX, 198.51.100.XXX and 203.0.133.XXX. IPv6 has the block 2001.bd8.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX reserved for documentation, while fcXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX.XXXX is for use in private networks. Unfortunately they're not quite as punchy as domain names, although you can actually connect to IP addresses through your browser. $URL$ $URL$ 

Most of the Royal Navy gets destroyed by a massive storm. This famously happened to not one but two Mongol invasion fleets sent to invade Japan. The Romans also managed to lose their fleets to storms several times. It was less likely to happen to the Royal Navy due to the fact that they had radios and weather forecasts, but they didn't have satellites or computers so it is still plausible that they could be blindsided by a storm. A storm could also hit the UK itself and destroy planes and infrastructure, gifting an easy victory to Hitler, should he be ready to seize the opportunity. Of course Hitler would still need a lot of ships, but he might be able to scrounge together civilian vessels and Japanese/Italian vessels to make it happen. 

Musca Turbela A type of fly that has evolved to swarm in large airborne "mats." A swarm starts when a number of flies find a piece of airborne matter. They latch themselves to the underside and keep it afloat through sheer numbers, feeding off of it, breeding, laying eggs, dying, pushing their waste and the newly-dead into the "anchoring mass," hatching, and continuing their quick life cycle. Eventually, the mass (and supporting swarm) is large enough to collect rainwater and support algae (and eventually some other flora). Mature mats would look like an airborne set of black-grey stalactites slowly and loudly hovering maybe 50-150 meters off the ground, surrounded by a cloud of loose flies and capped with some greenery (moss, tendriled plants that primarily catch moisture out of the air, various carnivorous plants). Birds would be attracted to these mats by the plentiful food, but carnivorous plants would be evolutionarily motivated to trap birds and provide food for themselves and the flies they primarily subsist on. The planet in question would either have to have a rather hostile surface to drive these insects to make permanent residence in the skies, or have significantly lower gravity than earth to make this type of arrangement a convenient way to avoid ground-based predators. 

Nailed it. If this system were applied to modern America, the low-income voters would likely be motivated to support policy that would provide for all their needs and allow them to live a comfortable life without actually being taken out of the "voting class." Think government-provided housing, food, clothing, transportation, luxuries, etc. for everyone who makes less than the "voting cut-off salary," whatever that may be. Anything to improve the lives of the "voting class" without actually restricting their ability to vote and continue to influence policy. Best-case scenario, we'd end up with something akin to "Basic Income," where the government automatically gives all citizens enough money to live off of for simply existing, (hopefully) encouraging and enabling them to follow their passions and dreams rather than chase the almighty dollar. Worst-case scenario, we might see a situation in which the country isn't able to support the economic cost of providing for the "voting class" in the ways it expects and votes for, eventually bankrupting the government. 

So you mention that the bacteria use your worlds version of magic to alter their surface antigens, which seems to be the primary factor making this bacteria more dangerous than the diseases we have in our world. I'm not immediately clear if their shape-changing abilities fall under one of the classifications of magic you mention (does it have a specific elemental affinity, for example?). However, the most obvious cure would be some magic that could freeze their shape, preventing their chameleon ability to fool the immune system. I don't see any "ice" style magics, but surely there are counters and counters to counters in the military applications of magic, so there should be something similar in the medical side. Alternatively, I note that you said the bacteria ALL change their surface antigens at once, implying some sort of communication. A chemical, biological, or magical interruption of that communication could give the immune system a huge boost in catching up to the disease. Since you said that the bacteria can only change its antigens 10 times, that seems to imply that it has a fairly set collection of disguises that don't vary from patient to patient, which should allow a vaccine to be prepared that innoculates the immune system to each of the 10 antigen profiles. While that would be time-consuming and quite annoying, it shouldn't be technically difficult. A researcher should just keep some active in a petri dish watching with microscope/colored-chemical-tags/magic and then kill the bacteria with radiation or chemicals when each new stage of antigen presents themselves, and then use those cells as a basis. A world with magical manipulation of blood and similar factors should find the process of developing a vaccine much simpler than our world.