Lady in late 30s, wishes to train for Spartan Race to compete in about two years (slow and steady wins the race) Currently I can 

Please advise starter indoor exercises that don't require extra $$$ In Springtime (May 2017) I hope to run outdoors. Honestly, I wish to run simple marathons, to expand circle of friends and enjoy myself ----- all while maintaining health. I would rather run New Years Eve marathon than sit home and stuff my face while waiting for Ball to Drop. 

I have noticed after tennis matches, the athletes will wear coats even though they are sweating profusely. After heavy workout, I notice I need to wear heavy sweater, even though it is 90 degrees outside. Is this a good practice? What is the medical reason for this? 

Here's my routine Plyometrics 20 jumping jacks 40 ghost jump ropes (I don't use real rope) 60 jogging steps I interleave 4 sets of Plyometrics between three sets of weight-training. Lower calves are still slightly sore after two days (even when I walk I can feel the soreness), but I really want to get up and work out!!!!!!!! Is it safe for beginner to do so after lot of stretching, or is it better to wait another day? 

All of these thing make me wary about training for Couch to 5k three times per week. I do wish to run marathon in few years. How is it to do 

Help, I am really confused. Do they mean make 54 sets, i.e. 108 repetitions, or 108 sets? I am thinking they mean 54 sets (i.e. one set around the Sun), but now I'm not too sure. 

Based on the most recent studies I have read (or rather, mostly meta-analyses of recent studies I have read), this is what would happen: 

From the research that I have read, the length of your break has no influence on hypertrophy. The best indicator of hypertrophy is either volume, as in tonnage (sets times reps times weight) increasing over time, or more recently the number of "hard" sets per workout, meaning the number of sets which leave you close to technical failure (not at failure or past failure, just close to it). Doing exercises one by one gives you more time to recover and go harder on the next sets (meaning you can do a greater volume on hard sets), which is thus more optimal for hypertrophy. All that being said, what you are doing right now is called supersets/multisets and it can be ok to some extent to save time. For example, I frequently superset antagonistic movements (bench press with dumbbell rows, overhead press with chin-ups, etc.) because they don't really influence each other, but I always keep at least one of them light. I wouldn't recommend doing more than 3 exercises though, and no more than 1 heavy compound lift at a time (squat, bench, deadlift, overhead press, barbell rows...) to stay safe. 

If I recall the optimal amount of sleep for "standard" athletes is around 7h30 (+/- 30 minutes) going on the higher side if your other recovery factors (food, stress, etc.) are diminished (e.g. you're dieting down and training hard, you're in the middle of a high volume cycle, you live a stressful life, etc.). I'd recommend you read sleep, part 1 and sleep, part 2 by coach and world record holder powerlifter Greg Nuckols on the interactions of sleep with strength sports and health. 

This picture doesn't do a great job of showing the weight distribution, though. Or... Maybe the drawing just has really tight hip-flexors The following 2 links have more in depth descriptions with videos to describe the basic stretch (as it can be hard to conceptualize via images). Some info is repeated Hip-Flexor Videos 1 Hip-Flexor Videos 2 

This can be caused by a few things. Treadmills normally have leveling screws near the back roller (think pads on the bottom of a chair that screw in and out to level the legs). If the left side has more tension, the belt will slip left as it is run, same with the right side. If it is moving back and forth freely, more than likely, both leveling adjustments are a little loose and the pressure you exert on the belt left to right when you use it causes it to zig-zag. 

This question is more appropriate for Health-stackexchange. However, I know that drinking your calories isn't ideal. Especially when you aren't controlling what goes into your meal supplement. That being said, anything that doesn't slow gastric emptying will not make you feel full. Starches and fat do this. It is the reason eating a bagel makes you feel hungry 15 minutes later while a bagel with Peanut Butter or Cream Cheese keeps you more full, longer. 

The more repetitions you can do, the more you are moving towards endurance training. That is to say, you will develop muscles that can perform the same motion over and over without tiring as easily. Heavier weight with fewer repetitions is more for building muscle mass. That being said, just performing 10 sets of push-ups for 5 repetitions will not build muscle mass unless your body perceives your body weight as "heavy". If you can perform 5 push ups and feel like you've done nothing, you would not build muscle or move toward that endurance state. So really, it is relative to how your body responds to the stress placed upon it. For comparison sake, look at endurance runner's legs (think 1 set of 50 repetitions) versus a sprinter's legs (think 1 set of 5 reps). 

I wish to circumambulate around Mount Kailash on foot. This is roughly 33 miles of mountaineous terrain. Many people do this for spiritual reasons, i.e circumambulate once to wash away your sins, circumambulate 108 times to attain nirvana. I just want to circumambulate around Mount Kailash because I want to. What type of training do I require? I understand this can take years, even decades. Some information about me. 

Question: With the above plan can I still run marathon in a few years and maintain healthy joints? I don't mind if it takes longer to run in marathon, I'd like to know if above plan is feasible. Thank you 

When to begin Couch to 5K Program. I can do 108 Surya Namaskar in one sitting (takes an hour). And I can stationary bike 15 minutes at a time. However, I have left tight hip for past 2+ weeks. I feel the discomfort when performing donkey kicks I was told to perform dynamic stretching for relief. Should I wait till hips are better, or can I gradually start couch to 5K now? Is there other stretches/exercises I can do to prepare for couch to 5K? Thank you. 

I tried Burpees and for past few days can manage to do Level 3 burpees, 2 sets of 3 reps I wish to work myself up to Level 5 burpees, i.e. including push-up and jump-up. How many Level 3 Burpees should I comfortably do before I attempt Level 5 burpees. Or should I attempt Level 5 burpees right away, even if it's only one or two per day. And how many Level 5 burpees should I do per day to give strength and endurance for successfully competing in Spartan Race or in general? Thanks. 

Overall, it will work well up to a point and then stop working, as most things do in fitness. My 2cts would be that it would work better in the other direction. Methodologies like block periodization make use of something called phase potentiation, which means that one phase of your training makes you better at attacking the following phase of your training. Traditionally, a hypertrophy phase (meaning lots of sets and reps, as you would have at the end of your training cycle) powers you through a strength phase (what you would have at the beginning of your training) (which powers you through a "power" or peaking phase depending on your sport). 

It's hard to say because you don't give very precise information, but if I had to hasard a guess I would say that you experienced a combination of factors: 

You are correct, that would mainly be neural adaptation (the second factor) with some small effect on size. 

First, I'd advise against doing Sheiko if your goal isn't powerlifting as it's extremely specialized. I'd also advise against doing StrongLifts as it's just a dumb program in general (for various reasons, including the unhealthy mindset it creates in beginners, the poor technique it develops, and the fact that it's based on blatantly wrong assumptions). Assuming that you do like lifting weights, your best bet is to find a balanced program that can accommodate your desire (eating at maintenance, becoming more generally athletic rather than specialized in the powerlifts) and set it on autopilot. As it was mentioned in another comment, 5/3/1 is popular because of its simplicity and its flexibility, as Jim Wendler (its creator) is very keen on making people strong and fit (in an athletic sense) rather than out-of-shape powerlifters (which he was before). I'd recommend picking up the books (5/3/1 second edition and Beyond 5/3/1 are good and complementary) and reading up as it's a program sustainable enough that you can probably do it for the next decade. There are also a lot of excellent apps for 5/3/1 (like Wendlerized, on Android) that can help you take the thinking out of the equation, even though I'd still recommend reading the books to understand the program. 

There are varying ranges of educational levels for trainers. They could be non-high school graduates that sat for one of the 4-6 hour personal training courses to those having a Bachelor's in Exercise Science with a Master's of Exercise Physiology. Some of the time trainers will not know the reasoning behind a method (keeping the muscles warm in this case); and rather that it is a widely accepted norm. That being said, keeping muscles warm post heavy lifting is a viable technique for most lifters. The article that Kate posted addresses everything you would need to know about your original question. Keeping your muscles warm and doing some light stretching will also help you keep the same (if not improve) muscle flexibility. 

You can also go see a vascular specialist. Peripheral Artery Disease can cause those symptoms; but, so can many other things. Our facility performs free screenings for PAD. Look and see if there is someplace you can get a free screening before seeking other medical help. If for no other reason, than to rule out something like PAD. 

The more calories you consume, and carbohydrates are calories in their simplest form, the less quickly you will lose weight. Example : If you were to consume 1400 calories/day and burning 1750 calories/day you will lose 1 pound in 10 days. Adding 175 calories in carbohydrates/day to your diet you will lose that same pound in 20 days. This assumes that the only changing variable in your body was calories in and calories out. From the math standpoint, yes you should cut out the carbs on the weekend if your goal is to lose weight at your current rate. There are many other factors that one could argue about leaving in the weekend carbs. To add another point in here, protein is the food source that will help you build and maintain muscle mass. However, consuming more than 2g protein/1kg body weight, even for elite athletes is mostly wasted. Your body also processes real protein (fish, chicken, tuna, eggs, etc.) better than whey powder. Yet, if you feel you can not meet your protein intake with real food, supplements are what you should look at. 

Please recommend more dynamic stretches that improve hip mobility. That will open up the hips. Also recommend other dynamic exercise for running, esp for couch to 5K. 

I'm not sure if I should post here, or on Hinduism forum, as it is Yoga and Power workout. I have been doing Surya Namaskar in the morning. I am comfortable at 30 rounds. But according to tradition, they say reach to 108. Just now, I read this article, $URL$ which touts the 108 repetitions. But I get confused with the following 

I've always had knee problem did lot of knee strengthening as a kid/ adult Did hours on stationary bike on and off throughout teen and early adult years. Not athletic. Only in past year I was able to build up to 108 Surya Namaskars, plus do little stationary bike and lifting 10, 15 lbs at home. Currently dealing with hip tightness (posted separate thread) Lady, will turn 37 in few days, 146lbs, 5'4", excess belly fat 

They say do Dynamic Stretching before run. Will train for Couch to 5K. Is Surya Namaskar considered Dynamic Stretching? Or are there other Dynamic Stretches to do in addition to Surya Namaskar? 

perform 108 Sun Salutations in one sitting (takes an hour) ride on Stationary Bike at maximum tension (that I can tolerate) for about an hour jog in apartment for an hour max pushups I can do is 2 sets of three lift 5lb leg weights (various exercises, currently 2 sets of 3 reps) lift 8lb free weights (especially trying to strengthen deltoid) 

When I attempt to do this exercise with 8lbs, I can barely lift my right arm, and my right deltoid actually hurts. I can lift my left arm easily. How to strengthen the right deltoid so it is symmetrical to left deltoid? 

You need to focus on the weak arm. I am so right handed I can't stand it. When I am in the gym I have to make a very concerted effort to isolate my left arm. I have also noticed that my left arm has naturally formed bad habits from being my non-dominant hand. So when you focus on it, also concentrate on proper form. Don't shy away from doing tricep-dips, French-bar curls, etc. Just be extra conscious of the weaker arm. Also be aware that everyone's body is different. My right deltoid muscles seem to have a noticeably shorter muscle belly than my left. Therefore my shoulders look asymmetrical. Even though my right shoulder is a little stronger than my left. Nothing I can do about it but try and accept the results. 

Both aerobic and anaerobic exercise will increase the pressure inside your body. Aerobic exercise speeds up your heart rate (baring the use of rate limiting drugs). Stroke volume (the volume of blood ejected from the heart with each beat) is also increased with aerobic exercise. For both reasons, since the vascular system is a closed pathway, blood pressure goes up. Anaerobic exercise is more apt to increase your inner thoracic cavity pressure (pressure inside your chest/stomach) than your blood pressure. An exception might be doing dynamic-anaerobic weight lifting movements (walking lunges) where the movement is still classified as anaerobic but still taxes your body enough your heart rate increases. Working in a hospital setting our limitations for blood pressures that we don't allow patients to exercise are over 180/106 or below 90/60. Those limitations also change if a patient is symptomatic (light headed, dizzy, nauseous, chest pain, etc.). If your blood pressure has started becoming gradually higher you should probably go talk to your primary care physician to discuss if anything needs to be pursued. If it was a one time deal you should be fine (exceptions being symptomatic). All different things can affect your blood pressure: Stress, Sleep, Fluid retention, even body position (laying down, seated, standing).