More questionable is the different terms 'kāya­sañ­ceta­nā' (as 'bodily volition') & 'kāyasaṅkhāraṃ' (as 'bodily volitional formation') appear to be translated in essentially the same way, as follows: 

The Buddha was a psychologist rather than a physicist or house cleaner. The Buddha is called the 'Spiritual Doctor'. For the Buddha, the most important light was the 'light' of wisdom. Also, the Buddha mostly enjoyed living in the forest or jungle therefore was not overly concerned with keeping marble temples clean; similar to how Muḥammad (PBUH) formerly enjoyed meditating in a cave & would wrap himself in blankets when giving a revelation. Therefore, the Buddha's eyes are closed so the mind can be understood internally, in particular, how the mind generates sufferings & how the mind frees itself from suffering. That said, the Buddha was also a mystic and taught one meditation called the 'perception of light', which can be used to develop psychic powers. The Buddha had the 'Eye of God' (dibba-cakkhu) therefore could see, hear & know what people were doing from within his mind. That is why his eyes are closed. The Buddha did not have to open his eyes to know what was going on the world. 

A mirror does not have a 'self' yet a mirror reflects. Awareness/consciousness is similar. For example, 1st the mind sees an object and, afterwards, the mind thinks: "I like that object". The seeing or awareness of the object occurs prior to the idea of "I". Awareness operates without a 'self'. The idea or thought construct of 'self' arises after awareness. There can be awareness without 'self' thoughts. 

Reflect on the correctness of the Buddhist path. Properly attribute causes or 'blame' to the other rather than to yourself. Keep being nice & hopefully they will change via appreciation. 

Is consciousness a result of contact? Or contact a result of consciousness? What did the Lord Buddha, the Master, have to say about this? 

In original Pali Buddhism, there are two levels of teaching: (i) mundane, for the purpose of nurturing morality; and (ii) supramundane, for the purpose of enlightenment (MN 117; MN 60). The teachings that imply 'rebirth' are mundane & the teachings that explain 'anatta' are supramundane. If we carefully read the many Pali suttas, we will not find 'rebirth' & 'anatta' in the same sutta. They are two distinct topics for two distinct audiences. For example, MN 60 states the view of 'self' or 'existence' is right view for householders but SN 12.15 states the view of 'self' or 'existence' is not right view. The word 'birth' ('jati') refers to the birth of the idea of 'self-identity' ('sakkaya' - MN 44) or 'persons/beings' ('satta' - SN 12.2; SN 23.2; SN 5.10; SN 22.81). Minds that are not enlightened are subject to 'rebirth' of the deluded 'self-view' each time they cling to an act of karma. Minds that are enlightened have ended 'birth' & have ended clinging karma (AN 6.63). Because the old Pali suttas do not mention anything that is 'reborn' from life to life, the later Buddhists were required to invent what they call 'relinking consciousness', 'storehouse consciousness', 'stream of consciousness', etc, which are ideas the original suttas did not teach. The original suttas only state consciousness is the six-fold cognition (MN 43) and there can be no arising of consciousness without sense organs (MN 38) and aggregates (SN 22.53; SN 12.67). 

In Buddhism, there are three types of kamma (action), namely: (i) bodily; (ii) verbal; and (iii) mental; each of which have results. Therefore, habitually merely visually observing pleasurable objects will making craving, addiction & the resultant restlessness grow. Thus, the Jesus teaching is similar to Buddhism; because viewing a woman with sexual objectification both grows craving, enslavement & is an error of moral-view (lacking of compassion & not considering harmful consequences). 

Stage 4 is calming the breath ('kaya sankhara': 'body conditioner'). Thus, naturally, stage 5 (experiencing rapture) is a product of stage 4. Stage 4 is a product of the instruction: "He trains himself", which means training in letting go of craving & attachment. Therefore, why would anyone crave to experience rapture? Is not such craving contrary to the training instructions? Rapture is certainly a jhana factor however rapture can also arise on the lower levels of momentary (khanikasamadhi) & neighborhood concentration (upacāra-samādhi). Enthusiastic beginner meditators can generate momentary rapture from momentary concentration by heavily suppressing thought. Such beginners end up in the situation described in this thread by Saptha Visuddhi, where they cling to & crave this coarse rapture. Neighborhood concentration (unlike momentary concentration) produces genuine rapture since in neighborhood concentration the mind is sufficiently detached for rapture to arise from tranquility (rather than from the will) and sufficiently detached to see the rapture as 'dukkha' & 'not-self'. Both neighborhood concentration & attainment (jhana) concentration are path factors or transcendent (enlightened) concentration. (Stream-enterers, for example, have mastered neighborhood concentration but not reached jhana). When the mind has path level concentration, it already knows the (preliminary) taste of peace (Nibbana) that comes from letting go. Therefore, when rapture arises, in comparison to the nibbanic peace, the rapture is felt as disturbing & dukkha. The momentary concentration taught by people such as Leigh Brasington is spiritual materialism or spiritual egoism. It is unrelated to the instructions & description in the Anapanasati Sutta since the last 14 stages of the Anapanasati Sutta each have the instruction of: "He trains himself", which means full training in morality, concentration & wisdom. Whenever the mind is engaged in clinging, craving & delighting in pleasant feelings, this is not training in wisdom. Instead, the Buddha compared it to children that delight in building sandcastles. 

In Hinduism, 'abhava' appears to refer to a primordial unconditioned state, namely, unmanifest level from where the concrete bhava arises or emerges. 'Abhava' here, in Hinduism, is not a synonymous with 'vibhava' in Buddhism because, in Buddhism, 'bhava' ('becoming') must occur before 'vibhava' can occur. The idea of 'I' is 'bhava'. The idea of "I" must exist before the idea of "I do not want to exist" can occur. For example, the idea of "I", "me" or "self" must occur before the wish to commit suicide. 

Stream-entry is a 'noble' attainment therefore can only be attained by following the noble transcendent (lokuttara) teachings, as follows: 

The elephant is the ignorant mind with three asava (taints), per MN 9. The frog (croaking) is vedana or feelings. The snake is craving. The bird is self-becoming (bhava) attached to (upadana) five branches (khandha) being chewed up by birth, aging, illness & death (impermanence). 

In respect to the cultural context of the Pali suttas, I have only read references to: (i) parents arranging the marriage of their (pubescent) children (DN 31) &; (ii) sex in marriage between husbands & wives (AN 4.53; AN 4.55; DN 31); as wholesome or Buddhist sexual conduct. In that cultural context, sexual misconduct (per AN 10.176) means to have sex in a way that harms existing family relationships between husbands & wives, parents & children, etc. In other words, there is obviously nothing in Buddhism that supports the recent 'Sexual Revolution' & sexual liberalism that occurred due to the technology of universal birth-control. Just because today's culture has significant numbers of 'consenting adults' with no strings attached does not necessarily mean sexual liberalism is considered wholesome in Buddhism. DN 31 explicitly states 'sexual liberalism' is a road to ruin. With these cultural contexts in mind, the suttas are silent on homosexuality. Therefore, it can be assumed Buddhist principles hold that homosexual activity outside of committed (homosexual) relationships is unwholesome. For example, Buddhist principles would support homosexual rights & homosexual marriage but would not support Gay Pride parades & Mardi Gras where gay people perform public sexual acts and promote a liberal/hedonistic gay culture. Many worthy social crusades, such as 1st wave feminism (which sought equal rights for women) or the decriminalization of homsexuality, end up degenerating, such as into 2nd wave feminism, which campaigned against motherhood & family values and promoted sexual promiscuity for women. Many good & proper causes get easily hijacked & perverted. Thus, when it is said Buddhism is not against homosexuality, this does not mean Buddhism supports all actions homosexuals perform. If homosexuals transgress the five moral precepts, Buddhism does not support or endorse those transgressions.