I haven't been able to find a substitute for deadlifts. Well, I hope for corrections and suggestions. 

More than a year has passed. This is what eventually worked for me: isometric exercises with tennis balls. I built up slowly each third day, from two to four sets of five to ten "reps", where a "rep" here means five seconds squeezing hard a tennis ball in each hand. I recommend that approach to anyone in the same situation as me. Maybe it worked well because isometric exercises for grip training resemble much better how your grip is meant to work in real life: you hang from a bar or pick up a dumbbell by squeezing it hard, but the radius of the object remains constant all along the exercise - the same goes for a stone you pick up in your hand or a tree branch our ancestors hanged from. The same cannot be stated about other muscles, of course. 

I can understand that the muscles of the Rotator Cuff group are small and therefore I could understand the recommendation of using much lighter dumbbells in relation to other exercises. But almost in any site I have found, the recommendation is to always work them with the lightest pink dumbbells and in the >15 rep range. Isn't that wrong? Why not to strengthen that small muscles by working them with sets of 5 reps too with increasing weight?. For instance, a rule of thumb such as "use one tenth of the weight you use for the overhead press" or something similar would be very interesting. 

Im older than you (42) but my rest heart rate is at present 63 bpm too. Surprisingly, 140 bpm is another coincidence as well: I have it really hard to go higher than that at the stationary bike. I recently managed to achieve 150 but I had to push so hard that my knees hurted during days and I stopped biking altogether. I think it is a good sign that you cannot achieve a higher heart rate. It means your heart has adapted and became very efficient. You should congratulate yourself. However, if you really want to see your heart pumping fast, try a completely new exercise that demands a big effort from several big muscles simultaneously. Squats or deadlifts are good for that purpouse if you haven't done them before. If you are a runner, try swimming fast (or conversely). But in a few days your body may have adapted to the new exercise an your heart will again beat not very fast. As long as you are able to exercise normally, heart rates under 140 bpm are nothing to worry about. More than that, it is the ideal condition many of us wish for ourselves, so be happy about it. 

Every person is different, but there is a simple way to gauge your personal sleep needs. You need an alarm clock, a notebook and two weeks. 

That workout recommended to you in the other answer is a good example, have a look at one of the days in that workout ("Big Man on Campus" - Hey, it should be called "Exhausted Man on Campus") here. It is completely crazy, and it belongs to a 4-days split workout with two additional cardio days. It is particularly crazy because this particular program stresses the need of supplements a little less than the others in www.bodybuilding.com (it is supposed to be tailored for students), so they have to raise the volume of work per day to an enormous quantity, to be sure that you will be totally exhausted and will fall in the trap of buying more supplements. The same goes for all bodybuilding magazines, all sponsored or directly owned by the supplements industry. I felt myself in this kind of trap when I was in my 20s, during nearly two intense years with little or no results and eventually an injury that took me out of bodybuilding. There are alternatives. For instance, many people are using a different approach, based on simpler, yet very effective barbell programs used by olympic powerlifters, proven by many decades of experience. Google for "Mark Rippetoe" and his book "Starting Strength", look at the website as well . This is the kind of program that Arnold Schwarzenegger used in his earliest youth before going to America. There are other sources of information, but nothing seems visually so fancy like www.bodybuilding.com because there is a multimillionaire industry behind. Nobody can compete with their marketing resources, but you may have a look at some individuals websites like the Scooby's Workshop or you may uncheck the "accepted" mark on the other answer and wait, because there are some notable individuals in this site that may give you much better recommendations for a beginner workout than the crap in www.bodybuilding.com I don't think the male model for the Laocoön and His Sons sculpture in year 25 BC used whey powder or creatine supplements... 

There are some nice Android applications for free, like Lifting Log and Fit77 for general weight training; LiftBig specifically for SL5x5, or HIIT, that will additionally help you with your cardio. Also, here, in EXRX there are some nice spreadsheet logs ready to use. In any case, whatever solution you find, I would like to know about it (specially any Linux program) so I encourage you to post it as a comment, for instance. 

In my country of origin it is very difficult to find a good coach to supervise your training. Specially useless are those guys you find as gym staff with "ask me" written in the t-shirt, because they are usually not knowledgeable at all, they are simply people who got muscular. The next step in complexity and knowledge you mostly find are medical doctors who have no idea of sports and will put you immediately to walk or at most swim if you are over 35. I moved recently to the States and I guess things are different here. I want to find a coach who is able to direct and supervise my strength training so that I get health benefits and avoid injuries, because I have tried hard alone for long time and I constantly find myself in a dangerous position, always risking injury (or actually injuring myself badly). What is the name of such profession? Where should I start my search? What should I specially look for in such person and what should I avoid? 

Have a look at the old and famous 5BX progressive program developed in the 60s by the Royal Canadian Air Force and tested by many during decades. It was ment to keep in shape their staff in all kind of places an situations, by means of a daily 11 min program that could be performed in a dorm. Quoting from its Wikipedia entry: 

BW Squats progression Inverted Row progression Push-Up progression Front Plank Bridge progression (only the easiest steps) Lying Leg Curl (in order to ensure a correct thighs/hamstrings strength ratio to avoid running injuries, see for instance here) 

For the record, I did the experience when I was 15 yr and it was ~8h15min. I have repeated it at 42 yr and now it is ~6h20min. Don't cut down on sleep time. You may apparently win some hours, but during the hours you spend awake you will be a different person: one that is less intelligent, less optimist, emotionally less stable, more prone to pesimistic thoughts, and much more. Go and have as much sleep as you need. 

But the most interesting graphic follows. The horizontal axis shows here the same: how many hours I sleep each day. But the vertical axis shows the average hours slept each day plus the day before (for instance, 3 hours today and 7 hours tomorrow will be 5 hours in the vertical axis): The points here have a tendency to clutter in a central band. That shows that having a bad night is not so important in the long run, because my body will compensate the following day (assuming I allow for that). It is not perfect (the band is not horizontal, so yes, the missing slept is never 100% recovered) but it should show you that, as long as you allow your body to compensate the missing hours, a poor sleep night is diluted in just a couple of days. Your muscles do not recover and grow during the very first post-workout night only. It takes a couple of days as anyone here will tell you. If you couple that fact with the latter graphic, you won't worry so much about missing one isolated night. Of course, if you don't allow for recovery the next night and so you start missing one night after the other, nothing I said is valid and you will be ruining not only your workouts, but your entire health. Also, it is important to stress here that I always insert an additional rest day in my schedule for each bad sleep night. 

I will tell you how to do it from the point of view of physics. But please take into account that this may or may not be useful, since your muscles are supposed to burn fuel based too on the time spent under tension, not only on the physical work you do. You can burn yourself to failure with one single rep, simply by doing it extremely slow, so that it can be nearly considered an isometric exercise. There is even a book that develops this idea called "Body by Science", or you can search in Wikipedia for Ultra Slow training. Moreover, If you are trying to know how many calories you burn with resistance training, you will be deceived by the results of the calculations. It is very little, about ten times smaller than the total energy expenditure during 40 min of aerobic exercise. Resistance training has a great value in burning fat because it increases the amount of muscle you carry with you, which in turn burns more calories. But resistance training workouts don't burn much calories per se. You can see this by simply doing a rough estimation of the physical work done during a heavy squat: multiply the weight in kg (including not only the barbell but also ~70% of your body weight) by the distance travelled by the center of mass (about 0.65 m in an average adult, twice because of the down and up movement) and the value of gravity on the surface of the Earth (9.8). The result is in joules, which means you have to divide by 0.00418 in order to have the result in C (kcal). Well, this is how you do it. We need to know how your leg extension machine is (please post a picture and I may be able to help better). It might be: a) a simple model in which you attach a weight at a certain distance from the rotation axis b) a model with a strap that transmits the weight so that the resistance is uniform along the movement, c) a sophisticated Nautilus machine, designed so that the resistance is variable along the movement, being higher for those angles in which your leg is stronger. Let's neglect the weight of the lower portion of the leg, since it weights only about 4.6% of your body weight (de Leva 1996). Let's call R the distance between the rotation axis and the point in which the machine exerts the opposing force. Then: a) For the most simple machine, simply multiply the distance travelled by the weight W between the lower and upper position by the gravitational constant and the weight. If the shanks goes from vertical to horizontal, the work done in joules will be twice that (taking into account that every rep is made from an upwards and a downwards movement). That is, R*W*9.8. If you want your result in kcal, divide by 0.00418 b) For a machine with a strap & pulley mechanism, the radius of the pulley must be taken into account. If such radius is A, then the work is A*pi/2*W*9.8, again in joules. c) If you are the proud owner of a legendary Nautilus machine from the 70s (let's begin with the downvotes, yeah!) then the resistance along the path is variable and I should have more specific details about the machine in order to give you a formula. You will definitely find this link (EXRX) very useful in relation to your question. These are only rough estimates. You may refine the calculations by adding the work done by moving your shanks (on EXRX you will find center of mass tables for different portions of the bogy and other useful information), by considering partial reps with different angles and so on. As for the utility of this kind of physical work estimates, it is limited. Perhaps for tracking your relative progress, provided that you consistently do your reps at the same speed. But the calories burned by muscles don't only depend on the amount of physical work, but also on the time under tension. The energy needed to recover muscle tissue from microtrauma on the next few days after every workout is another component of the total energy expenditure for resistance training. All this make such calculations not very useful. Remark According to some interesting research (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9292475) suggested by the OP in the comments, the calorie expenditure during muscle contraction is about four times the physical work done, therefore the results of the calculations should be multiplied by 4. Nevertheless, during a few days following a strength workout tissue repair takes place and this is quite an energy demanding process. I have no idea on how to estimate that amount of extra calorie expenditure induced by exercise.