Now, the positive feedback from water vapor is a given and the negative feedback from clouds is more uncertain, so I think the APS article is a little bit more friendly to the skeptics than the actual science (IMHO). Clouds reflect sunlight, but clouds also trap heat at night. The total cloud effect is, well, a little more cloudy than APS' one line suggests. Skeptical Science has an article on cloud feedback here: $URL$ So, where does that leave us: Well, first, the study that the sun is going to enter a grand minimum in the next few decades needs to be verified, lets start there. A whole bunch of bad science has been published by those trying to disprove, discredit or cast doubt on climate change - so skeptisism of new studies first, especially on this topic, but, lets say they're right - which was the original question. Would that be sufficient to stop man made global warming? No. I think it's pretty likely it would be insufficient. 0.7 is less than 2.5. But, if they're right, it's still kind of good news, cause it would soften the blow - and that's a good thing. I hope they are right. But the sun's maximums and minimums have a pretty small effect on climate change. Maybe a degree here or there. Man made climate change should be 2 degrees by the end of the century, and perhaps more if left unaddressed in centuries that follow. As Steve Emmerson points out, the effect of the Maunder Minimum isn't 100% accepted as the sole cause of the Mini ice age. There's still some unknowns, but I feel, with pretty high confidence, that the sun entering a new grand minimum would be insufficient to stop the warming, but it might slow it down, a little. Too long? I can try to clean it up a bit later. 

I don't see this point made, so I'll just add it. In very high gravitation situations orbital energy can be lost to "relativity" or more specifically, gravity waves. The primary relativistic effect that the Sun's gravity has on Mercury is an increase in it's precession, as @CamiloRada pointed out, and see more details here. A secondary relativistic effect is orbital decay, or spiraling in. This is observable in tight orbits around neutron stars or black holes. The effect around a regular star would be tiny but non zero. This article gives some numbers for this effect on the Earth. 

To my knowledge, pictures or examples don't do any good because trace amounts of Uranium in rocks doesn't look any different. Besides, most of the Uranium is underground. You have to rely on Radon testing and look at locations where Radon is more of a problem. If you live and work above the first floor, and not near a mine or massive dig-site, you probably have little to worry about. If you live in a basement, you should have it checked out. On the process The Uranium or U-238 goes through several steps in it's decay and this chain is only the most common outcome. Part of the problem with Radon, is if you breath it in, and don't breath it out, it becomes Polonium and goes through a few other steps. In high enough concentration, Radon is extremely toxic. From rocks, the concentration that's likely to form in a house is usually low enough that harmful exposure takes months or years. 

I gave this one some thought and ran some numbers. The real answer to your question is that you would be lighter because the material that makes up continental plates is lighter than the basalt rock under it. It might not look that way but continents, mountains and oceans are actually balanced with about equal weight under them. Continents are above sea level because of larger amounts of crust which is lighter than basalt. The earth, which is pretty malleable as a whole, adjusts for significant unbalanced changes in mass, it's still rebounding from the melted glaciers from the last ice age for example. This happens with Mountains too, also slowly, but mountains are formed over millions of years so the adjustment has time to take place. Mountains are formed when two continental plates push against each other, one slides under the other, so both what forms the mountain, and what goes under the mountain is lighter than basalt under the Earth's crust. When you climb a mountain, you're not actually on top of more mass because much of the rock under you is lighter rock. Mountains are actually puffy (I always wanted to say that). If mountains were actually greater mass relative to the (relatively) spherical Earth, then they'd sink into the Earth, which they do to some extent, but, as I said above, Mountains are puffy buoyant compared to the Earth's crust, so the mass is pretty much the same on top of the mountain and at the foot of the mountain. 

It's a harder direct relation to show that it appears. On the surface, warmer = less ice, file under "duh", but while it probably is that simple, showing a causal relation is a more difficult. The thermal expansion aspect of the question is easy enough. Warmer air warms the ocean surface which slowly warms the ocean. About 90% of the heat trapped by man made climate change currently goes into the oceans. See here, or here. That's an enormous amount of heat, but the Oceans are large enough that the expansion and increase in temperature moves pretty slowly. About 1/3rd of the current sea level increase is attributed to thermal expansion, which works out to about 1/3rd of 1 inch every 10 years, or, roughly 1 mm per year. (Thermal expansion only). Source. Melting glaciers are more difficult to show a direct relation. By this source there are over 130,000 glaciers in the world, and while there is a fair bit of overlap, to properly show a causal relation, you'd need to look at individual glaciers to determine the cause. You wouldn't need to look at all 130,000, but you'd need a solid sampling to demonstrate a causal relation. What's more, under the right conditions, glaciers can grow larger as the local weather grows warmer. Warmer weather can lead to increased snowfall, which can enable glaciers to grow, even in a warmer climate. Article on that here. The two simplest ways to make this argument is looking at the percentage of glaciers that are melting or to look at total ice volume in those glaciers. (For the 2nd one, I'd ignore the continental ice sheets and just look at the smaller glaciers), but it can be done either way. By this article, about 90% of glaciers are shrinking world wide. If climate wasn't changing, I'd expect that to be closer to 50%. Even when climate is changing, for example, when ice ages stop are start, those are usually driven by the Northern Hemisphere having colder summers (begins the ice age) or the Northern Hemisphere having warmer summers (ends the ice age), with the Southern Hemisphere behaving in the opposite way. That suggests to me that even during the rise or fall of ice ages, 90% of the glaciers moving in the same direction probably doesn't happen. 90% of glaciers losing ice appears to be strong evidence of being caused by climate change, but that ratio lacks statistical teeth because there's no historical data to show that 90% of the world's glaciers losing ice is unusual. It seems unusual, but it's difficult to prove. The other avenue would be to look at the total amount of loss of ice in the world's glaciers. See page below. I didn't see a number listed anywhere, but a quick calculation, Earth's glaciers are losing on average about 60 cubic miles of ice in an average year. That's pretty significant ice loss. cdn.antarcticglaciers.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/images_Assessment-Reports_AR5-WG1_Chapter-04_Fig4-25_errata.jpg from source But both these arguments have the same weakness. Both seem to be very good evidence, neither shows a causal relation. The only way to do it scientifically would be to go through a large enough sample size of glaciers and show a pattern of causality. At least, I don't see any other way to show a direct relation. That said, saying "90% of the worlds glaciers are losing ice" is a pretty good argument, as is saying that Earth's glaciers lose about 60 cubic miles of ice in an average year. 

If you'd read even one scientific study, you'd know this isn't true. Journalists might mostly reiterate your first four facts, not scientists. 

Yes, but the rate of increase is NOT within the bounds of normal Holocene variation. Also, there is a relation between northern hemisphere summer insolation and temperature. The direction of the Northern Hemisphere summer insolation is downward right now. That suggests, without human influence, Earth should be cooling right now, it's not. It's warming rapidly. You can say "but the Earth was just as warm 7,000 years ago", and that's about right, but the orbit was different and Earth should have been warmer 7,000 years ago. 

Warmer weather doesn't lead to greater humidity. Humidity is percentage of saturation. Warmer air holds more water, so it has a higher saturation limit. The humidity as the percentage of peak saturation, doesn't necessarily increase with warmer air, in fact, warmer temperature likely drops humidity levels on average, while increasing atmospheric water vapor. What this means, generally speaking, is that it takes more water to be evaporated for for the air to get saturated, so it rains less often, on average, but it also rains harder when it does rain. Now, that's grossly oversimplified because rainfall has to do with rising and falling moist air and rapid cooling to create condensation, but I've read no theories that say that man made climate change will make it rain more often. In fact, I've read the opposite. Snowfall is the source of many rivers flow rates. Less snow means less river flow and global warming often means less snow. Plant transpiration also drops as CO2 levels rise, so the effect is that you have plants and rivers putting less water back into the atmosphere as a result of climate change. This leads to drier air where the land relies on recycled water. Land that relies on oceanic evaporation should be fine and perhaps wetter on average due to climate change. Land that relies on snow runoff and transpiration from plants returning water to the air should get drier and in combination with warmer air being able to hold more water and less water returning to that air, there should be regions of significant decrease in rainfall and increase in droughts due to climate change. A curious effect of man made climate change is that it might somewhat green the Sahara, but it will likely create other deserts, especially in regions that rely on recycled rain water, not water evaporated off the ocean. When you say this: