I hear people saying this a lot regarding Annatta - "if something is impermanent then it cannot be self." But doesn't this only apply if you're coming from the view that a 'self' must be permanent? Why can't the self be impermanent? If I have the view that there is a self and it's impermanent then something impermanent can be self. 

How does what your teacher is telling you help you? Does it help you to live your life better? To let go? To experience more freedom and happiness? To show up more for others with generosity and compassion? Is what they are teaching you useful? Or is it all just a bunch of meaningless mystical jargon that leads to confusion and has no real practical bearing on your reality? This is what you might ask yourself. It's true that everything that happens we experience through a filter of our own conditioning and history etc. for example when we see an animal such as a lion kill another animal we accept that it's just normal because this is what they must do to survive. However when we see a human take another human life we see it through a whole bunch of concepts that have been fed into our minds by our culture. Also we seem to have no problem with mass factory farming animals in the most abhorrent conditions so that we can have a nice piece of flesh to eat all packed cleanly and neatly on the supermarket shelf. When you think about what actually happens to those animals it's nothing short of a horrifying tragedy yet we can just compartmentalise and deny it all while we eat our meat in a detached way around the bbq with friends. Surely killing millions of animals cruelly and unnecessarily, because after all we don't need to eat meat, is far worse than one person killing one other person? But we do not believe this so for us it is not true. If a woman kills her abusive husband to save her own life and or her children's lives we would have no problem with it. Another example is the way terrorism is viewed in Western cultures. As horrifying as it is, we are manipulated by our politicians who feed us a very biased narrative about it on one hand and on the other are waging war and killing millions of innocent people. So in the end it's always about your beliefs and concepts that make something good or bad, right or wrong. If you think about your mentioned thoughts on hunger. Hunger itself does not exist. What exists is a naked sensation in the body. We add the idea or concept called "hunger" to it. We have been conditioned that when I feel this it means I must eat. When you were a baby it didn't mean the same thing, it was just discomfort and you reacted to it by crying then your mother fed you. So in this sense hunger does not exist. It's not that things don't exist, it's that they are not what you believe them to be. 

They are as real as Adam and Eve ie a metaphor. From what I gather through various readings and podcasts the Buddhist story of Mara is also not meant to be taken literally. These are fables. If a demon did appear it would have been in Siddartha's mind. Its unwise to take religious teachings literally in my opinion. You only have to look to these Christians who do so with the Old Testament to see the negative effects it has. 

When I practice meditation I focus on the rising and falling of my abdomen and if any thoughts or sensations arise I note them and continue focusing in the breath but I notice that I'm very sensitive to sound. I am acutely aware of all the sounds going on around which is a never ending cacaphony of nearby people, traffic, wildlife etc. I was using earplugs for a long time because I found it too distracting but I decided to stop using them and now I am finding the sounds very much in my awareness a lot of the time and I can't seem to focus on my breath. So I note "hearing hearing" but like how long am I suppose to keep noting hearing ? If I sit for an hour and the sounds keep capturing my attention do I just keep noting hearing hearing every few seconds in the same way I do for thinking thinking? 

Does it really even matter who wrote them? If it works for you great, if not then ignore it. As far as I know The Buddha never meant for his teachings to turn into a religion which people blindly follow. The same can be said about Jesus. Take what resonates as truth for you and avoid becoming a sheeple. 

I need some help understanding how the Buddhist view on 'accepting what is' and noticing how craving for it to be different to how it is causes suffering, is different to learned helplessness where you become conditioned to give up trying because you believe it's futile. They seem to be very similar to me. In what ways are they different. Is the difference that with Buddhism you don't give up trying? For example if I have a string of failed relationships it can cause learned helplessness and I might give up trying to begin a new one but how would I see it through a Buddhist lense? It's finished because everything is impermanent, now I accept that and I don't give up hope because that's just how it is? But still there is a part of me that feels it's pointless to try again if I know it's going to end in pain again. 

There's a lot of emphasis within the insight tradition on "seeing things as they are" , "turning towards difficult emotions" etc etc. But in my experience it's not always the best advise. For example if I'm feeling sad,lonely, depressed etc, I find it's not helpful to sit there and look at it at all. I end up feeling worse. Going for a walk or swim and getting into my body seems to be far more helpful. I end up feeling happier. Why is there so much focus on this kind of passive acceptance? Sure I can accept that right now I feel sad but ifs it's within my power to change that then why wouldn't I? 

When I wake up in the morning I don't feel like meditating straight away. I usually feel heavy and drowsy. So I have some breakfast and coffee and then I will sit. This morning I tried to sit for an hour as soon as I woke up but it was really difficult. My mind was not clear at all. Not sure I was thinking about anything in particular but I felt cloudy and uncomfortable with strong cravings to go back to sleep. I was so uncomfortable that I decided to open my eyes at 45 minutes. My meditation feels like a struggle a lot lately. I feel like I've kind of lost touch with why I'm doing it. It feels like a bit of a chore. Sitting there day in and day out watching the breath for years and years but failing to become any more concentrated unless on retreat has become kind of pointless. Does anyone else feel like this? I was hoping that after all this time that maybe something would change in my life and I might see more clearly about how I cause myself suffering, that I would have "insights" but it seems to just be this endless watching the breath, thinking, watching the breath, thinking. I'm not sure if maybe I'm expecting too much but it doesn't feel like I'm gaining any benefit for the amount of time I put in to it so then I start thinking that I'm doing it wrong etc. I can't believe that after 6 years I'm still thinking/feeling this way. Feeling intense Dukkha today.