My company has many good managers, with deep technical and social skillsets. However, a few Technically Incompetent Managers (TIMs) are managing to elbow their way up without contributing anything on the technical side, bullshitting lower level employees and higher level manager who also have minimal technical background. The script is always the same: 

What is the difference between a Business Development Manager and a Salesperson? I am interested in understanding how these two roles differ on a day-to-day basis, and how they interact with each other. EDIT: my basic knowledge would separate the two roles between "generating new leads" and "closing deals, managing current accounts". But I am trying to understand if this is correct, and how the roles interact. 

I work in a Biotech company and my current manager has no scientific strengths. He is focusing on managing projects, but that's it. Recently senior management decided that my work is important for the whole company, and I start reporting to a VP. Later on there will be a unit with other specialists under the VP, but right now I am going to be co-managed for a while. However, my current manager is already politically compromised and is trying to use my expertise to survive. He already got demoted shortly after starting. He keeps asking me for details and then repeats them at meeting to people who know even less than him. My senior colleagues keep asking me to interact more directly with them, but my manager keeps trying to put himself in the middle to intercept communications and requests even if he does not have the competence to understand what a specific project would imply. The VP has a technical background and understands me. I am happy that change is coming, but I can't wait to get rid of this parasite and at the same time I don't want to be the one who badmouthed his manager or got him fired. But I feel dirty when I talk to him, I feel more stupid every minute. My question is: how can I handle the transition between my manager to the VP, keeping professional integrity and a good face while avoiding getting credit stolen by my manager? 

NOTE that this kind of screw up, while not common, is not that infrequent - I've personally experienced it with very large, very well known, companies... Imagine that you're dealing with a new manager, who doesn't quite know the mechanisms for handling hr, etc... Always, it's very embarrassing for the company, and they will go out of their way to correct, and make sure you're happy. Note 2: i'm assuming that you didn't accept the verbal offer. Be aware that a promise-to-mail-an-offer is not an actual offer - an actual offer would be more like: "Your salary is x, your hours are y, are you interested?" and your response is something along the lines of "Yes" or "No". 

If nothing's been signed, technically, [the good news] you're still negotiating. Also, technically, [the bad news] you're not yet employed on monday. Odds are good that they're not actually going to be ready to have you start work when you show up. Your best option is to go in. plan to only stay for 2 hours, and only achieve two goals: get a written offer from them, and get time to think about it. 

I recently moved up from a specific team to a global function, moving from an incompetent manager to a very good one. I am in a healthy and productive environment. However, yesterday my own job description came up in the company's careers page. Apparently shortly after the move my old manager and her 'collaborators' made arrangements to hire my replacement to work with them directly. So, now we have a global function, which is providing strategies, procedures and standards for the whole company, and these guys' upcoming resource, which will... I don't know. They are basically internalising my global support role. I have no idea about how to sort this mess: my boss is protective, but he also didn't tell me about this for weeks. He already has trouble trying to keep together his team now that they are hiring a 'parallel' role. In the best case, we are having a situation where two people who should be working together work separately; in the worst case, the decrease in my workload might support my departure. Edit: upper management is fighting about internalising a global function, which would be my role. My boss is supportive, but the other side is hiring somebody with exactly my same job description. I am trying to understand if there is anything I can do in such a mess, as I would like to keep my role. 

Psyche yourself up. This is your plan. You go in, go to the front desk, say it's your first day, find the person that hired you, explain the situation, and ask to see the contract/offer letter. Take the offer/contract letter, tell them you need a few days to think about it, and walk out. Do all this while being very nice, and very reasonable - explain that you like the company, want to work for them, but also this is a big decision for you, and you take big decisions slowly. Ask them who you should speak with if you have questions about the offer - and make sure you're walking out with that contact information in hand. Once you're home, you'll read the offer, and decide how to proceed. Plan specifically on not making any decisions while at the company. 

At a large company, the answer is almost always either "no" (administrative costs and controls are too high - including, for example, making sure the company doesn't run afoul of bribery legislation) or, less frequently, "use a fixed tip policy" (ie, tips are always assumed to be 10%). Tips are usually not counted separately from other expenses; usually, daily expense reimbursements are fixed roughly based on the continent the employee is travelling to, rolling the cost of tips into them. You're at a small company, though, with liberal expense policies, and probably little accounting overhead - and i'm guessing you want to stay within that spirit. So I would say, more generally, it's entirely up to you. More specifically, yes, allow employees to expense tips, just as they would any other expense. For example, if you require receipts for all expenses, for example, then only the tips that they can provide receipts for will be reimbursed. 

To disarm unwanted gestures, especially those that have a physical component to them, I've personally found that the best approach is to simply call out the behavior when it occurs. For the pat on the back, just simply say "please don't do that". Say it calmly, clearly, and look the person in the eye. Do this immediately, the first time it happens. Boundaries are much easier to establish and maintain before they have been disrupted. Wait too long, and your response won't carry the same weight. For the handshake, you could grab the person's right hand with your left and then cover both with your right. Used effectively, this could look really sincere while also preventing the overly boisterous crush grip. Another alternative to the handshake is the fist bump. While not as professional, if you're working in a testosterone filled environment where people regularly try to smash the small bones in your hand together, then the environment you work in probably isn't all that professional. Whatever you do, don't do back to the person what they are doing to you. If the pat on the back is sincere, or intended to be sincere, and you respond in an insincere manner, the message this person will see isn't that you don't like the pat on the back but instead they'll just think you're a jerk. So give people the benefit of the doubt. If you don't like something, just say so. 

New job, not enough support, random people jumping messing up priorities without a proper process. Somebody called it a "learning opportunity". I am having a chat with my CEO soon. She's very well networked and funded several companies. My question is: how to best leverage this top-level interaction? Should I discuss my problems and ask for help? Should I say that everything is amazing and that I want to do even more? If I feel that my manager is blocking me, should I discuss this? I want to make the most of this, but I am afraid of stirring trouble. 

In both cases my work is delayed in exchange for almost no contribution, and my own boss is already aligning this project with the company's interests. My question is: how can I defend myself from all these self-invited contributors, in a professional way which will protect my best interests without damaging my career? 

I am a customer-facing programmer who is growing in a commercial direction. In the last 34 months I have been very successful at bringing opportunities to the company, often doing the job of the only salesperson I support. I brought millions over the years, directly responsible for several new customers in my territory. I asked to have more formal responsibilities for the territory I cover. My manager is being pressured to hand me over to some other manager. The head of sales wants me to join him as technical support. Both moves will bring more structure and lower decisional power. In other words, without commercial managers I have been doing so great on the commercial side that now commercial managers want to manage me. Meanwhile, the CEO asked me to create a full plan for the territory for next 12 months, putting together all my knowledge of the upcoming opportunities, with detailed estimates. I know I can pull this off, because I know well customers, product and market. However, there is no committment by the CEO or the company to give me a bigger role, and it's possible that even after I do this my work will be handed over to somebody else. Managers argue about giving me a more structured, smaller role; the CEO wants me to complete a major project; in either case, there is no promotion in sight, and I never had one in almost three years. My question is: should I accept a project well above my pay grade from the CEO, without rewards in sight, ignoring all other managers' requests for "surrender"? Is it realistic to expect that a big success with the CEO will override all other crap about my role? Or am I wasting my time? 

I've worked with a few startups which are still operating in stealth mode, and/or which are working on confidential or otherwise non-public projects. Is there a standard way to report on this kind of work in a resume, where the employer may not want to be named or publicized? 

Caveat: do a quick scan of the offer when it's handed to you. If it looks ridiculously out of the ballpark, react appropriately - if it's too low, hand the offer back. If it's too high, sign it on the spot. MAKE SURE YOU READ THE ENTIRE DOCUMENT, TWICE, BEFORE SIGNING. TAKE YOUR TIME. Caveat 2: if you're desperate for a job (ie, life or death or equivalent situation), just take it. better to risk being taken advantage of than not to have the job. otherwise, understand that you're risking not-accepting-a-shitty-job. there is a good chance this is just a screw up, in which case, everyone will be understanding and let you have time and space. there is a very small chance that you're dealing with someone, along the lines of communication, that is trying to take advantage of you. this stance will make sure they can't - and they might decide not to hire someone, who they can't take advantage of. 

My question is: how to get rid of managers whose only contribution to project is being in the way, and who manage to get credit without any leadership? Note: in my same company I have many opposite examples of leaders who manage AND contribute positively to projects, making sure that experts' work is recognised. I am trying to understand if there's a cure for TIM. 

some customer requires a new project. TIM has no idea about the requirements, the feasibility or the scope of the project because of experience and background. TIM goes to one expert, who has a deep knowledge of the technology required and is able to design and see the project to completion. When the expert says "what is the project about?" TIM will systematically reply: "you are the expert, you have to tell me!" or "there is only you, you have to make this happen!". At this point the expert has two alternatives: A) accept the project, making all the work, or B) keep focusing on his current workload and push the project back declaring it as unfeasible. In case A), the expert will start talking directly to the customer and do all the work, keeping TIM informed until the project is completed. During this process TIM will provide no practical contribution other than anecdotes from LinkedIn articles. In case B) the expert will keep doing his job, but the manager will badmouth the expert as "not being a team player" and going against the best interests of the company. In case A), TIM will add a complete project to his portfolio AND he will go around saying that he successfully managed a highly qualified team for a very ambitious project. TIM gets a big bonus, the expert maybe gets some peanuts if TIM feels magnanimous. In case B), the expert will be seen negatively by the higher management, because those guys also have no technical background and can't evaluate adequately the value of the rest of the things the expert did beyond this refused project.