Your workout frequency suggests overtraining. Particularly since you'll be gripping weights for almost any kind of exercise, your forearms really aren't getting a break. If you're doing wrist curls, it'll exacerbate it that much more. Having at minimum one rest day between workouts is pretty essential, regardless of what you're doing . Unless you're using steroids, you're not going to be able to benefit much from consecutive workouts. 

Not at all. Getting your nutrients from food is a lot better than getting them isolated in supplements. Whey is about as close to food as you're going to get from a supplement. If there's an amino acid that you won't get from your food or from the whey, then it would make sense to take it as a separate supplement, but doubling up is just going to end up costing you more money without a matching benefit to show for it. 

I don't think you'll find any. Mike Mentzer has talked about this - free weights, machines, cables; they all have their pros and cons. Quite clearly using all of them appropriately is superior to using only one of them. It's possible (although not likely) that a study might show that exclusively using cables is inferior to exclusively using free weights, but that scenario is pretty contrived anyway, as the only reason you'd exclusively use one or the other is due to the unavailability of any other options, in which case superiority or inferiority is a moot point. A big problem you'd also run into with any such hypothetical study that may show it is how they're comparing both types of equipment. Are they looking at what cables are superior for, or are they looking at what free weights are superior for? That initial bias in testing methodology would affect the results. There's also a question of how the pulleys affect the weights - while you might be lifting the same weight with a barbell as the selectorised plates, the pulleys might make the load effectively lighter on your muscles therefore putting them under less stress to adapt. Now if we skip aside from looking for a scientific study, and consider the reasoning - exersices like the back squat and the deadlift engage every muscle in your body, and more muscle engagement promotes more testosterone production which is key for building mass. I see no reason though why a properly designed cable system wouldn't allow for performing a deadlift - the one in my gym doesn't allow for it as my face would run into the equipment to get into a deadlift position, but I can imagine a machine that would allow it. That would be a further confounding variable. Free weights are pretty consistent, one barbell is the same as another barbell, regardless of manufacturer. Weight machines differ from make to make and model to model. That of course makes it much more difficult to find good instruction on machine use compared to free weights. 

You shouldn't do anything that's traditionally considered stretching, that is to say lifting your leg up on something to stretch your hamstrings or bending forward to touch your toes. That leads to a performance decrease and an increased risk of injury. This is because stretching weakens your muscles for a short period of time after you stretch. Now that isn't to say that you shouldn't do warmups - they're still a good idea, but your warmups should consist of movements that resemble the activity you'll be doing. For weight lifting that would be doing lifts with gradually increasing weight. For running that would be starting off with a walk, transitioning to a jog and speeding up as you warm up. Now there's so called dynamic stretching, which isn't really stretching, I think calling it range of motion movements is more accurate. That said, some people have had it drilled into them that they need to stretch, and they're unwilling to not do it. They are willing to change how they stretch, but not that they stretch. So dynamic stretching as a term was coined to give these people something to do for a warmup that wouldn't actually be detrimental to their performance. As far as cool down goes, it doesn't matter so much. Stretching (that is real stretching) feels pretty good with sore muscles for some people, even if there's no support for it actually being beneficial. At the same time, if you're not going to do anything afterwards, the concern of performance inhibition is moot, and you're not an increased risk of injury doing nothing either. There is an exception, if you've got a strength imbalance between muscles involved in an action, targetting the stronger muscles with a stretch to bring them down closer to the weaker muscles would allow the weaker muscles to be engaged more, instead of doing nothing at all. That's physical therapy though, and shouldn't be a part of your regular warmup, and once you've achieved your goal you shouldn't be doing it anymore. 

Cheapest as has been said is bodyweight exercises. Quickest is lifting barbells at heavy weights. Depending on gym costs that could be appropriately cheap for you, or it could be quite expensive. I'd be very surprised to see anyone make gains using only bodyweight as quickly as with free weights. 

Some muscles, particularly the larger ones, take longer to recover, and if you're doing pretty heavy weights, a week sounds about right for recovery time. I find though that the 3x10 at 10-12RM exercises are a lot harder to recover from than 5x5 at 5-7RM. Heavier weights, roughly the same overall work done, but the next few days I'll feel sore, but I won't have difficulty doing things. Squats in sets of 5 leave me perfectly able to bound up stairs 3 steps at a time, but squats in sets of 10 have me walking awkwardly up stairs 1 step at a time. 

Weight lifting, no concern. Martial arts, if it's not full contact, no concern. If it is full contact, you might have to worry about it, but retinal detachment is a concern for anyone regardless of their eyesight. If you've already had a partial retinal detachment you should immediately cease all contact sports (weightlifting is fine, jogging might then be something you'd rather replace with cycling). If your ophthamolagist (preferably, although optometrist would be fine too) has told you your myopia is due to retinal detachment, then of course most martial arts are out of the question for you. All that said, I've taken hits to the head hard enough to give me fish legs, and have also taken strikes directly to my eyeball, but never got a partial retinal detachment. It's a pretty unusual occurence. 

If you're a complete beginner, you can both lose fat and gain muscle at the same time. A strength training program would be best suited to this (you can always focus more on muscle hypertrophy when you're already strong). Stronglifts 5x5 is a good beginner's strength training program that's also free. You don't have to do exactly that, there are multiple variations of it, but the important thing is to lift weights that are heavy enough that you can only do 5 or 6 of them. SL will start you out way below that, but you'll quickly reach the point which you really are maxing out at 5 reps. For diet, focus on eating healthy. That you know you're lactose intolerant is a good start, but you're probably intolerant to some other foods without knowing it. Keep a food journal and also write down how you feel and at what time. That will help you figure out which foods are causing you trouble. Eliminate them from your diet. Similarly, keep foods in that seem to make you feel really good. As with lifting in which you focus on strength first, with diet you should focus on eating real foods first, and only then think about supplements. 

I've had that pain, same spot you describe. Went to the doctor's several times, they didn't know anything, suggested I go to emerg the next time I got it, so I did. They didn't have a clue either. My best guess is food stuck in the small intestine, as that's around where it has to go around a bend, and I don't experience it when I'm focusing on eating a lot of fiber. 

Ultimately the biggest risk of marijuana is that since it's black market you don't always get pure marijuana, it can be laced with heroin or other definitely harmful drugs. So I wouldn't want to try it at all unless I know the person who grew it very well. So assuming it's pure marijuana, it works as a painkiller and that could be detrimental like taking any painkiller would be. You wouldn't be able to tell if your body has recovered and if you're ready for the next workout, so big risk of overtraining. On the flip side, if taken after a workout it could help in relaxing and it could promote better recovery, assuming that it doesn't have another side effect, but relaxation can be achieved by numerous other means that don't have potential side effects, so there's really no practical reason to use marijuana. 

You shouldn't be worrying about calories at all, they're not reliable in any fashion. People gain weight on calorie deficits, and lose weight on calorie surpluses. 

I've had jobs that require standing all day, so I have had long bouts of standing, with only some short breaks, and for the most part it's fine. The only thing is you have to be careful about the surface you're standing on. A perfectly flat surface, like a hardwood or linoleum floor, will be a killer. You'd definitely want to get an anti-fatigue mat to stand on. I'd also see about avoiding wearing dress shoes. If they still need to look formal, driving shoes will probably do the trick and give your feet some space. 

You'll need to do the standard lifts - deadlifts and squats, mix them up, don't just do one kind (ie only barbell deadlifts and back squats) as carrying a person will require some adaptability. Also mix in lifting sandbags and other odd shaped objects, as a person isn't perfectly symmetrical like a barbell, dumbbell or kettlebell. Also, to keep holding her, you're going to need to do isometric contractions. Particularly bicep curls but stopping the motion with your elbows at 90 degrees. Gradually ramp up the weight you're doing it with, and the time. 

Pro MMA fighters who are training 6-8 hours a day are most likely doing steroids. In fact, even if they're doing less, they're probably doing steroids. It's an ugly truth of the sport. As for the inevitable source question - you can't train 8 hours/day, 6 days/week without the help of PEDs. If it's not roids, it's definitely painkillers. And that's the answer to how you can train 3-4 hours/day 5 days a week without injury or overtraining. Steroids. NB: I'm not suggesting anyone do steroids, in fact my suggestion is always to reduce workout time and increase rest days. 

You can probably overuse it in the sense of working a particular area for too long in one go, like 10 minutes straight instead of 3-5 minutes on one spot, but everything I've read on myofascial release suggests even several times per day is fine, so 3x per week is definitely not anywhere near potentially causing overuse. 

If you're running short distances I don't think it'll be much of a problem, especially if you can choose your route. Where it's really a problem is if you're running a long distance race with a fixed course and you're forced to deal with a slant on the path that only goes in one direction - that's hell on the ankles, knees, hips, and well everything. That's one situation where having a cushion to absorb the height difference a bit could actually be a benefit. 

This would depend on a number of factors. For instance, if you lack the shoulder ROM to position the bar properly for a back squat, the flexibility in choosing the exact position that allows symmetrical positioning of your arms for dumbbell squats could end up making them much more effective than barbell squats. That's a specific example of the general idea that any exercise you can perform safely and without pain is more effective than one you can only perform with pain. If you can perform both dumbbell squats and barbell squats perfectly fine without any pain and with good form for the respective exercises, you'd probably benefit most from alternating between them at the same weight. 

What are you trying to eat after you exercise? I know I don't like eating much, and certainly not anything solid right after exercising because the blood flow is still active in my extremeties rather than going to my internal organs to promote digestion. I don't think that would be a factor of changing how much you need to eat as much as eating a hearty meal right after exercise isn't advisable. 

I would pick 3 days per week, as it's more sustainable. You get 2 sets of 1 rest day, and 1 set of 2 rest days. So you can aim to run every second day, and if something comes up preventing it, you can easily just run the next day, and that became your 2 day rest. If you have to take 2 days of on a 6 day per week program, you've suddenly knocked yourself down to 5 runs that week, and that can actually get discouraging pretty fast. Being unable to stick to a program as it's set out often means quitting workouts entirely. As for the importance of days off, if you're talking just 20-30 minutes of running, if you're just getting started you might need to take rest days just for that, but once you get into it, it's nothing. It's harder to notice with running than cycling, but that's really just the time you'd spend to get from point A to point B. You're not putting any new stresses on your body by running half an hour a day (unless your running technique is bad and causing joint damage, in which case you need to change your technique, as rest days will do diddly). Between 6 days/week and 3 days/week, I wouldn't say one is particularly better than the other, but if you can maintain one for 6 months straight and the other starts breaking apart after 3 months, clearly the one you could maintain is better because you're continuing to work the program.