I don't know where you get the 36 degrees from - it seems rather extreme. Do you mean 36 deg F = 20 deg C? Even 20 is not realistic, except perhaps for a very short period anomaly. In fact, the average temperature increase in the north pole area is little more than 4 degrees C. see $URL$ 

It's a can of worms with no definitive answers, not least because, apart from a few ancient zircons, almost all the evidence has been obliterated by later processes. Critical factors would have been the rate of crustal recycling, the rate and distribution of heat from radioactive decay, the extent and intensity of the greenhouse effect, the onset of plate tectonics, ratyes of magmatic differentiation, and the role of water in the early crust. Develop a model with your own set of assumptions - it's as likely to be as accurate as any of the multitude of models already existing. The Hadean in total lasted about as long as the Phanerozoic, and even the early Hadean would have been not less than 100 M.a. in duration, over which time conditions changed massively. Some temperature estimates for the Hadean include: 

Nice idea but the practicalities are impossible. There are parts of Indonesia which have out-of-control peat and coal fires which have been raging for years, and even decades, despite those areas receiving well in excess of two metres of rain a year. See for example: Whitehouse AE and Mulyana AAS, (2004) Coal Fires in Indonesia. International Journal of Coal Geology, 59, 1-2, pages 91-97. It's true that some of the fires burn out during particularly wet years, but the sting in the tail is that the heat of hydration of dry coal tends to reignite the coal again during the dry season. Be assured that if there was a simple economic solution, it would have been tried by now. Some not so simple solutions are under trial, such as smothering the fire with nitrogen foam. 

Thanks for the detailed images - a welcome change from the indistinct images that sometimes crop up on this site. Without detailed study it is impossible to be certain what the brown matrix is, but the white material is definitely open-space deposition of quartz, probably deposited from mineralizing fluids within a rock fracture. No, it is isn't an obvious fossil, though i don't rule out the possibility of microfossils within the brown matrix. 

The true reflected colour of a cloud doesn't change from white unless there is serious pollution, such as Saharan dust, wildfire soot or industrial emissions. None of these produce a blue colour, so the question really becomes 'what reflected light looks blue', and that is a function of the direction of view (towards or away from the sun), the subject's perception of colour (which can be surprisingly deceptive), and how much atmospheric blue back-scatter the cloud is reflecting. The latter accounts for most of the 'blue cloud' that we see. 

A great many volcanoes have really deep magma chambers. At the surface they eject ash clouds or pyroclastics. There are also agglomerate type volcanoes, the deepest of which are kimberlite pipes. So no, don't expect to see lava lakes in many volcanoes. 

The first thing to note is that not all deserts are hot - think Tibet. But there is no doubt that most deserts are distributed adjacent to the hot and wet climatic equator. This is no coincidence. Because the sun is at or close to being overhead in the equatorial zone, this belt receives the most solar energy per square metre. Hot air rises, dumping a lot of the moisture as it cools (hence tropical rain forests), then the air spreads out polewards in both north and south directions, flowing in the upper troposphere. Pressure distribution is such that this part of the global circulation is balanced by a return air flow close to ground level. Together this convective air circulation occurs in 'Hadley Cells' which constitutes the world's biggest heat re-distribution mechanism. The downflow part of the cells is where hot dry air descends under clear skies, and hence is where deserts occur. 

As Bon says, the mantle is solid, albeit somewhat viscous / plastic under the prevailing pressure and temperature conditions, so your hypothetical borehole isn't going to puncture any liquid magma chamber. Could it liquify if suddenly depressurized in a borehole? I doubt it, although it might do so if there was a local concentration of volatiles to depress the melting temperature. But the question is forever going to be hypothetical because there is no drill string capable of cutting into the lower crust, let alone the upper mantle. The heat would soften the drilling bit to the point where it was like putty. Also, the lateral rock pressure would be so high that the borehole walls would implode. 

Braiding will occur in any river where two conditions are met: 1) a very high sediment load must be available, as is usually the case in a peri-glacial or post-glacial environment, and 2) there is an abrupt change from high energy rivers (steep hydraulic gradient) to low energy deposition with flat space on either side of the river. Go for a hike in any glacial or post-glacial mountains and you will see that rock hardness has little to do with sediment availability - there is always more sediment than the river can mobilize at any one time, even in extreme floods. The classic example is the Canterbury Plains on the east side of South Island New Zealand. Braiding is an inherently unstable and transient river configuration. Meandering is the river's minimum energy configuration. It is another chaotic process, achieved through helicoidal flow and superelevation on the convex side of a bend. It will occur anywhere the river is laterally unconstrained, and where the rotational kinetic energy, perpendicular to the direction of flow, is a significant fraction of the forward kinetic energy. 

Yes, earthshine is completely normal. It is simply illumination of that part of the moon that is facing away from the sun. This illumination is sunlight that is reflected towards the moon by the Earth. Strictly speaking, it is that reflected light from the Earth that is itself reflected back to Earth so that we can see it. The intensity of Earthshine is highly variable. If the moon was almost in line between Earth and sun then an observer on the dark side of the moon would see the the whole of Earth's disk brighly illuminated by the sun, and hence the earthshine would be about at its maximum. Conversely, when the Earth is nearly between Moon and Sun, an observer on the moon would only see a crescent Earth (apart from man-made city lights), so the Earthshine would be at a minimum. 

An interesting question! I suggest you do some 'slightly complex' calculations. Look up the angular momentum of the whole Earth. Then calculate pM.dF where pM is the additional angular momentum from the melted ice, redistributed as a function of latitudinal angular momentum. dF is differential redistribution caused by continent-ocean constraints. I'm confident that you will find that the additional differential off-axis angular momentum will be miniscule compared to the total. There will of course be some effect upon the Earth's spin axis, but this will be just another of the small catalogue of mass distribution effects which contributes to a somewhat chaotic wobble in the Earth's spin axis, which is typically in the order of a meter or two. When global warming gets worse and huge masses of ice /water are redistributed, then I'm guessing that the effect could be orders of magnitude more - tens or hundreds of metres maybe? Also consider that the Earth behaves like a gyroscope, so much of the additional angular momentum will exhibit as rotation around other axes, much as hurricanes rotate in the atmosphere. 

As Peter correctly responds, for sedimentary rocks the principle of superposition is pretty much watertight except where tectonic superposition takes place. The latter can either repeat the sedimentary sequence, overturn it, or overthrust earlier sequences. There are many possible geometries, which creationists tend to misrepresent. The principle of superposition is not an assumption. It is a logical deduction, repeatedly validated by field observation. Whilst I note that the questioner doesn't want to get into discussion over creationism, as an Earth scientist who has studied creationist literature for decades, I must warn all readers that creationist literature, as it pertains to the Earth Sciences, is replete with misconceptions, distortions, quotations out of context, cherry-picking of data to give false impressions, and willful disregard of contrary evidence. Therefore, be very careful what you read, and check it out against genuine science!