A motivation for existence of the "anomaly of Plato?", is, most probably, Socrates and Plato were two different persons with different philosophical views. The anomaly partly came into existence because their views are often construed together as Platonic, instead of Platonic and Socratic. Socrates thought change/movement was best, but Plato, maybe, favored stasis as the favorable human condition. To properly comprehend the two different philosophical views, comprehension and inner knowledge of hermeneutics and its mechanisms are relevant. 

"The present", strictly does not exist because "present" indicates a thing received i.e. a Christmas present. "The" in "the present" indicates importance, but what present can be important enough to be called "the present". The "current" however does exist because it indicates a view of movement. 

As far as I remember Kant wrote the "highest good" is honesty in: KANT, I. 1781. The canon of pure reason: section II: of the ideal of the highest good, as a determining ground of the ultimate end of pure reason. (In Weigelt, M. ed. Immanuel Kant: critique of pure reason. London: Penguin Classics, 2007) 

Aristotle's and Socrates's opinions are not representative of many Greek philosophers but their opinions carry much weight. Aristotle promoted deceit and Socrates "allowed" it under certain conditions. The following quotations of and about Aristotle and Socrates support my opinion. "that the man who is able to speak false is false (and this, of course, is the man of knowledge and good sense)" (Aristotle. 2004. The metaphysics, 1025a-1025b) Aristotle opposed creativities by opposing Plato's forms, which inspire to create. Aristotle wrote: "So we can do away with the business of Forms Being Established As Templates." (Aristotle. 2004. The metaphysics, 1034a) "Used of a false thing. On the one hand, either because it has not been assembled or because it would be impossible for it to be assembled." (Aristotle, 2004. The Metaphysics, 1024b-1025a) Socrates said: " 'And surely we must value truthfulness highly. For if we were right when we said just now that falsehood is no use to the gods and only useful to men as a kind of medicine, it's clearly a kind of medicine that should be entrusted to doctors and not to laymen. . . It will be for the rulers of our city, then, if anyone, to use falsehood in dealing with citizen or enemy for the good of the State; no one else must do so. And if any citizen lies to our rulers, we shall regard it as a still graver offence than it is for a patient to lie to his doctor, or for any athlete to lie to his trainer about his physical condition, or for a sailor to misrepresent to his captain any matter concerning the ship or crew, or the state of himself or his fellow-sailors.' " (Plato. 2007. The republic, 389a) References: ARISTOTLE. 2004. The metaphysics. (London, England: Penguin) PLATO. 2007. The republic. (London: Penguin) From: $URL$ on 10 Sep 2017. 

For what it is worth. Non-reductionist modern philosophy rejects essence as non-existent, by focusing on different aspects. 

The question asks for a generalized answer about referencing non-existing objects. To say generalizing is wrong, is a generalization, and therefore is "self referentially incoherent". A generalization could exist about the problem, but knowing whether such a generalization is correct, will take much deliberation, research and open discussion, if it is at all possible to reach consensus about the problem. Referring to non-existing objects is a methodology to influence others. It is big business and many people use the methodology to survive. My argument against it is, the methodology puts false puzzle pieces in people's minds, which hinder abilities to think creatively. Creative thinking happens when true puzzle pieces in minds are put together to form new truths. The more false puzzle pieces exist in minds the more difficult it is to think creatively. Creativity is important for sustainability. Functionalism is relevant, especially in the media industry, medical industry and the interrelation between religions and utilitarian economies. Referring to Santa Claus influence children, especially with regard to consumption of utilities, which many people depend on to survive. Your question is a topical question, which is not openly discussed and I would also like to see papers about the question. I think the reason why papers are not seen is because basically the topic is not open for discussion, due to vested financial interests. "Discussions" about the problem sometimes end in despotic accusations like "you think you are God", because people who use functionalist methodology, oppose the idea Truth (correspondence theory). 

Deductive thinking can exist when thinkers know, with a high probability, causal relationships within something, and use that knowledge, for example, when mechanics fix an engine or general practitioners diagnose illness. By investigating causality they can pinpoint the cause of a problem. If an engine is not firing, i.e., mechanics will, investigate parts, which usually cause firing, and identify working parts. If a part is found to be working the part is eliminated as not a cause of the problem. The procedure continues until a broken part is found. The investigation only takes place in the line of causes, which cause firing. The benefit in the case of machines is, due to knowledge of engines, all parts of engines do not have to be tested, when looking for the cause of engines, not firing. Induction according to my comprehension is usually creative thinking, i.e. originating an idea for a new engine, which works differently than existing engines. It usually deals with the future. It would be interesting to see how others explain, especially, induction. Deductive reasoning, when it is done right, is more certain than inductive reasoning. 

The Greek word "chrestotes" appears eight times in the New Testament and was translated as "goodness", "kindness", "integrity" etc. of God (BST). In Plato's works "chrestotes" was translated with "honesty" (Plato 350BC: 412e). Honesty is probably also partly the cause of the functional argument "you think you are God", which Caiaphas used in his utilitarian argument to sacrifice Jesus. The ontological realization; each person has different definitions for words of definitions for words of definitions ad infinitum, motivates to be more honest; to consider others' meanings of words, when communicating. Caiaphas syndrome is a term, which was first published, according to my research, around 1994. The term relates to the problem, because it is influenced by the idea that "God is" honest and singular. References: AQUINAS; T. 1273. Summa theologica: treatise on the theological virtues: of the act of faith, article 4: whether it is necessary to believe those things which can be proved by natural reason? From: $URL$ on 19 June 2013. BST. From: $URL$ on 23 Sep 2017. DESCARTES; R. 1641. Meditations on First Philosophy. In: Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 1996; The Philosophical Works of Descartes, 1911. Cambridge University Press. From: $URL$ on 20 Sep 2017. NIETZSCHE; F. 1886. Beyond Good and Evil, Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future. London: Penguin, 3rd edition, 2003. PLATO. 350BC. Definitions. In: Plato Complete Works; Cooper & Hutchinson, eds. Cambridge: Hackett, Kindle edition, Location 46914, 1997. 

Truth (the idea causing correspondence between words and what words portray), which relates to categories, is certainly a priori knowledge, otherwise children would not be able to learn to speak. 

Kant used the word "noumenon", which has not been accepted by all dictionaries. The word can refer to that, which was previously "unknowable", being "thing-in-itself", thus, that, which is underneath phenomenal shapes (forms), which are known. As science progresses, phenomena are becoming more, and noumena are becoming less, because newly discovered phenomena replace parts of previously unknown noumena. 

A difference between Popper's philosophy and Marx's philosophy is, Popper valued good ideas more than Marx. Marx abhorred new ideas because he believed it caused the problems regarding lost jobs. He wrote "Labour, then, as the creator of use values, as useful labour, is a condition of human existence which is independent of all forms of society; it is an eternal natural necessity which mediates the metabolism between man and nature, and therefore human life itself." (Marx 1990:133) His statement that labour is "the creator" degrades ideas. Socrates said in Book X of the Republic and in Ion gods and goddesses have good ideas. Marx was probably very much influenced by sacrificing of "the Creator" according to religion. He for example made fun of the Bauer brothers. "The Holy Family (German: Die heilige Familie) is a book written by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in November 1844. The book is a critique on the Young Hegelians and their trend of thought which was very popular in academic circles at the time. The title was a suggestion by the publisher and is meant as a sarcastic reference to the Bauer Brothers and their supporters. ... Later Marx will continue this sarcasm by referring to them as Saint Bruno, Saint Max (Stirner), etc." (Wikipedia) References: Marx; K. 1990. Capital: A Critique of Political Economy: Volume One. London: Penguin Classics Wikipedia. From: $URL$ on 13 January 2016. 

Memories are true and false puzzle pieces of reality, we think with. When the false puzzle pieces become too many, thinking rationally can be hampered. 

Dan Hicks referred to the Lockean argument for ownership. Ownership and capital are interrelated because on Financial Statements, i.e., two entries indicate ownership. A debit entry indicates the asset and a credit entry indicates the capital, which represents the asset. If the capital is equity the ownership is more certain than when the capital is a loan, because with loans the lender usually has legal rights over the asset. When labor was the source of ownership then usually the relevant capital is equity. When debt is the source of ownership then a lender was relevant. A problem with regard to the system of ownership is that ideas, which led to the ownership is not regarded, because ideas are common property, due to utilitarian philosophy. Consider how assets are formed. First ideas form. Then capital is raised to develop the ideas, or labor takes place to develop the ideas. Usually capital is raised, then people are employed to do work, whilst developing the ideas. The ownership often has nothing to do with the direct labor of development. Often ownership is determined more by networking, specifically networking in networks, where capital is available. Thus networking in networks, related to the money system (banks) and existing capital. True ownership also relates to religions because Socrates, i.e., said in Book X of the Republic and in Ion, gods and goddesses, are people with good ideas. His opinion influenced Christianity a lot. Socrates's gods and goddesses however have no rights to ownership of assets, their ideas partly caused, because ideas are common property, according to utilitarian philosophy, which influenced property rights. That implies, the current capitalist property system is not based on reality, because the first step (originating ideas) in the formation of assets, is not acknowledged by the law. 

"One may view Berkeley’s doctrine on Passive Obedience as a kind of 'Theological Utilitarianism'". From: $URL$ on 10 Sep 2017. Utilitarian philosophers believe ideas originate from one "Mind" or "God" and therefore ideas should be common property for utilitarian development. Locke in my limited view was less of an utilitarian philosopher and ascribed the origin of ideas more to humans. During the time of Locke, philosophers put much effort in motivations for salaries, due to labor. They did not focus much on the origin of ideas, and remuneration and capital for ideas, because being paid for labor was an important objective. "Theological utilitarianism" was then an even more overpowering paradigm, than today. 

"Question: Would one class ignorance in the same category as false knowledge? Does Nietzsche class these in the same category?" Ones could say ignorance is not the same as false knowledge because ignorance relates to non-existence and false knowledge relates to existence of something false. A decision based on ignorance, excluding disinformation, would be more accurate than a decision based on disinformation, because disinformation misleads. Nietzsche wrote about "ignorance": “The will to truth, which is still going to tempt us to many a hazardous enterprise; that celebrated veracity of which all philosophers have hitherto spoken with reverence: what questions this will to truth has already set before us! What strange, wicked, questionable questions! It is already a long story – yet does it not seem as if it has only just begun? Is it any wonder we should at last grow distrustful, lose our patience, turn impatiently away? That this sphinx should teach us too to ask questions? Who really is it that here questions us? What really is it in us that wants 'the truth'? - We did indeed pause for a long time before the question of the origin of this will – until finally we came to a complete halt before an even more fundamental question. We asked after the value of this will. Granted we wanted truth: why not rather untruth? And uncertainty? Even ignorance? - The problem of the value of truth stepped before us – or was it we who stepped before this problem? Which of us is Oedipus here? Which of us sphinx? It is it seems, a rendezvous of questions and question-marks. - And, would you believe it, it has finally almost come to seem to us that this problem has never before been posed – that we have been the first to see it, to fix our eye on it, to hazard it? For there is a hazard in it and perhaps there exists no greater hazard." (Nietzsche 2003: 33) “O sancta simplicitas! What strange simplifications and falsification mankind lives in! One can never cease to marvel once one has acquired eyes for this marvel! How we have made everything around us bright and free and easy and simple! How we have known how to bestow on our senses a passport to everything superficial, on our thoughts a divine desire for wanton gambolling and false conclusions! - how we have from the very beginning understood how to retain our ignorance so as to enjoy an almost inconceivable freedom, frivolity, impetuosity, bravery, cheerfulness of life, so as to enjoy life! And only on this now firm and granite basis of ignorance has knowledge hitherto been able to rise up, the will to knowledge on the basis of a far more powerful will, the will to nonknowledge, to the uncertain, to the untrue! Not as its antithesis but – as its refinement! For even if, here as elsewhere, language cannot get over its coarseness and continues to speak of antithesis where there are only degrees and many subtleties of gradation; even if likewise the incarnate tartuffery of morals which is now part of our invincible 'flesh and blood' twists the words in the mouths even of us men of knowledge: here and there we grasp that fact and laugh at how it is precisely the best knowledge that wants most to hold us in this simplified, altogether artificial, fabricated, falsified world, how willy-nilly in love with error because, as a living being, it is – in love with life!" (Nietzsche 2003: 55) "Question: Are there any compelling arguments for the will to untruth? In this question I have assumed untruth to mean false knowledge, not ignorance." There are arguments for the will to untruth, especially favoring groups only or individuals only, relating to profits and survival. "Question: To the readers of this question, what are your thoughts?" Thoughts about God are decisive when considering Truth, the idea, which causes honesty. Caiaphas syndrome is relevant. The idea Love, which caused social contract theory and the law is a balancing idea with regard to Truth. Only Truth or only Love can lead to despotism, therefore it is preferable to balance the ideas with the other. Dialectic inclinations and reductionist philosophy to identify essence make many people choose either only Truth or only Love, which leads to problems. Only Truth leads to problems for individuals, due to Caiaphas syndrome. Only Love leads to problems regarding sustainability, due to lacking creativity. "And do you believe that we humans brought this issue to the surface, or was it fate?" I do not know where it originated. Animals use deceit and true warnings, therefore it is not only humans, who use the two methodologies, for survival. References NIETZSCHE, F. 2003. Beyond Good and Evil, Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future. London: Penguin, 3rd edition.