If you don't have 1, then you're looking at the destruction of one thing and the generation of something new rather than a change. If you don't have 2, then there's been alteration in the thing between point in time A and B, thus no change. Aristotle articulates this conjunction as saying the thing "must be divisible." What this means is that, there's got to be some sort of continuous thing, but that it must have aspects that can change while it's the same thing. An example or two might help. A red car undergoes change when you paint it blue. The car still remains (reaching condition 1), but the car's color has changed (reaching condition 2). The color of the car is thus one divisible aspect of the car. A car does not undergo change when it is incinerated (imagining that it is completely turned into its elements at 50000 K). Once burned, there's no car (breaking condition 1). Thus, there's no aspect that changes -- the thing ceases to exist. And nothing divisible has happened. (Aristotle calls this "destruction" -- not "alteration") A car also does not undergo change when it is made in the factory. It becomes a car and wasn't one before (= "generation" or "creation" for Aristotle). 

Probably, the most important piece is working out what "belief" means here. There's several different ways of relating belief to knowledge, but you helpfully tell us that your radical skeptic believes knowledge is unattainable. This means that belief and knowledge are viewed as distinct acts rather than spectrum. Presumably, the difference is going to be that knowledge possesses a type of certainty (justification?) that differs. The next thing to thing about given this background for "belief" is whether an agent needs to be aware of his beliefs to believe them? Here, I don't see any reason why this must be so. Assuming the answer is no, then finally we can turn to "in a way", can someone by coincidence have beliefs that are internally consistent? Yes, absolutely, why not. Now, things change a bit if we say that someone must be aware of their own beliefs (here, I want to avoid saying they "know" their own beliefs -- because that sense of awareness does not have a perfectly clear relation to "knowledge"). Here, the definition of knowledge is going to be a problem ... tl;dr - define belief, knowledge, "in a way" very clearly and the answer should appear automatically. 

I think you are grasping one means of suggesting an ethical problem with the question of personhood and stem cells. One arena is a question of whether using the fruit of a form of research is immoral. This is called a "poisoned tree" problem. (One area where this is a problem is in the courtroom -- evidence acquired illegally is difficult if not impossible to admit -- and so is the evidence acquired based on that evidence). In science, however, it's just a reality we live with (as user4894 suggests in a glib comment to your question). But that's not the only potential issue. A further issue is whether the specific use of embryonic stem cells in another person is immoral. One angle is the personhood question you raise -- which I assume is an ellipsis for this argument: 

I can only answer here for his moral philosophy. If you need to ask about metaphysics and epistemology, I think the answer would be that he does not accept their existence as knowable -- but I don't recall reading anything specific on that point in Kant. Kant does believe there are non-corporeal rational agents. And these would be bound by the categorical imperative. I say "bound", but it is a self-binding as a rational creature. Thus, they would share with humans the perfect duties that follow from the categorical imperative. This holds true under all of the usual formulations of the categorical imperative and the text Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone. The reason is that the CI follows from pure reason and thus is the conclusion any rational being would draw (according to Kant). Thus, the universalizability test is not contingent on the fact we are embodied creatures but only on consistency with reason or consistency with reason and a world governed by the laws of nature. Similarly, the second test regarding "humanity" does not mean homo sapiens humanity but rather is actually a synonym for rationality. Thus, always treat rationality where you encounter it as a being of worth not price (incomparably valuable) and never abuse such a being such that the being cannot apply its reason (i.e. don't lie to a rational creature). The third set of formulas around autonomy and the realm of ends (or Kingdom of Ends) also say to act as if one is a rational creature in a country governed by rational law, which as Religion makes clear is, for Kant, not given from above by God but rather God validates the conclusions of this reason and God also performs the same deductions to reason to morality. This account captures perfect duty and how that would apply to incorporeal rational beings for Kant -- they are bound just like we (as embodied rational creatures with desires that may distract us from morality) are to the categorical imperative and to maxims that could be universalized. What such non-corporeal rational beings would not share with us is a commitment to the imperfect duties of self-improvement and helping others. The reason is the way in which embodied rational beings are held to this, viz., they come into existence in response to our own needs and inadequacies. I.e., at some point I obligated someone to help me, so I need to make this a sufficiently universal feature to have made my receipt of help moral and the only way to do that is to add a universal principle that requires me to sometimes help others. 

I am going to begin by assuming by utilitarianism, we are taking our goal to be "pleasure" or perhaps "happiness" for the most people. Time travel is actually relatively unimportant to answering your question, but we need to answer two questions about the metaphysics of time travel before we can answer the question about inventing future products before their original time: 

Kant raises a distinction between what he calls perfects duties and imperfect duties in the Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals and again in the Metaphysics of Morals: Doctrine of Virtue. You have the basic definition in hand: a perfect duty is one which one must always do and an imperfect duty is a duty which one must not ignore but admits of multiple means of fulfillment. Kant specifies two imperfect duties: the duty of self-improvement and the duty to aid others. To understand why Kant thinks of these as imperfect duties, we need to first understand the nature of duty for Kant. The literature on this is vast, so I'm going to skip over some parts of the mechanics and summarize it as follows: a duty is something that we are obligated to by the Categorical Imperative. In other words, it is something that that we can see as a universal rule for all of humanity necessary for a morally just society (mixing together all three major types of formulations of the Categorical Imperative). It's difficult to come up with completely non-problematic duties due to some issues related to the basis on which we act "maxims" and the means through which we universalize these, but I will skip over this for the purposes of this question (If interested, I suggest reading Allen Wood's Kant's Ethical Thought). Let's say that I want to lie to someone. If we universalize this, then every rational creature will lie whenever it is convenient. This will turn out to be self-defeating because no one will believe what anyone says. Since we have a constant need of truth in our dealings, this is something we must practice at all times. (i.e., we cannot add an exception "except when telling the truth is inconvenient). This makes this a perfect duty in the Kantian system. Most perfect duties turn out to be negative duties -- i.e. don't do X. On Kant's system, every rational being is obligated by perfect duties. Imperfect duties reflect the nature of human rational existence. We are born weak and frail, we cannot do everything by ourselves, and we die. These realities create interesting non-rational features of our reality: I needed someone to feed me when I was a baby. I need someone to help me when my car is stuck. I need a surgeon when my liver fails. These needs are not universal either in time or duration nor are they purely rational laws. To make these desires moral, Kant needs us to universalize them. Thus, we transform I need help at times into every [limited] rational creature has a duty to help other rational creatures at times. Thus, I have a requirement to aid others at times reflective of my own need for help at other times. This is one of the two imperfect duties for Kant. The second imperfect duty is to perfect myself. This duty arises because when I need help, I need experts. Thus, the only way that rational creatures can have their needs met is if rational creatures are developing their talents. So I too have a need to develop my talents in order to create a universalizable rule that would make it so aid is available when I need it of sufficient ability. Moved to the level of the particular, imperfect duties are things like: study chemistry, practice the violin, learn Japanese, volunteer at an orphanage. These are duties I don't need to constantly and that I somewhat pick from among. Thus, they are imperfect duties since they are not constant obligations, but they remain obligations. What Kant does not answer is how often. He punts this question somewhat in the Doctrine of Virtue. You can read more about this in Creating a Necessity out of Virtue by Nancy Sherman. 

There are some features where he is hard to understand, but I don't think they are primarily translation-related. For instance, the symmetry with the categories leads to some pretty strained groupings at times. Also, there are some places where his arguments seem to most Kant scholars just plain wrong or where there are big gaps (in modern work we would say "exercises left for the reader"). In my experience, this is what people mean when they call Kant a challenge. That said I think decent German reading skills can help as there are some "word-plays" and other things where the relationship between two elements in German is clearer than an in English, but a solid translation should help you with that. 

The drifter/sacrifice is you. You are in this case willing (presumably). The scope of the assistance your death provides is quite high. 

First, note that Aquinas does not speak of objects. This is because "object" at the time he's writing would have a very different meaning than to our post-Kantian conception. This also helps the "attribute" talk to be a little bit misplaced here. It's not potential attributes of the object, it's actual potentials in the thing. Or to put it another way, these are already in the thing as sight is already a potential of the eye even when my eyes are closed. The second claim is also a little bit weirder as a translation for what Aquinas is saying. That might be closer to what's going on in the second way (efficient cause) than in the motion argument. The motion argument doesn't need such a complex notion of objects. It just needs (a) a definition of motion, (b) the fact of its occurrence, (c) an exploration of how the conditions that match the existence of motion and its definition can be met. I generally formulate the argument roughly in this way: 

So for instance Augustine can be seen (in the broadest strokes) as trying to merge 2 and 3, Aquinas as trying to merge Augustine's 2 + 3 with Aristotle. Among these, a demiurge is bound by the laws of the universe. For 1, it's not bound because it does not relate. For 3, much will vary depending on whose philosophy we are looking at and how they understand the Christian God. 

I take it the Marxist critique often called the "division of labor" is about a couple of things at once: 

Gary Kasparov does not decide the rules of chess so him saying so does not make it so even though he is an authority on chess. Of course, we can make it true by having him look at the board and tell us that was checkmate, but that's a little bit different than an arbitrary case. 

I don't know if a definitive answer is possible to this question, but I would say the most commonly shared method for philosophy is argumentation. Within this, the most commonly agreed to foundation is Aristotle's three laws of thought. And then past that sentential logic whether formalized or not is broadly accepted within philosophy. For the purposes of answering, I'm going to call this "logic." Are there exceptions? i.e., philosophers who don't use this type of logic. I'd say there's three kinds of exceptions: 

It's also worth noting that this idea of humans being different from animals in having reason is not singular to Kierkegaard. In fact, Hegel shares it and specifically links it to an account of necessary fall vis-a-vis the Garden of Eden (Encyclopedia Logic ยง24 Zusatz). 

On the other hand, I think many contemporary analytic philosophers and philosophers of language don't think that project works... so I would not call it simply "analytic philosophy." 

Now we are in a position to talk about "thoughts." For Sartre, thoughts would be part of the activity of our reason, rather than an object for our reason. In other words, they are somewhat veiled but only because they are the method of consciousness rather than its object. I'm sure if we make them the object, that they are largely what we will them to be. To give a plausible example, if we can read people's mind, we can categorize their thoughts "hate speech" , "anti-governmental", "rebellious" , "sinful". And we do this with other people's utterances. That's the best I can do without a specific reference. 

(where predication is understood as the mental activity of applying names to things). (There are of course people who denied there were existing essences both in the West in some forms of skepticism [elsewhere too] and in the East). Descartes too has a philosophy that depends on the nature of ideas in our head but takes these ideas to have an origin outside the mind (think for instance of his argument for God's existence in Meditation 3 which hinges on the origin of the idea of infinity and thus has both ontological and cosmological elements). The Problem with Universals There's all sorts of problems with universals, a problem noted as far back as Plato's Parmendies and what Aristotle called the third man argument where forms multiply endless. There's also a problem of where forms come from -- in Plato's case, they are all stored up in an unchanging "heaven." In Aristotle's case, the essences wind up being interlinked with an argument for the immortality of the soul. The Problem with Explaining Away Universals In response to the problems with universals, several philosophers in the logical positivism / philosophy of language stream have as you noted taken up views like "predicate nominalism." These views attempt to explain away universals. But this is done at a cost, viz., as you note you have to make predicating "unanalyzable and primitive." While this gets you out of explaining how universals work, you've now asserted we cannot explain what we do when we predicate. I called this "naive nominalism" for two reasons. First, insofar as we've lost the mental apparatus that the earlier nominalists used to explain how we predicate. Second, this is a mirror of what Hegel calls "sense certainty," the view that truth is just what I see when I see it. In this case, the problem of predication would be justifying why we've given up on explaining predication but still think it's somehow meaningful. To make this move work, you're going to need a pretty substantial defense of the claim that predication is unanalyzable that still allows us to (a) make negative predications and (b) allows us to predicate of multiple things. You ask: