My general recommendation is the same whether you used a hypocoloric diet (i.e. just cutting calories) or a low/no-carb diet: 

If you are constantly pushing or pulling weights in the 90+% range of what you can do, you are just going to grind yourself down. It is important to hit those weights periodically, but not as a mainstay of your training. Your joints need a break from the heavy weights so they can also get stronger. By the same token, there's a limit to the amount of volume your body can take at once. Prilepin came up with a table where he found his weightlifters were able to still make the best progress without killing themselves in the process. This is a very useful tool to help prevent over-use related injuries (i.e. inflammation). Form is very important, and as fatigue increases form breaks down. Sometimes you have subtle imperfections in your form that only come to light when the weight gets heavy enough. Fix the form issues and many of the problems will resolve themselves. Sometimes you need to do rehab work. Rehab work consists of very light weights for a lot of reps. We're talking weights that don't even register a proper training stimulus, and doing 50-100 reps total. All that work is designed to flush blood through your joints to remove the inflammation. They also help strengthen supporting and stabilizing muscles that don't get a lot of attention when the weight gets really heavy. Body weight or light lunges might help as an assistance exercise. Or perhaps leg curls (exercise ball leg curls are surprisingly challenging). 

Based on the information here and the information about your wife's knees having a low amount of cartilage, you want to avoid motions that require the knee to bend--particularly under weight. At first I was going to suggest weight training, as you are very controlled about the weight that you apply and it can strengthen the muscles and ligaments surrounding the bone. It is much lower impact than running which can place 2-3 times body weight force on the knee. With weight training it will be several years before your wife could possibly work up to those weights. The strength would help in controlling and minimizing the forces that you have to deal with in skiing. Squats, the king of all lifts, would be the best lift to support skiing in general as all the muscles and joints affected by skiing are strengthened with this lift. The problem is the medical condition where this may not be the best idea. At the very least, run it by your doctor explaining that the motion is slow and controlled, and that you won't be putting a lot of weight on there. If you do choose to incorporate these, I would start with just the bar, and increase by no more than 5 lbs at a time. However, considering that the only way for cartilage to begin healing itself is to stop any activity that would wear it away faster than it can be rebuilt, I'm thinking that swimming might be a better option. Swimming doesn't have the impact problems as running does. If you choose a stroke that uses a scissor kick to prevent movement in the knee (which will potentially wear away cartilage), that can provide enough resistance to strengthen the leg without the negative problems of wearing away the cartilage. The idea is to minimize the movement of bone on bone as much as possible. That's why I think this might be better received by your doctor. Keep in mind that skiing can present a lot of force to the knee. In the case of skiing moguls or doing any sort of jump, I would not be surprised if the forces presented to the knee are greater than that from running. Please do be careful. 

I think this is a case where some strength work on the machines can help your dad build up enough basic strength to support his weight to the point where he can do push-ups. The thing is he is going to have to start a bit slower and build up momentum from there. 60 isn't that old, but if he's completely detrained he will likely fatigue pretty quickly. For the goal of dropping about 25 lbs / 10-12 kg you're going to have the best bet to attack it on multiple fronts: 

You get a lot more dietary information in the book Practical Programming for Strength Training by Dr. Kilgore and Rippetoe. However, you don't ever have a diet prescribed for you. The bottom line is that so many different approaches to diet and training produce good results that it's a matter of finding what works for you. There are some commonalities: 

What is Progressive Loading? Just in case you are not familiar with the term, it is the concept of going up in weight every workout session. This is different than doing pyramids where you increase weight and decrease reps each set. As an example, I'll use the Strong Lifts 5x5 program to illustrate. Session 1: A workout 

It's a different style of training. Shorter, higher intensity work will raise your heart rate more, and cause your muscles to work harder. Now if you want to know the relative calorie expenditure of walking 5 minutes or jogging 300 steps (I assume that's what you mean by 300 non stop jogs), that's a little harder to measure. The basic problem is that you will be expending more energy the first time you push your body harder than you have in the past. Let's face it, walking is not very taxing, but it is better than sitting in front of a computer screen all day. Your body will respond by getting a bit stronger so that it can support that kind of work. The next time you do it, you won't be expending as much energy as before. It will become easier, so the heart rate doesn't get up quite as high. Ideally, you'll add a little more work each time. That builds up your heart strength and optimizes your muscles to respond the way you train them. In general, the more you improve your cardiovascular strength, the healthier you will be in the long run. The jogging helps that much better than walking. 

When looking at the type of exercises you are planning, you don't have as high a demand for carbohydrates as someone who is long distance running or weightlifting. The type of carbs really has to depend on when you intend to ingest them. I've been weightlifting for a while, and I really don't need the spike that Chris S's answer suggests. In fact, for my purposes all I need is energy which can come from carbs or fat. In general, a slow burning carb is better for exercise. Slow burning carbs take up to 12 hours to properly digest, so it should be eaten well in advance of your exercise. This is why runners tend to carbo-load the night before they run and run in the morning. That morning they will have something that is higher in protein. The bottom line is that both walking and yoga is in no danger of depleting your normal energy stores unless you've been fasting all day before you exercise. You can walk for hours on end without needing additional carbohydrates. Jogging is a little more demanding, but still you would be OK with replenishing the carbohydrates after you work out rather than before. Also, it is safe to say that the highly processed carbs that you find in candy and sugar sodas (not diet) are too easily absorbed by the body. While they can grant you a quick energy boost for a few minutes, when your body is done with this unnaturally high level of nervous energy it crashes and leaves you with less energy than before you ate them. In short your insulin processed too much sugar and temporarily left you a little hypoglycemic. No carbs should be simpler than whole fruit (not dried) or potatoes. Your body is able to deal with these carbs and not overcompensate. 

Mixed Grip: One hand is overhand (pronated) and the other hand is underhand (suppinated). This gives the strongest grip you can use, but it lacks the symmetry. The most critical piece of advice for using the mixed grip is do not flex your biceps at all. This advice applies to all the grips, but because the suppinated hand is stretching the biceps, that's a good way to tear the muscle. Instead, make sure there is no flex in your arms at all. 

(when figuring out an expected 1RM, divide by the percentage for equivalent effort). Most of the time we do better with a 5% increase or lower. As the weights get heavier the jumps are a lower percentage. For example, jumping from 85 lbs to 90 lbs is just over a 5% increase and won't feel as incredibly difficult. Dumbbells are a challenge because above 10-15 lbs the increases are all 5 lb jumps. Recommended change Until you can work with much heavier dumbbells you are probably going to have to push your reps more. Go for at least 5 reps in a row if you want to be able to hit 50 lbs by 2. Personally, I find pushing my reps out to 8 before going up in weight works out better for me. 

Your muscles only build while they are resting. Exercise breaks them down and works them hard. When you are not working your muscles, they start rebuilding themselves and making them strong. In short, rest is an important aspect of building strength. If you can't go past the 65 barrier, it's possibly because they aren't getting enough rest in between. At a certain point, your muscles may need more rest than the one day in between. Your two choices are then: 

Depending on the type of pain, there is another possibility with an easy fix. If the pain is from your sciatic nerve (emanating from the gluteus maximus upwards), it is most likely on the side you have your wallet in. I've dealt with chronic pain there in the past. The easy solution? Put the wallet in the front pocket so you aren't sitting on it any more. When a coworker told me about this it was like a light bulb went off in my head. If that's the cause of your pain, it will go away in a couple days after switching the location of your wallet. 

So why 5 pounds higher than the target weight? Your body weight can swing close to that much between water retention, undigested food still in your stomach/intestines, etc. However, once you hit that number it's probably most likely a little more fat than you want. Fix it while the problem is small, and you might be able to do it with just one no-carb day. 

The best way to determine if a carb source is going to be slow digesting or not is to look at the fiber content. Not all whole grains are particularly high in fiber. When looking at the list of foods you find recommended over and over again, most are relatively high fiber foods: 

There are other pre-workout supplements and supplement stacks, but research is still being compiled. For example Nitric Oxide (NO) has a lot of marketing behind it, and is supposed to improve blood flow--however independent research is still being compiled. One component not yet covered that is present in many pre-workout stacks is dextrose or glucose. This is simply a form of sugar and works by providing a direct source of quickly metabolized energy. NOTE: do not use any pre-workout that contains DMAA as this is considered harmful by the FDA, and has been implicated in psychiatric disorders, heart problems, nervous system disorders, and death. If you are unsure of how any supplement works, check out Examine.com. They compile independent research and grade how useful the research is and the amount of effect the supplement had. There are a number of supplements that simply don't do much. Lastly, it is not uncommon for the placebo affect to affect many friend's recommendations. They hear it's supposed to do something, so they make it true. One such example is a pair of studies where all the participants were told that there were going to be two groups: those taking steroids and those not taking steroids. All the participants were administered a placebo and told they were in the steroid group. All the participants saw increases in ability in line with steroid use. Then one group was informed that they really weren't in the steroid group and they were getting a placebo all along. That group dropped back to their pre-study capabilities. This was in face of the fact that the participants saw real improvements without steroids. The placebo affect can be very strong. 

Our bodies are very good at this. If you think that removing all meat and milk from your diet is going to magically cause you to maintain a healthy weight, without addressing other concerns then you are setting yourself up for disappointment. A healthy physique requires routine exercise, with a healthy balance of strength, conditioning, and mobility. Vegan diets do present certain challenges that are more challenging to overcome for active people: 

First things first is to take an assessment of your father. Typical problems of inactive people who spend a long time sitting include: 

Both my wife and my daughter have exercise induced asthma, and what you are describing sounds like what they deal with. Go to a doctor to determine exactly what the problem you are experiencing truly is. If it does happen to be exercise induced asthma, the doctor will give you an inhaler so that you can use it when your chest begins to tighten up. That will allow you to exercise. But the short answer is that is not normal to have breathing problems during exercise. The typical shortness of breath that comes from vigorous exercise returns to normal rather quickly after rest. Much sooner than the hours you are referring to.