The wheel of life is about the causes that create suffering, which is unrelated to bodhicitta. Bodhicitta (the wish to attain enlightenment motivated by compassion for all sentient beings) requires a pure altruistic intention. Where as the wheel of life includes both unwholesome & wholesome desires that result in attachment & suffering. This is the difference between them. 

In the 'dimension of neither perception nor non-perception' (4th formless meditation/8th jhana), the scriptures describe the mental sense objects listed above start to disappear/fade & in the 'cessation of feeling & perception' ('9th jhana') all mentality, including consciousness, completely disappears. Consciousness disappears in the '9th jhana' because there is no more perception & feeling thus, as taught in the scriptures (MN 38; SN 22.53), consciousness cannot arise without any sense objects. Note: The '9th jhana' (cessation of feeling & perception) is not Nibbana/Nirvana. In summary, in Buddhism, there are six avenues of sense consciousness. In the formless meditations (as described in MN 111), mind sense consciousness remains (although eye, ear, nose, tongue & body sense consciousness do not operate). 

If SN 12.2 together with SN 23.2, SN 5.10 & SN 22.81 are studied carefully, it appears what the Buddha actually taught about was "birth" ("jati") rather than "rebirth", which is not physical birth from the womb of a woman but instead the birth of the idea, view or mental concept of "beings" ("satta') or, more simply, "self". Thus, the goal of Buddhism is to eradicate the birth of the "self" idea, i.e., eradicate attachment,i.e, realise not-self (anatta). The Alagaddupama Sutta states: 

In respect to meditation, AB should generally explains things correctly. If someone disagrees with AB about meditation, this should raise a red-flag of caution. 

It appears quite obvious the Buddhist way of life when the Buddha was alive was for parents to arrange the marriage of their children in Indian traditional practise. This tradition would have provided little scope for sex outside of marriage, apart from outcastes and in the upper classes (who had courtesans, concubines, sex slaves from war captives, etc). Since the norms of society has changed greatly since the Buddha's time, is the definition of sexual misconduct now obsolete? 

Mindfulness with breathing is suitable to formal walking, i.e., when walking back & forth on a defined path or when walking on a clear path/road (with no obstacles to trip on). However, it requires skill to practise it. 

The Buddha didn't teach reincarnation. The Buddha taught rebirth and physical death is not required to experience rebirth. Every time a mind attaches & clings to something as "I", "me" or "mine" (and also as "you", "him", "her", "us" & "them"), this is "re-birth". 

Illness with biological origins, such as imbalances of chemicals or neural structures in the brain. Illness with psychological origins, such as life experiences of emotional trauma. 

This quote is 3/4 false. This is not a quote from the Buddha but by a 5th century scholar named Buddhaghosa. It is not beautiful. It is nihilism. Suffering can only exist due to the idea of a sufferer. Suffering ends when the idea of self ends. Therefore suffering is the same as the delusion of a sufferer. To quote from SN 12.15: 

'Death' ('marana'), similar to 'birth' ('jati'), is a self-view about the death of 'a being', per SN 12.2, SN 23.2, SN 5.10, etc. The sutta says arahants are not only not subject to 'birth' but they are also not subject to death (per MN 140; SN 22.85). The Dhammapada states arahants do not die but non-arahants are dead already. Given the questioner is also a student of Xianism, they should understand 'birth' (per Nicodemus) & 'death' do not always have a physical meaning. Therefore, the minds of non-arahants are subject to birth & death of self-views & self-identities. As for a new life ('jiva') after the termination of life, this idea or speculation arises in minds that cling to & crave for life. It is a natural instinct that people do not want to die and wish for new life or eternal life, which is why religion is very popular. 

Lack of sensitivity can occur due to using meditation techniques. Whenever a technique is used, such as watching breathing at abdomen or nose-tip, body scanning or the two methods proposed in the question, there will be a deliberate, fixed & gross intention operating in the mind to exert the mind. This 'intention' & 'exertion' is a thought and it is this thought intention that hinders sensitivity. To feel the body, breathing & associated feelings & emotions sensitively, the ideal practise is to simply 'let go' of all wanting & all intention. The mind must be quiet however the effort used must be a little as possible. Just sit, but very quietly. 

This appears to be a physical issue; that probably needs to be resolved in a physical way; such as by proper exercise, proper eating, non-consumption of intoxicants, herbal detoxification medicine, acupuncture, etc. For example, if you could run five kilometers this nasal problem probably would not occur. Pornography was also mentioned in another topic. Pornography can contribute to this because watching the secretion of fluids in pornography (such as when a women performs oral sex on a man) will naturally cause the watcher's own body to secrete similar fluids (as the woman); similar to how watching a man's body aroused in pornography will stimulate the watcher's body to be aroused. Whatever the mind fixates, the watcher will also "become". Pornography is deliberately designed using Freudian principles of phallic, oral & anal arousal to trap men into a self (male) fixation. Pornography is not primarily the watching of naked women but the watching of men having sex. Both posts on this forum are indicative of an unhealthy lifestyle. The benefit of doing the Vipassana Retreat is it had you become personally & intimately conscious of these problems & therefore it provided you with an insight & opportunity to change your life for the better. 

I doubt the above very much. While I do not doubt you are more & more feeling & seeing the situation of others; it seems what you believe can help others is actually what has helped you; which may not actually be what can help others. Its similar to you had cancer & took a medicine to heal your cancer and now you wish to give your cancer medicine to another person suffering from AIDS. Although you can see the suffering of the person with AIDS, your cancer medicine will not cure AIDS. 

The word translated as 'human' namely, 'manussa' means 'high minded'. It does not mean a 'homo sapien'. SN 56.47 describes the meaning of what is not the human state, as follows: 

Personally, I would disagree with Nyanaponika's ideas. If the concentration was not impaired by hindrances, why would it be called "momentary" concentration? 

MN 56 describes the stream-entry of the householder Upali. MN 56 clearly states Upali's mind was free from the five hindrances (nīvara­ṇa­), i.e., had samadhi/meditation, prior to the stream-entry: 

Atheism & Buddhism are the same in that both do not believe in a creator god. Atheism & Buddhism are different in that atheism does not provide a path to end suffering. Buddhism and some theistic religions have some similarities in that both share some (moral) aspects of the path to reduce suffering. 

I doubt faith, virtue & devotion to the Buddha (alone) can bring stream-entry because these suttas include penetration of lokuttara dhamma as one of the four factors of stream-entry, namely: 

In some commentaries, 'nibbindaṃ-disgust' (nibbidanupassana-nana) precedes or creates the 'desire for liberation' (muncitukamyata-nana) rather than liberation itself (as found in the scriptures). Note: 'Disgust' is not the same as 'hatred/aversion'. 'Disgust' leads to freedom, since it leads to the rejecting, dropping & subsiding of the negative emotion. 

This is a type of samadhi. Samadhi is the absence of thoughts, just like an orange is orange in colour. Why are you making a bid deal about something that is totally normal? Samadhi is the absence of thinking therefore why have you now engaged in a path that is totally the opposite of samadhi, which is thinking about samadhi rather than dwelling in samadhi? 

In Buddhism, the practise is called 'mental cultivation', which similar to OCD, repeatedly cultivates a Buddhist practise. For example: 

This question makes no sense. The four elements are material & not related to pain. Pain is vedana kdhanda rather than rupa khandha. 

Also, Christianity is fatally connected to the Old Testament of Judaism, which allows killing in many circumstances, such as war & heresy. This is why Christianity has had many Inquisitions. 

Human consciousness (& wisdom) allows choice, which is what distinguishes the 'human' from the 'animal'. The 'animal' is instinctual programmed behaviour & reactions where as the 'human' consciousness is 'reflective'. The human consciousness can objectively (like a mirror) know the inner motivations & drives of the mind & can choose to follow or not follow those drives. This is the meaning of a 'human' birth in Buddhism. When people (mentally) behave like 'animals', they cease to be 'human', even though they have the physical body of people. The common saying in the world of: "he/she is only human" when someone makes a mistake or acts badly is not Buddhist. In Buddhism, 'human' means having a reflective aware mind that can choose between right (good) & wrong (harm). The Chiggala 1 Sutta describes the non-human state or birth as: "mutual devouring, the devouring of the weak". 

A layperson can abandon 'the fetter' of householdership, as explained in the Haliddakani Sutta, which describes the 'household life' is a state of mind rather than a state of physical habitation: