This is not an uncommon occurrence, especially at management levels. People leave from management positions and then later come back as consultants or actually get rehired as managers or advisers because they have special knowledge or experience that has value to the company. Simply put, unless you are an Executive-level employee, you have no standing to demand anything from a rehire. If you were friendly enough at one point, you can certainly ask what happened and where he has been, but "Adam" is under no obligation to explain himself to you. Your role is to follow the directions of your manager, and if she expects you to listen to Adam, you don't really have a choice (unless, of course, you want to change jobs). 

"Is this job with Company B, both in the short term and in the long term, worth ruining my reputation with Company A"*. Will I ever need Company A in the future for a job, or a client". 

This also happens for internal recruiters who are hiring for a specific project. It is not out of the question for a consulting company to submit candidates to their customer before hiring them for a project to ensure the customer is satisfied with their experience and skills. By submitting in a PDF, you make it much more difficult for the recruiter to accomplish either task. 

Of everything in the question, this looks to me like the best angle to act upon. Who is setting his priorities? If your teams are organized like ours are, it's the team lead's responsibility to set his priorities. Thus, let him know that you recognize that you are not communicating your priorities for him sufficiently, and that you will be taking extra effort to make sure they are communicated properly. An individual like this will most likely have a reply cued up, because this wont be the first time someone will have told them this. I can't say what that reply will be, but it will be a lot closer to what the actual issue is. It will be out in the open so you can deal with it better. Perhaps I am being too subtle. Just in case, I'll be more direct. Anyone in a "senior developer" position should know just how badly they are messing up when leadership offers to "help" them by "taking extra effort to make sure priorities are clear." They should realize rapidly that what that really means is that they are about to lose all freedom of choice in their approach until they shape up. 

All scientific evidence I have seen fails to demonstrate puzzles as effective. However, I believe they have some potential in non-scientific approaches. Consider that everything in the interview process is a tool. They're tools to help you and the company determine if they are good matches for each other (mostly to help the company, but it goes both ways). Accordingly, the interviewer uses any tools at their disposal. Some interviewers may find that asking a puzzle question is an effective tool in their toolbox to learn more about you, and then ask more pertinent questions. In such a scenario, I think puzzles are very useful. Its not the answer to the puzzle that matters, per se, but all of the subtle details surrounding it I would like to switch over to fiction for a moment, specifically Frank Herbert's Dune. Fiction is often in a good position to explore the extreme version of a situation, and sometimes that can make the less extreme version more clear. In Dune, one of the groups has something known as the "pain box," or "agony box." You put your hand in it, and it uses nerve induction to generate the most excruciating pain in the universe. It is part of a test to determine if you are sufficiently human to go forward with their "interview." It is explained that it is not the pain that matters, it is how the interviewer observes your reactions, and interacts with you while you feel your hand melting off. In the hands of someone who does not know how to use it, the box is useless as anything besides a torture device. However, in the hands of someone who knows how to use it to accomplish their goals, it peels away layers of defenses so that they can conduct the real portion of the interview without interference from shallow things like memorization or bravado. Now, after describing that interview, aren't you glad that they're really just asking you to solve a few puzzles? 

One other reason I have found is external recruiters want an editable version of your resume for several reasons. 

I've never had this specific benefit, but my wife has. She's worked at the same company as long as I've known her, and the privilege seems to have been slightly modified every summer, but the general concept is that Fridays in the summer have modified hours. Some years have meant that every other Friday is a half-day. Other years meant that they can leave an hour or 2 early every Friday. And some years, the benefit was not offered. The only way to know what the specific benefit means is to ask. 

But I don't mean that in the way I think you will interpret. From the contents of your question, it sounds like you want to use an "anonymous" survey as a soap box to rant against the company. Regardless of the anonymity of the survey, you have to wonder how seriously they will take a survey if it is nothing but a list of complaints. I've taken many similar surveys in my time and I've always tried to offer constructive criticism because no place is perfect. At the same time, I always counter negative (but constructive) feedback with something positive. My belief is that negative feedback will be more easily accepted if it is balanced. Someone who just responds negatively to everything may be seen as a disgruntled employee or an unhappy person that is never satisfied. As I mentioned (and want to reinforce), make any negative feedback constructive. Don't say "You guys suck, I hate all of you because you make me work 160 hours a week and only pay me $10/hr". Instead focus on how to frame the feedback in a constructive manner. "In similar positions in my locale, the pay rate is $x but my rate is far below that" and "the quality of my work suffers because I am expected to work more than y hours per week". Explain how it is better for the company not to work the employees so hard for below average pay, not that the company is the worst place in the world to work. 

I would second Pete's solution: talk to your counselor. I'm someone who tends to give tough love, so forgive me if it isn't what you were looking for. The tough part comes first. There's a reason the word is "disability." It affects your ability to do a task. If you've had the same conversation many times with your MD for the last 8 months, and it's always come back with "we'll talk after you have 3 months without a sick day," that's a very strong indicator that your MD feels you are not able to meet the job requirements. The fact that the story isn't changing tells me they're dissatisfied enough to not even try to work with you on it. If you're a quadruple amputee, you probably shouldn't get a mountain climbing job. Right? That's the nature of having a "disability." Well, generally speaking this is a good rule. That being said, if you really have that desire in your soul to overcome, do so with such a great ferocity of spirit as to overcome any physical obstacle. (I do love Kyle Maynard's spirit. He's worth the 11 minutes of your life to listen to. Click the link!) The tricky part of that message is that that ferocious spirit is hard to come by. It's especially hard to come by if you suffer from a mental health issue such as bipolar disorder. If your passion is climbing mountains, maybe it's worth spending your spirit on that. If it's just an IT job, you make the decision as to whether it is worth applying such spirit to your job. It's only a job (unless you truly feel otherwise). It is always desirable to have a ferocious spirit for living life, and if spending some of that spirit on your job makes you hate life, skip the job and enjoy life instead. Make sure your life comes first, job comes second. So can I recommend whether you should apply such a spirited approach to your job? No. I don't know enough about the nature of your job strees. I don't know enough about your medical history. Even if you did publish your medical history on the internet (hint: don't!), I personally couldn't do anything with it because I am not a trained medical provider with the experience to take the cold hard words written down in your medical file and heal the human behind behind them. Your counselor does have this knowledge, and they do have these skills. They literally choose to make a living out of healing the humans behind the numbers. They may be able to help you work things out with your MD and get them to be more compassionate. They may be able to help you find a new job. Even more important, they will be able to help you figure out whether you want to stay in your existing job or move to a new job. And from what I have been told, they love working with those who seek to kindle that ferocious spirit for life. Talk with them. They are in the best position to help set you straight. 

I find a greeting line of some sort very important in exactly 4 scenerios in emails. I almost never use them otherwise 

It is very unusual in my experience for a company (at least not a small company) to begin the on-boarding procedures and schedule a start date without a signed offer letter. While this wouldn't be a contract, it is your official signal to them that you are committed to joining their organization and accepted the terms of their offer. But it wouldn't be out of the question they they took your verbal acceptance at that signal of commitment. The fact that they gave you a start date and started a background check indicates to me that they think you have accepted, even if you don't think you accepted anything. On the company's side, this likely means that they have informed the other potential candidates that they have filled the position, and the manager has begun whatever processes are needed to get your started (ordering equipment, getting accounts set up, etc). Since there appears to be no real legally enforceable contract based on your description, you aren't committed to anything. You can walk away without fear of legal repercussions. However, you will likely burn your bridges with company A and it would be a surprise if they ever considered you for another position in the future. Depending on the industry and what the competition is like, you would be surprised who you run into in the future, and who will remember your name. You may even encounter Company A as a client, or someone from Company A in a management role of another company you wish to work with. So the decision should come down to two questions... 

Well that's just too bad for them. Talk to them anyway. Self empowerment may give you the ability to make your own decisions, but it doesn't free you from the responsibility to live up to those decisions. If I had a team like that, talking to them would be the kindest level of response I'd consider. One might say "Oh, but the SCRUM master is supposed to resolve impediments like this. Everything should go through him." Well tough. He screwed that up when he went to you to tell you you were fired and failed to do so in a sufficiently courteous way that you accepted it. A SCRUM master is expected to have better people skills than that. So what do you say? First, you want to find out if they actually decided to "fire" you. You have one person's word on that, and I do believe this is the kind of situation where the team should be able to directly say their piece. Second, consider what "firing" means. You claim to be a hands off manager, but they want you gone. Understand why. They aren't writing the paychecks, so the decision to fire you isn't a "oh they're not pulling their weight" kind of decision. That's a "this person is actively getting in the way" kind of decision. Something really isn't adding up here. You need it to add up for you before you make any meaningful decisions. Being an anonymous person on the internet, I can't say if its you or them or the SCRUM master, but something is really really really wrong in this scenario, and you better know what it is by the time you're done talking with them. Work with them. Be a manager. Find a way to solve the problem. Find a way for you to be able to do your job, while they do theirs. Make it happen. Now, if their answers provide you with sufficient closure to honor their self empowerment, now you have to show the team what happens when you "fire" leadership like that. Say "Fine. I'll stop acting as your manager. You can't actually fire me, because that's not your position, but if you want to play this game, we can play. I was your manager, helping insulate you from corporate politics and the stress of reporting to upper management. Now, I am your upper management, and you no longer have that insulation. Now since I can't actually remove myself from this position, I will instead simply begin relaying tasking from on high." Explain that just because the team voted, that doesn't mean you don't have obligations to upper management that you have to fulfill, and will continue to do so. Then, get help. A mutiny is not a small thing. Your entire team just voted you off the island. Don't underestimate it. Get ahold of someone above you to help. Maybe you call your boss on leave. Maybe you talk to your CIO. Someone needs to know that there is a major people problem in your company, and that you are solving it. The second half is clearly important. Never go to leadership with problems, go to them with solutions. The solution I would recommend is to craft your image as the "manager bearing requirements" by choosing things to require which leadership (i.e. CIO) would want, which is crafted to build some self-realization to go with this self-empowerment. They may think they're free to do what they want, but you are still obliged to make them a successful team. If you have to do it from afar, do it from afar. Find out what about your hands-off approach was so intimidating, and make sure you don't ever do that. The end goal is to get them to realize you are on their side. If they are truly self empowered, then they need to come to the realization that you are a beneficial part of the team. They will only come to that realization if they are successful. If they get deluged with impossible deadlines and hopeless red tape, they'll never see it. Just make sure that it all adds up. 2+2=4. A "hands off" manager is "fired" by the new SCRUM master for being too intimidating while two layers of management are on leave? Something doesn't add up from here. You're closer to the situation. Figure out what doesn't add up, and fix it.