To progress along the path, to realise what the Buddha did, we need a vehicle. If the vehicle uses imagination as a method, then imagination becomes the path. Imagination is not mindfulness, but is used to train mindfulness. 

Samsara exist because there is enlightenment- free from Samara. Just like wealth exist because there are poor. Only if one is free from Samsara can one see Samsara. If everyone is in Samsara, then how can one see Samsara? That is what Buddha is here to teach 

A person can choose between being a layman or a monk, but not both. Layman has to work to earn a living. Monks have to focus on the practice and uphold Buddhism. Both have complementary roles to play. Layman work to support the monks community. Monks pray for peace, harmony and success of the working community. 

there is suffering - the itch There is a cause of suffering - possibly any cause there is cessation of suffering - after 10sec the itch is gone- And this should be enlightening. but if you examine the itch instead of the object of meditation, the itch will be there, and there will be no progress. Focus on object of meditation. There are paths to the cessation of all suffering - Realising everything is the 3rd noble truth - What you're doing now, meditating and realising itch will go away. Ultimately everything will go away because, everything is empty. And because everything is empty, sentient beings didn't see it, they suffer, so compassion arises. 

I have been meditating for a while now and i found my way to get into jhana, well i haven't enter jhana but it was more me not fully in knowing how but now i think i understand. But one thing i keep getting stuck on is the signs. I haven't to my knowledge experienced a nimita. Maybe cause i use visualization to enter the jhanas From what i gathered first you have initial & sustain thought. Then as time goes on you developed joy. Which brings this pleasant feeling. Then you move your attention from that to the pleasant feeling to enter rapture and the first jhana. So where do any counter or learning sign come in. Is that only for certain meditations 

Now i think what unwise and wise consideration is the things you focus on. Unwise Consideration maybe focusing on your past or your future asking question that have no really meaning pondering them. While wise is focusing on suffering and overcoming it. Is thia correct? 

What is the goal for this mastery exactly? I'm guessing it's to look back at your jhana meditation and see what happen. What went wrong, what are things you can improve, what lead to jhana & lsot the jhana etc. Is this correct? I want to make sure i understand completely. 

There are many types of suffering and stress, anxiety, fear etc are mental sufferings. Thus wanting to be free from suffering is natural and knowing the path is the right view. 

Remember the Heart Suttra. In emptiness, there is ...no eye, no nose, no ear, no mouth, ... Thus in emptiness there is no soul. The concept of man and woman are created by human beings. 

You got it somehow. True self or true nature of the mind is luminous, reflecting everything as it is. It is the buddha itself. Everyone has this true self and everyone can follow the Buddha's path to realize the true self. 

If the patient is a devout Christian and saying "may god bless you" helps him to recover, by all means say "may god bless you". If the patient is a BUDDHIST, saying "Namo Amitabha" and remembering the three refuge can be helpful.. 

Because to create something from something else means to go against the law of cause and effect. Buddhist believe that if one plants orange seed, one will reap oranges. One plants apple seed, one will reap apples and so forth. One can't plant apple seed and reap oranges - it is totally absurd and illogical. One can't have something totally unrelated create something else totally unrelated. Thus buddhist does not believe in a creator. 

I practice Mahayana tradition so I hope you do not mind my comments from my perspective. In my practice, I try not to have too much attachment with Buddha's relics (Chinese: 舍利, Sanskrit: śarīra). As long as I have Buddha's teachings in my heart and actions, that's the most important thing. That being said, I have seen Buddha's relics a few times and they are truly fascinating. More crystal-like matter organically grow from the original relic, and they can vary in different form, colour and size. The Tibetan establishment across the street from where I live has relics from Buddha and his foremost students. I was very fascinated by Moggallana's relics as they were very dark, which was caused his unwholesome actions in the past and led to his tragic death being clubbed to death. In Chinese Buddhism records diligent individuals (monks and lays) also leave behind relics. As they have completed the training in this life they leave their body behind, the relics withstand cremation and are collected by fellow Buddhists and honored for their accomplishment. Relics are not exclusive to Buddhists. Before Buddha's time many Hindu sages also leave behind relics. Any beings who successfully transcends to the Realm of Form and beyond may leave behind relics. Therefore, relics may not be reliable evidence that one has liberated from Samsara. Hope this is helpful. If there is anything I can improve with this reply, please kindly let me know :) 

Living in present is the phrase used by Buddhists to refer to mindfulness. Mindfulness can be something like "When we walk, we walk. When we eat, we eat." Mindfulness can also be non distraction, being here. 

Some people perceive impermanent as self, some perceive permanent as self. Both permanence and impermanence are self. The idea here is when the self perceives a permanent "impermanent" or permanent "permanent" then there is suffering when permanent "impermanent" becomes impermanent "impermanent". To be free from suffering, one must realize everything is impermanent - even have to realize that "impermanent" is impermanent. 

No self does not mean disappearances. Acknowledging Anatta means we are mindful of others more than self. If I'm driving a bus, I'm mindful of the safety of all my passengers, not just myself. I don't disappear and let the bus drive by itself because it is reckless to the passengers. Disappearing is not Anatta. 

Renunciation! There must be renunciation from the bottom of your heart before you can be easy on your meditation. 

In some schools of Buddhism, everything is mind. Even the random effects are created by mind, which is karma. In other words, the random effects do not exist outside the mind. Which means, since the random effects exist within the mind, it does create experience. 

The books and videos all describe it as, Looking at jhana and its factors in retrospective knowledge What does this mean exactly? Is it going over the events that happened during the jhana? there anything specific you suppose to do? 

Do they both play a role in getting rid of the hindrances or is one better then the other? How do they eliminate them? 

They say to master jhana you must master five factors. I understand the first four but mastery of reflection is kind of leaving me unsure. I think i get it. Once you come out of the jhana state, you refect on the absorption factors like you do the jhana factors you focus on each until the hindrances is gone. But what are these absotbtion factors. Do i just think about it or stsrt a second meditations on each factor and be aware of them? How do i know what these factors are and distinguish them? They also say there different absorption factor to reflect on. Can you help me understand 

I'm having trouble understanding what they mean here. What iis life-continuum? It said in brackets consciousness so it's disrupting consciousness of the jhana object? What i guess they mean is once you come out of jhana use applied thought to focus on the things that intruped that jhana then once you have "applied" applied thought move to focus on the objects with sustain thought once you can do this uninterrupted you mastered adverting? 

I think it is best to ask the monastery, instead on Stack Exchange. IMHO, may I comment on a few things: What is one's motivation to become a monastery monk? Monks are messianic individuals who wish to vigorously study Buddha's teachings hoping one day to attain the highest level of wisdom to be able to deliver all beings from suffering. Responsibility Buddhist monks receive offerings from faithful lay people, seeking answers to solving their problems. These offerings are precious and sincere, and one should not take these offerings lightly. There is a Chinese saying that loosely translates as: "A lay person offers a grain of rice, such offering is as heavy as Mount Sumeru, if one doesn't attain enlightenment in this life, repay wearing your hide and horn in your next life." Monks do not only teach people, even Devas respect and learn from highly accomplished masters. Ksitigarbha Sutra depicted the dire consequence of stealing from monasteries, which results in millions of aeons of endless torment in the deepest pits of Avici. This is because Buddhist monasteries are essential establishments to facilitate Buddhist teaching, they contain offerings from realms in all 10 directions, from beings desperately yearning to liberate from the eternal agonies of Samsara. A monastic life isn't necessary to attain enlightenment. In today's society lays are more likely to accomplish because today's monks have more complicated problems to help lays to solve. Furthermore, leading a monastic lifestyle isn't enough, one needs to embrace the purpose of monastic life at heart, and let go of worldly attachments and eventually leave Samsara. Turn challenges into opportunities Buddhists do not ask Buddha to alleviate our lives' problems. We brave hardship. We do not cut off our problems from our lives, we turn challenges into opportunities to better ourselves, turn anxiety and stress into Bodhi, and gratefully thank life when it gives us lemons. In closing, please do not take my words as criticisms. I genuinely thank you for this interesting question that allows me to contemplate on my practice and write out this submission to help bring more clarity to my thinking. If there is anything I could improve on please do not hesitate to share your feedback. 

I'm having trouble truly understanding nimattas. I use visualization for my jhana mediation. It's what focus my mind best and allowed me to almost enter jhana. But if i do visualize, will the nimatta still appear? How would i recognise it? And once it appear do i move off my object to it? Also i read this passage explaining what a nimtta means in the modern day. I wish to know does this do a great job explaining it. 

I am reading A Critical Analysis Of The Jhanas In the book we were going over wise considration and how it will help you eliminate the hindrances. But i am having trouble understand what this is referring to. Any help would be appreciated. 

I have read once you have reached the bliss stage you should take your focus off the object and on the blissful sensations and hold it. Then in time you will be in Jhana. But i also read in other sources you should just stay with the object and one pointed focus will rise that way. Which is it? This confuse me. I've reached bliss i kept focusing on my earth kasina but before i could fully enter the first jhana i felt my breath fading and it scared me out of my mediation. So i don't know if focusing on my object would have allowed me to reach jhana.