To answer the third question: Charcoal is basically wood (technically any biomass, but it's usually wood) that has had its water and other volatile components completely removed, leaving pretty much a lump of almost entirely carbon. Charcoal compared to wood is similar to comparing distilled, concentrated alcohol to sugar cane. The charcoal burns considerably hotter for a given mass of fuel, and burns much more predictably. Because its composition is almost entirely carbon, it doesn't really create flames because there is little to create particulate matter, and little smoke for the same reason. Because it burns so predictably, and sufficient temperatures are so easy to achieve with charcoal, that is why it is commonly used for grills and outdoor cooking. Curiously enough, a lot of people speak of 'charcoal flavor' but that is actually not a flavor of charcoal. Properly made charcoal will not impart any flavor, as when it burns it releases almost purely CO2. The 'charcoal flavor' comes from impurities in the charcoal, or flavorings added specifically for that reason, or burned fats from the foot itself that are vaporized and attach to the food. 

Which is objectively better? Neither. Both strategies are appropriate for different situations. Lets imagine boat B is chasing boat A. Boat B may be able to overtake boat A by not wasting as much speed tacking so often. But what happens if boat A decides to change course while B is tacking so far away? What happens if the wind changes unfavorably while B is so far away? You have to make choices while predicting the future, a very challenging task. Here is another example of a course decision: 

You are way over thinking it. Presuming the water in the bottle was properly clean, potable and microbiologically safe to begin with, and you're a normal healthy human, the water in the bottle will be OK virtually indefinitely. A few days of a backpacking trip? No question. If you have a bunch of sticks, leaf matter, or bugs, etc in the water, you can sterilize it and drink it within a day or two just fine. But if you let it sit and stew you might develop a problem, but if a problem develops it will not mater whether you drank some of it or not first. Disease causing organisms generally need to be present in their hosts to multiply, or you need to ingest a good number of their spores/cysts. Neither of those conditions are likely to occur in your situation and transform your water from safe to unsafe. 

No question, life vests are a net reduction in risk. It's trivially easy to check yourself and your gear over and eliminate any potential risk of entanglement beforehand. It's not so easy to get control of your body once you've been unexpectedly tossed into the drink. 

Yes, you absolutely need to properly protect your food. Proper food storage in the wilderness isn't just for you, it's also for the bears. Even if your dogs or you are able to fend off a bear, you may in the process clue the bear in to the fact that where there are humans, there is food. And if you've inadvertently trained a bear to think that human campers have food, and the only thing between getting that food is to rumble, you've dealt that bear a death sentence, as well as signed up some other unsuspecting person for a heap of trouble. Even if you make the bear think "maybe next camp has better food?", then it clearly is aware that camps are places for food, and so you and everyone else who hasn't properly managed your food has failed to properly protect the wildlife and has failed that bear. Always store your food well away from camp in a proper bear proof manner. There is no excuse for laziness. 

You may be fighting an uphill battle, and may have a fungal infection. That was the case for me, which made it very hard to keep from getting rashes when backpacking/camping, or really, going anywhere without being able to shower daily. I went to the doctor and had them prescribe me an anti-fungal medicine, which was Tolnaftate, the active ingredient in tinactin, lamisil, etc, for athletes foot and jock itch. After taking that for 10 days, it was like night and day, and I was virtually immune to it afterwards. I shortly thereafter went on a weeklong backpacking trip. Despite being relative filthy from not showering for 7 days, with only a single pair of polyester underwear, I was nonetheless free of any rashes. I did smell pretty awful though. :) 

To my knowledge, all popular routes in the United States require packing out all waste. Here are the rules for Yosemite, which has good guidelines applicable everywhere: $URL$ Obviously, back country climbing might not have rangers to enforce those rules, but you should abide by the Yosemite rules everywhere anyway. Defecating off the wall is a clear violation of Leave No Trace ethics, so the only option when on a big wall is the "poop tube" or similar systems. As for the people on the video, they didn't actually show them doing the deed, so they probably (hopefully) were just demonstrating the mechanics of anchoring and balancing themselves when nature calls. 

I believe it is mostly a matter of taste. Many people claim that going barefoot inside the climbing shoes allows you to feel a bit more of the surface than with socks. Granted, you can't feel much through the thick rubber of the shoes to begin with, but I can see how that would be true. Others counter claim that socks make your shoes less stinky after a good climbing session, but I don't buy into that claim, it seems that stinky climbing shoes is a fact of life with or without socks. I personally go barefoot in my climbing shoes, simply because that’s what everyone else did when I started, and that’s just how i've done it since then. 

How cold are you talking about? When you woke up, was there ice on your tent? Or was it 50F outside? Anyways, to sum it up, sleeping bags generally boil down to this tradeoff: Pick Two: Warmth, Small Size, Low Cost If you are car camping, you should be able to find sleeping bags that will go down to 15F for $50-$75, but they will occupy well over 40-50 liters when rolled up. While that size is prohibiting for backpacking, if you are car or RV camping, that should be no issue. You'll have to tell us more about your style of adventures for us to give you better answers. 

One important aspect burying it deep provides, is that it reduces the chances of your feces tainting the local water sources with disease. If you were to just drop a load on the top of the ground for example, water runoff can very easily bring bacteria and other organisms from your feces to streams and lakes. However, if you bury it, its runoff will only enter the natural groundwater supply, which is very effective at filtering out bacteria and other nasty stuff. 

Furthermore, in the US, land being a state/national park vs a 'forest' is often purely a result of political effects, because in the US parks and forests are managed by different government agencies. National grasslands in particular are managed by the US Forest Service. And of course, plenty of national parks will be forested. So, really there is no hard and fast rule. 

So, you pretty much need to get the data from the local Meteorological and oceanographic authorities what that relation is if you are to have any chance of predicting the tides. 

Generally speaking in the US, you can collect as much as you want from the gift shops. Otherwise, everything else is strictly forbidden. 

Using a sleeping bag liner can usually add 5-8°c or more warmth capability to your sleeping bag. However, do not use a cotton liner if you are in cold climates, as that can hold onto moisture from your body and cause you trouble. 

Gelcoat cracking is pretty much a fact of life in boat ownership. The sun and water is a tough environment. However, gelcoat cracking is usually not too concerning as long as it is fixed right away. While you could probably get by for awhile just slathering some new gelcoat or epoxy over the crack, if there is any moisture trapped in the cracked area, you're going to make the problem worse. If you live in an area with a real winter and water freezes in the hull you're going to make it a lot worse. The short answer is to get one of those little fiberglass repair kits from your favorite boating retailer, and follow the directions in it. The only thing that will work well is a proper fiberglass repair, that's why they sell the kits. The basic process is to remove and sand away any compromised material, and build it back up with new material provided by the kit. In addition to the kit's directions, there are roughly a gazillion guides online about the subject. Interestingly enough, the kits usually don't include gelcoat, so you'll need to get some of that too. Epoxy's UV resistance is pretty lousy and unless you protect it with gelcoat or some other product you'll be back at square one in a few years. The kits usually use epoxy, which 15 years ago could have been a problem, as sunfishes (and many other boats) are made with polyester resin instead of epoxy, which doesn't bind together too well, but epoxies nowadays have supposedly made that problem a thing of the past. The fiberglass repair isn't terribly difficult, and unless you are trying to sell the boat and never sail again, I guarantee this won't be the last repair you ever make, so you might as well learn how it's done. 

The key factors are going to vary from person to person. You'll ultimately have to decide for yourself what's more important. As far as warmth goes, that's going to depend on where you are going, and how well your body handles the cold. Just like you noticed, sleeping bags fall into one of those classic triangle patterns with the other factors you listed: Cheap, Warm, Lightweight/small size - Pick two. In my opinion, I believe that the process of selection for a sleeping bag goes material, then warmth, then price. Material choice is basically down vs synthetic. For a down and synthetic sleeping bag with equivalent ratings, the down bags will generally be more expensive, lighter weight, and pack smaller. If you are backpacking in places it can get below freezing, down seems to be the only suitable choice. Generally, down is superior in all aspects except for two: it's more expensive, and if it gets wet, it's pretty much completely useless until it dries. Synthetic bags will still keep you warm if they are wet, while after frosty night in a wet down sleeping bag, you might never wake up. Personally, I find the packed volume to be more important than the weight difference. A down sleeping bag is often smaller than it is lighter relative to a similar synthetic. I have both a synthetic and down sleeping bag. My synthetic weights 2 kg, while the down sleeping bag weighs about 1.3kg. The synthetic bag cost a hair over half as much as the down, $139 on sale vs $260. However, the synthetic bag takes up a massive 35L packed, nearly half my pack! The down bag on the other hand, I can cram into a 8 liter compression sack. However, there are synthetic bags that can be more reasonably compressed, but then they approach the cost of the down bags. Once you have a material choice, generally the colder you go, or the smaller you go, the more expensive it will be. You'll have to decide where the tradeoff is between size or warmth and price. For the OP specifically I think for the 35-45 range, you should be able to find a suitable synthetic sleeping bag that doesn't occupy too much of your pack. I am heavily biased from going on many trips where getting down to 10-30F is fairly frequent. And of course, you can also buy yourself 5-10 degrees F or so of extra warmth with a sleeping bag liner, along with the added bonus that they protect your sleeping bag from getting filthy. 

The first step is to make doubly sure there isn't already a bridge, or a common place people already cross at. No sense in getting wet or risking anything if there is an easier, or proper crossing, a few hundred yards up or downstream. The other first step is to make sure you are all safe when you cross. Bring a strong rope that is long enough to span the river, or to at least span to a spot midway where you can take a break. A hundred foot rope strong enough for this purpose should be fine for most typical back country adventures. You can then tie the rope securely to the first person crossing, and hang on to that as a safety device in case the crosser wipes out and loses control. Learn the proper techniques for the ad-hoc harness. The rope also comes in very handy in hauling backpacks or other gear across the river. Once someone makes it across. If the river is not violent, and the danger of falling in is simply that you get wet, have to swim to the other side, then bushwhack through some dense mosquito infested brush to get back to the trail, then you should not use the rope. Use the rope where the danger of falling into the drink is very serious, e.g. a waterfall is not far ahead. As for where to cross, I disagree with Aaron's answer to target a deeper spot. Shallower is better*. Deeper being slower depends on the width of the stream being constant, which isn't always true. Additionally, the force you feel in a deeper section will be greater, and will be higher up on your body, making it more difficult for you to balance. If it's shallower, and you can see the bottom, you're pretty much in the clear as long as you don't rush yourself. When you cross, walk across, slowly and carefully. Contrary to Aaron's answer, don't swim across, walk. You can put your feet down. However, the dangers of getting a foot stuck, as he mentions, are very real and very serious. If you maintain your balance as you walk across, you will be fine. If you lose your balance, immediately pull your feet up, and position yourself flat on your back with your feet in front of you, up high. If the river is violent, your friends can haul you in using the rope. If the river is gentle but strong, then float down in the described position, and paddle yourself to one side or the other, and get out. There is no real technique as far as I am aware, just doggy paddle. Resist the temptation to try and put your feet down to stop you from floating downriver. If the river is deep and fast-moving enough to make this whole ordeal concerning, it is fast enough that if your foot gets stuck you will not be coming back up alive. Afterwards, collect all your gear, dry yourself off, and continue onward. *This answer based on the assumption that the river is not very deep, and where 'shallow' is not any deeper than waist height. 

I would recommend checking out something like Hobie's Mirage pedal driven kayaks. With their spiffy pedal drive, you can trivially outrun(outpedal?) just about anyone while hardly breaking a sweat. Additionally, because you power yourself with your feet, your hands are free for fishing. The mirage drive is also quiet as a corpse. No splashing sounds from your paddles, whatsoever. A guy I know has one of their fishing-specific models, and loves it. However, if you ever want to go on an overnight camping adventure via your kayaks, the storage capacity of the Hobies is pretty bad, and while in general portaging kayaks is no fun, portaging a Hobie kayak would be especially miserable. Otherwise, you could try getting a tandem traditional kayak. Perhaps you can sweet-talk your wife into paddling while you fish? 

The two rounds are essentially the same. To a newcomer, the differences are not going to matter. If you are picking between these two calibers of the same model rifle, I would just get whichever has cheaper ammunition. 

The effects of drinking distilled, deminieralized, deionized, and many other forms of water purification have been thoroughly studied and despite the research, the jury is still out on the subject, with regards to temporary usage. As far as adventuring goes, it appears it does not matter, as long as the water you are drinking is microbiologically and toxicologically safe, it will be fine. If you drink distilled water all day every day, you may after awhile have a mineral deficiency, though supplements and diet can solve that. However, distillation of any water recovered in the field requires an enormous amount of energy compared to other methods of treatments. So much so that it is completely impractical to distill water in the wild, you will destroy whatever campground you go to, collecting enough firewood to distill enough water to drink, in addition to the equipment you'd need. As for the concern about needing salts, that is not a myth, but it only is an issue in some environments: those were you sweat a great deal and drink a lot of water. In those situations, e.g. desert camping, hyponatremia can be a serious concern. However, elsewhere, such as backpacking in the cool mountains, is pretty much never going to be an issue.