When beginning walking meditation, one should go very very very slow, noticing each gradation of each step: lifting, pushing, dropping, placing. Repeat for each leg. This going slow is common practice instruction in all Buddhist walking meditation manuals if one will do some research. Eventually, once one has dhyana, one's mind is fully absorbed into the meditation and one can walk much faster without having one's attention falter. Eventually, one can even run while in dhyana! 

The nature of our present time is very different from Buddha's time: after the printing press "politics" really started taking on an industrial and corporate mission. On the other hand, the ruling monastic order, the Vinaya in particular was passed on entirely orally. This should answer your first question. Any question on how Buddha handled X, can be answered in the Vinaya. In my opinion, it is frequently contextual and oftentimes impractical for our times. We live a different day today: a day of bodhisattvas and renaissance men. As for specific cases of "politics" which didn't really exist on such an organized level for lack of printing press, there is the case of Devadatta taking over the initial political expression of Buddhism. (Osamu Tezuka's Buddha manga beautifully renders this story.) Eventually Devadatta tried to kill Buddha, too, symbolizing the message from Buddhism about poltiics: "power corrupts." Even more broadly, contrived action corrupts, especially socially contrived action tends to create backlashes within and without. We are one collective organism and when good is born, evil persistently tries to take over, day and night. When there is no contrived good, there is no contrived evil. This is why Buddhism and Taoism philosophy are often very close, with Taoism taking an even more non-interfering attitude towards things, having the overall expression of "let all karma go up and down, when everyone tires of controlling and contriving, they will rest within the natural order." The Buddha himself didn't do much in terms of managing the Sangha, just like any of the Zen masters (who are even more strict, some forbidding writing or taking notes). Even when he passed on leadership to Mahakashyapa, all he did was raise a flower and smile (likely paranormal methods of transference involved). How is politics active in Buddhism today? Highly active! There is SGI international, Tibetan Buddhism affecting politics in China, and with the marriage of Buddhism and scientific brain analyses, an overall recognition of the importance of samatha and vipassana meditation for happiness and maturity. I think we have reached an excellent point today and there are many different "politics" with simple rules in smaller meditation circles to clear echelons of managerial staff, teachers, web developers, etc. for mini Buddhist societies. It certainly doesn't seem like the Buddhadharma (whether in the form of Buddhism or other traditions which focus on Insight Meditation) is nearing any sort of Dharma Extinction Age (where it is said that people will be reading and studying but few will have any Realization). 

Sit with your emotions of regret and cry and truly feel the pain you caused others Decide to fuel it into following the Noble Truths to live a balanced life and work towards the super awesome goals of Buddhism which are far beyond anything that any drug or thing or person can ever give you! Make a small offering (a small bowl of rice will do, throw it in your garden the next morning) to your family ancestors, ghosts and the other beings and ask them for their help every night. Forgive yourself when you have fully taken this decision to change and made this sacrifice List the different things you want to change Describe how each of these things are triggered and decide to avoid these triggers! (a certain social circle may not be seeing you in a while!) Find a replacement habit for each of the things you want to change (for example, if you feel relaxed by drinking, listen to music instead and do deep breathing... it'll give you a similar feeling and will lead you towards even higher attainments--while enhancing your brain and body) Keep monitoring your avoiding these triggers. Each day you can avoid these triggers (that are related to certain unbeneficial behaviors) is a day closer to permanent change! Studies show that if you can maintain a habit for 21 consecutive days, you basically have changed the way your brain works! 

Because for the First Jhana to arise the Five hindrances must be abandoned. You abandon it by focusing on one object. By doing so you blot out the hindrances. The more you focus on one object the more the hindrances gets blotted out and suppressed. 

Yes here it is. 40 Traditional Meditations Due to their complexity,some of these meditations can only lead to access concentration (upacara samadhi). 

Its not correct.You should not be looking for the nimitta when your practicing jhana. You should not be looking for anything or doing anything besides focusing on the meditation object. To practice Jhana means only focusing on one thing and one thing only until Jhana states form. You are basically doing ONE THING.For 1 hour,2 hours,5 hours,10 hours...etc---focusing on your meditation object---- If you even for a milli second have time to do other things,such as look for a nimitta or think about nimitta Concentration Weakens. Nimitta appearing directly correlates with how much attention you place on the meditation object. so while meditating don't focus on the breath while looking for nimitta,while anticipating a light,while...Drop these whiles. As long as these whiles exist concentration weakens.Weak concentration cannot sustain a stable nimitta. By the time the nimitta arises you will be GLUED,i mean GLUED DEAD to your object of meditation.Its like being bolted.Its not a state where you can easily shift or move around.You don't have to go looking for the nimitta,it will come to you. 

For example if a smoker wants to abandon smoking he substitues it with nicotin patches. If you want to abandon the hindrances you substitute it with the Opposites.(Jhana Factors). So how do you substitute it with the Jhana factors.You don't have to go looking for the Jhana factors.Just by doing one simple action of focusing on one object. The mind gathers/collects itself.And the Jhana factors (The opposites) arise naturally.On its own. Each Jhana factor is the opposite of each hindrance. There are five hindrances and they each have an opposite (Jhana Factor). 1.Sensual pleasures X One pointedness. 2.Ill Will X Rapture. 3.Restlesness X Happiness 4.Sloth and torpor X Vitakka. 5.Doubt X Vicara. 

Does Buddhism focus on suffering too much? Buddhism teaches the law of nature.That everything is subject to change. Suffering =clinging to change. ..instead of trying to enjoy the good things life can give us. Even the good things in life is suffering.Because it will end and give way to something else.You can see this for yourself.There is no happiness that you will meet that will last forever.We are always continuously trying to store it somewhere.Hold on to it.Fight for it.Cherish it...But it is nature to change. As the practice matures you realise everything is subject to change.Everything is so unreliable.So you hold on less and less.And then you realise even the self is subject to change.What you always considered your self starts to gradually fade away.And then it dawns on you..if everything changes..consciousness changes..who exactly is suffering happening to..who exactly is life happening to..who is life revolving around..every time i try to pin point it i can never seem to find it.. If Buddhism is portrayed as teaching that Life is suffering.Then the good news is there's no one suffering to begin with.No one that suffering is happening to. Buddhism shows a path where you realise for yourself through direct experience that there is no-one suffering.All there is is ever changing experiences.All there ever was was constantly changing experiences.Then you get a sense of relief.Release. 

Yes Jhana is about developing concentration.But you have to ask yourself What is Concentration? Concentration has many levels,but generally it's the state of mind that isn't obstructed by the hindrances.By practicing the Jhanas you are systematically letting go/abandoning the hindrances by means of suppression and subtituting it with the opposites.We need concentration to see clearly.When you see thing clearly you realise the truth and attain liberation. 

"but my specific question is, what to do when Dharma is (un)intentionally violent like this?" Practice the Five Faculties during and outside of meditation. The Five Faculties are Mindfulness, Concentration, Faith, Energy, and Understanding. These are in no particular order and are like the wheels on a cart: if any of them are weak, idiotic extremes occur: mass genocide, stagnancy, zealotry, etc. To be honest your question shows you need to actually study Dharma, at least read a few Buddhist works, preferably one old text and another more modern like "Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha" which is free online. I would suggest having faith that Buddhism works for many of us and studying it further. It is not easy to get everything in life figured out but Buddhism makes it possible. Also the Buddha was not an "idiot" for his decision. At the very least, Gautama Buddha was a brave man and an opportunist with a good eye for what will eventually happen (death for all) and what excellent thing he can search for (Awakening, liberation from death) for the most benefit of all for all time. He is the great hawk, your girl friend is the blind bat. Life is never perfect and sometimes extremely difficult sacrifices must be made for the highest good. 

My father is dead but I try to go the extra mile and help--really help my eldest uncle and those closest to my father in ways that I can whether it is: 

Excellent that you are interested in this! You are motivated to attain Arhatship! Permanent uprooting of the poisons is achievement of Theravedin Enlightenment/Arhatship. I will summarize the pathway in a recursive way that you can not only use for any of the three poisons (anger, greed, delusion)... but you will find will be permanently valuable for the entire path! 

The gohonzon is a representation of various deities who will help and protect you as the Lotus Sutra professes opening up your altar and closing it acts as a gateway to summon them into your daily life. This is why we do not keep the altar open always but only open when doing gongyo for the day/evening. sincerity and a lack of self-sabotage are all that is necessary for the deitys' help to reach us. 

I've had the same experience. It is better to ignore the heartbeat and focus on the breath for countless reasons! Calmer mind, more stable heartrate, blissful, easier, wind element cultivation... the reasons are endless. There are no good reasons to meditate on the heartbeat except until you have attained the 3rd jhana at least, after which you can practice extreme ascetic practices. But you asked for how to meditate on the heartbeat: all meditation methods are the same, notice the in and out. Gradually you will notice the space between the in and out. Include this space in your observation: in, space, out, space, in, space, out, etc. Gradually this space will open up and you can enter jhana. For more info on meditation and how it works read this. 

It's not good to mix up actual daily living with meditation principles and practice. First one should master meditation and then one will naturally do "dis-identification" spontaneously and quite perfectly during day-to-day life. If one forces it to happen before one has that foundation, it will not be a real dis-identification and will damage both one's meditation life (2nd training) and one's life (1st training). It's like training for the Olympics. Meditation is the training, the Olympics is day-to-day life. A participant, once already in the contest, should not think about "training"... one should just enjoy the road and live rightfully as best as one can, free of technique. When training on the other hand, the Olympian practices those techniques with all his might, strengthening and teaching his muscles. One should work similarly on exercising the various facets of meditation, specifically the Wings of Awakening. Thus, make special time to practice Vipassana and dis-identification will happen gradually. Don't force indifference in daily life or try to meditate. Just live mindfully and right. People are not meditation objects. Make that special time throughout the day, even 2 minutes of moderately-powered Vipassana can completely change the way you would respond to anger-causing, delusion-causing, love-causing situations...