Your best approach is to ease into the cardio. You will have to figure out where to put in, either on another day, or right after your weight lifting. But you have to start out slowly, much more slowly than if you were just intending to build cardio by itself. How slowly? Well start out with a cardio session that doesn't tire you at all and slowly build up from there. If you notice your strength starts to weaken, your doing too much cardio. I have to say though, it's not easy, don't think it will be. And there are limits, depending on how much strength vs cardio you want. Something to consider though, you can use weightlifting as cardio. After your main session, lower the weight, do several sets of high reps, essentially like doing weight lifting sprints. I cant' promise it will be as effective as swimming or running, but it does work and it won't reduce your strength, actually it might improve it. 

If your goal is to lose body fat, the first thing I'm going to assume is that you are otherwise healthy. I don't know how old you are, I don't know what condition your heart is in. That's up to you to figure out with your doctor. So with that massive caveat: The best way to lose fat is to restrict your carb intake, and completely stop all sugar intake. No soda, no sweets of any kind, and NO alcohol. Check every packaged thing you buy because even yogurt has loads of sugar in it. Do NOT restrict your calories though. You need to keep your calorie intake on par with the workouts your doing. Compensate for low carb intake with more good fats, and more protein. Diet is the most important thing, start there first, get that into your daily habbit, then move to exercise. The reason I say this is because no matter what you do in the gym, it's simply not possible to "burn off" what you eat. Your body is far too efficient. An hour of all out intense exercise, might burn 500 calories. A single burger and you've just wiped out all that work. SO, the way around this is to focus on exercises that cause your base level metabolism to rise for extended periods of time. This will burn a few extra calories every hour for a day or so, which adds up to far more than you can burn in a single exercise session. There are two primary categories of exercises that do this: interval prints, and heavy weight training. It's really up to you which one two focus on. For most people who have no strength ambitions, interval sprints are best. To perform interval sprints, take any exercise, treadmill, bike, running up a hill, literally anything working your whole legs, and perform a set as hard and fast as you can for 30 seconds. Then rest 60-90 seconds and repeat. You should only need 3-5 sets at most because as you get better at this your intensity will naturally climb so there is no need to endlessly add sets. That being said, take it easy the first few times to let your body get accustom to this form of exercise. Also, don't go all out on your first set, use it as a warmup. Training this way will cause your metabolism to rise for the next ~48-72 hours (it's highly variable, don't get to caught up in that). That's it. If your interested in strength, ask another question and I'll answer it there as I believe for most people the interval sprints are the best option. If you are able to stick with the very simple diet I outlined for you, that will be the majority of your results. The interval sprints will do the rest. 

In general, think about all the articulated movements you can do with your ankle / toes, and practice those with progressively increasing resistance. In specific, one good arch exercise is to take something like pieces of newspaper or a towel, lay them under your feet, and scrunch them up into a ball using only your feet & toes. 

Generic Answer: Any activity that is done too much too quickly can result in injury. However, many activities - that are slowly built up over time - can be done for an entire lifespan without messing up your joints. Why is that? The body is an amazingly adaptive specimen, full of biological tissues that can be altered acutely and chronically from a given stress stimulus, provided they are then given time for recovery and remodeling. For instance, high-rate impact forces are good for bone. They signal the bone to go remodel and make denser tissue. But if you too much too soon, you'll get a stress fracture instead. Studies have shown that long distance runners aren't more likely to have knee issues say in life than sedentary folk. The runners who do are ones that have sustained injuries and kept on running with full recovery. Specific Answer Not necessarily. With stair descent, there is loading place on the cartilage areas in the menisci and also between the patella (knee cap) and femur (patellafemoral pain). But as mentioned above, these tissues are dynamic, and can be remodeled to handle those pounded forces just fine as long as you progress carefully. An anecdotal example - I've hiked down mountain trails with more than 10,000 ft elevation loss (think 10 skyscraper descents) in a day, and my knees were fine. There is absolutely no way they would have been fine if I did that with no previous training, building up from a few hundred feet, 500 ft, 1000 ft, 2000 ft, etc... over the course of months and years (there are various time scales for adaptations to occur). So you could do stair descents all day without worry, provided you have conditioned your musculoskeletal system for it! 

Keep in mind lactic acid generation itself is actually a good thing - it's just directly correlated with other fatiguing mechanisms. Lactic acid (via the "lactate shuttle") allows for eventual further extraction of ATP via aerobic mechanisms. When you do hard cardio, you generate ATP anaerobically, which produces lactate as by product of breaking down glycogen anaerobically. That lactate actually still hold energy potential, but your body has to get good at using it. In other words, a large of getting in better cardiovascular "shape" is improving your body's ability to breakdown lactate aerobically into ATP. All that aside, there are diagrams out there that illustrate the rate of lactate removal as a function of exercise intensity over time. The "optimal" recovery intensity is about 40% of your VO2max. Walking would be below 40% of your max, but still aid in removal vs. just standing. Feeling better in 1 minute is definitely possible as long as your lactate build up is not very large (i.e. near VO2max efforts). 

It probably does something, but this is not how your abs are designed to work. Your abs primary job is to produce intra-abdominal pressure when you are lifting. This just means they literally press your guts against your spine to support your spine when you lift. That is your abs primary job. They also assist in any movement of the torso. It's almost impossible not use your abs to some extent when you move your body. So is it working your abs? Eh maybe a bit. Is it the best thing to spend your time doing if your looking to increase your abdominal strength and size? Not at all. 

If your looking to increase your glute size focus on deep squats. That is squat low, below parallel, the lower the better without compromising your back arch. You also must squat heavy. You are 165lb, and I don't know what your lifting, but a good goal is to shoot for ~305lb for a couple sets of 12. If getting bigger glutes is your primary goal right now, you should be squatting 3 times a week. Do a heavy-light-medium rotation of the weights and reps. When the weight is lighter do more reps, shoot for 15. When it's heavier do less reps, shoot for 8 minimum. Every week try to increase your weight across the rep range. You should be able to push yourself like this for 6-8 weeks before needing a break, and that should be enough time to tell if it's working. Don't get yourself tied up in doing endless sets. 2 sets is fine, just push hard, and get the reps with the heaviest weight you can safely lift. As for diet, if you are training as hard as I list above, then you should be eating a MINIMUM of a gram of protein per pound of body weight every single day. Doesn't matter how many meals it takes to get that into you. You also need to increase your caloric intake if you are pushing this hard on squats. Simple rule of thumb, if your really sore, your not eating enough. But you have to eat good food. Filling up on junk food just to get calories in will just make you fat. You will have to drop all other exercises for the lower body. This is ok, as the squat provides excellent overall development for the legs. Be warned, you will have to buy new pants. Just getting into high volume heavy squats will start your legs growing like weeds IF YOU EAT. I did about half this much squatting when I was prepping for a powerlifting meet, and I was NOT trying to increase leg size as I needed to stay in my weight class, and I still ended up breaking 2 pairs of pants in a 6 month period. I had to to stop drinking water for 12 hours to make weight. Heavy squats make you grow. Plain and simple. 

I feel a little awkward submitting this answer as, unlike the majority of the answers above, I have no personal experience, only anecdotal. When I used to climb, there was a regular at the climbing wall who was a fantastic climber and had a below the knee prosthetic (he actually came up to a couple of us one evening and asked if anyone had an allen key he could borrow to tighten his foot... probably one of the oddest things I've ever been asked while climbing). I'd recommend giving climbing a try. You can climb in a style according to your abilities, personally I use my feet a lot and climb in a very relaxed manner, whereas my regular partner climbs in a more dynamic way, using a lot of his upper body strength. As I said, I don't know if this is a fair suggestion based on your personal circumstances, but it may be something to consider. 

Take a break. The main question here is why do you go to the gym? Personally, I go for a bit of stress relief, because I want to get stronger, and because I enjoy the training and shooting the sh!t with the people I train with. Saying that, I do sometimes hit periods where training seems like a chore, and when that happens, I take a week or two off. It's important to note that I don't just sit on the sofa in my underwear and binge watch Netflix (well, maybe on the occasional Sunday...), I stop my regular training, but still do something to keep me active. As was eluded to in the comments, getting "me" time is important, something that you can do by yourself without feeling pressure from anyone. The gym can sometimes provide this, but if you're the sort of person who's very aware of the people around you, it may feel like you have to perform at peak every time you're in the gym, so you're not judged too harshly by others (though honestly, most people very rarely care what others are doing in the gym, as long as they're not in the way, or not doing something stupid or amusing (or stupidly amusing)). I'm a little hesitant to mention it, but it is also possible that you're over training. If you're hitting the gym and Crossfit classes on alternate days, then depending on what you do, that has the potential to be a lot of work and stress on your body. If you're not recovering fully between each session, then systemic fatigue is going to build up over time, until it hits a point where your body just needs to rest and doesn't want to train. You can look up symptoms of over training (or, under recovering, which is usually what it is), but from memory they do include things like a lack to motivation to train. If you're lacking motivation to train, but still put on onus on yourself to hit the gym every day, then you're going to be stressing yourself out over the perceived belief that you HAVE to train every day, even when you really just don't want to. So, to go back to my original point, take a break. Take a week off of training, that time when you're supposed to be training in the evening after work, go for a walk and listen to a podcast, or go and gently swim for an hour. Treat yourself to a spa day, take a yoga class, or even just do 30 minutes of stretching for those parts of your body that need it. I don't know what your goals are, or why you've been hitting it so hard, but taking a week off isn't going to mean all your muscle suddenly wastes away, or that all the body fat you've lost magically appears back overnight. What it might mean is that you reignite your passion for it, and carry on making progress.