It sounds like a matter that needs more study. It is plausible that most natural languages have nearly the same objective complexity (which could be defined variously, e.g. lexicon size + amount of morphological/inflectional rules), so that children earn proficiency at similar rates for most natural languages. But what if a child's L1 were an objectively simple language such as Ido (or Esperanto)? Has acquisition rate ever been studied for such a scenario? And note that it is difficult to tell how well a child is acquiring language, because the ability to speak comes more slowly than the ability to understand, and perhaps more slowly than the mental ability to form sentences. It strikes me as difficult to tell how much a pre-speech child comprehends what has been spoken. Pre-speech toddlers can be taught baby sign, which you might use to tell how well they understand speech, but I wonder if having learned a sign language might speed up speech acquisition (thus biasing your study). 

This is in addition to "standard" parameters and complexities that most/all verbs in a language support, such as auxiliary verbs, negatives, and conjugations. Nouns have several optional parts that can hang off them, but almost any noun (other than verbal nouns, i.e. gerunds) uses the same syntax: (note that "pen" could be virtually any noun). 

As I was commenting above, English has a possessive "case" marker that can apply to phrases and it exhibits an "allergy" to recursion. On the other hand, if "cases" just refer to context-sensitive form variations like "be is am are was were", I see no clash with recursion there (likewise in Spanish, which has plenty of recursion but vastly more verb forms than English.) Esperanto has a simple two-noun-case system and a very productive system of affixes, but when you're used to it, it feels very natural even though the affixes can't mark phrases. If we're simply talking about morphology that changes word meaning, I don't see a real issue there either. For example, in Esperanto I can say manĝaĵujo, a food container, with the "container" suffix -ujo, but ruĝa fruktujo "red fruit container" should mean "a fruit container that is red", not "a container of red fruit"... basically what I'm getting at is that affixes ordinarily apply only to words, not phrases, and this is no different from English affixes. Yet this doesn't feel like an incompatibility between recursion and morphology, merely a limitation on the complexity of morphological changes. If I want to say "container of red fruit" then I simply give up on affixes and say "ujo de ruĝa frukto", "container of red fruit". Now I can only talk about the languages I know about (English, Spanish and Esperanto, all in the same family I'm afraid) but it seems to me that word-level variations such as case markers and affixes can be thought of as providing shortcuts for standalone words like "of", "that", "female" (stewardess) etc. Yes, word-level changes don't play well with recursion but that doesn't necessarily encourage them to disappear. As long as they provide some utility that the stand-alone alternatives don't, they will tend to stay. For example, English will keep "'s" for the foreseeable future because it is more concise than "of" (and because "of" is more ambiguous, having more meanings than just the possessive); and this would probably be true even if "'s" were strictly applicable onto to words and not phrases. If Esperanto ever became really popular, the accusative case "-n" might disappear for most sentences, yet would probably remain whereever it provides information concisely, e.g. "hejmen" = homeward, to home. Anyway, I'm a linguistic 'newb' myself. I suspect there are lots of forces acting on languages that neither of us appreciate very well, forces that probably outweigh the hypothesis of this question. 

Is there a difference between an affricate and a plosive+fricative consonant cluster? According to wikipedia, there is a difference between a plosive+fricative sequence, as in the following example 

In short: No, Yiddish is not a creole. A creole is a stable language developed from the mixing of parent languages. A creole develops if (and, AFAIK, only if) its speakers were children who grew up speaking what used to be a pidgin as their first language. A pidgin is a simplified language that develops as a means of communication between groups that do not have a language in common. A pidgin is not the native speech of any entire community but is an acquired language. Pidgins develop rather haphazardly out of necessity when multiple language groups, for whatever reason, need to communicate with each other on a very regular basis. Bits of vocabulary from each language are put into a melting pot, so to speak, and an ad-hoc rudimentary grammar develops. People are trying very hard to make themselves understood, and the result of that generally resembles a sort of tarzan-speak. Pidgin languages are not stable and continues to develop in a rather impromptu manner. There is not necessarily any widely agreed upen grammar and will vary widely from speaker to speaker. Certain conventions will inevitably arrive, that is, the features of the pidgin that are used enough will become standard. Wikipedia lists some notable characteristcs of pidgins: 

I don't know of any tools to do this, but in HTML5 there is an awesome element. For example, if I wanted to give an English translation above the Spanish sentence Quiero comer una caja de caracoles, I could use this HTML markup: 

You can see a few samples of this in action here. This is not directly supported in all browsers, but that can easily be amended with a CSS stylesheet. 

What's the difference?, you might ask. In the first one, the word is one syllable long. In the second one, the word is two syllables long because the /m/ is syllabic. How do you express this difference with IPA? 

Note that a creole is linguistically more developed than a pidgin. The language is mostly stable. Unlike pidgins, which along with moribund languages are notable for their simplified characteristics, there are no grammatical features that are unique to creoles. Now, finally, to your question: Yiddish was not a language that developed from two language groups trying to communicate with each other. It is a High German language that was (and, to a lesser extent, still is) spoken by Ashkenazic communities in central Europe. Yiddish was never a rudimentary mixture of two languages, it was just German that borrowed a few features of Aramaic and Hebrew. And, no, English was not a creole during the Norman conquest. English was still English, it was, for the most part grammatically the same as it was before. English just borrowed a large amount of vocabulary from French. 

But I honestly can't hear the phonetic difference unless the speaker carefully puts a pause between the morphological boundaries. The semicircle in the IPA /t͡ʃ/ seems to suggest that /t/ and /ʃ/ are coarticulated, or at least articulated together more than in a typical consonant cluster. Is there any difference between the affricate /t͡ʃ/ and the cluster /tʃ/? (similarly with /dɮ/, /p̪f/, /ʥ/, and so on) If so, what's the difference, and how could one tell the difference between an affricate and a simple plosive+fricative sequence? 

As a French Canadian native speaker, the only time I remember the distinction being mentioned was in French class back in high school where the teacher gave us a very short list of stative verbs to remember as verbs that used "be" as their auxiliary, but even that falls short of being either useful or significant because verbs conjugated with be as their auxiliary are not necessarily all stative. Interestingly, when I did my English<->French translation degree at university, which involved a few courses in linguistics and a lot of courses focused on French grammar since a translator needs to write fluently and grammatically in his native language, the topic never came up. So I would agree with your interpretation that on a grammatical level, there is no relevant distinction to be made. 

Based on the summary on this page, it appears to be terminology completely orthogonal to the function of the case used to distinguish which parts of speech the case applies to. If I understood the distinction correctly, you could, therefore, talk about the nominal accusative case, the pronominal accusative case, or even adjectival accusative case if you were dealing with a language that marks case only on some parts of speech, but not others. In that respect, you could, I suppose, describe English as having pronominal nominative, accusative, dative and genitive cases as vestiges of a case system that has disappeared for nouns and adjectives. I imagine that you came across it in a conlanging context because a fair number of conlangers deliberately set out to make their language different from what is found in natural languages, so even if asymmetric case-marking is rare in reality, a conlanger might decide to create a language where case is marked on nouns but not on pronouns, or vice-versa, depending on whatever rule struck their fancy. 

In French, the terms "foyer" and "chez soi" express the concept of home with a strong nuance of "one's family' for the first (foyer is originally the fireplace, and by extension the hearth), while the latter is "one's own place" and therefore the place where one feels they belong. In some contexts, the word demeure also shares some of the nuances of the English word home. In Japanese, there are terms like uchi (内) or wagaya (我が家) that can partially cover the concept (the first is broader in that in can cover any in-group to which the speaker belongs, depending on the context, while the second is my/our home/household/family), but their use is more restricted. There is also the term "ibasho" (居場所) which refers to the place where one belongs. I don't speak any other languages fluently enough to provide other examples, but I think you'll find that, as with most terms, and especially those describing abstract concepts, you won't find a one-to-one correspondence where other languages will have only one word corresponding exactly to home. Rather, as with my French and Japanese examples above, you'll find that although the concept (or, rather, set of concepts) is quite common, how it is expressed will vary (sometimes considerably) from one language to the next. 

I'm not sure how universal the use of interrogative words as intensifiers is, but one possibility comes to mind: People will often spontaneously exclaim "What!?" or "How?!" when something unexpected happens. It seems like a short step from that to applying the same word as an intensifier.