There are multiple career paths for developers. Project Management, functional management, software/system architecture, and senior development roles. Project Management and functional management, like Development Manager, Team Lead, and CTO, are the management positions, with project management being more about managing project success and functional management being more in-line with team success, both tactically or strategically. I've heard of developers heading into system architect roles, which is really just a senior level technical position that doesn't involve people management as much as it does determining the overall architecture of large systems. Senior development roles are more like the position that you're in. Management likes people like you because you can use your experience to solve complex problems. While technologies do change a lot and you may feel like your coding skills aren't what they were in the past, the concepts behind problem solving are fairly static. I've seen senior developer roles where the senior engineer was more independent, like a sole developer on a one-person team. A position such as this could be a great perk for an experienced developer who doesn't want to move into a management-type position, yet he/she still doesn't want to have the same type of hands-on management that a junior developer might face. You might consider talking to your managers and finding out what your options are; they don't even have to be formal. If you're indeed a valuable person in the organization, they'll find a position for you that both utilizes your skills while also keeping you engaged. Finally, a degree can help you break through this ceiling that keeps you from progressing. Consider discussing with your employer to see if they'd be interested in helping you obtain your PMI. It's not clear which path you're most interested in, but expressing your interest either way may at least let you know where you stand. 

Get it out of the way so you don't have to dwell on it. Confronting what you are uncomfortable about is really the only way to overcome the issues you are feeling. There are several strategies you can try, depending on the situation and your knowledge or relationship with those people: 

Many organizations and teams try to organize something for a person's birthday as a sign of showing care and interest in their employees. If there is a particular reason that a person doesn't want their birthday to be celebrated (e.g. it might coincide with a sad event), is there an appropriate way to do so without offending or appearing to be unappreciative of this gesture? 

There are always a lot of unknowns in the interview process, and the thing you would hope is that it is the skills of the applicant that determines whether you get the job or not. I think interviewers don't always have the best idea of what the 'right fit' is necessarily, and to take anything they say personally just makes you feel worse when you face a similar situation next time. There is definitely a big factor whether they know you have applied or not and whether it is the same person doing the recruiting or not. I think the fact that you reapplied for a similar job means that it is of interest to you, and I don't think it can work against you unless there was a specific reason they didn't want to hire you the first time and you need to avoid tripping the same alarm again. If you cannot obtain this information, then I would suggest that you look at this as being a new interview where you have gained more skills and experience as an employee, and that if this is the right timing for you then the rest will take care of itself. 

So, fixing grammar and spelling errors doesn't just make us all look and feel smarter, it's actually critical to the bottom line. Your colleagues and students absolutely must understand this; otherwise, someone will lose a lot of money and opportunity. Also, you might emphasize the technology. Tools like grammar/spellcheckers can catch a lot of errors that might otherwise be overlooked. Even if they aren't perfect spellers or may not have memorized William Strunk's Elements of Style, you can still point them to this resource so they can learn or answer questions they may have about how to properly adhere to the rules. 

There are ways of clarifying these points without making them sound like complaints. Your goal in conversations with either of these people should be open communication, with the purpose of clarifying your roles and getting everyone's expectations on the same page. 

Ask the director, directly, but not passive aggressively, if he/she would like help answering any questions that the vendor might have. After all, you're here to help. Since you did the work, it's likely that you are in a better position to answer questions than the director. If the director says that, no, he/she will handle questions, then suggest that the director send the email so he/she will be the recipient of replies. If the issue is that your own work might suffer by taking on the additional work, then again, clarify with the director. Let the director know that you have work you'll need to catch up on and ask if there's a specific reason you should personally handle the email communications. The director will either give you a good reason, in which case, you talk to the COO for clarification, or the director will handle the emails personally. Clarify what kind of help you should provide by seeking guidance from the COO. This isn't an inappropriate thing to do. Communication eliminates confusion and misunderstandings. Here's an example of what you might ask: 

You should play games that allow people to tell others about themselves without necessarily having to actively do it, because some people are not that social and need other people to get them talking. Games like having someone ask a question like whether people like Windows or Apple and getting them to move to sides of the room, and then keeping coming up with categories until everyone is in a group or by themselves is always interesting. Once you run through a few different topics you'll find that people will remember someone by their combination of choices or having being singled out rather than trying to remember a name but still not knowing very much about someone. 

They will much prefer the 2 page version compared to the 9 page one, and it also shows your ability to summarize and present yourself well. Having said that, if you only have a limited amount of time, and if you still have lots of preparation for the interview then you might just want to do a quick summary for the 9 page interview instead, because it can take a lot of time to compress all that information (remember it is not necessary easier to write less). Think about how much time you have to spare and where you should put your effort into. 

I think good or bad experiences are defined by how much you learn from them. In a bad work environment there are still plenty of good experiences to be gained. In fact, one of the most common interview questions is to do with the challenges that you face at work, and if you have always worked in an environment where everything works well then it is hard to assess how good your skills are when under pressure or resources are constrained. It also speaks volume for a person to be able to produce good work under trying circumstances, so I would say that it is a matter of being able to separate between things that you have control over (and those that you don't), and also the thing that you can gain from the experiences. 

My experience with a leadership consultant: We had a consultant come in and talk to us about leadership and management. Meetings was only a small part of it, but the concepts from my experience should also apply to your situation. The leadership consultant had us come up with some ways that we can build better relationships with the people who work for us and with us, and although it seemed like busy work, there were some things that we took away from the experience that had an overall positive impact on our working relationships. Maybe we didn't all become outstanding leaders at that moment, but the seeds were planted... The consultant's role was to guide us and help us come up with a plan that worked for us, and the consultant you're meeting with should hopefully help and guide you in coming up with a plan that works for you. Why do companies do this? Companies sometimes do things like this as experiments. About that big long rulebook you found that no one enforces, well, it's an example of a failed experiment. This terrible idea didn't seem so terrible when it was thought-up, and luckily the idea died simply because it was long, boring, and most likely very dry reading. Consider that management might be smarter than you give them credit for. Maybe they chose to forget about that very big rulebook on purpose, since they know it didn't work. Use this as a learning experience; a chance to collaborate and improve Thus, it's very possible that the code of conduct teamwork exercise is intended to encourage you to work together to build a framework for meetings, which you, as a project manager, can then use to tailor your own meeting-style. So don't think of this code of conduct as a list of inflexible rules but more as guiderails to help you navigate the meetings successfully while still tailoring them to your unique problem and situation. This is the difference between a framework and hard-fast, inflexible rules. The framework should give you just enough information to start you off on the path to success without dictating the finite details. For instance, if you hold larger meetings than other project managers, and clients are involved, then perhaps what works for you might not work for others. The goal of the exercise should be to come up with ideas that will make all of your meetings successful, yet still allow you the breathing room you need to adapt to change. If you asked me today what we talked about with our consultant, I don't fully remember. In the end, this experiment should be successful even if you forget all about the worksheets you filled out with the consultant. Why? Because the ideas are your own, and hopefully they'll become second-nature. :) And if it fails, then hopefully you and management have the foresight to move on and try something different. Hope this helps! 

The topic of interest is ergonomics, and you can also find lots of information scattered around the web about this topic if you look at keyword terms like workplace ergonomics and workplace health and safety. I suggest that this is something you raise with a OHSO (occupational health and safety officer) because it is something that should be customized to individual shapes and sizes, the equipment that you use and the office environment. 

I guess if his actions (and some of them seem pretty bad) hasn't created the kind of reaction that would draw attention to your boss, then it means that people in the company don't care enough about customer relations. Your case is a good reason why there should be workplace performance reviews, and that people who don't cut it after a probation period should not continue to be hired. Perhaps this is something that needs to be introduced, otherwise you just have to give your boss the hard work and put something in front of him so he can see for himself what the person is doing to the reputation of the business. 

Can someone provide an example of what the 'reasonable' amount of hours that was asked for, and how the employer justified the application of this clause? 

I think it really depends on the type of work and organization that you are targeting. With user experience being such a big deal these days, you might find it really easy to get into an online gambling company doing programming for them because you have good user insight/knowledge. It might work against you in organizations that are of a more commercial/corporate nature because they might think you like spending time doing things that are not considered to be in line with their image. Of course, these are all just assumptions, and you can go with either excluding the details or tailor the content so that it addresses the position description and company image better.