While Omni (as it's called) was used by governments as an executioner at the same time as an informant (hey, might as well use all its functionnalities for a purpose), those governments eventually got all the answers they needed (or maybe they didn't have enough people to execute), so Omni got moved to replace judges in courts. Of course, not all the trials needed Omni (and it's quite costly), but for some trials where both parties claimed they were right and the other was wrong, it could be used. In that case, people knew the price : If a party was found guilty by Omni then one responsible of the felony would be the price to pay (and the others would face their government's justice). There are exceptions of course, if both parties are truly honest and are both equally right (or wrong) then no answer is given, and no payment is needed. Omni is harsh, but not always. To end a trial, Omni can be used as a last resort, but it needs to be accepted by both parties. If a party refuses, then it is considered guilty. It's the way it goes. So in fact, the fear of Omni reveals the truth, most of the time. Thanks to this, since a few decades, trials no longer took ages to end, and the result was always justified. 

Collapse of the economy, and possibly, of civilization. There are billions of people living in extreme poverty. Many of them would be happy to move to a better place. Imagine if from one day to the next, over a billion people would suddenly appear in the richest cities of the world. Look at the current migrant crisis, increase both the speed and the numbers by a factor of a thousand, and you can imagine the chaos which would ensue. Millions of starving people suddenly appearing in developed cities, and rioting as very few of them could find what they arrived for. 

One of the biggest problems (besides the ambiguity of what is regarded as killing) would be that as trying to live up to the treaty requires humans to cede an awful lot of liberties, there will be humans who resent it. even more so, there will be a lot of humans who don't believe in that "Insects are sentient" crap. Insects can telepathically communicate with some humans. Just as in real human history, gods can telepathically communicate with some humans, and some believe those humans, but others don't. All it takes is a few extremists who feel that enough is enough, and go to torch a huge anthill. Suddenly millions of people will be executed. Which will fuel people to avenge them... 

There was evidence that as much as 75,000 years ago, the human population experienced a sudden drop in genetic population, a "bottleneck" catastrophe. Was the supereruption of the volcano Toba to blame? Or did different shifts in climate, those that gave Africa repeated periods of drought, really do the job? Whatever the culprit, this bottleneck changed the destiny of human history. As a result, one race of people has a far smaller genetic distinction from another than two chimpanzees in one same troop. Let us assume that, in an alternate timeline, the bottleneck catastrophe happened at a later date, preferably during the Younger Dryas climate chaos 11,000 years ago. At that time, there was a four-to-thirteen-degree-Fahrenheit drop in global temperature at a span of 1200 years, too quick for ice age plant and animal species to deal with. It most certainly brought an end to the Clovis culture. Delay the bottleneck to the Younger Dryas, and how much of a population growth would we have seen between 75,000 and 11,000 years ago? Would human history, preferably history taking place during the Bronze Age, be reset on an earlier date? Would a higher genetic diversity give humans significant differences in their appearances and anatomies? 

Why are tanks and infantry still used on the battlefield, when artillery and missile launchers can shoot at much longer ranges and do much more damage? A wizard might be able to toss fireballs at great range, but if the fighter gets close enough, an unprepared wizard can become defenseless. Also, wizards might be in much smaller numbers, their services might be much more expensive, and they might need a long preparation time, fancy hand motions and all to cast a spell, when a quick punch or a quick arrow from a short distance might be quicker and more effective. If a wizard is physically more fragile than a fighter, and magic needs preparation time an fancy motions, even an average fighter can beat up a wizard in a melee. Warning, TvTropes link : Squishy Wizard 

The human civilization on my earth is as advanced as us, no difference is to be noted. Omni cannot be bought or influenced, it will always tell the truth. I would like to know, why would people, in their right minds, consciously use Omni in trials ? Knowing that if they are guilty, they are condemned to death... I was thinking of using Omni as a bluff to frighten other parties (if you are guilty), but if the bluff is called, the price is going to be payed. If nobody were to use it, then only its existence (or the belief of its existence) would be enough for people to be 'honest'. Hence the second question : What if Omni was gone a long time ago, and the government used its image to speed up trials, and criminality all in all. How long would it take for people to notice ? 

It would be just like a regular old cavalry charge, but at least slightly less effective. Mounted knights carried lances which had a much longer reach than unicorn horns, and a human rider can also carry a wide variety of weaponry. Once in a melee, a unicorn cannot do much with its horn, while a human rider can chop at his enemies from above. So, if the unicorns had riders on them, then it's no big difference from any historical cavalry, and if the unicorns didn't have humans riding on them, they would be less effective. (Assuming that unicorn biology is similar to the horse except for the horn) One single factor, however, could put unicorns into an advantage: if they would be much less fearful than horses, or even humans. Battles were not decided mechanically by a fight which lasts to the last man: armies almost always broke into a rout when losing 20-25% of their men, sometimes even much less. 

In this alternate scenario, man created the bow and arrow BEFORE leaving Africa. From what I had read, this can result in many technological revolutions while the Earth was still in the grip of an ice age. So man used horses, elephants and camels as draft animals, built the wheel and began writing before the climate chaos that is The Younger Dryas. The basis of this question is that while the Old World basked in the glories of Egypt, Rome, China and Japan, the Americas had very few evidence of civilization. The following evidence is as such: 

There are three different species of pine collectively called "bristlecones", all of whom can grow in weather too harsh and soil too poor for any other tree to take root. They are renowned for their adaptation against overly harsh environments. As such, they grow very slowly--some are currently 5,000 years old, making them the oldest extant organisms. 

Note that such devices already exist, although still experimental, and capable only of a very narrow range of input. You can use a device to guide a mouse cursor over the screen. Functioning prototypes already exist. This device actually makes EEG images and looks for patterns the user trained it about. It's still quite rudimentary, but its speed and accuracy might be improved in the future. You have to train yourself to use it, and the system itself has to learn you. You train it (and yourself) by actually wanting the cursor to move in a direction, and not just by thinking about that direction. So by reading the word "left" somewhere and thinking about the direction "left" is not the same as you wanting the cursor to move to the left. So it doesn't "understand" your thoughts, and it definitely doesn't parse your thoughts as if it was a text. This makes a full textual conversation impossible with our current technology, but if in the future it could be expanded to full textual parsing of your thought (for your example with the voice call), accidental calling could still be avoided with the above methods. You'll train the system to respond to your desire to make a call, so it won't respond to you reading the sentence "I want to make a call" or you just randomly thinking about it. This strong desire leads to completely different images in your EEG than just the thoughts themselves. 

In TV shows where characters die, (and we know are going to end up in heaven or resurrected) the other characters have to feel sad, to share emotion with the viewers. It's more enjoyable to watch a show with emotion (whichever it is) rather than no emotion ("meh, he's dead, good for him"). Now for real people, that believe in heaven, it may be just a selfish reaction. They won't see the deceased one until they die, which can take many years, so they're just sad about the time they'll stay separated (or deep down, they don't really believe in heaven). (Or if they do, they know they won't go there because they are not pious enough) 

In my world, an Omniscient creature exists. We don't know how it got here, or if it was created, but it's real, and it's been "willing" to help humans for a long time now. However, every thing we might ask to this being comes with a price : One answer costs one human life, given after the answer. It's omniscient, but it's got its limits : 

Define "medieval ages". It encompassed approximately 1000 years in Europe, the last few centuries of which already had gunpowder. The problem with early grenades (and early firearms too) was that they didn't have contact fuses: you had to light them on fire yourself. Starting a fire (unless you had a lit torch with you) took quite some of time. There were some early contact explosives (for example "fulminating gold"), but they were very unstable. Maybe even better for a mysterious "miracle seller", and its instability (and price) also explains why it's that rare and almost unheard of in your story? 

If the vampire's lifestyle is really low key, it means there is not much proof about what he's really doing. If you have to provide him good publicity, it might mean he is known to be a vampire, but not known what he is doing, so we have to embellish that. Start by claiming that killing people and sucking their blood is just a myth. Then go from the myth to stereotype. It's just an evil stereotype made up by some evil supremacists who can't tolerate if someone is different from them. Draw parallels about how some groups were accused of doing evil things in the past, and claim all such cases were just pretexts for oppressing them. "We all live in the 21st century, so can you please stop being prejudicial! We should accept everyone as they are!" - this will go very well with the ideological position of most of today's media. If you have significant funds, you can start smear campaigns against anyone who tries to bring proof about the vampire's evil deeds. There will still be a small and loud community who will hold strong anti-vampire sentiments, but you can even turn it to your own advantage: you could even post exaggerated and obviously falsifiable stories in their media, which they will eagerly believe and share, but will make them look foolish in the eyes of the rest of the world. They will be reduced to being just a fringe hate group, so no matter what proof they will come up with, they will not be believed.