I never heard that Buddhism teach about parallel universes. Buddhism teaches only one Human world, which is exists here on earth. There are other worlds (loka dhathu) for gods (dewa) and others. And there are some worlds which are even thousand Buddhas tries at once, can't be reach. 'Aroopa thaala Brahmana' worlds are such worlds. Can not answer your second part as it assumes first part is true and it is not true as per my answer. 

This should be a comment, But I can't comment yet since my points are less than 50 and below is as of my understanding. You are in a wrong view called 'Sakkaya Ditti' in Pali. You always think there is person, and he will attain Nirvana. But it is wrong. What lord Buddha praeches is neither 'Sakkaya Ditti' nor a 'Uchcheda Ditti'. He didn't preach there is a person. and He didn't preach there is not a person. There is only connections between continuously changing things. If we took a tower build by stones, actually there is nothing called 'tower' but set of stones. Like wise, if we consider a person, there is nothing but set of things. Lets say you are 40 years old now. What are the things you have in your body when you are 1 year old? Nothing right? But how you can be recognize now as same you in age 1? because of the connection between things changed. Nirvana is ending of having these set of things (person). That means, there will not be 'a person' when you attain Nirvana. I suggest you to read more about 'Pattichcha Samudpaada'. 

A slightly cheeky thought: it's not about fulfilling conditions, but rather removing conditions. In practice, cultivating good conditions yields good results (and thus this is prescribed as part of the path), but ultimately the unconditioned needs no conditions. When a fire burns out because its fuel is exhausted, it vanishes. All that remains is the vanishing. 

Buddhist practice doesn't start from the premise that the world is a just and fair place; rather, it aims to reveal that all conditioned existence is marked by suffering. Suffering is the real problem and assigning blame doesn't help to alleviate it. It's also not particularly helpful to consider what-if scenarios like "would I still be to blame if I had a tumor and couldn't control my actions?" I have enough real problems without imagining new ones See, reality doesn't happen to someone else and it doesn't happen somewhere else or at some other time. Reality happens right here, right now. This is not a hypothetical practice, this is a real practice and it deals with a real problem, the suffering that marks every passing moment, the clinging that creates it and the out-of-control mind that is churning away with these thoughts. Not, "who's to blame for that?", but "who's to blame for this?" Maybe drop the blame and just look for the cause. Maybe drop the cause, too. Just look. Ultimately, Buddhist practice urges us to investigate this matter thoroughly, to find the root of suffering. And then, remove it. Perhaps this whole sordid affair is predicated on a misunderstanding, a subtle delusion that got out of control. The Buddha suggests that there is such a cause to suffering and that it is possible to remove it. The path of practice is prescribed as a way to purify this mind and reveal, with full clarity, the reality of this situation. 

As of my understanding, If you are practicing Buddhism, yes your goal should be ending the 'Sansara'. Buddhism describes Sansara is a very painful journey which we are roaming without knowing that. Therefore ending Sansara is a fair statement in that sense. I don't know any Sutta or speech which load Buddha preaches about anything else but ending Sansara and it's brutality. 

There is this beautiful story, once Buddha preached to some of his disciples when they ask about Nirvana. They asked from Buddha, "Blessed one, please tell us what Nirvana looks like, feels like. So we can try to attain it." Buddha said nothing. They asked several times and Buddha continued his silence. When these disciples went out, he preaches others below story. 

According to Buddhism, to do a sin, you have to consciously do something using your body, speech or using sitha. In a dream you are not doing anything consciously. Therefore simply you can not sin in dreams. 

Next Buddha is a totally unrelated separate person to previous Buddha. He will realize the same truth as previous Buddha when his(previous Buddha) teachings are no longer among us. Once someone becomes Arahant, He will never be born again. The whole purpose of being Arahant is not to be born again. How can previous Buddha can tell prophecy about next Buddha? To be a Buddha, its saying we have to do lot of good Karma and endless sacrifices. Buddha can see someone's Karma and how these Karma going to effect them. Therefore, Buddha can see whose Karma is fulfilled to be next Buddha and when it happens. As become a Buddha is so difficult, it's only for great persons who has endless courage and such a kind heart for all beings to preach them Dharma and make them aware of Samsara. 

When I go to get advice from someone, even if they can't fully relate to my situation, it's still possible they can assist. Even if they just listen, really listen and perhaps give a gentle nudge or kind remark, the interaction may well provide unexpected insight. If I already have the tools to address my own problems, it's not a matter of being given the solution, but rather given guidance in how to find it. It's tempting to say that the lay life is more complicated or problematic, but from where do these complications and problems originate? Getting to the root of this is, in reality, what the monk also faces, so although the apparent face of our problems may differ, the fundamental issue is the same. 

The subtlety here is that understanding of this truth is not realization of this truth. I might have an experience of ego-shattering transcendence and yet, the very (next) moment, act selfishly out of long-worn old habits. The practice of realization is one of purification and ceasing to establish new roots for future suffering. In the Zen tradition we often chant/study the Heart sutra, which sums up the fruition of practice as "gate gate paragate parasamgate, bodhi svaha". Loosely, "gone, gone, gone beyond, gone completely beyond, awake, so be it." It's not enough to understand anatta, I must go beyond even understanding not-I and find myself realized in living my life. I have to go beyond going and find a way to be present by ceasing to imagine that I am (not). Which is all just a fancy way of saying this is a real practice to be lived and not merely a philosophy to be understood. 

Karma is one of the main teaching in Buddhism. Basically what buddhism teach us is this. We are in a wrong understanding of me. Even thought we thinks there is something called me, the truth is there is no anything called me. (At least there is not a define constant thing) Because of this wrong understanging, we are doing 'things' which were not existed before and we become the owner of this 'things'. These 'things' have re-acts. e.x. Say we kill a moquito. This incident of 'killing that mosquito' was never before. We did it. Hence we are the owner of that incident. This killing incident has a negative power which will make us suffer. So we will suffer for that incident in future. The power of incident came from the strength of our own thoughts and from the act. (First we are thinking we want to kill this mosquito, then we think to kill it, then we do the act) This is simply what Karma is. For each and every thing we are doing, this law applies. Lord Buddha describes, this same law plus the miss understanding I mentioned above cause us to born over and over again. Each time as of the Karma we did for the rebirth. Main aim of buddhism is get the right understanding and stop these re-births. 

As of my understanding if he did any wrong, it will come to him as bad Karma. And Good will come as good Karma. Lets say the officer here lied and protected his country. He will be punished for lies and will be blessed with the good work of protecting the country. Can anyone lie with a not lying intention? I think we can't. If we want to lie. Then we are lying and we know we are lying. Purposes may be good. But the real intention can't be good (In here, lying is wrong, but the purpose of lying is good). This is how I understand.