So you're a student of some sort on an internship with a company and the company isn't pulling through on their part of the deal and providing you with mentoring? It's time to contact the contact you have at your school/university and inform them of the situation, so they can take action. You should also go to your manager and ask why you're not getting the help you need. As to your assignment being too hard, don't blame the company. The assignment will have been created based on what's expected of interns coming in with your expected level of education. If you don't have that knowledge, ask yourself what you missed in classes and labs to cause you to not have it. And remember, a real job is harder than the cookie cutter lab assignments and programming examples you get at school. That's why professional software engineers get paid more than minimum wages. See it as an opportunity to improve your skill set, learn a thing or two. That's what an internship is for after all. 

IANAL (I Am Not A Lawyer) I am going to slightly frame-challenge your question. I am not familiar with the situation in Germany, so I will answer from a point of view based in Netherlands. I assume something similar is available to you. You probably will want to do research into this. I know that getting this arranged in Netherlands is something you want to carefully consider. It is not always an advantage. 

The ideal time to discuss this would be during contract negotiations. If you already signed the contract, you will have to follow it. You will most likely be able to ask your employer for permission to work in different places. Permission for a single 'job'. The easiest way to achieve this, is to phrase it as a benefit to your employer. At worst, it shouldn't cost them anything. An example: I had the same or a similar clause in my first offer at the company I currently work for, but I requested it to be removed. I volunteer at festivals in my weekends in summer. Per the original contract, that wouldn't be allowed. I explained all the advantages of this to my employer and that it wouldn't have any disadvantages to the company. I would for example learn many soft skills. My employeer agreed to change the clause for my contract. 

It is both polite and professional to request a contract before starting work. You say something like "Great, I'm really excited to work on this project. Before we get started, let's formalise the relationship." The contract should list: 

It's quite common that a reference check is just HR talking to another HR department. Occasionally, as a manager, I'll get an email asking me to confirm that Alice Smith worked for me from date X to date Y. References, in this litigious age, are almost never personal. I don't think I've ever come across a "Yeah, well, I wouldn't hire them again!" reference. As I'm sure you know, the Equality Act 2010 makes it unlawful for an employer to discriminate due to gender identity. You don't have to reveal your past name, but it may be practical to do so. This is an issue that women often face if they change their name after marriage. Do you contact all your old employers and ask them to update their systems, or do you put your previous name on your CV and alert the company that you're married? Personally, I wouldn't mention any of this to a potential employer - I would only mention it to HR. Individual managers may not fully understand their responsibilities under the Equality Act - but a professional HR department should. My suggestion is twofold. 

I work as an application developer for a company that has one product: an administrative system for businesses. The company also uses its system. The company has a company-specific module that allows the administration of change requests. Anyone in the company can create a change request. Most change requests come from calls made to the helpdesk by customers, some change requests come from colleagues. Being the most junior (in age and experience) developer and the only person working on change requests for the desktop application, I often get pressured to work on changes requested by (more senior) colleagues first, even though the external customers have requested changes much earlier. Our guidelines to picking up change requests are a tad vague: I should try to find a balance between impact, the time it takes and the age of the request, prioritizing easy, high impact, old requests. Colleagues usually request a convenience change for a company-specific module, which has little to show towards the external customers and arguably little impact in general. I have an enormous backlog, so they may have to wait weeks for their change request to be finished, but so do customers. Their only potential argument is that we are also alpha testers of our own software and customers at least have to wait till the beta version releases. How can I deal with these more senior colleagues (internal customers) asking me to prioritize them over external customers? 

Your notice period doesn't start until you give notice, unless both parties (you and the company) agree to a shorter period. So no, you can't consider your notice period started until you have given notice according to the requirements set forth in your contract. 

In my experience wearing "less formal" clothes or footwear is rarely an issue, especially in positions without physical customer contact and certainly if there's a good reason for it (and having a foot or ankle so swollen that you simply don't fit in your regular shoes would certainly count as a good reason). 

But in 20 years in the industry, and years before as a student and hobbyist, I've only encountered that I think twice. That's not to say I've never run into bugs in compilers, libraries, or tools. But in decades I've only once or twice encountered one where we couldn't work around the bug without an investment that would be higher than the cost of switching to another tool(set). 

I am a 24 years old female. I started working as a developer in a small-medium software company a little while back. The CEO was very exited to get me on board, as I would be their first female developer since they started out back in the 80s. Moreover, young graduates are difficult to find in and the median age is well over 40. The development team has a floor of their own, with their own bathroom area. There is a separate area for males and females. Before I joined the company when the male area was full, the males would sometimes use the female area. Female employees from other departments were aware of this. When I joined, it was made clear this was no longer accepted. I’ve noticed, very rarely, that this still gets done. Sometimes the door falls closed as I come around the corner to get tea or one of the stalls would be locked. The CEO/department head does not seem aware of it, but would certainly not agree with it. I am not opposed to sharing bathrooms. It’s about the expectations. If I am under the impression that the bathroom is a “women only”-space, I’d like to be able to get changed for example after cycling through rain without a man unexpectedly barging in. The bathroom layout is rather traditional: a door leading to the female area and a door to the male area. The female area is noticeably smaller than the male one. Both contain lockable stalls. I’m not entirely sure who these people are. I’ve got suspicions, but I think accusing them could only be awkward. I could ask the CEO/department head what he thinks about it. I could also go to HR, but my gut says resolving it within the department is better. What can I do? 

As an employer, I do not care through which agency you worked. I only care about the achievements you had and the skills you demonstrated. If these were different roles within the company, I would list them as 

Ok, that was the generic answer to your question. Now, let me talk a little about the specifics. Again, this is from a UK perspective. I've been actively involved in Trade Unions my entire working life, so I have some experience in this. The Union movement is built on solidarity. Our voices are weak individually, but together they are strong. Sometimes that means going along with a decision that you don't agree with in order to win a larger battle. For example, you may vote for a politician you like even though you disagree with her stance on one particular aspect of policy. Union finances should be transparent. I remember a very long argument about whether our union should keep funding a particular political activity. After much screaming and shouting, we discovered that the total sum being spent was in the order of £200. Yup. A couple of hundred quid. What I'm saying is, check to see if this is as bad as you think it is. Are you prepared to split your union - and weaken your negotiation power - over a minor matter? If, however, it is as bad as you say - you should exercise your democratic power and make some changes. It is your union. 

Your doctor or employment-related government body (UWV in Netherlands) may know where to start. Again: research what implications this has, especially related to your future! 

Your employer is worried about your value to the company. To them, you work less days and need to be paid an equal amount as your colleagues. This makes you less valuable to them. Telling them the reasons for your sick days won't suddenly make you more valuable, unless you would somehow start costing your employer less. Of course your employer may be humane and/or your employer may not want to navigate the legal minefield that illnesses and contracts are, and they may keep you on anyway, but I would not count on it. In Netherlands you can get a medical assessment done and be deemed partially unfit to work. If you are deemed partially unfit for work, you and/or your employer will be eligible for government support. This support comes in various shapes and forms, including a bonus for employers for hiring someone with an illness or not having to pay your sick days off.