Can the question be reworded to "Can spider-mecha replace conventional tanks" or "Can spider-mecha effectively destroy conventional tanks"? There is a plenty of answers why the first option is not plausible. On the other hand, if you want to design tank-slayer you are focusing on tank's weknesses and anticipating their strengths. Tanks are big, heavy, slow, noisy and deal heavy damage per shot. Therefore the counter must be agile enough to escape tank's guns and deal focused damage to the critical parts. Tanks are useless in deep mud and on very steep hills. Make the spiders light enough not to get stuck and able to climb. A small fast unarmed mecha that can resemble in a form of czech hedgehog can be effective agains moving tanks imobilising them long enough to be easy target to other weapons of your choice. Small mecha carying a landmine and placing it at the right spot and running away can be effective too. A swarm attack of small and agile spiders against tanks are effective because tanks cannot fire at all of them at the same time. 

Long version: Only thing you need is energy source. Anything else can be recycled. Our Earth can be considered as closed system. No matter (significant) leaves the earth and no (significant) matter is gathered there. There is no source of water, no source of carbon, no source of any chemical (except ro radionuclides and izotopes in the decay, but they are not vital). 

I'm not sure if it applies in general, but in czech notes and coins there is year of the issue. So we have notes in design of 1993 but issued with 2013 timestamp. Of course, more and more security details are implemented to newer issues. According to this, you are limitted to the oldest valid banknote or coin you can have. Suppose you can do several jumps, say, 2000, 1995, 1990,... and there is always a currency with several valid issues. Let's stay in Prague. 

Why to use bulk materials only? You can use conventional material for the body, cover it with thermall barrier coating and protect it with hard coating. So when you start with titanium blade, cober it with 200 um TBC and then cover it with 200 um alpha-alumina you will get weapon that sustain 2000 °C for reasonable time. The blade will be also very hard through wide range of temperatures. One can prepare coatings with hardness ranging from ~5 to ~15 GPa (HV 5000 ~ HV 15 000). Nanohardness in martensite vary from 0.2-1 GPa (HV 200 ~ HV 1000). If you chose more complex material for the surface finish, you can top the hardness up to 30 GPa (HV 30 000)... 

The eastern block was run on fear and paranoia. The Soviet union and all their protectorates were sentenced to fail from the start. On the both sides of the Iron Fence it was a race where the strongest wins and weaker lose. In the Western side strength was measued by net income and/or election results. This setup advantages the agile minds and inventors. To be succesfull, one had to grow faster. In the Eastern side the strength was measured by ability to bump the opponent off. This system advantages spineless paranoids. To be succesfull, one need to eliminate opponents faster/more thoroughly. 

The ship and warfare are designed within your world and therefore it must obey the rules you created. 

There are two questions you ask. L.Dutch provided very nice answer on possibilities of existence such structures elsewhere. The other question is whether they are about to be identified as valuable gemstones. Gemstones are usually scarce and used in jewellry. Synthetic gems (diamond for cutting tools, ruby for lasers) are significantly cheaper while they have very same structure and sometimes fewer impurities. Another example is gold. In Middle-ages Europe it was scarce and highly valued metal, in a New World it was used as a sacrifice to the gods. In Terry Pratchett's Discworld, gold is scarce and highly valued metal everywhere except for a Counterweight continent, where it is just a common, soft, yellow metal. If you are asking whether an earthling can find gemstones somewhere on a distant Earth-like planet then yes, it is highly probable. If you are asking whether inhabitants of a distant Earth-like planets would treat such special structures differently, then it depends on the cultural backgroud you make for them. 

Apocalypse, Alien invasion, whatever that makes the world hard to survive in. it is well known fact that the volume increases with third power of radius and surface increases with second power. It is easier to sustain one big wall around one city than many smaller walls and trading routes between cities are vulnereable. In this scenario the crucial buildings and people are in the huge city and only expendable units (warriors, miners) and outposts are outside the city. 

How the Soviet Union could be saved from the doom? The only way was that US and OECD failed first. If the project Apollo was fail and the whole Space Race would have lead to the economic disaster giving Soviets domination in near Space. If the Chernobyl disaster would happen in Three Mile Island and Chappelcross (Core meltdown and explosion) instead. I think that in this scenario, the Soviet Union would take over whole world but its structure and system would lead, sooner or later, to decomposition and tough fight between different factions. 

When on the planet's surface everything is under influence of high gravitational forces. On the other hand, in the "free space" you have much weaker forces to bare with. 

Cloning in today's point of view is not copy-and-paste process... You take DNA sample frm one being and insert in the seeding ovum. This clone will grow from scratch in vivo. Therefore the original will be physically older than the clone, but their genetical age will be the same. 1 year later the original will be mid-aged bussinessman and his clone will be tiny model of sir Winston Churchill. If one can simulate the baby growth during pregnancy, the process can be faster, but the clone will last the signs of the expirience to the world - scars, immunity system "database". To have original-clone pair that cannot be distinguished one must copy and paste every single cell in the body, every single neural connection, every single bit of information the body had acquired. If any single feature cannot be copied, this feature is the item on the checklist you are looking for. 

One approach that wasn't mentioned is piezoelectricity. Wield your blade with piezocrystals and everytime you block attack or your attack is being blocked the crystals get charged and you can discharge. But your sword must be insulated from you and your opponent must be part of the circuit, otherwise you will get stunned or nothing will happen. If your sword is harder than your opponents and ha higher melting/boiling/burning point you will: 

Buy as many notes and coins issued before 2000 and jump to 2001. Change the money for Deutsche Mark and trade for the oldest notes and coins. Jump to the year after the one your youngest note/coin was issued. 

Last but not least, if you need a graphics for a cover, illustrations, game visuals and "the community", the good-guys' ships must look sharp and sexy and the bad-guys' appropriately badass. 

I'd like to answer the question, but, in my opinion, I cannot find it. tl;dr: Game is about competition; otherwise it is activity. I think non-competetive game is oxymoron. If I play a game I am competing opponent (chess, table-tennis), my team compete another one (football, LoL), I am competing myself (tetris, climbing,...). And this competition satisfies me. Even if the goal is "It won't be that bad as it was last time." When you can assess the result (king is killed, ball is missed, goal is scored, nexus is destroyed, score is reached, altitude is reached) and you have someone to compare the result - count yesterday's yourself and tommorow yourself too - you have competition. The assessment can be both objective (time to fulfill the rules) or subjective (I like this a bit more than that). The arts doesn't solve it either, see figure skating, dancing, freestyle motocross, oscars, film festivals, music charts etc. When solving puzzles you challenge the author (I will find the solution; period!) or yourself (I'll solve it faster than the previous one). 

The have different aesthetics. When two nations on one planet have different tastes why to expect the aliens have the same style as [culture X, age Y]? They came from different planet. They may come from heavier planet than the Earth is and thus their structures tends to be touher. If they came from ligter plant they structures may be ligter. If they came from planet with wild atmosphere, their design would be more aerodynamic and tough, if they came from calm planet their design may be more "artistic". They have different body shapes and ergonomics. Everything they build is to suit their needs, not ours. 

Beauty is highly personal scale. What one calls beautiful the other may call ugly and vice versa. Also (wo)man to be called beautiful has to fulfill different attributes than, for example, horse, car, scenery, song, painting, equation, statue, building, etc. Some can mean beatiful as sexually attractive. And still there are people sexually attracted to things completely out of "humanoid" group. 

Military operation The strike must be fast, hard and focused. New government must be set and new laws enforced prior the "resistance" can be organised. New rules must improve the life quality significantly and in short term. With full stomach, there wouldn't be force to revolt back. Blitzkrieg Your military operation must be well organized, focused and it must eliminate military bases faster than they can regroup. Even if they outpower you in total numbers, the key to success is that you can overpower them locally. Citizens in conquered areas shall be turned into your allies - improve their life quality ASAP and spread this information to the unconquered areas. Infiltration Small country's TLA (Three-letter-agency) infiltrate the large country's government and army headquarters with sleeping agents. Compromise any candidate, that is not member of TLA or TLA-loyal. When you reach 2:1 Loyal-to-independent ratio in both government and army, run the revolution. Improve the life quality significantly. The fewer changes for the citizens the better. 

100 % recyclation is vital. Garbage disposing, even burials are waste of resources. If you want your community to grow and/or the system is not totaly closed, you have to replace the leaking material or the material needed for new citizen, you have to mine it on the surface. Then you are limitted to technology: 

If you are creating in-universe language choose the name according to this language. It may soud weird for you, or the reader, but it is part of the universe, you've created. I don't think that names like Krč, Spálené Poříčí (let the google read it for you), Eyjafjallajökull will sound nice for everyone's ear, but they are real names. In general, there are meaningless names, like Hrs-hgn (Terry Pratchett: the Dark Side of the Sun), punny names like Dnah, Hctib Elttil (Lar Desouza: Looking for Group),... So, don't bother it sounds weird. If it fits to the universe and the story it is all right. 

As the other noted, the EMP blast propagates from origin with the speed of light and its intensity decreases with a square of radius. Also, some components are more vulnereable to the overload - microprocessor on the weak part, thick copper wire on the tough side. The mode of failure matters. 

Under your limitations there is no way how to prevent a key and lock from being compromised. Once it is identified as a lock or key there is a way how to prepare a forged key. The only way is to prevent anyone from understanding that that strange stone is a key and this tiny hole is a lock. For example, have a long corridor with many ancient statues. Part of them are locks and you have to put keys (pieces of a wand, gems) in their mouths, eyes and ears. You can use any natural detail to hide the true function of the lock and you can use amulets to hide their key purpose in "just a decoration". 

When on habitable planet the planet itself supports individual's vital needs. On the other hand, in free space the vessel must have its own life sustaining technology. Bigger vessels therefore have higher power-to-supply ratio. 

All points above limit the ship design to a degree regardless it is personal or cargo carrier, civillian or military. Now, you have a set of possible shapes. For military uses there are two types of equipment: Fighter and Support. 

The difference between space combat and ground combat is similar to difference between battling in a forrest and battling on a plain. Heavy cavalry can be easily defeated by agile archer units in forrest, but they can wipe them out easily on a plain in a single raid attack. Large ground forces can be easily targetted and wiped out by a single blast from the orbit, on the other hand many small units spreaded all over the surface force firing at one unit separately. Heavier spacecrafts can sustain heavier fire, because their surface is square-proprtional to their size byt their volume is cubic-proportional. Twice as big craft hase four times bigger area to defend but eight times bigger space to carry troops, ammunition and technology. It is the manevruability versus strength decision. In forrest you have to have ultimate manevruability (Individual soldiers), on plain you can go bigger (Tanks), aeroplanes are even bigger and spacecrafts follow such patterns. You can see how the warfare changed by introducing tanks (WW I) and heavy bombers (WW II) to the battlefield. 

tl;dr: The EMP damage front is moving with a speed of light. Before and after, no damage is dealt. The effect of the damage, on the other hand, may be dealyed with the respect to what was damaged and how serious the damage was. 

Direct failure: The working part is the one that was EMPed. Such devices, no matter their size, comlexity or age, will fail almost immediately the shockwave hits them. Fine electronics will fail instantly, tougher ones will last fractures of a second. Delayed failure: The EMPed part is a component of a more complex device. In this case the device will fail when the EMPed part is needed for the first time. Say there is really old car and EMP fried its alternator only. The car is working until it drains all the power from its battery. Failure initiation: The EMP overloaded some parts and their lifetime was significantly reduce. Or the EMP killed some part that was backed up by different part which is now constantly overloaded. After some time the now-overloaded part fails. Say there is powerline divided into several parallel and insulated lines and because of the overload part of it was overheated, several wires were cut and welded together. In the wounded part the current is higher than in the untouched wires and is heating up. At some point it will break.