This weapon would have interesting ramifications. Open spaces become dangerous. You'd hide in dust and gasses. You'd get matter between you and any potential threat pretty quickly. If you could get matter within close proximity to the attacker, the antimatter weapon turns back on itself. Dust, gas, charged particles. Maybe send out a bunch of drones, small and difficult to detect. These drones are able to emit strong magnetic fields (energy is cheap and portable because antimatter) They then feed small and amounts of charged particles into the fields. The charged particles travel at very high speed and can be redirected quickly by shifting the field. Alone these fields are completely harmless, but in the presence of antimatter they become something else entirely. Your enemy charges up his anti-matter beam, your drone flicks on and starts spinning matter around right near his ship. The antimatter beam licks out, immediately interacts with tiny amounts of matter and destroys itself and the ship and anything nearby. Of course if you can get a drone close without being detected you might as well deliver a tiny antimatter bomb with it instead. But as a non-offensive deterrent it might work. 

They could easily discover electricity in electric rays or similar sea creatures. They could discover the “batteries” of the rays; in fact, there is a possibility that the corresponding human research on rays in the 18th century brought Galvani and Volta to further investigate electricity, so it should be feasible for your civilisation as well. As for electric safety concerns, the discharging of electrocytes in rays uses some particular chemical which closes the circuit, so your creatures could possibly figure out by trial and error how to discharge the rays without short-circuiting them (after all, the electric rays themselves do exactly that). Clearly, after understanding how electrical rays work, they could use this technology for hunting or battle. On the other hand, it would obviously be difficult for them to create electric circuits. One very human-like way to make some progress I can think of is to figure out that an artificially created air bubble (just by using some vessel first brought out of the water and then submerging it like a diving bell) is much safer in terms of absence of short-circuits and then starting to make experiments only under a diving bell (reaching the objects from outside using tentacles); I guess, a 18th century-like tech level presumes they know what air is and how to keep some volumes of it under water. After that discovery, they could basically proceed with a 19th century human-like experiments on electricity using the “batteries” from ocean creatures to build huge battery stacks, if they don't discover a better way to build them. 

When you say there's "no requirements" on computational requirements or energy consumption, how far does that go? It'd be inefficient to a silly degree, when you can just program your magnetically-guided mist to part out of the way of people passing through, but lets say the person calling the shots doesn't actually understand the tech, but is paranoid about poison gas, so you have non-technical reasons to do things the hard way. In that case, with enough computational resources (and this would take a lot of real-time computation), and enough emitters and sensors everywhere (hidden in every wall and other stationary surface in the room), theoretically, you could track every eyeball, camera, and other image-perceiving mechanism in the room, track every ambient surface as they move through the room, and scatter light off the latter and into the former. get enough of the right photons, with the right wavelengths, bouncing off the right surfaces, at the right angles of incidence, and hitting the right parts of the eyes and cameras, at the right angles, and they all add up to an image. Frankly, though, any civilization technologically advanced enough to pull this off, let alone be practical with it, has probably long since outgrown any of the objectives such an image would be useful for conveying, unless it's specifically intended to be used to communicate to less advanced species in a way less threatening to them than having them all just suddenly know everything you want to convey to them. I'm not sure current technology would even be enough to allow us to calculate the amount of real-time computation pulling off such a stunt would require. It really is a silly large amount. 

You could no more bootstrap an ecosystem by sending a vial of DNA than you could bootstrap a robotic civilization by sending a printout of the blueprints of a computer. You need something capable of creating life. Luckily life is really good at self-replication. A vial of bacteria might do the trick but you'd need to be sure of a hospitable environment (a planet in the goldilocks zone with liquid water, a magnetosphere and an atmosphere) and a lot could go wrong. Your fridge and your stove are basically bacteria killing machines and they operate on a scale dwarfed by the conditions of space. You might need to put some thought into the process but a single automated mission could probably bootstrap an ecosystem. This could be replicated on a vast number of planets. Of course Faster Than Light travel is impossible given our current understanding of physics, so visiting any of these places would be impossible, also it would take thousands of years for the missions to get where they're going and billions of years to bootstrap interesting ecosystems so I'm not sure what's in it for you. 

Your idea greatly resembles aether theories. As such, they are very well consistent with the understanding of physics (and were absolute mainstream) up to the Michelson–Morley experiment of 1887 which strongly suggested the absence of aether; but even after that the Lorenz aether theory successfully incorporated some special relativity phenomena although based on the aether framework. However, in the above aether theories aether is, to quote Huygens, “an omnipresent, perfectly elastic medium having zero density” which makes it quite different from the liquid-as-we-know-it. On the other hand, it clearly might allow for a world consistent with pre-20th-century physics and maybe even able to incorporate some of non-relativistic quantum mechanics. A description of the electromagnetic waves as transmitted by the aether allows for a non-contradictory physics where some of the non-everyday physics effects like stellar aberration would have been different (cf. aether drag hypothesis with references to the Stokes model). 

The problem here is your use of the word soul. Nobody knows what it means to exist as a soul. We know what it means to exist as a body. That would certainly be ending. We also know what it means to exist as a mind. "I think therefore I am." Therefore if I am thinking I am. Can the scientist think while inside the machine? If not it would be meaningless to say he or she was in there. Are the components of the computer available for use? E.G. when transcoding the consciousness were provisions made so the consciousness could actively control the machinery of the computer? Can the consciousness see and hear and communicate, travel to other computers (if not it's locked into a perpetual hell of thinking but no outside stimulus. Given that computers are super fast the perceived time would greatly exceed real time)? You might be tempted to say they can't move around, but remember that copying digital data is trivial --again think of it as a mind transcoded to a computer rather than a soul. I think we're assuming that no provision has been made for a simulated life, so you've got whatever already exists on computers and that's it. There's no sensation of body, no simulation of emotion (though these are certainly possible they'd have to be set up ahead of time.) Basically all you get is interacting with the computer in all the ways that have already been set up. Maybe online gaming would still work about the same way, but it wouldn't be immersive. You'd simply see the game in third person just like a regular user. Would existing without a body be good or bad? Emotions are probably almost entirely chemically derived (again, you might be able to fake emotions inside a computer, but this alone could be the work of a lifetime of hardware and system design) so you might end up with a pure reasoning creature with memory of emotion but no real way to feel anymore. You might be terrified by the choices made out of pure reason. The person would be incapable of suffering though. The worst it could get would be the abstract thought. This sucks. And maybe the decision that existence has nothing to recommend it over not existence at which point the computer person quietly executed the command 

Such a restriction requires a change in the foundations of quantum mechanics or its interpretation. The Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is an inequality: $\sigma_p\cdot \sigma_x \geqslant \hbar/2$; as such, it doesn't forbid a system to be in the state where the uncertainty of the momentum and coordinate are directly related by, say, being inversely proportional to each other in a way that makes it an equality: $$\sigma_x = \frac{\hbar}{2\sigma_p}.$$ However, if one keeps only states which satisfy this relation, one arrives at a contradiction with other principles of quantum mechanics. The condition above severely restricts the variety of quantum mechanical states a system can be in; for instance, the harmonic oscillator could only exist in what is called coherent states and cannot exist in states with definite energy; for a hydrogen atom, no stationary state (with a fixed energy level) is possible either. But the measurement process of, say, energy should put the system it into a state with definite energy; however these states are now forbidden. Thus, to stay consistent, one has to review at least the part of the foundations of quantum mechanics which tells what a measurement does to the particle. Any other direct functional connection between uncertainties should lead to similar problems, because it leads to too few allowed states to be compatible with the existing interpretations of measurement in quantum mechanics. 

If the cataclysm was carried out by a willful entity (aliens, gods, a terrifically successful Luddite cult, mole people, whatever fits your story), as opposed to a dispassionate natural cause (meteors, earthquakes, plague) or an accidental one (level 5 biohazard containment got breached, CERN made a black hole, Doc Brown's fanboy treatment of a historical scientist distracted them from inventing steel), then it is a simple matter to declare that the same enemy that wiped out civilization intentionally cleansed the signs thereof, so as to impede what they had destroyed from springing right back up. 

None. As Martin-Mueller speculated, there are, in fact, a ton of jobs that have to be done planet-side in order for any of our currently existing manned spacecraft to be able to return safely. With everyone on the planet wiped out, the astronauts would be left stranded with no way to make a successful reentry. This could be eliminated in worldbuilding by speculating a near-future spacecraft able to make the return on its own (the modifications needed from current spacecraft really wouldn't be all that extreme), but any such technological changes would change the other assumptions the question relies on as well. However, if you're willing to allow for just a few planetside survivors, that changes the picture quite a bit. The astronauts could even still be quite isolated, since those who help them down would, mostly, not need to be anywhere near the landing site, and the few who did have to be at the landing site might be contrived to succumb to the residual effects of the disaster shortly thereafter. Even communications with the helpers, which were achievable from orbit overhead, might be cut off once line of sight is lost when they land, depending on what method they're using to communicate (the space shuttle, for example, has a wide variety of communications gear available to it, plenty of which would have this problem if they were what the helpers had available and undestroyed). 

Ever noticed how people in time travel stories mess everything up? And then somehow by the skin of their teeth manage to put everything back to rights? Things probably don't actually work like that. About half of the time the calvary doesn't arrive in time, the answer to the riddle fails to pop into the hero's head, the match doesn't light, the green wire blows up the bomb. Time travel gives people infinite chances to mess everything up. Each chance to destroy the world plays out instantly as time travel is invented -- time travel takes all the possible spins of Russian Roulette and plays them at once. The moment you invent time travel you fork a possible universe off, do your messy business, destroy everything and the only possible universe that still exists is the one where you didn't. In any universes where time travel is invented the world is destroyed instantly. The fact that our world still exists can be taken as proof that we're on one of the few possible timelines where time travel doesn't, will not or cannot exist.