Is there an adjustment which affects the amount of axle on each side of a front hub? I have one wheel set, in which the front wheel does not center in the fork. If I switch to another front wheel, that one does center properly in the fork. (Closing the quick release is difficult, one side of the fork gets pulled in). Therefore, I know the problem is not with the fork, but with this first wheel. I suspect that something is wrong with the hub, and has been that way for the life of the wheel. Is there an adjustment I can make to attempt to get the wheel to be properly centered in the fork? 

You cannot install canti or v-brakes on that bicycle frame. Furthermore, if you could, the disc wheels do not have a brake track for canti pads. As others have mentioned, my opinion is that you should change to a different brand/model of disc brakes. That way you can continue to use your existing frame and wheels. The Avid BB7 are an excellent choice. They are a highly regarded mechanical (no hydro fluid) disc brake, and easy for the home mechanic to adjust. Two small dials on the brake itself fine tune the position of the pads. Shimano hydro disc brakes are also highly regarded and would be a fine choice. 

Maybe they provide a sizing chart online, where you can measure around your hands at the knuckle and determine the appropriate glove size. Otherwise, you might be better off buying gloves locally, so you can try them on. 

Saying you lose weight slows you down is really reaching. As a 100kg rider, a former weightlifter, I recognize my strength on the flats. Losing weight would make me slightly slower going downhill. It may be an advantage with a tailwind. But, big picture, these are ridiculously minute gains. As soon as I hit an 8% pitch, Im in trouble as I try to maintain 4-5w/kg. I need to sustain 400-500w for 8 mins. Really? The 72kg guy is blasting upward at 290-350w. This is a human effort. I die, they leave me for dead, and after 2 minutes of watching them disappear, (knowing that if it were flat this wouldnt happen) you realize your day is over. So, yeah, there are some physics that imply weight advantage. Who cares. The loses are huge on hills. Every try a crit? Brake into a corner, lose all your momentum, then the pencil/whippet beside you launches out of the corner and I blast too. Im at 1000w. Over and over. 60 times a race? Who the heck can do that. Lose weight! If it were a big man's sport, there would be big people in it. There isnt. Dont tell me about big people in cycling. Im 6'3 and 220lbs. When I stand next to someone who is 175, they look like a stalk of asparagus. Like bamboo. Not big. At 6'4 and 180, that is very lean. Riders are at an advantage being smaller. Relative power. If you lost 22lbs or 10kg, you would hardly notice the difference on the flats. You probably just lost fat. What they say about muscle is for people who are digging deep. Big gut people just get way faster. Pick up 22lbs. And imagine going up a steep grade without it! You will breathe better, jump out of the saddle and dance compared to what you are used to. I said to a friend, if I stopped riding this winter, and re-emerged in spring, not having ridden one mile, but weighing 22lbs less (10kg) I would be faster than last season within one month or less. By comparison, how many people boost their FTP by more than 5%. 300-315. Pretty good. 300-330?? No way. And if it was achieved, in year two, 330-360? Then 390? Dont believe it. By losing weight, and 10% of your weight, and adding strength with some hard training, you will way out perform what you can do in training. Losing weight, especially fat, is key to success. Remember, this isn't a bench press competition. Its a chin up contest. The big muscle big gut guy lifts huge wieghts and weighs an enormous amount. The skinny guy with the skinny legs and bony ribs and little skull with skinny wrists is no challenge. But wait: he only weights 120 lbs. So he can rip off the chin ups. Compare this: skinny guy adds fat to his gut but all else is the same-more or fewer chin ups? Meanwhile muscle guy with the gut lifts eeven bigger dumbbells and now his arms are even bigger. Same gut. Does he win now? The point is, you dont know exactly how much faster, but it is an absolute fact-you get leaner you just got faster. 

I prefer the feel of tubeless tires. Using the same tire, there is less rolling resistance by removing the tube. 

The jump from an 8 mile ride to 50 miles is quite a bit. I think rather than spending money on the bike, you first need to spend money on clothing and accessories. Padded bicycle shorts will make you more comfortable on these longer rides, as will cycling gloves, and a cycling jersey. Additionally, the jersey has pockets to carry food, phone, and small tools. Also, wicking socks to keep your feet dry during the ride. Cycling specific shoes, and possibly clipless pedals will increase your efficiency, speed, and comfort on a long ride. Cycling shoes have a stiff sole, so your feet don't get hot spots from the pedals. Spending money on components, while tempting, will not provide measurable benefits, unless you are racing for prize money... 

I suggest looking at the Salsa Fargo. It is a drop-bar mountain bike, but you can always put skinner tires for light touring. If you forgo the rocks and roots, then any cyclo-cross bike should fit your needs. 

Focus your vision about 15-20 feet away. Don't look down at your front tire, or you will wobble more. One other step for beginners... do your first ride on the rollers with flat pedals and tennis shoes, rather than your clip-in pedals. Stop and hold onto the doorway when you get a drink of water. After you move out of the doorway, make sure there are no sharp pointy objects on the floor around you. 

The spindles should be the same width and diameter. Seeing as how you already have an Ultegra crankset, you should be able to use the larger Ultegra crankset without switching the BB or getting an adapter. But you will have to move the front derailleur up and probably re-cable it. Switching will make you have to constantly move it so you'll have to leave enough at the end when you're in compact so it'll fit when you move to standard. If you're looking for more gearing but don't feel like switching everything back and forth, you could always switch to mid compact chainrings (52 x 36). They use the same BCD as compact and it should be once and done without having to move your derailleur every time you switch. 

In all honesty, I think your best bet is Bar Mitts or something similar. They're neoprene covers that attach to your handlebars and cover your hands. They allow you to get away with wearing thinner gloves so you stay a little more dexterous. If you ride drop bars, you're kinda stuck riding on the hoods to stay protected. You can still move your hands to the top or drops, but they just won't be protected from the wind. I rode all last winter with them and I don't think I could've done it without them. If you don't want something like that, then as someone mentioned, layering is key, even in gloves. 

There is another type that tends to stretch out which is, more or less, a cinched, folder over piece of the same material found in the rest of the short. As mentioned, they do tend to stretch out and don't often stay in place as well as the tacky kinds. There are also grippers that have little silicone "dots" to help hold in place. I usually find that they're less binding but they can be put on any material so the stretch durability is hard to nail down