Unfortunately, no. There are two impediments to such a program. First, there isn't a sufficient database of individual sound recordings. You might cobble together collections of certain common sounds from various resources, for example words containing /a/ or /ɑ/ or /æ/, but it is usually very hard to find recordings of a given putative sound with multiple speakers of a language. Finding multiple speakers for a language is important, because you have to be able to distinguish between peculiarities of a single speaker vs. peculiarities of a language. Taking three speakers to be the minimum sample necessary for making a somewhat credible claim about a single language, note that we still do not know truly language-dependent (as opposed to speaker-dependent) facts of VOT for the languages reported in Lisker & Abramson's classic work on VOT. Now, looking at Cho & Ladefoged 1999 which looks at VOT in a number of languages (all endangered, in a nice twist), they got data from a reasonable number of speakers of each language, and you can see that VOT for the aspirated / unaspirated contrast differs quite substantially across the languages that they sampled. The second problem is even more profound, in that the underlying premise is false. That is, were one to listen to samples of the [k] vs. [kʰ] contrast across languages, one could never in principle get the correct answer by listening to any individual sound. Navaho unaspirated [k] is about comparable to Thai aspirated [kʰ] (both languages have a contrast between aspirated and unaspirated). This is especially clear in dealing with vowel height, where the "ɪ" of one language is the "e" of the next language. There are general phonetic ballparks, where a glottalized stop will have a certain range of known variation (and surely some additional unknown variation), but the idea that there is a single phonetic representation of a particular IPA symbol is clearly false. So to ask a listener to make an absolute identification of a particular sound is a conceptual mistake. What could be useful would be a comparative judgment of similarity between two sounds. Substantial though still insufficient raw materials are available via the UCLA phonetics archive. A second possible resource is the Journal of the IPA, via their sketches, which nowadays tend to include online speech samples. Eventually, the materials will be available, and then what remains to be done is better defining what needs to be done with these samples, in order to better grasp the similarities and differences of phonetic segments across languages. [EDIT] However... in light of the comment about expert performances, you can in fact get performances by Peter Ladefoged here, performing IPA symbols. These are not sounds of a specific language, rather they are reference sounds which may or may not match some actual language. You can also get productions of cardinal vowels by Jones here, and side-by-side recordings of Ladefoged, House and Wells performing vowels. The latter is informative in that it reveals variation within the community of well-known experts. 

[ɕ] and [x] are not very close in pronunciation, articulatorily or acoustically. [x] and [χ] are fairly similar, and [ʃ ɕ ç] and fairly similar. Sumelic mentions that [ɕ] derives from /x/ or /s/, which happened relatively recently, and explains the orthographic velars in the spelling of Peking, Chungking, and the dental in Sinkiang. 

The question is framed the wrong way: it should be, when do they~we not add /z/? First, there are many /z/'s in English -- plural, possessive, reductions of auxiliaries has, was, is. Only the possessive enjoys this treatment. Zooming in on the possessive, there are distinct facts of pronunciation and spelling. As for spelling, you'd need to check a current normative grammar of English writing, but I think that you write s-apostrophe in the possessive of a proper name ending in orthographic s. However, that doesn't reflect the kind of pronunciation fact where the possessive of (plural) cats is pronounced [kæts] and not *[kætsɨz], that is there is actual non-presence of the suffix (Whereas "Jesus' name" is pronounced [dʒɪjzəs̵ɨz]. So this /z+z/ → z effect is limited to plural+possessive. It also has to be the /z/ plural, not an irregular plural (children's, moose's do not have this reduction). There is also a semantactic condition, that the noun in question has to be the possessor, so The cats' feet only has one /z/. Since the possessive affix is a phrasal affix and goes at the end of an NP, any kind of word can actually manifest the affix, thus "The boy who threw those rocks" can be a possessor, and it is normally not subject to this reduction, i.e. "I saw the boy who threw those rocks's [raksɨz] aunt yesterday". Admittedly this is bad writing so you should avoid the problem by using the "N of N" construction, but if you use the structure, do can get plural+possessive. The reason is that "rocks" is not the possessor of "mother", it's the last word in a phrase that is the possessor. Semi-analogously, with conjunctions of nouns in the plural, e.g. those lions and tigers plus "'s eyes", I am 60/40 in favor of retaining the possessive (whereas in the above relative clause example, I'm 100% for retention). I don't know of a good experimental study that looks into the details of the variation. 

It depends on the language (note that there are many kinds of "r" and IPA has a wealth of r-like letters to indicate some of those differences). In very many languages, [r] or [ɾ] (etc.) is not treated as a glide, because it acts differently from glides. For example, onset clusters in Chinese can include glides, but not r. There is a common syllabification rule that syllables can end with glide plus consonant, but not liquid or nasal plus consonant, and r acts like a linquid rather than a glide. However English [ɹ] is rather different. In terms of features, r is usually [+consonantal] (which has to do with there being a constriction in the vocal tract smaller than a certain size), but English [ɹ] is very unconstricted and it is [-consonantal]. So it does in fact act like a glide, and is treated as a glide. The moral of the story is that not all rs are the same, and not all treatments of r are the same. 

For the utility of the syllable, Hayes Introductory phonology and Odden Introducing phonology both have chapters / chapter-sections on the syllable with some interest in utility. I also recommend Selkirk's 1982 paper "The syllable" (van der Hulst & Smith eds.), The Syllable: Views and Facts ed. by van der Hulst & Ritter (1999) for multiple case studies, and Hermans 1985 "The relationship between aspiration and preaspiration in Icelandic" (van der Hulst & Smith eds., different volume) for a Kahn-like "here's what you can do with it" analysis. Also Clements & Keyser CV phonology, though it's about C's and V's as much as about the syllable, but still it does provide empirical motivation for the syllable. 

It depends on your ideology of word class, and probably on the language (depending on your ideology of word class). In a number of Bantu languages, they constitute an autonomous word class. They have a unique pattern of class agreement making them distinct from adjectives, quantifiers, and determiners; they have special morphosyntactic rules of combination (do not combine with certain definitizing prefixes, the so-called augment), have special word order (after adjectives, before possessives), and also have distinct patterns of reduplication. The morphological diagnostics actually justify further subdividing numerals into "1" vs. higher numerals. You say "if you don't have that...", but the question is, why wouldn't you have it? That is, to simply stipulate that a language can't have a word class "numeral" is arbitrary and problematic for languages where there is good evidence that they are distinct from other word classes. This doesn't mean that every language has to treat numerals as a distinct word class, so it is possible that there are languages where there is absolutely nothing that distinguishes numerals from adjectives, for example, though I can't think of an example. If your theory of word classes isn't based on an a priori mapping between semantics and word class, then I think the answer would be something like "whatever the facts of the language require". 

I don't know exactly what you failed to do. Assuming that you have the program installed and located the command-line exe, you opened a command window and ran the program as e.g. espeak --phonout="test.txt" --ipa "this is my text", you should get the IPA string " ðɪs ɪz maɪ tˈɛkst" in test.txt. If you run the program in the Program Files (x86) directory where espeak is installed and write to that diretory, you have to run under an admin command window, in order to also write to the directory where you're running the program (I forgot this and wasted some time remembering this). Maybe clarify what worked and what didn't. 

This is known as compounding. I might add that compounds are not usually made up of full-inflected words with case and number, they are generally based on the stems that get inflection. Hence pratyakṣa in that compound does not have a case marker, as self-standing words of Sanskrit do. 

I don't know exactly what you mean by "related to criminal activity". There are huge corpora of judicial decisions that relate to criminal activity, and recently you can even get recordings of arguments and questions from SCOTUS. Such data "relates", rather remotely. Trial transcripts are not a good source from a research-useful perspective (I'm assuming you don't have infinitely deep pockets and infinite time to figure out what cases you care about). A trial transcript only contains a minute piece of existing evidence (such as the perpetrator saying "I took care of that", but not the entirety of what was recorded). Some amount of that data exists as recordings (assuming that conversations of criminal activity was recorded), but was mostly not transcribed (and almost none of that data is out in the wild). Another version of "related to criminal activity" would have to do with police arresting and interrogating suspects. Again, there are not publicly available transcripts of such interactions generally, though snippets can appear in court transcripts and thus appeals. With the increase in police body-cam recordings you might expect more such data to make its way out into the wild, but again there is the countervaling privacy concern, so I would not count on there ever being any such source of data. Roger Shuy's publications are probably the best source of such data. If you want examples of particular kinds of data, it might be possible to find an example, but all such data is extremely opportunistic and the antithesis of a random sample, which is often a desideratum for linguistic databases. 

I suggest recording and measuring your measurements (but be careful to not totally believe the numbers). I found that in all cases including [n] vs. [nʷ], there was some difference in formants, though hearing it in [n] vs. [nʷ] was very hard. The acoustic differences are subtle and hard to characterize except with [ɴ] vs. [ɴʷ] which is quite clear. Unfortunately, I can't compute the predicted resonances and anti-resonances from the assumed vocal tract, so all I can say is that tube length matters, and there are indeed striking quantal effects going from [ŋʷ] to [ɴʷ]. I don't know whether there is new tech or insight into the problem of nasal zeros and LPC analysis (LPC assumes an all-pole model); you can see the problem in the spectrogram, that there are formanty band in some of the nasals between the LPC-detected formants. The best way to mimic the IPA ideal is to practice with expert recording. The UCLA phonetic lab has an IPA table recorded by Peter Ladefoged, and John Esling has one likewise. For recording and analyzing, I recommend a good head-mounted mic -- forget cell phone or laptop built-in mics. Also, MP3 compression (and LPC analysis) may defeat your efforts, so use WAV format. Praat is a free and good tool for inspecting sounds. 

This link is to an English-Sinhalese dictionary with sound files. This link might provide you with something similar, though I did not test it. The UCLA Phoneic Archive has these materials: lists of words in English, phonetic transcriptions, and sound recordings – heavy on minimal pairs. This will be useful for getting the hang of the alveolar / retroflex difference, for interest. 

There is a trend for languages, in general, to lose inflection of a certain type, and Indo-European languages manifest that trend. Particular facts of English have encouraged that development, and different facts of Indic or Greek encouraged similar developments. The main fact about Indo-European morphology (or, late versions if its morphology) that presages the doom of the inflectional system is its arbitrariness. Nominal gender, number and case affixes were not transparent, one form for one meaning; likewise verbal inflection. As more arbitrary differences accumulate and patterns become manifested over fewer and fewer forms whose unifying nature is harder to discern, it becomes more likely that former distinctions will no longer be maintained. Various phonological facts, especially vowel reductions, contribute to the specifics of why Modern English is so reduced, compared to Old English. 

The question in the title asks about a language, but the body of the question asks about semantic concepts, which are not the same thing, so I don't know what you're really asking about. So I will assume that you're asking about relations between natural languages (including hypothetical ones) and semantic concepts. "Paradox", for example, is not a primitive, it is a higher-level concept derived from "proposition", "truth", "denial" and "existence" among other things. Being "primitive" is different from "being an extremely convenient concept". Some of these concepts, for example "object" (by which I assume you mean "thing") and "action" are indeed essential to human cognition, and a model of the mind or of a language which did not have analogous concepts would not be tenable. Some of your proposals are probably not universal, for example "system" is a rather advanced abstraction that is unlikely to exist in some languages. There probably is no word that replicates "system" in the Taa languages. That doesn't mean that speakers are incapable of grasping such a concept including taking the word "system" into their language as a way of expressing the concept, it simply means that there is probably no such pre-existing concept in the language. So then it could be of some interest to theories of epistemology, cognition and language to identify any truly universally-present concepts vs. those that might be missing in some language. All connectives express some kind of concept, and are typically logical-jargon ways of succinctly verbalizing notations that are often used in logical formalism. They generally are not used as such in natural language. I would say that separating judgments from concepts is a mistake: judgments like "all", "true" are not really different from "tall", "fish".