Drinking rum to stave off dehydration is an exercise fraught with hazards. Rum ranges from 40% to 80% alcohol by volume. Alcohol consumption has been shown to cause dehydration by suppressing production of the Anti-Diuretic Hormone, which leads to increased urination. Excessive alcohol consumption can also lead to vomiting, which is likewise contraindicated when attempting to maintain bodily hydration. The higher quality the rum (i.e. the higher the percentage of alcohol), the greater the dehydration. Drinking seawater - in any quantity - is similarly contraindicated, as seawater contains more concentrated electrolytes than human kidneys can produce, therefore drinking seawater in any quantity will rob the body of water as the kidneys must use more water than was gained from drinking the seawater in order to flush out the excess electrolytes. Given that bottles are available, it may be possible to use them as a crude distillation apparatus, using the rum as a heat source ignited by sparks from a laptop battery to vaporise seawater, which can then be condensed in empty bottles. The cool cave in which they are stored may serve to assist condensation of the distilled water. Of course, there may be other flammable substances on the island, in which case it might be better to burn those, and use the rum as a firelighter. 

Inspired by Chasly from UK's answer, and relying on the ability to predetermine the environment: You have a long, dimly lit hall with a deep pit covered by a lid that will fall away once sufficient weight is placed upon it, say 40kg. At the end of the hall is a metal safe door with only an illuminated green button. You prepare your experiment with an (apparently) unrelated individual being given a large sum of money, who is talking about how ridiculously easy it was for him to win it, before showing the subject the door to the hall. Inside the hall, you show a video clip on a screen above the safe door stating (translated into the observer's language if necessary) "Press the green button in [n] seconds in order to receive your $10,000 prize.", replacing the [n] with a number counting down from, say 5, and the monetary figure with a similarly large amount in whatever the local currency is. Since the hall is fairly long, but apparently featureless, the person would have to run in order to reach the button in time, but since the floor is booby-trapped, the person falls to their death instead if they do so. Don't make the sum of money unbelievably large, and make the run only barely achievable in the time allocated, and it is likely you'd get a lot of people running to their deaths trying to win it. Without the ability to manipulate the environment and use an image or video to induce the subject to perform a fatal action, there is no way that an image could cause a fatality in the majority of those who see it simply because they saw it, and it caused a fatal mental state. The average human mind and body is too robust a system for that to happen, you could only get a few, rare, susceptible individuals. 

The simple fact of the matter is that the human brain is simply not evolved to handle that great an amount of data. Without processing assistance, it would be necessary for the user to cycle through various input modes in order to gain the maximum benefit from the sensors. It would require quite a lot of training to gain the maximum benefit of such a system. However, that is not the only way to implement this system. Instead of feeding the input to the visual cortex, the data could be processed in the hardware, and the neural implant could feed the results deeper into the brain, so that when connected, the brain would perceive this as data from a perfectly normal additional set of sensory organs, and would not require the brain itself to process or interpret the input, only to base decisions upon it. It is difficult to imagine, but this style of input would overlay itself on our field of vision like extra eyes; we could close one (natural) eye or the other, or the artificial one. In addition, the field of vision from the artificial eye(s) would be 360° and vastly more detailed, and it wouldn't seem odd that it was so. However, if the processing hardware was removed, it wouldn't be like simply losing an eye (in which case you'd just see nothing in that part of your field of view; i.e. blackness), but like losing even the part of the brain that processed that eye's data, so you'd remember having a larger field of view, but it simply wouldn't be there any more, not even blackness. Consider that the edges of a human's natural vision isn't black all the way around the back of the head to the other side, it just isn't there at all. However a system such as this would be considerably more advanced than a simple feed to the visual cortex, and would probably take in excess of a hundred years additional R&D to perfect. 

Any evolved structure must be useful as a less-evolved structure at any point in the organism's evolutionary history, or it must be able to be evolved with a single mutation. If a living part of an organism is to rotate, it must either be so small that it obtains its nutrients directly from its environment, or the means by which metabolic requirements and communication are fulfilled must first be evolved. If a non-living part of an organism is to rotate, a mechanism for its construction must exist, and the integrity of this separated-but-retained dead body part may become a limiting factor for the survival of the organism, or else a means of replacement must exist. It is far more likely that an organism will evolve a particular capability using means that require fewer steps and pre-conditions, and it is generally not possible to evolve a capability if a reduction in fitness is a pre-requisite. 

The result of this is that bacteria are eventually deposited individually across the plate with sufficient separation that after they are incubated, the colonies are separate, and can be considered to be a single species. Then, we have the techniques needed to isolate potential antibiotics. Once isolated, the potential antibiotics are impregnated into standard-sized absorbent disks in known concentrations and placed on a lawn of the target bacterium. When cultured, the efficacy of the antibiotic can be shown by the size of the clear area around the disk that carries it. Without knowing concentrations, you may reject a better antibiotic just because you didn't collect as much of it. How long would it take our microbiologically ignorant time traveller to re-create even these basic techniques? Isolation Isolating a fungus that produces an effective and safe antibiotic is the next problem. Fleming discovered Penicillin effectively by accident, and it took around ten years before he and his successors Florey and Chain succeeded in isolating a strain of penicillium mould that produced penicillin in sufficient quantities to be commercially viable. "Mouldy" Mary Hunt, Florey's assistant, spent much of her time scouring local markets for mouldy produce in the hopes of finding an active penicillin-producing fungus. Our time traveller should be grateful to find any antibiotic-producing fungus, let alone an active penicillin-producing strain. A great many fungi do produce bactericidal compounds, but these compounds are either themselves - or are accompanied by - compounds toxic to humans. There is little point administering an antibiotic which will also sicken or kill the patient. The challenge is in finding one with sufficient specificity that produces its active compound in sufficient quantity. Specificity Antibiotics tend to be specific to certain bacteria. Penicillin is specific to mostly Gram-Positive bacteria, and treating a patient with a Gram-Negative bacterial infection may be completely ineffective. Whatever antibiotic our time-traveller is lucky enough to discover could well be similarly specific. Production Once a suitable strain is found, it must be produced in sufficient quantity. Industrial fermentation tanks have their own special engineering and microbiological challenges, such as cleanliness, temperature regulation (Cooling can be as important as heating), nutrient supply, oxygen supply, foaming control, agitation and harvesting. Operation of industrial fermentation equipment is a part of the coursework for later years of study in Microbiology that I never undertook - so obviously not a trivial subject. Potential results of proposed approach If our ignorant time traveller feeds already ill patients with various moulds or fungi in the hopes of chancing upon one that produces an antibiotic, then he is doomed to frustration and failure. The odds are that few fungi produce suitable antibiotics, and none are likely to produce sufficient antibiotics to have any effect. Most likely, his patients will die or recover on the strengths of their own immune systems, and their tolerance to both the initial bacterial infection and the fungal infection that our well-meaning but ignorant time traveller subjects them to. Finding a patron rich enough to fund all these experiments - whether conducted properly as I have detailed, or otherwise as the OP detailed - would be quite difficult. The most likely patron would be royalty or nobility. Then, the second difficulty that our aspiring microbiologist would face would to remain unexecuted and unimprisoned in the face of an impatient nobleman without the least idea of what he signed up for demanding results now, or else! when the experiments drag on apparently interminably without the least signs of results other than piles of glassware and other strange apparatus, and ongoing bills for various strange and difficult-to-procure compounds. Even a noble patron with the patience of a saint could make all sorts of inappropriate suggestions for speeding matters and for cost-cutting, and may intercept and alter purchase orders, in a well-meaning way, of course. ("Why does he need agar? Let's substitute gelatine, it's cheaper!") Our time traveller would have to educate his patron (or a trusted advisor) nearly as well as he was himself in order to be fully understood and properly supported. If our time-traveller succeeded at all, he'd likely be an old man by the time he did so. 

In our non-magical reality, feudal nobility is postulated to have evolved from warlords - an armed man in charge of a group of armed men. Since they can intimidate less-well armed or trained people, they are effectively in charge. Then, as they must defend their territory against other warlords, they must gain the cooperation of the people they rule (or they might defect), hence the social contract between vassal and lord, and when a stronger warlord comes along that both know that one cannot defeat the other, the lesser warlord becomes a lieutenant to the stronger, hence chains of fealty. Now, suppose that we have a world where magic exists , and magicians (very similar to the magi in the Ars Magica RPG, who are quite rare due to some semi-random magical factors that only combine fortuitously in a few individuals) must study for many years to gain their powers. An apprenticeship is 15 years long, and is typically begun at ages between 4 and 7. To gain in power noticeably, a magician must study for months, and the greatest typically spend the majority of their lives in study - think of them as being like research scientists in that respect. However, these magicians, once they become sufficiently powerful, can achieve many things. They can extend their own lives to as much as a couple of hundred years or so. A combat magician could devastate an army without magical support single-handed. They can control the minds of others, build and destroy rapidly, control the elements, create illusions or go unseen, all with only a few limitations, based on the amount of study they have put into each area. In the Ars Magica RPG, which is based on medieval European history, these magicians are explained as not being interested in temporal rule, and are all members (on pain of death for refusing to join) of a secret group that enforces this secrecy and detachment from mundane society, as well as their magical abilities making most of them just feel wrong to mundanes to a greater or lesser degree. However, how realistic a scenario is this? We have a small minority of people with great magical power who certainly have the ability to rule effectively, more so than some thug with a sword and delusions of their own self-importance. They can use their magical arts to divine the will of the people or alter it, and can reliably get to the truth of a situation regardless of the lies the mundanes might try to tell unless another magician has interfered. However, to achieve these capabilities, they must first have studied for as much as half a mundane lifespan - probably on the order of 30 years from age 5 or so - and must continue studying around 90% of the time if they want to continue advancing their skills. So: Would these magicians want to be in charge, given that the demands of governing would detract from the time they might otherwise spend in study, and that if they spent any significant time governing, their advancement would suffer and leave them open to conquest by a magician who had studied more? What might government look like in this scenario? 

This is a question of social interaction. Since we are talking about aliens, they would need to have a certain open-mindedness to begin with. However, open-mindedness can be influenced by individual and collective action. My hypothesis would be that either: 

To be a dissenting voice amongst all these answers, let me point out that Enigma was broken historically, and the effect of a modern laptop employed in codebreaking would have either no or negative effects for the side that used it. One of the dilemmas of codebreakers is how much to rely upon the messages they decode. Do so too much, and the enemy will begin to suspect that their code has been broken. If that happens, it becomes likely that they will change their encryption. This is the dilemma that England faced with respect to Enigma, so breaking more German messages faster would actually not help. If the British high command, presented with a "magical" codebreaking machine, became overconfident and overused its results, the result would be that the Germans would change their encryption. If that too became obvious that it had been broken, the Germans would raise the game yet again and again until the resultant cipher could not be broken by the magical laptop. This might even be something on the order of a codebook of abbreviations for common words and situations (for conciseness) run through a one-time-pad, which is unbreakable via cryptanalysis, and would require capture of the German pads in such a way that the Germans didn't know that they had been captured, otherwise the Germans would simply invalidate the captured pad series and issue new pads. End result: the Allies know even less than they did historically.