Based on the assumption that this human can just fly and is invulnerable (can't be damaged) without any other powers this is quite simple. To neutralize is to render (something) ineffective or harmless by applying an opposite force or effect. If the human is average in other regards all you need to do is to contain and/or restrain him. This could range from a straight jacket to solitary confinement. Depending on how much he can lift while flying to bring the man down might include heavy nets, ropes, or missiles (he can't be harmed but the force of an explosion could knock him down). If the goal is to kill the man I think suffocation or drowning would be the best options. 

Freshwater Assuming the several magnitude 9 earthquakes, resulting tsunami's, and general destruction somehow didn't kill you and destroy any flotation device; there will only be 4.5 viable ways to get fresh water. 

Plausability There are other methods of sleep, see polyphasic sleep schedules, where you can sleep for multiple periods of time instead of once or twice a day and still get the needed REM cycle. Here is a site with some various polyphasic sleep cycles. The side effects seem minimal, but most concur that a full 8 hours of rest is better than short periods of rest. 

Depending on the craft shape they could use an underwater launch system. There is a system that in theory can shoot supplies into space and the cannon is mostly underwater. Basically a long barrel (submerged underwater except for the end) is used to fire the spacecraft, like a gun, into space. This type of system would not require land and could be modified to launch various sized/shaped spacecraft. 

Dog are man's best friend. Just bring them into the shop at closing and lock the doors. They have keener hearing and much better noses for smelling trespassers. They can also be quite fierce and drive away sneaky thieves. Then there could be physical protection like complicated locks, metal bars, or multiple security points (different locks). Pay protection money to the thieves so that you aren't a target at all. 

Chicken Slayer Buy a chicken farm, and kill lots and lots of chickens, thus increasing his mana reserves and strength. Then once he has gained sufficient strength go out and slay a more powerful. This is under the assumption that like a video game doing anything gets you experience and power. Chickens are a slow way to gain power but they are easy, cheap, and good practice. 

Depending on the height of the floating landmass they may not receive much rain. Rain clouds (stratus) are at 6,500 ft (1.98 km) or lower. Landmasses above this may not receive much rain, and any lower than 2 km would block portions of the earth from receiving rain beneath their floating mass. However thunderheads (cumulonimbus) can reach up to 50,000 ft (15.24 km) and have hail, lightning, and torrential rain. So with this type of cloud it is fully possible for higher floating islands to receive heavy rain and other intense weather conditions. Floating islands present a different condition than mountains which have a base and cause air to go up cool and lose its moisture. With no base the islands won't catch as much air (and their shape may not be conducive in making air rise) so most weather should be natural and unaffected by the floating islands, ie carried by the wind. Especially the smaller islands, if they range from , then you can compare them to hot air balloons or planes which are bigger than a car and don't affect the weather at all. Something else to keep in mind is the freezing level, about 2 degrees C per 1000 ft (.31 km). So if on the surface its 75 deg F (23 deg C) the freezing level is about 11,500 ft (3.5 km). Any floating island above this height will most likely not have rain but snow and ice. 

Which makes tunnels without fortified entraces an unattractive defense against fire-breathing dragons. So, how would cities under threat from dragons be designed? Well, unfortunately, they likely wouldn't be designed at all. 

Okay, so how do we compare this to what we know about the (I'm assuming) medieval societies that we're imagining facing a dragon attack? We know that many medieval cities were built around castles that served as a central fortress for the community. The laborers who worked in the city surrounding the castle would, in the event of an invasion, come inside of the castle. Now I'm going to assume that the castle predates the dragon here, because nobody in his right mind would spend the time, money, resources, and man-hours it takes to put up a castle in an area where there were constant dragon attacks. To quote an article on HowStuffWorks by Craig Freudenrich (which I can't link to with a new account), 

Moore, Oklahoma extends a couple of miles on either side of Interstate 35 as it passes south out of Oklahoma City on its way to Dallas. It occupies about twenty square miles, which is fairly small by the standards of this part of the country, but with a population of around 50k it's one of the ten largest cities in the state. And, unlike the larger cities of Norman and Oklahoma directly to its north and south, it's also had completely devastating tornado damage several times in the past few years. In fact, some of these tornadoes were destructive enough to merit their own Wikipedia pages. (I had a third link to post here, but I haven't got the reputation to post it yet.) Now, what I want to highlight here is basically a direct analog of what's been suggested in many of the other answers. Among the casualties of the 2013 Moore tornado were several students at the Plaza Towers elementary school, one of two Moore elementary schools destroyed by the tornado. In the days after the tornado, a proposed law requiring new schools in the state to be built with tornado shelters unsurprisingly gained a great deal of traction with the public. Now take a minute to think through what this says. It's not proposing public tornado shelters for everyone, or retrofitting existing structures, but merely that any new construction of schools will come equipped with some sort of tornado shelter. In interviews with the media, the measure was immediately dismissed by the Governor as too expensive, and nothing came of it. What did happen? Well, the city of Moore updated its building code, essentially requiring that new construction be built to withstand EF-2 tornadoes. Now, remember, the tornadoes that have repeatedly destroyed Moore are in the EF-4 and EF-5 range, not the EF-2 range. Since that probably doesn't mean anything to most people, here are the sample images from Wikipedia of EF-2 and EF-4 destruction: EF-2 damage: 

On top of that, any castle seriously intended as a fortress would feature machicolations, which are great if you want to drop rocks on the invaders scaling the side of your tower but which are probably less useful when you're facing an indiscriminate airborn flamethrower. So the parts of the castles which have been designed to be the most secure are in reality probably the least so. Moreover, these fortifications would have been constructed with the express purpose of preventing large underground structures from being built underneath them. This is due to the ancient combat tactic known as "mining," where an invading army would dig small tunnels under a building and use them to place explosives underneath the walls, hopefully breaching them. In fact, the moats that surrounding some castles were more to prevent mining than to keep out invaders on foot. The one thing a castle would have underground would be its cellars, which were designed specifically to be a bit fire-resistant. (These were still a serious weakness a couple of reasons. Remember how Guy Fawkes was going to blow up the House of Lords by setting off an explosion in its cellar? And then there's the fact that, without modern construction techniques, every extra floor you add is just another thing trying to make the castle sink into the ground.) These underground storage rooms are where, in the event of a dragon attack, you'd have the best shot at surviving. 

You're talking about shooting someone with an instant cold pack. WebMD recommends keeping a cloth between the ice pack and the skin and limiting exposure to 15-20 minutes. As a weapon it's not going to be very effective. I'm not sure why you'd want to in the first place. Even if you shot someone with a vial of liquid nitrogen you'd be looking at some added frostbite. This will be unpleasant to whomever has been shot. But the arrow sticking out of them is of much greater concern. 

Yes but not in a way that is useful for your story. Jupiter has permanent storm systems circling the planet, so it's definitely possible. Unfortunately where one storm system ends another begins. The storms on Jupiter are also orders of magnitude stronger than the storms on Earth. Furthermore even modern technology wouldn't be enough to cross a storm of that magnitude. It's a cool idea though. I don't thing your readers would begrudge you handwaving the storm's existence if it makes for a good story. 

Digitize and replicate. Why waste space for storage and preservation on a long journey when you can digitize the occupants and replicate them upon arrival. Any sort of stasis system is going to be complex and require ongoing maintenance power. The advantage of digitizing and replicating the passengers is that all the complex machinery can be left in a powered off state for the journey. 

The use of Cryoprotetants such as ethylene glycol is already part of the cryopreservation of humans. These chemicals are used to protect tissue from damage associated with freezing, primarily the formation of ice crystals. Preventing the formation of ice crystals is only one of many obstacles to success of cryonics. 

If feathers get in the way of manipulating objects your intelligent tool users will evolve to not have feathers on their hands long before they develop the tools and culture necessary to not cut feathers as a indicator of wealth. Congratulations you've discovered fingernails. These days humans can do all sorts of fancy things with our nails if we aren't doing manual labor. We have only reached this point after a long period where every proto-human was needing to work with their hands and manipulate objects constantly for survival. Note for instance that we have less hair on our hands relative to the rest of our bodies. 

Cellulose is a very good terrestrial structural molecule. Very popular in forests. It can create large structures in a massive variety of shapes. Unfortunately fungi don't use cellulose as a structural molecule. You could wave your hands a bit and say that they do but there's another more plausible option. Chitin is a polymer based off glucose with a similar structure to cellulose. Mushrooms already produce it. If we're imagining a forest of Morrowind style giant mushrooms. We can ever so slightly wave our hands and say that they use chitin to give them their structure similar to how plants use cellulose. 

Spacesuits are designed to keep an individual pressurized in a low pressure environment. What you are looking for is something along the lines of an atmospheric diving suit. They are designed to keep a individual at a much lower pressure than the surrounding environment. It's likely that the suit could be a lot less bulky than a diving hardsuit because the pressure differential is much lower between Earth and Mars than between sea level and 700m below sea level. 

Probably not. There are many loud sounds. When near a loud sound you won't move to a louder sound unless it is sufficiently close. It is rare that there will be a clear gradient of increasing volume. What's more likely to happen is that there will be many local maxima that zombies will congregate towards. Eventually these congregations will become large enough that the sound of the zombies is louder than any external sound preventing any zombies in the cluster from leaving the cluster.