Every strength routine includes rest days between workouts, so that the natural processes of tissue repair and muscle growth are allowed. I guess this process of repair and growth happens mostly between the first and maybe the fourth day after a strength workout. I am curious about any study that quantifies the amount of muscle tissue added as a function of time after a strength workout. Is there any such study? 

A third option is called Arnold Press, invented by the Governator in his early years, where your palms rotate during the movement, from inwards at the bottom of the movement, to forward at the top: 

This is the general question: How often and how long should do soft aerobic exercise a middle-aged man in his 40s, provided that he his healthy but out of shape? If possible, please focus your answer specifically on fast walking as exercise 

My strength training days now are just the day before running, and not the opposite. For instance, I do the squats on monday and run on tuesday. There is no problem in running after squatting, but conversely I don't dare squatting after running. I notice nearly always some tiny quantity of damage to the knee joint the day after running, which disappears in ~24 hours. I don't like squatting during that time. 

I have a mild case of Posterior Tibial Tendonitis, the physio has applied some Kinesio tape for support whilst it heals up. My understanding of tendons and muscles was that there wasn't much friction between them, if there were, moving would be a very painful experience. So, given that the tendons are lubricated via the inter-muscle membranes, how can applying tape to the skin provide any support at all to the tendons? Thanks Dave NB: I'm not asking for medical advise, I trust my physio. I'm just curious. 

Naps help the learning process, the brain sorts out the stuff you've learned. Napping and studying go hand in hand. Likewise, rest after exercise helps the learning process too. All in all, nap if you feel you want to, it'll only have good affects on both your fitness and your studies. 

You have as much right to be there doing what you are doing as anyone else. Anyone who says differently can bugger off. You are doing something to better yourself, which instantly puts you ahead of most people. Very few people look sexy while working out, most of us just look sweaty, smelly, and uncomfortable. 

For this example I have used Brzycki's one-rep max formula (for no special reason). The question is, what of the two options is safer for your spinal disks? 

Do not program a separate shoulder day. Prefer push/pull split routines instead. Otherwise your supraspinatus and front deltoids will work twice (during chest day and shoulder day) and so your infraspinatus and rear delts as well (during back day and shoulder day). This reduces their recovery ability and increases the chances for injury. Prefer shoulder exercises that don't force your humerus to go overhead, i.e. prefer lateral raises with perfect form (see here or here and be sure to do the "Full Can" version, i.e. with thumbs pointing upwards) instead of shoulder presses. The reason being the reduction of the subacromial space during overhead movements. This is usually not a problem if you are young and have perfect form. But sooner or later this is an issue for many bodybuilders. Avoid behind-the-neck press and behind-the-neck pulldown exercises. There is little advantage and great risk of shoulder injury. Avoid keeping pullups unless you are a pro in great physical shape. Prefer the pulldown to your chest variation, and pullups with slow, controlled tempo. As for shoulder presses please see point 2 but, if you decide to do shoulder presses nevertheless, the neutral grip with elbows pointing forward is anatomically less likely to cause subacromial impingement. If you are a beginner, don't bench press until you are able to do a set of 20 perfect-form push ups in a row. Push ups work the same muscles and many more, in a more shoulder-friendly way. Only when push ups are too easy for you it is time to start bench pressing. If that is not the case, then forget momentarily about the bench press and start by doing pushups with your hands on elevated surfaces (on top of a bench, on the bar of a Smith machine...) until you are able to do them on the floor. Add some swimming to your regular training schedule. Yeap, swimming is great for your shoulder joint health. Sustained movement under low stress promotes blood flow into the muscles and nourishes your cartilages. Unluckily, many of us only follow this advice when shoulder problems appear after a lifetime of ignoring it. I am NOT saying "quit lifting" but only "add swimming sessions here and there in your rest days". Add internal rotations and external rotations with a rubber band AS THE VERY LAST EXERCISES in your workouts (internal rotation during push day, external rotation during pull day). These should be done with very light weights. They help keeping your rotator cuff tendons healthy. Never do them before any other kind of work: you want those tiny muscle fresh and ready to assist you with the big exercises. Finish your workouts with the infraspinatus stretch and the supraspinatus stretch. Not only they help keeping your shoulder healthy, but also they are useful indicators: If any of those two stretches is painful, then something nasty is probably going on inside your shoulder and it is time to examine carefully what you are doing and how to improve your technique/ change exercises/ introduce additional rest days before it is too late and you find yourself under the surgeon's knife. 

How do I usefully interpret running metrics? I haven't been running for long. I've got a heart monitor and a GPS watch (all the gear and no idea), but I get a buzz from seeing the metrics anyway. I'd like to know how to interpret the metrics I collect though. What is the key elements to look for in these metrics? 

I've been climbing for a little while now, strength is improving thanks to gym sessions to top up climbing sessions but the campus board seems to be to beginner climbers like the sun to Icarus. It's safe to look from afar, but don't get too close! So, what do I need to be able to do before I can safely start to work on a campus board? I'm assuming a good, safe progression would be hanging, then statically walking up one and down one, increasing that number before looking at the dynamic\plyometric training I see the grown-ups doing. 

Physiotherapists usually make you do several light sets every day in order to strengthen your healing injuries. Military training consists of lots of calisthenics, almost daily. Not so long ago, it was not uncommon that Lorries had no power steering. Lorry drivers developed huge arms, merely by doing their job day after day with that vehicles. The same for miners and heavy-duty workers in general around the 1900s. I remember too, some very famous "body-building-at-home" courses from the 1950s that were very famous still in the 80s in the country where I live, that resembled the Charles Atlas method. That courses consisted of several exercised to be done daily, one only set per each exercise. Every 15 days, the exercises changed. Well, that is my question. If reducing the volume to one only set per exercise obviously reduces the chances of over-training and injury, why not training a single set per exercise, every day? It seems to me a more progressive way of strength training. Less repetitive stress on your joints, less micro-trauma and less recovery time needed, but all that, more often. We have evolved to be in a constant fight against the environment. I am sure our ancestors didn't climbed the trees nor ran to escape predators twice a week, with rest days in between. 

For a half marathon I spent the week before carb loading and hydrating. I'm running a 6 mile soon and would like some 5Km races too. How should I change my diet for different length races? Should terrain affect my diet? Roar running requires less raw power then undulating gress and mud. Thanks Dave 

It is true, so find a friend to help. Not someone to drive you around but someone to be in it with you. Someone to share your goals and your failures mutually, which means someone to train with you. Getting fit and\or loosing weight are as much a psychological battle as a physical one and having a partner so you can kick each other when you need kicking and celebrate with each other when you need to celebrate, can (and will and has) been the difference between success and failure. Lastly, and I might be assuming here, I know overweight peeps who won't train because they feel embarrassed around all the meat heads. They say things akin to "I just want to get a little thinner before going to the gym\going for a walk\going for a run". Get rid of that feeling immediately. 

Don't choose my answer. Wait for more knowledgeable people. I just want to give some suggestions. First, building muscle is very difficult. You shouldn't fear becoming bulky, it will not happen unless you do a very specific training and nutrition during a long time. Just exercise and forget about that fear (your muscles may become denser and harder in the long run, which is very nice, but not bulky). Second, if you have loose joints, I don't think it is a good idea that you emphasize passive stretches. I think it is the last thing you want to do. Third, I think it is a good idea that you focus on slow exercises with perfect form. That helps having total control over your movements and so you can avoid things that go wrongly out of place. It might be lifting weights or callisthenics, or Tai chi or whatever you choose, but always it would be something made up from slow movements where you can retain full concious control. If you lift weights, choosing exercises involving many stabilization muscles around your joints is much better than doing isolation. With loose joints, you really need to strengthen your muscles around the joints because they must provide extra stability. For instance, people with ACL ligament injuries rely more on their quadriceps and hamstring muscles to provide knee stability. They prefer squats and single-leg deadlifts to other options. If you look at the model in the last link, you will see that she has to activate a lot of muscles around her knee in order to maintain equilibrium. That is the idea. Dumbbells better that barbells or machines, standing better than sitting, and so on. Yoga is also a good option. It is slow enough so that you retain full control over your movements, and it also makes you quite concious about your joints. Tai Chi is also a good idea. Engage in a good Tai Chi class and forget about the rest. You can try to switch from Tai Chi to Kung-fu later, they are closely related. Designing your own training can be very frustrating if you are prone to injuries. I hope this helps. In any case, I think the slow, controlled execution is the most important tip.