Ok, given your program and what you would like to do (Along with the upper body restrictions), here's what I would recommend. 

Neither way is "just wrong", although if you breath out completely every time your face hits the water, you can start hyperventilating. Breathing in swimming is just like any other sport, you breath in or out as much as you need to. If you are swimming at a slower pace, you may not need to breathe every single stroke, so you can exhale over a longer period of time. If you are sprinting, then you may need to breath out very rapidly so that you can inhale every stroke. Treat it like other sports, breathe as you need to, and if you need to, learn to breathe on both sides of your stroke, it will make things easier in the long run. 

Cardio will be mainly running, initial focus will be a couch - 5k program, followed by the 3:2:1 program I have outlined on here before. I'm not worried about the running, that's just putting in the time. My current diet is about 80% clean eating, 20% cheat/junk. That isn't going to change much. I currently eat the traditional 3 meals/day. What I would like is specific feedback on the weekly schedule, with emphasis on points for improvement and possibly nutrient timing. 

Heart rate is extremely variable, and can go up or down with environmental factors such as heat or cold, foods containing stimulants like caffeine or depressants such as alcohol, standing up versus lying down/sitting, etc. The two ways that I usually use to recommend for using pulse as a gauge of fitness and/or overtraining, is to take it every morning as soon as you wake up, and after workouts, take it immediately after the workout and again 3-5 minutes later. The morning one should stay relatively the same, or even drop as your fitness gets better, and the one post workout should drop dramatically within a few minutes. If your morning pulse rate starts going up, or your post exercise rate stays elevated, then you have some factors influencing the rate. This could be dehydration, fatigue, overtraining, life stress, any number of factors. As an example, my morning pulse rate varies between 45-55, and my working heart rate will usually drop 40-50 beats within 2 minutes (Depending on intensity of workout). As long as you are consistent about when you take it, and track it over time, the trend will tell you if something might be off. References: $URL$ $URL$ (Some discussion of extrinsic vs intrinsic factors) $URL$ $URL$ - Looking at an exciting picture raised heart rate $URL$ 

Given that there has long been debate about the "best" exercise to lose weight, how can I as a fitness professional use this information to help the people that I work with? 

What the coaches mean, is that when you turn your head to the side, water forms kind of a "bow wave" coming off of your head/forehead, which causes a small trough (area of lower water) to form near your nose/chin, and it's in this pocket that you breathe. Yes, your eye will be underwater, but the bow wave moves the water away from the rest of your face. Speed does help, but once you get used to it, you can have your mouth half full of water and still be able to breathe. As you get faster and faster, the bow wave effect is easier to do and clears your nose/mouth much better. Use one kick board, and when you want to breathe, drop your hand off the board on that side, pull, then breathe during the arm recovery. This will help to develop your timing and encourage the body roll. You don't want to just turn your head only. 

As alluded to, this is an anatomy question. The term -ceps in muscle anatomy means "heads", or the origin of a muscle. Each muscle has two points of contact (for simplicity), the origin and the insertion. Muscles contract and pull towards the origin, and the insertion moves. So, biceps means "two heads", and the action of the muscle is to flex the lower arm (Bend it). Triceps means three heads, and the action of the muscle is the extend (straighten) the lower arm. They should not be much more difficult for one to do than the other, since they are basic motions, which suggests one of two items: 

That should keep your fitness, and if you can't do all the strokes, sub out things for the IM portions. 

If you are going strictly by distance, then walking will be more beneficial simply because you will spend a lot more time to cover the same distance. Say you are going 4 miles. A moderate biking speed, you will cover that distance in about 20 minutes. To walk it at a moderate speed will take about an hour. Where it makes a difference in a lot of exercises is the impact that your body takes (almost none with biking, more with walking), and the intensity in which you do it. Higher intensity exercise does burn more calories, but you typically spend less time doing it, so it can be kind of a wash. 

Run more. Much more. Mostly slow, sometimes fast. You're talking about sustaining 6 minute miles for an hour, which is starting to approach the bottom of elite level. That would put you at 1:18ish for a half marathon, which is a very respectable time, and often would place you on or near the podium for an age grouper. You would need to ramp up to where you are consistently running 5-7 days a week, in the 50-70 miles per week range. This would probably take close to a year to do injury free. Once you get to that point, you can start adding in higher intensity speed work to get faster overall. You may not be able to get to that point. Your natural abilities may not be sufficient to get to that speed. On the other hand, you may be a natural and get to that point in less than a year, but I can guarantee that running 14 miles a week will not get you there. It's the day in day out consistent mileage that brings gains in running. Also, you do not state your height or weight. Weight is also very important in running, as being lighter can be critical to moving faster. I've seen some calculations that show every ounce less in your shoe is somewhere in the neighborhood of 2,000 lbs of lifting that your body doesn't have to do. Now translate that to body weight. Apocryphal lore is that for every pound of bodyweight that you lose, you gain 2-4 seconds per mile of pace (Dependent on personal running efficiency and other factors). So if you lost 10 lbs, theoretically your pace should go from your current 8:34 to 8:14 per mile for the same effort. But the biggest thing is going to be safely increasing your volume, then gradually adding in the speed work.