The reason the Buddha suggested we abstain from certain things is not because of the morality of the actions themselves, but because of the effect these actions have on our minds. The fact that you are even asking this question illustrates there is some sort of mental suffering/inner conflict that has arrisen. This is the suffering we are attempting to avoid by abstaining from specific actions. This is what the Buddha warned us of. You are always free to do whatever you wish! I would just suggest you not do something that brings you suffering. 

Nirvana exists. All experience is born through Nirvana. Experience is conceptualized as a false self. The illusion of consciousness is created. A false self "observes" the same experience in item 2. All "non-self" experience is conceptualized. Conceptualized experience is labeled as an "existent" or "non-existent". 

Before you go on reading my answer, know I have no familiarity with Karma Kagyu or Guru Yoga meditation. 

Parinirvana is the nirvana that occurs after death. You are no longer reborn in any of the 31 Planes of Existence Parinirvana is not a place. The Buddha said what nibbana is not 

I do not see being born as an asura is a good thing. For they are overcome by wrath, jealousy, and envy. From my understanding, they can drop and be reborn in the human destination. I'm not certain which sutta says that. Here is more info on the 31 Planes of Existence 

Is good action that is committed through self interest capable of creating good karma? For example one may contemplate, “if I do action X, it will produce good effects in the future for me, or it may make me look like a good person, etc.” Are such intentions viewed as greedy? If such intentions are rooted in greed, then it is possible to do something good out of greed? What kind of karmic effect will that produce? 

Yes. There is no difference in how our "waking sight" and "dream sight" operate. Both are nothing more than experience coming through our 6 sense doors. Anything that is experienced, is an existent. You can see, hear, feel, taste, and smell both a dream-snake and snake. You can not directly perceive the son of a barren woman through sight, sound, taste, touch, or scent, but you can conceptualize about the son of a barren woman. You can experience thoughts about the concept of a son of a barren woman. These thoughts are absolutely an existent. 

I think at times it can be helpful, and at times, harmful. The teachings of the Buddha are his experiences. By sharing his atainments, he helps us all walk the path. Unfortunately, if you are too descriptive, people will seek your experience in their practice. They may come to false conclusions that make guiding themselves toards the next attainment much more difficult. I think it may be more helpful to others if someone with attainments focuses on another's practice, and asks them to answer questions that spark introspection that leads them toward their next fruition. 

Do you just have to endure these bad effects no matter how long they may last? There are things you can do such as making merit to deal with it. There are Three Bases for Merit 

In the Abhidhamma, it makes mention to 89 and 121 states of consciousness. It says there are four ultimate realities namely 

The Buddha replies by saying that our conditions are due to our past karma. This; however, is not fatalistic. The idea of karma revolves around the idea that we create our future. In the Devadaha Sutta the Buddha refutes two Jainism theories about karma 

In Buddhism, we believe in rebirth and karma. But was there a time when it was our first time in any of the 31 Planes of Existence? If that is the case, how would we be reborn anywhere since we did not have any karma to pay off? If that is not the case, how were we just infinitely here? 

I think this entirely depends on what you are trying to get out of it. If you are looking for more time with the effects of doing the meditation, then I would say do them as often and wherever you'd like! If you are looking for a feeling of inclusion in the Sangha or the feelings that go along with being a part of a religious tradition, then I would say just do them at the Sangha. 

What makes up your desire to have your condition go away? How often is the desire/suffering being felt by you? What physical and mental sensations occur that show you your desire is absolute/a need? What part of you is your condition harming? 

What changes do you need to make? What roadblocks do you believe you can't overcome in your current situation? Enlightenment can be attained no matter what your circumstances are in life are. Living using monastic princaples can assist in removing distractions that can be enticing, but if your practice is strong, you can walk the path no matter where you are in life. There seems to be some sort of misconception that you must ordain to become enlightened or must live according to specific guidelines. The key to walking the path is cultivating morality, concentration, and wisdom. Use the five aggregates to help balance you along the path. Follow the Buddha's teachings in morality as best as you can. Cultivate concentration and wisdom through meditation. No matter your living conditions, you will still be observing and analyzing the same experience. I encourage you to ask yourself while meditating, what makes up my desires to make changes in my life? The beautiful thing is, you already (and always will) have everything you need to attain new wisdom! 

Consciousness Mental Factors Matter Nibbana. The first three are conditioned, nirvana is unconditioned. 

Intentional action to do bad will cause negative effects on oneself. Intentional action to do good will bear positive results on oneself. If you did something bad unintentionally; like stepping on an insect while you were walking; there will be no karmic potency. This; however, does not mean that you get to walk around being completely mindless. The cause of bad actions; which are done out of greed, hatred, or delusion; will cause bad effects on you. Such as killing living beings results in being reborn in a path of deprivation. If you still managed to be reborn as a human, you will be short-lived. That is mentioned in the Cula-Kammavibhanga Sutta You must also develop virtue; which, means you abstain from unwholesome action Mental development would be to meditate. Such as vipassana or samatha meditation.