EDIT2: with respect to what I mean by "formal/mathematical definition of free will", this question might be of interest. 

Since words are defined in terms of other words in dictionaries, leading to infinite loops, does it mean natural languages are meaningless? Are infinitely recursive definitions valid? If we visualize the relationship graph of a dictionary, where vertices are words and there is a directed edge X -> Y from word X to word Y if X appears in definition of Y, we would see that such a graph is full of cycles. So if you pick any word and try to fully capture its definition from the dictionary, you will be looping in the dictionary forever. In order to avoid that, you would need a DAG (directed acyclic graph) of definitions. Correct? Do you agree with this? If so, would that mean that all natural languages are bound to be meaningless and we should state our logical proofs in formal logic / mathematically? 

Determinism: your actions, either moral or immoral, are just the ripple effect of past events, you cannot help but do what the laws of Physics make you do, you had no choice, it's not your fault, therefore there is no true moral responsibility on your part. Randomness: your actions are random, chaotic, there is no control, you are lucky/unlucky that you behave morally/immorally by random chance (e.g. because of weird quantum randomness in the brain, for example). In other words, it's just a matter of luck, a matter of winning the morality lottery. If you behave immorally, it's not really your fault, it's just your bad luck. Therefore there is no true moral responsibility on your part either. Determinism-Randomness Hybrid: your actions are the result of a combination of deterministic rules applied to past events combined with random quantum noise or something along those lines. Depending on how strong are the causal ripple effects from past events and how strong are the random noises altering them, you end up acting either morally or immorally. In part you are unlucky, in part you have no choice. Anyway, it's not your fault. Therefore there is no true moral responsibility on your part either. 

The break may lie in the perspective of the being which is trying to decide the nature of beauty. Let's call this being "the decider". If we restrict the question to beauty which humans find in each other, consider the following experiment and two perspectives of the decider: 1) The decider asks all humans to pick a beautiful person in their life. The humans each pick a person and the beautiful people all meet so that the decider may observe them. The decider sees a variety of bodies, and in speaking with them learns that there are a wide variety of personalities and life stories as well. The decider finds some people beautiful and some not, and thus decides that beauty is subjective. 2) The decider asks all humans to pick a beautiful person in their life. This time the decider investigates the humans who chose a beautiful person very carefully. Let's say it is even possible for the decider to become one with the humans so that the decider may know their feelings, their life (their parents, siblings, geographical journey, consciousness, culture etc.), and their thoughts. The decider can even look through the eyes of the human and look at the beautiful person they chose. This time the decider sees (through the eyes of a beholder) everyone as beautiful, and thus concludes that beauty is objective. 

Usually free-will is assumed by most faith traditions as a prerequisite for moral responsiblity in order to justify eternal punishment. The argument goes as "you are truly responsible for your immoral deeds because you were perfectly capable of acting morally, but chose not to, and therefore you are guilty and deserve punishment". In other words, there is an assumption of a self capable of having chosen otherwise. But this definition sounds kind of handwavy to me. What do they really mean by "capable of having chosen otherwise"? Does this mean that if we somehow go back in time and press the "univere's play button" again, a different decision would have come out of the same self? But how would that be different from randomness? I would appreciate a formal (hopefully, mathematical if you can) definition of free-will that clearly differentiates it from determinism, randomness and any kind of determinism-randomness hybrid. Furthermore, I would love to read a logical discussion of how the formal definition provided would support the existence of true moral responsibility. Let me explain why. If the only options available were determinism, randomness and determinism-randomness hybrid, I cannot see any hope for true moral responsibility: 

If determinism happens to be true, then people just do what the laws of Physics governing the chemical interactions of neurons in their brains make them do. In such a scenario, wouldn't it be unfair to punish people in Hell (or any other form of eternal punishment for that matter)? If determinism is true, then people have no choice but to do what they are determined to do, including those people who behave immorally. If the goal is to put an end to immorality, then there are 2 options: 

The following may be an example of accepting a non-existent object to define an existent object. Perhaps it is an example of an unaccepted object used to understand an accepted solution. If not an answer, then a probing at the question. In the 16th century, the formula for the solution to a cubic equation of the form $x^3 + px + q = 0$ was found (by an entanglement between three mathematicians: Gerolamo Cardano, Niccolo Fantana Tartaglia, and Lodovico Ferro: Cardano was Tartaglia's student and claimed Tartaglia's work to be his own which eventually led to dual and Ferrari was Cardano's student who eventually completed the solution to the problem of the cubic formula). For example, to solve the equation $x^3 - 3x = 0$ using the formula, one gets $x = \sqrt[3]{\sqrt{-1}} - \sqrt[3]{\sqrt{-1}}$. Imaginary numbers were not widely accepted and used in mathematics until 200 years later, beginning with Euler. But, to solve this cubic equation and get that $x=0$ is a root, using the cubic formula, one had to accept the existence of $i = \sqrt{-1}$ (and therefore $\sqrt[3]{\sqrt{-1}}$) briefly, long enough to subtract it from itself. i did not exist yet (in the minds of mathematicians), but it was used to find a real solution. This view of $\i$ is due to Saul Stahl in his historical introduction to Algebra: Introductory Modern Algebra 

More precisely, I guess I should be writing SSS(0)+SS(0)=SSSSS(0). Anyway, the point is, the diagram of true arithmetic is recursively ennumerable. Indeed, it is recursive, a more stringent condition. For example, we can decide whether 3+2=5 or not. This means that, for example, that if we axiomatized arithmetic in a highly defective (but internally consistent) manner - say, for example, we ended up proving 438+21=555, or something like that - well we can demonstrate the our axiomatization is defective by noting that 'not 438+21=555' is an element of the diagram of true arithmetic. 

Like all basic emotions, hatred is surely an evolutionary adaptation, so it is clearly good for something. In particular, evolutionary theory suggests that genes coding for "never hate" and genes coding for "always hate" probably tend to die out pretty quickly, while more nuanced "hate under these circumstances" genes tend to fare much better. But this is an oversimplification, of course, for example due to pleiotropy. If you want a more philosophical answer, I suggest editing the question to ask "is hatred ever justified?" or some variant thereof. Briefly, my thoughts about this modified question: 

Therefore, every fact is worth knowing. Note: this is basically just the interesting number paradox. 

? Furthermore, I'm interested in normative theories of morality that are designed to help adherents improve their genetical success by means of doing the right thing. 

Thought experiment: let there be an omniscient being who knows the future and an agent with free will. They are playing a simple game: there is a table with 2 cards and the free agent asks the omniscient being the following question: Which card will I pick up? Since the omniscient being already knows the answer, then the free agent necessarily must do exactly what the omniscient being knows he is going to do (otherwise the omniscient being isn't really omniscient). However, if the omniscient being answers "the left card", then the free agent will pick up the right card, and if the omniscient being answers "the right card", then the free agent will pick up the left card (because he feels like trolling the omniscient being). Since either option leads to contradiction, doesn't this prove that free will and omnscience are incompatible? 

Is there any formal axiomatized definition of Determinism written in First Order Logic (FOL), with a semantic interpretation maybe rooted in Set Theory, or based on any other logical system and semantic interpretation, for that matter? 

Put an end to the existence of people with immoral behaviour. Keep the immoral people alive but correct their behavior so that they stop behaving immorally afterwards. 

Is there a fundamental ontology in Physics? According to Physics, what are the fundamental "things" (whatever they may be) that in combination define the whole universe, such that they are not themselves defined in terms of other simpler "things"? 

If we were able to live in the "reality" of every moment then perhaps philosophy would be unnecessary since we would be in tune with the true wisdom of experience. But this is not the case. Instead of experiencing the moment fully we think through the moment or get washed away by emotion. Thus, since this is the current condition, philosophy (like poetry :)) can help us to replace thought patterns with fresh philosophical statements, which will have to eventually be replaced by a fresher philosophy... Since we are so intelligent, studying philosohy or mathematics can organize the mind and leave space for true experience. There seems to be a human state which is able to experience fully and at the same time, through careful observations of others and self, use the mind to philosophize, see truth, and be able to verbalize it. There is an interesting and visually appealing book which discusses a related question through the history of philosophy called "Does the Center Hold? An Introduction to Western Philosohy" by Donald Palmer. 

How could one detect the subtle difference, if any, between imagining a being and using the imagination to interact with a non-physical being? To provide some context for this question, I will give a couple examples. I am thinking of an earlier question on this site about the ontological proof that God exists. A distinction is made in Anselm's proof between existence and existence in the mind. Also, I am thinking about dreaming and whether the dream world is contained in the mind or if the imaginative facilities of the mind allow us to enter the a real, though non-physical, dream world. If non-physical beings exist, or if non-physical aspects of physical beings exist then the only way to interact with them and "see" them is through the mind since our sensory organs will be of no use. But then we may be tempted to say that the being exists ONLY in our minds. But, this line of thinking turns any non-physical thing into a mental concept. Edit: For this question, by existence I mean existing independent of my mind. In particular, I am wondering about beings independent of my existence which I can only interact with beyond my 5 senses. Another way of asking the question is: Is the imagination solely for creating objects or beings which don't actually exist except for in the mind, or is the imagination a communication tool to be used to interact with the non-physical world? I'd be happy to hear your thoughts or a reference to where this has been discussed. 

Argument. If there were two distinct God's, then they would sometimes disagree on how things ought to be. Since they're both all-powerful, this would create a situation in which the universe would be in two mutually-incompatible states of affair at the same time. But this is absurd. Ergo, there is at most one God. (I don't consider quantum theory a sensible counterexample to the premises this argument is implicitly predicated on. Rather, that would be a misunderstanding of quantum theory.) Here's another reason why this is a good definition. Suppose there was an all-powerful being that didn't satisfy some of the other attributes sometimes ascribed to God - whether that be all-lovingness, all-goodness, infinite-mysteriousness, or whatever. Well, under these circumstances, would anyone hesitate to name this all-powerful being God? I think not, because the defining attribute of God is power, and lots of it. Some further thoughts: 

[This question needs a major rewrite. Please regard it as 'paused' and inactive until I find the time to clarify the issues of concern. Thank you.] Suppose we want to write very rigorous mathematics. Then, we need a foundation. Now the naive approach is to just formalize everything within this foundation. Like, if our foundation is ZFC, then a group is an ordered pair (G,*), encoded as Kuratowski pair or otherwise, and formally speaking * is really a subset of G^3. By defining things in this very rigorous way, we might think that a high level of rigor is thereby achieved. Actually, this is a really bad way of going about it! It means that if our foundations turns out to be inconsistent, then nothing we've proved in this way (say, about groups) can be trusted anymore. We have to start again from scratch. In reality, of course, we wouldn't need to start again from scratch, because most of the stuff we've proved doesn't need the full power of our foundations after all. For instance, if we're using ZFC as our foundations, well perhaps only 3 out of the 50 theorems we've proved need anything approaching the full power of ZFC, with the other results either following directly from the group axioms, or else being provable in much weaker systems. Thus, in general, we want to prove things under minimal foundational assumptions, as opposed to committing to one particular foundations and carrying out all our activity therein. This raises an interesting question. If foundational theories like ZFC are not the right place to formalize definitions like group, field, topological space, etc., then what is the proper role of foundations in rigorous mathematics?