Hang from the bar and swing your body forward. Right after the apex of your swing (as you're starting to swing back), do the chest pull-up. You'll feel the backwards swing pushing you to the back of the bar as you do the pull-up. Practice doing a pull-up and releasing your grip before you hit the top, then grabbing again. You should have enough explosive power to move up a bit vertically during the release. There's a grip switch for muscle-ups between the pull-up and dip parts, and this will help you learn it. Combine the prior two steps, swinging back into the pull-up and then doing the re-grip. Practice a reverse muscle-up (eccentric motion, I think), going to the top of the dip position, and lowering yourself through the motion, including the hand switch between the dip and pull-up part. Proceed to the full muscle-up. Don't be afraid to kip your legs while you're learning to gain momentum. It's practically necessary starting out. 

So, my mother got me a copy of Mark Lauren's You Are Your Own Gym book, and I'm trying his workout plan. For the first week, everything is done as "ladders" where the plan is to do one rep, rest, two reps, rest, etc, until you've hit a number of repetitions where you feel failure might happen in subsequent sets, then do n-1 and so on down to one rep. He says that the rest period should be equal to the work period in length, and the ladder should take 7.5 minutes (if you finished a ladder before then, you start back at 1). The thing is, I was trying it with pushups and I barely made my way through two repetitions of the ladders (first time, with a high of five and the second one with a high of three) before my arms were rubbery enough that I couldn't get a single rep in. Since each pushup was taking only a little more than a second, the rest periods were short too. I didn't even feel like I could exit the push-up position without running out of time. Should I be taking more time in between? Only count the time from when I'm out of position? Should there be rest periods in between ladders? I know he has various DVDs and an app for his program, but I'm loathe to put more money in if the answer is simple. 

One of the central fundamentals of exercise is that the best way to get good at something is to do it repeatedly in a safe manner. You've already isolated three aspects that you can work on. Building wrist strength and flexibility First, you'll want to build up static hold strength. This is simple. Find a bar at about the right height, put your arms behind you grabbing the bar, and bend your knees, transmitting weight into your wrists. Hold it as long as you can, then gently push yourself back up. Once you're comfortable with a static hold for a decent amount of time, start to experiment by being more off-center, shifting left and right as you might when trying to hit the buttons with your feet, but do it under control rather than the flailing that you might do while dancing. You will also want to drop your weight further than you actually would while dancing because training for more extreme cases makes it easier to do the more moderate ones (and helps prepare you for a situation where you lose your footing and drop further than you intend). I would also advise doing some exercises on the floor where you hold yourself backwards on all fours, wrists turned the direction you'd have them turned on the bar, and holding it for several seconds. This will further help in building strength and flexibility in your wrists, elbows, and shoulders. Practice pushing off As before, hands on the bar, drop your weight. But here, don't drop it quite as far. Now, you drill pushing off into a standing position with your weight neutral and centered. Doing this repeatedly will help build the muscles that you need for doing it mid-dance. Doing it under controlled circumstances lets you do so safely. Practice pushing back into the bar I would not advise starting out by dropping back toward the bar because if you miss, you could injure yourself. Instead, reach back for the bar, lightly touch it, then lean back in a controlled manner. As you get more comfortable, you can experiment with leaning back before reaching out for the bar, but start out with the easier and safer exercise. 

There's an increased slip risk, which combines with the possibility of falling face-first into standing water (from a clogged drain or one temporarily clogged by your fallen body). Drowning in an inch of water happens. Given you're going to take longer to shower most likely anyhow due to going in and out of the water stream, I'd advise against this. Instead, use your toothcare time to do the same thing. It's safe to do squats while brushing your teeth and using mouthwash. 

When I was in middle school, I could do full side and front splits. I even occasionally did at school the party trick of setting one foot on each chair and controlling my descent into a full split as the chairs slid apart. I was actively studying Tang Soo Do and it was a priority for me. I got older, hit puberty, and stopped training actively. Now, I'm 36 and trying to regain some of my lost flexibility. I know that not everyone can do splits, that some people just don't have the right hip sockets for it. Given I could do them as a child, does that imply that I can do them as an adult, if I just start training for it again? 

It is extremely difficult for most people to lose weight without tracking their diet, especially when exercising. The long and the short of it is that the human body evolved over a period of thousands of years where you ate what you could when you could because the odds were that you'd have to go without for a time. Therefore, our natural reaction to burning calories is to eat, to replenish those energy stores, and they've proven in one study after another that people tend to consume more than they burn unless they track it. This is compounded with that most measures of how many calories are burnt in exercise are overly optimistic. Give people a Fitbit and they'll gain weight even as they're moving more. That seems to be in part because they're being told that they've burned X calories, which translates into "I can eat that much more". To some degree, it's the same thing without tracking. Run a mile and your body will be telling you that you deserve a hamburger for it despite the massive disparity in calories. It's just generally not sustainable? So, what then? Well, as k88 said in their answer, you need to start tracking your food intake. You may be able to get away without the scale — I know I don't use one — but it's good to start noting down what you eat and how much of it, and to start totaling up the calories. Most people find they've been eating much more than they thought. A scale is better because a) many companies lie on, or are at least deceptive about, the the "serving size" on their food and b) again, we as humans are bad at estimating things and we tend to underestimate the amount of calories we're taking in. Where I will disagree is the amount of calories. You're actually pretty genuinely active, which adds to the amount of calories in your day. Cut it too far and you'll lose out on gains due to your body being insufficiently fueled. Doing a quick Google will get you an idea as to how many calories you're burning at a particular exercise. I would recommend cutting about 100 calories off of each measurement just because of the difficulties in getting exact values. At that to your BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate), and subtract from your calories consumed. Is it positive? Then you're probably going to gain weight. If it's negative, you're probably going to be losing weight. It's really that simple. 

Avoid overstretching Avoid positions or activities involving extreme ranges of motion in the hips Strengthen muscles surrounding the hips, pelvis, spine, and knees (best to be advised by a physical therapist. Pilates exercises may also be a good option.) Consider pool exercises/swimming and/or biking as a low-impact means for strengthening your joints within a normal range of motion. 

I primarily agree with Sparafusile. DOMS is pretty normal, especially for those impulse exercise sessions where you haven't warmed up, or haven't done the exercise before. Over the counter painkillers and anti-inflammatories such as aspirin or ibuprofen combined with heating pads or hot baths will give you enough relief to be able to sleep. For steps, as silly as it might sound, if you're having trouble lifting your legs, try going up them backwards or sideways. It uses different muscles, so sometimes it can work as a short term workaround. Lastly, if the pain is extreme or is starting to interfere with your ability to get around or to work, consider seeing a doctor. It is possible to injure yourself in a way that doesn't become evident right away, there are some serious conditions such as thrombosis that can be caused by exercise (although they're rarely seen in more casual sessions such as you did), and a $50 doctor's visit that nets you a prescription for a stronger painkiller might mean the difference between missing work and being able to continue making money. 

Side-to-side pushups: This is just a regular pushup, but shifting your chest over one hand during the down and up, then doing the other side. Start off with a smaller shift and continue working it until you can comfortably do pushups with the dominant hand at the center of your chest. Reduce the leverage of one-hand: Decide which hand will be the dominant one. The other one, move it to one side, or in front of you. As you descend, let the non-dominant hand slide out with a nearly straight elbow. You won't be able to as easily support your weight with it, which will force you to put more of your bodyweight on the dominant arm. Continue putting less weight on the non-dominant arm until it's largely just for balance. Now, you'll do the leg spreading trick for balance and just use the one arm. 

I can sympathize with your problem. My feet get really hot when I'm running as well. My solution for the problem was to move to minimalist shoes, in my case, a set of Xero Shoes sandals. They don't work for everyone — and they do necessitate learning a different running technique for most people as you no longer have artificial cushioning around your heel, but I personally find them much more comfortable. Outside of that, my impulse is that you could probably try adding venting to your shoes by cutting holes, albeit at the loss of structural integrity and waterproofing. 

Yes. You're not keeping your core tight enough. If you're ever not certain if you're in the correct posture, clench your buttock and stomach muscles tight while doing them. By the nature of body mechanics, that will pull you back onto the straight and narrow, and will lead to a better workout because you're maintaining bodily tension. You can relax to a less tense posture once you're certain you're in a correct straight line. If you're concerned about maintaining proper form during the exercise, a full-length wall mirror can set sideways on a wall, allowing you to quickly glance over and see if your form is good. 

From personal experience, albeit without professional experience or references to back it up, crunches tend to feel like they're only really working the front of the abdomen, while leg lifts always feel like they engage more of the sides, possibly due to differences of stability and how far off of straight legs can go versus the torso. 

For exercises at the office, you could do worse than this set of at-the-desk stretches. They're to the point and they're actually kind of fun to read. While in the car, you have limited options since even minor movements can result in the car swerving, especially with power steering, but when stopped, say in traffic jams or at lights, you have options. 

I bring a book (or read one on a tablet), and walk laps while waiting. It's low-impact, but it's exercise, keeping me warmed up, and it gives me a chance to finish one of the half-dozen books I'm in the process of reading. 

The article includes video demonstrations of the exercise. Discussion of the workouts here indicate that the above may have been a testing mechanism, something which was timed to figure out where the actors were in the process. Here's another version, cribbed from various accounts to break it down day by day (it's a bit too extensive for me to post quotes, but it's a mixture of weightlifting and cardio that seems high on the "Crossfit" aspects). Overall, I really get the impression that it was whatever Mark Twight felt was right at the moment. There's a lot of "do this to exhaustion" to push people to their limits. 

It depends. Many exercise machines don't account for it. They'll semi-accurately indicate that you've burned, say, 640 calories in the running you did, but they won't account for the fact that you would have burned 80 of those calories just sitting in a chair. 

This involves freezing water, and sudden immersion. If you're not falling through ice, it's probably not cold enough, and gradual immersion helps to prevent it. 

I've been trying to get more exercise and, short attention span and lack of time that I generally have, I've been doing some HIIT workouts such as the 7-minute workout. I know that the "7-minute workout" is really intended to be repeated 2-3 times in a row. However, I also know that I can generally barely manage to get through the 7 minutes with my current level of effort, with my legs being rubbery enough at the end that it's a relief to end with planks. So, my question is, if I'm aiming to do 3 sessions worth, should I push myself hard and resign myself to the fact that, at least at first, those second and third sessions will involve me slowing down as my endurance wears do, or should I be pacing myself so that I'm exhausted at the end of the 3, but I'm keeping a consistent level of effort?