I don't know if you intentionally chose "Who", since "What" seems a better question. I'll take some license and rephrase the question (I hope you don't mind). 

I work as a software developer and think this is a fascinating project -- not because it will necessarily succeed, but because it will require us to think much more on Abhidhamma and abnormal mental conditions. This in turn can teach us a lot. I often found the best way to learn something is to try to write a program to do it. This project would face many challenges. Two big ones off the top of my head are... 

Short Answer: It isn't about having opinions, it's about clinging to or cherishing them. Longer Answer: I find these lines from Verses on the Faith Mind very helpful [emphasis mine]: 

Just because you're Buddhist doesn't mean you can't say "thank you" :P All facetiousness aside, Buddhism is clear about the practice. For instance, it stresses compassion and non-attachment, so evaluate your course of action against those two. 

You may cling to it, and it may make you feel good. But it can sow the seeds of suffering because now you might get attached to this image of yourself as a good person and when it's challenged down the road, you can suffer. Again, the issue here isn't thought, it's attachment to thought. Some thoughts are good guidelines for actions, while others simply cause you to suffer. Some do a bit of both. But in all cases, don't attach to them -- recognize them as thoughts and choose what to do about them -- if anything. 

Of course if you suspect that there may be any medical issues involved with this, then see a doctor! 

There is one Dharma for all, however one may emphasize certain aspects of Dharma to take on certain challenges. For instance, some Buddhist teachings will prescribe certain types of meditations for certain temperaments. The problem with trying to have a different Dharma for different life stages is that it assumes that every person faces the same challenge at any given stage in life, and this is simply untrue. People's challenges are a function of their genetic dispositions, circumstances, stage in life and so on. Having said that, there very well may be broad themes that come into play in the stage of life. For instance, in old age, issues of health, impending morality and even irrelevance can come into play. However, it's dangerous to focus exclusively on those themes as how they manifest as challenges is still based on the individual. Furthermore, even if one were to focus on those broad themes, the Dharma would remain the same, one would simply shift one's energies to different aspects that seem most suited to the theme. For instance, how does the theme of mortality factor into one's ego-lessness? Would something like increased death contemplation be appropriate? What about if one is concerned with physical appearance at a certain age? Would contemplation on the unattractiveness of the body be appropriate here? But this comes back to different temperaments; entering a life stage (along with one's other factors) could be "reduced" to a shift in temperament, with the appropriate shift in emphasis on the practices involved. On an unrelated note, what you ask seems more in line with Hinduism, which acknowledges different practices for different life stages, but that's not relevant here. I just thought it interesting given the common religious mileu from which both arose. 

On paper, Buddhism has no dogma, and the Kalama Sutra is often cited as evidence of this. Other teachings with a non-dogmatic flavor are... 

If you encounter one of the above, be on alert. If you encounter multiple instances, then run for the hills. BTW, my use of #1 may distress some. Don't I think Enlightenment exists? I'm not sure... I think we can be more or less enlightened, but I'm suspicious of Enlightenment as an all-or-nothing claim. Often, this becomes a claim of infallibility which is then used as a pretext to exploit people and is the driving force behind the transgressions of cults. So generally, if someone claims they're enlightened, I assume they're full of it. 

Now as long as you are mindful of these thoughts as simply thoughts arising, you're ok. But when you cling to them, then you are under the spell of the illusion, and you suffer Likewise, if you help those in need, you will make their lives better. The illusion happens when you cling to the mental baggage that arises in this situation. For instance, you see people in need. Fine. But now you might start adding to this feeling thoughts like the following... 

There's the religious aspect. To most Buddhists, Buddhism is a religion and the texts are sacred. They are so sacred, that simply chanting them is believed to bring merit. So you've got people chanting Pali (which they don't understand) in the belief that merely saying the words will bring supernatural benefit. Even outside of religion people venerate older texts. For instance, people still read the works of Plato today, even though he was wrong about a lot. Schools require reading literature from hundreds of years back, even though there's a lot of excellent literature that's been released since. Others insist on reading original works from authors (like Kant) even though the works are widely acknowledged to be poorly written and even though excellent third party sources exist. The Buddha was believed to be enlightened, and since he got there, he's seen as the best source of information on that subject. Well certain texts are believed to be closer to his words (e.g.: because they're closer to his time or part of a school that claims it's closer to his vision, etc...) so by their perceived proximity to the source, they are seen as more accurate. 

If you are talking about what happens after death, then this seems to be what Buddhism is talking about. If you are talking about Nirvana in this life, then no, unless you believe one becomes unconscious upon reaching Nirvana. The question here is what does "you" mean? Is it the bare fact of consciousness, or is it the mental/emotional complex you identify with and that influences so much of your experience? The former "you" goes on, the latter "you" ceases, and it's this latter "you" that's the cause of your pain. This vanishing into the vast space of existence is the removal of the illusory barrier that separates us from the world, the illusory subject/object distinction. 

Notice the key word here is "cherish", not "have". People tend to hold opinions very tightly; they define themselves by them, refuse to change them when there is good reason to do so, and even present them when there is no reason to do so. However, there are situations in which (informed) opinions are appropriate, provided you do not cling to them. For instance, if you are at work and are discussing the best way to proceed on a project, and you have an opinion based on past experience, then it's important to present that opinion. However, do this without clinging; be open to the possibility that other opinions are better and don't make the mistake of turning a pet theory into an "informed" opinion. Conversely, if you like a piece of music or think another is bad, there's no reason to present or forward it. It's simply an opinion. You can seek the music you want, but you needn't get into arguments over it. This is the key; understanding the difference between dropping and letting go (not clinging, not cherishing). 

It's impossible to know what the Buddha taught, as even the earliest known writings were written long after he passed on. However, many schools claim they were the original words of the Buddha, either as a bid for credibility or as part of sectarian disputes. Don't take any such claims seriously. 

Since you said individual interpretations are ok, here is mine. I'm approaching this from a secular Buddhist perspective, one which treats Buddhism as a psychology and rejects anything unscientific. Everything is conditioned, including Nirvana. Furthermore, since enlightenment is realizing the self is conditioned, it makes no sense to claim the enlightened "self" is unconditioned. However, one can use "unconditioned" in a relative sense when speaking of Nirvana. Our contentment is usually a function of what we encounter, and in this we are conditioned. Yet if our contentment is relatively independent of what we encounter (Nirvana) then we can speak of us/Nirvana being unconditioned -- relatively speaking. Again, this is to be taken in a very relative, phenomenological sense. Our biology is still conditioned, what brought us to Nirvana was conditioned, etc... Yet our experience feels unconditioned as our well-being is not dependent upon the usual conditions, and in that sense we can say we are unconditioned or that Nirvana is unconditioned. I hope this helps.