The French "monster" is dead (Sedan, 1870) and smaller monsters rejoice over this fact. One of them is clearly a priest, the other a republican. Great Britain is despised, probably for her meddling in Sardinia and Sicily (23) The map is certainly filled with irony against other people struggling for their independence. Greece watches in a mirror looking for her long lost teeth; other nations in the Balkans are depicted as sheep: Serbia, Bosnia, Albania, Bulgaria 

from Maori associations with the Antarctic, Turi McFarlane, Canterbury University, 2008 Te Waka o Tamarereti 

As a result, we can say with confidence that the library has been destroyed as a whole. For instance, the Tabula Rogeriana, written by the Arabic scholar Muhammad al-Idrisi, ended up in Paris and Oxford, while the book about falconry is conserved in the Vatican. Among the book that it contained I have found: 

This is a rough translation (work in progress). Notice that the text is rhymed, and some of it (I find ) it is illegible. 

Notwithstanding the quantitative differences, due perhaps to technological advances and large populations, what is the first historical instance that we could define in modern terms as a "genocide"? 

In 406BC, the Athenian fleet reported a great victory against the Spartans', near the Arginusae Islands. After the battle, allegedly because of a storm, the generals failed to rescue their comrades at sea, and were subsequently trialed and executed. In the following year, a crushing defeat at the Battle of Aegospotami essentially vanquished the Athenian fleet and won the Peloponnesian War to Sparta. Was this trial [a result of different political factions fighting within Athens]? What do we know apart from Xenophon's account? 

First of all let me say that this is an excellent and well researched question. A quick recap from Wikipedia is handy: 

No, there was no general policy. Depending on the strategic and tactical motivations for an action, the commanders (be Consules, generals or emperors) would decide whether or not, and to what extent: 

Some astronomical events, viz. eclipses, can be reliably predicted to the day. I think they are the best method to identify a date exactly. This webpage provides some insight on the topic. It is basically a list of recorded solar eclipses, where the first one would be on 22 March 2134 BCE. There is however some uncertainty about whether or not the event really happened on the same day as the eclipse or was conveniently moved for political/religious reasons. I believe human calendars go as much back as eclipses, but this is based on calendars matching, which is subject to errors. The topics are, unsurprisingly, related. Furthermore, dendrochronology claims to be able to go back as far as 11000 BCE. It means that we can date the felling of that particular tree exactly to the year. However I am sure we can gather more expertise on this latter topic. As for primary sources only, so far I have only identified the year 776 BC. The anchor event is the first (recorded) Olympiad, whereas the exactness of the counting is guaranteed by several sources recording the following Olympiads and using them for chronology, according to this guy-->[3]. [3]: Chronology of the Ancient World, E. J. Bickerman, Cornell University Press, 1980 

During Roman times North-Western Africa had a thriving Christian community, giving birth to Saint Augustine and a long lasting heresy. This is similar to many Christian communities of the time, from Egypt to Syria. Today, Christianity disappeared so thoroughly from the region as to leave no traces, while it still exists in Egypt and Syria. When and why did Christianity disappear from North-Western Africa? What were the differences leading to its demise as compared to Christianity in Egypt and Syria? [Edited as the original framing was clearly misleading] 

Settlement The closest historical episode of settlement in the polar region that I can think of is the Norse settlement of Greenland. The differences are striking. The Norse were a seafaring, agricultural society. They could rely on a (comparatively, see below) advanced political system to support their expeditions. Settlements in Greenland were supplied with local agriculture and trade, and trees were notably growing in the region for them to build and cook. They remained small, because the climate was nevertheless rigid and there weren't many suitable places were to create settlements. Climate change, alongside the arrival of the Inuit people, determined the failure of their colonization attempts. On the other hemisphere, the only candidate people we can reasonably think of are: 

(emphasis added). I would dare and say that the Normans' conquest of Southern Italy was mainly a consequence of an Imperial project, while papal support only came insofar as the Pope was (in that particular timeframe) a puppet of Henry III. The Holy Roman Emperor wished to re-establish his control on the whole Italian Peninsula, as he considered himself the successor of the Western Roman Emperors. This involved defeating the Byzantine as well as the Lombards (who settled the Appeninnes) and the Saracens (who occupied Sicily). He likely hoped to use the Normans as pawns, but when the latter consolidated their control on the whole region, he realized that the situation had gone out of his control. The new political entity was much stronger than the sum of its parts. So much so, that all previous Christian contenders in the region, the Byzantine, the Pope, the Lombards and Henry III joined their forces against the Normans. This awkward coalition was however defeated in the Battle of Civitate, after which the future Kingdom of Sicily became one of the major powers in Europe, holding important roles in the Crusades, in the struggle between the Pope and the Holy Roman Emperor, and even attempting to conquer the Byzantine Empire. 

(Art. 1, my translation, emphasis added), however this was to some extent reverted with the last review in 1971, where San Marino still guarantees its neutrality. It is surprisingly difficult to find free sources for detailed history of the Convention of 22 March 1862, which is the key point in the relationship between the Kingdom of Italy and the Republic of San Marino. The Convention itself is available for purchase (system error, not enough money) and consultation (system error: nowhere near where I live). According to this source (don't be fooled by the button 'History', the relevant information is all in Italian), the small State leveraged on the friendship with Napoleon III, (who was the major foreign sponsor of Italian unification) and the desire of the Italian government to maintain his friendship in order to solve the open problems of Venice and Rome, under Austrian and Papal rule. The friendship of the Italian King himself might have been a factor, too, with many San Marino eminent people invoking the King's protection on the Republic. Even though Cavour was not enthusiast with the situation, when he was succeeded by Rattazzi an agreement became possible. A final "conspiracy" note: because secret societies were heavily involved in the unification of Italy, they might have played a role in the signing of the Convention. This is however just a rumor. 

The earliest record (I have) found (searching the Internet) is the Persian Book Shahnameh, of which I know nothing more than the Wikipedia entry: 

I think that, from this passage, we can evince that the Normans indeed had some degree of legitimacy. What happened later, in that the Pope confronted the Normans, is indeed correct. However it refers to a later development, and also (likely) to a different Pope. This is confirmed by another snippet that comes from Wikipedia's page about Drogo of Hauteville (unfortunately I do not have access to any of the texts referenced in the article). 

So to sum it up, the practice was almost certainly in use in Athens, as it was in many other cultures at the time. There is however no clear evidence that it was common use, certainly nowhere near its practice in Sparta, where it seemed universal. We have suggestions that the practice might have been common in the Hellenistic period, in the whole of Greece. The Exposure of Infants in Athens, by La Rue van Hook, contains a list of authors who support instead the view reported in Wikipedia. La Rue van Hook, Transactions and Proceedings of the American Philological Association, 1920, 51, 134-145 

This is the answer I owe you, which I am sure by now will be of no use to you. Disclaimer: here I answer to my own interpretation of the question. Although this is true for every worldly answer, I felt like writing this warning because of the extent of my freedom of interpretation. Also, because of my limited Mediterranean/European background I might be ignorant of major findings in other parts of the world. So this is the question: "What were important [...] documents [...] that were thought lost [...] and that led to significant new historic understanding when [...] copies became available [...]?" My emphasis. First of all what is a document? Is it a written source only? Certainly some frescos or architectures tell us more than certain written documents: are they documents too? Then: what does it mean to be lost: is it physically lost only? Some interpretations are lost, and hence even though people could read the documents, they would not understand them correctly. Sometimes even very well known documents give us new information when read under a new light. Let's start actually from this latter point of view. 

The Russian nobleman (I think) has Poland on a chain. At his feet, the serfs rejoice for the recent abolition of the feudal serfdom (Czar Alexander) Could you please provide some context for it? I think that it depicts Europe as seen by an Italian nationalist. The author obviously approves the recent (1870) Italian annexation of Rome. This is evident from what he says about "priests" and how he says that. Italy is the woman with long hair and white/turquoise dress, laying down a bear trap. The woman in the centre is Rome, that embraces/shields herself the coat of arms of the Savoy kings (of Italy). She feeds bread to a dog who is chained to the Papal seat: it is in fact on this chain that the pope tripped. The text about Italy is difficult to decipher. The last two verses are: 

This list is necessarily incomplete, because of the subjective nature of the "impact" a discovery has. Even though my preference goes to the last item, then there is no specific document I would pick as the most important one. Consider However that we are speaking about rediscovery of Cicero and Livy, among others. Think about such a discovery nowadays... PS. The Jordanian Lead Codices are almost certainly a forgery. I had heard of the discovery in 2011 but did not investigate further developements until the time of writing this answer. [3]: Hetiter. Die unbekannte Weltmacht, B. Brandau & H. Schickert, Piper Verlag GmbH, Munich, 2001 

Turvey S. T. and Fritz S. A., 2011, Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 366, doi: 10.1098/rstb.2011.0020 Johnson 2002 studied the effect of body mass and reproductive rate in relation to megafauna extinctions, in the Americas, Australia, Madagascar and North-Eastern Eurasia. He finds that there is indeed a trend with body mass (higher body masses more likely to go extinct) but also with reproductive rates (low reproductive rates more likely). Because the two are related (this is an assumption he derives from extant species) it is impossible to disentangle them. Among the extant species (remember that we are talking about specific areas of the world), some are massive enough and had low enough reproductive rates that they should be extinct according to the patterns discovered. The traits they share shelter(ed) them from human contact; they are one or more of: - nocturnal - arboreal - alpine - live at high latitudes - live in closed habitats (e.g. dense jungle) Johnson C. N., 2002, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 269, doi: 0.1098/rspb.2002.2130 The best evidence so far is to be found in Rule et al. 2012. They analyze the occurrence of Sporormiella fungal spores (which derive mainly from the dung of megaherbivores) in mud cores spanning the last 130000 years from Lynch’s Crater in Queensland, Australia. Their data showed that megafauna happily survived two major changes in regional climate, only to disappear about 41000 years ago, when climate changes were minimal. The Sporormiella spores disappear before the increase in charcoal and the transition from rainforest to fire-tolerant vegetation, supporting the idea that hunting alone eliminated the megafauna, and that the subsequent change in the flora was a consequence of the elimination of browsers and an increase in fires. Rule S., Brook B. W., Haberle S. G., Turney C. S., Kershaw A. P. and Johnson C. N., 2012, Science, 335, 1483, doi: 10.1126/science.1214261 

We know the population of the whole Southeast Asia mostly by estimates. Contemporary figures are considered unreliable, and state of the art values are computed by combining the most reliable ones with backward projections from XIX century data. 

Because all of my knowledge of Tifinagh came from the Wikipedia article, I was quite puzzled to read this. For those of you that just don't bother checking, the author describes the different positions of English and French scholars. 

Although the values concern 1600, the population growth rate was extraordinarily low as late as 1800. You can take them within a factor of two. Apart from Java and Southern Sulawesi, most of the population was concentrated in big cities, that thrived on commerce. The landscape was dominated by jungles, and it remained pretty much so until at least the XIX century. For instance, attacks by tigers were not uncommon, even around populous centres. As for the economy, the question is quite broad, but the fulcrum of any answer on this topic is geographic. The Strait of Malacca is a mandatory choke point for sea trade between East Asia and the Indian Ocean, which makes it one of the most important shipping lanes in the world. In addition, trade from the Spice Islands must necessarily go through Western Indonesia. The strategic importance was thus complemented with the passage of precious spices, directed to Northern and Western foreign markets. The region around Malacca only produced small amounts of tin, gold and fish. Its economy flourished on the flow of goods through it. See on this topic Saint Wikipedia's article about the Sultanate of Malacca. As for the Majapahit Empire, the same holds. In contrast with the Sultanate of Malacca, the Javanese could rely on local production, for example Javanese rice. One of the leading causes of its decline is the rise of the Sultanate of Malacca to the North, and the loss of control on the maritime traffic in the region. Around the 1400, increasing demand of goods from China, and later from other regions, including Europe, determined an unprecedented growth in commerce. Chinese authorities, worried because of the outflow of cash from the Empire, banned commerce with Java in the XV century. The extent of this economic boom determined a revolution in the region. Source: Cambridge History of Southeast Asia, Vol. 1, Singapore, 1992 

According to the legend, San Marino has been de facto independent since very old times, viz. since its foundation the year 301. Then the founder San Marino famously 1 said to the mountain community: Relinquo vos liberos ab utroque homine (I free you from both men), thus freeing it from both the temporal power of the Emperor and the power of the Roman Pontifex. Pope Niccolò IV recognized the State of San Marino in 1291, but it had been de facto governed by an assembly of the citizens, the Arengo since about the year 1000. A written republican Constitution was approved in 1600. This just to provide context and to witness the ancient republican history of San Marino. Now to its role in the unification of Italy. 

Existence The existence of a Southern Land was postulated by the Greeks, on grounds of symmetry. Aristotle (Meterologica, II, 5) writes: