The text I'm reading distinguishes logical necessity, logical consequence, logical truth, and tautology from one another; however it doesn't make their distinctions especially perspicuous. As far as I interpreted it, 

What definition of to exist, of to be, and of real preponderates contemporary philosophy? How do the terms differ from one another? 

I know modern philosophers debate whether we have sufficient warrant to conceive of properties and qualities as mutually distinct. The existence of such a debate entails the existence of, ostensibly, mutually distinct conceptions of those terms. So, generally speaking, what do the philosophers who posit a distinction between the two terms regard as distinguishing one from the other? 

My professors often neatly summarize important historical philosophical arguments in short syllogisms. Often the syllogisms have the same effect that the author's n*10^2 page essay about the argument. It seems like an efficient way to learn philosophy. Are there compendiums of syllogistic summaries of philosophical arguments? 

For example, that impossible principle might read, 'All persons' actions ought to reflect the fact that they are ends in themselves, and that no other persons are ends in themselves'.  

The players in the game comprise 50% men and 50% women The players inherit one of two strategies: girly, manly Conception requires that a man and a woman agree to mate. Conception requires that a woman wants the mating to produce her mate's offspring A man does not know whether his mate wants the mating to produce his offspring Only a woman knows whether she conceived a given offspring Any player can refuse to mate with any player A woman can conceive no more than n offspring A man can conceive no more offspring than the number of ova he can fertilize Half of the offspring have their mother's gender and strategy ;half of the offspring have their father's gender and strategy Every offspring has half its mother's genes and half its father's genes. Every player has an amount of time that equals n The expected reproductive success of an offspring increases commensurately with the time invested in it. Womanly strategies invest resources in their offspring; manly strategies do not. Every player knows the gender and the strategy of every other player. No player knows another player's moves. Every player endeavors to maximize its expected reproductive success Expected reproductive success equals the probability-adjusted most probable number of a player's genes expected to be in all the players of the game in a later turn. Players can cooperate 

In precise usage, the term work denotes the amount of force applied over a distance, and is commonly expressed Fd. But in any case, the product of that formula always represents an amount of energy. Accordingly, that product is normally expressed in joules. The conversion of joules to calories is straightforward: 1 joule = 0.239 calories. Thus, calories = joules = work = mental effort, and so by hypothetical syllogism, calories = mental effort. As others have said, we can measure the number of calories a brain consumes over a period. So then one could measure the number of calories the mathematician's brain consumed while he was developing his theory (and, perhaps, to make the measure more informative, compare that to the amount of calories his brain consumes while at rest). So the answer is, yes we can measure the amount of effort used to create a mathematical theory in terms of energy. 

My crude summary of both of their views One way or another the mind is responsible for the notion of causality, which we can't prove exists independent of the mind. Is that a fair summary? 

The fast answer is, "the being's ability to recognize itself in a mirror." There are a handful of animals that can do this (Elephants, Dolphins, and some primates). The most common way to test whether an animal apprehends that its reflection is an image of itself, is to mark the animal and observe whether it attempts to remove the mark when it sees the mark on itself in the mirror. 

You need that information to answer your question. You could suppose some 'perfectly efficient mathematician', but in any case you would need to state your parameters. The bottom line is that thinking uses energy. You remarked that the amount of energy used depends on the person creating the proof. So, 

In sum, I tend toward believing that it is not feasible to conceive of a universe that has a set of natural laws that are different than the natural laws our universe has. Then again, Stephen Hawking, once speculated that the universe was created by another universe that had universe-creating properties and whose properties did not require it be created. So I'm hesitant to say that my take is more likely to be right than his is. 

To answer your questions (1) As has been mentioned, Nick Bostrom has written about it (link) (2) Ontology is the study of what exists, ontology is a subdiscipline of metaphysics. Questions of the existence of extra-terrestrial life are questions of existence, so they're ontological questions, and so they're metaphysical questions. (3) Undoubtedly, someone has written something on it. However, I checked The Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford (the most reputable source on these kinds of questions) and found nothing other than Bostrom's paper, which I linked in the answer to #1. 

Reproductively speaking, being in a 'couple' is a parasitic relationship, in which the female and manly-man are the parasites and the girly-man the host. 

How does Kant derive The Formula of an End in Itself, The Formula of Autonomy, and The Formula of the Kingdom of Ends from the The Formula of the Universal Law? So far, this is my understanding of it. 

Yes. (tl;dr at bottom) Generally philosophers regard privacy as instrumentally valuable: it enables us to do whatever we desire to do without fear of others' judgments of what we do. The dead can't do anything, and so privacy can't enable them to do anything. Moreover, feeling something is one of the things a person can do, and so the dead also can't feel anything bad about the posthumous violation of their privacy. However, the fact is that posthumous unprivacy could detriment, and, presumably, in many cases, would detriment, living persons enjoyment of their privacy. For example, if there were two closet homosexuals who romantically corresponded by post, and if at least one of them cared about the reputation of his family; and if he lived in, a society, or a time, when his homosexuality would detriment the reputation of his family if it were known to the public; and if his society didn't respect posthumous privacy; then the fact that his society didn't respect posthumous privacy would be a reason for him to fear keeping the letters, which, perhaps, he would have, otherwise, liked to do. tl;dr: Privacy enables us to do what we want without having to justify it to others. If society doesn't respect posthumous privacy, then living people won't enjoy their privacy as much. Example: someone has a bunch of weird porn on her computer; perhaps she wouldn't have that porn if she worried that her family would learn of it if some unexpected tragedy were to kill her. 

I suspect that we could. Although such a measure may not be especially informative or useful. Consider for example that some brains may use more or less energy than other brains use when completing the same tasks. Nevertheless, it appears your question asks whether it is possible to measure the amount of effort expended in the creation of a single mathematical theory by measuring the amount of energy consumed in the creation of that theory. The American Heritage English Dictionary defines work as 

This is probably a question that would receive a better answer if it were asked through one of the science boards. That said, here's an answer to your question that I picked-up while helping my wife study for her psychiatry licensing-exams. A human's 'innate' knowledge is analogous to the latent image in an undeveloped photograph - an event 'out in the world' is required to develop it into its explicit form. A psychologist once conducted a small, but well regarded, study on the matter: two groups of infants were shown silhouettes of animals. Infants in the first group were shown a silhouette of an animal that most people regard to be benign {a moose, a cow...}; whereas infants in the second group were shown a silhouette of an animal that many people regard to be frightening {a spider, a snake...}. The psychologist pricked the infants immediately after they were shown the silhouette. After twelve rounds of conditioning, infants in the first group would cry upon being presented with the silhouette; whereas, infants in the second group would cry upon being presented with the silhouette after just three rounds of conditioning. An interesting aside: The results of the study suggested that humans also are innately afraid of birds-of-prey and big cats. That universal innate-fear may help explain why images of those animals are often used on national flags, coats-of-arms, etc. It is also interesting that dragons have been imagined in discrete cultures, and that they have been imagined to be amalgams of three of the four animals that humans are predisposed to fearing {snakes, birds-of-prey, big cats}. 

That's a big question. I've asked tough questions that required 'soft' [read: speculative; non-quantitative] answers on physics.se, and I received helpful replies. That aside, I recently wondered whether it were feasible for a human to conceive of a universe with a set of natural laws that were completely and essentially different than our universe's natural laws. Presently, I lean toward believing that it is not feasible for a human to do so: 

Is there a difference between 'inconsistent' and 'contrary'? As far as I understand two statements are inconsistent when they can not both be true. Does 'contrary' have the same definition? As far as I understand, neither term is perfectly synonymous with the other nor with 'contradictory' (where two variables cannot bear the same truth-value, be it true or false) So do 'inconsistent', 'contrary', and 'contradictory' each have their own meaning, or are two of those terms mutually synonymous?