Your question leaves open a wide range of interpretation. But if you ask for a fundamental philosophical question, many would take into account Leibniz' question: 

Later he reduces the relation of cause and effect also to the first two ideas, see 1.3.2. Hume does not pose a distinguished actor who achieves this assocation. His point is the absence of such an actor - e.g. called the soul. The ideas themselves create theses relations. You may call this either active from the viewpoint of the ideas, or passive, because there is no distinguished actor. Which wording, active or passive, applies that's not Hume's point. The viewpoint of neuroscience resembles very much Hume's description. If the face of a certain person is stored as a pattern of activation of a set of assemblies, then the impression of only a part of the face creates a similar activation of a subset of assemblies. This subset activates the rest of the original set by existing connections within the whole set of assemblies. That's the mechanism of assocation. 

For the whole issue see also Reichenbach, Bruce: Why is God Good? The Journal of Religion, Vol. 60, No. 1 (Jan., 1980), pp. 51-66 Aside: I doubt that many Christians can be convinced by this kind of argumentation - not to mention non-Christians. For me the argumentation puts in doubt that the original question can be handled in a philosophical manner at all. Here we are beyond the limits of Christian philosophy. 

Has ethics became the most important topic in philosophy? Ethics is an important topic in philosophy. Often one divides philosophy into the following branches 

I would like to take the question a bit more general: Does quantum mechanics challenge ontology? Yes, quantum mechanics is a big challenge to ontology, not only to epistemology. Even in the mesocosmic domain we do not know what the objects are in itself, as has been emphasized by Kant. Even more in quantum mechanics: We do not have access to quantum mechanical objects alike to our direct access to mesocosmic objects. Broadly speaking, an electron is what satisfies the Dirac equation. More precisely, in the microscosmic domain one often has to abandon the principle of individuality: When considering electron-electron scattering one cannot say that the electrons before scattering are the same as the electrons after scattering. Not only that microcosmic objects. e.g. bosons, possibly are indistinguishable, they may even lack a permanent individuality. Is a photon before and after virtual pair-creation and annihilation the same photon or a different one? I do not know whether serious attempts for an ontology of the microcosmos have been made until now. 

The latest components of the Vedas are teachings called Upanishads. To a large part they are agnostic and speculate about general principles of our world. Broadly speaking, the Upanishads are teaching a grand unification, expressed in the doctrine 

Here Atman denotes the individual person, while Brahman denotes a fundamental principle which - as it is said - governs the universe. Technically this position is a monism, later called Advaita (= not two) Vedanta (= end of the Veda). This position has been elaborated to an influential philosophical position in India and in Western Hinduism. Its most well-known advocate in modern times was Vivekananda at about 1900, an earlier influential thinker was Shankara. Note. Besides Advaita Vedanta there exist different philosophical schools in Hinduism which advocate quite different positions. 

You ask whether a solution of Russells paradox can be obtained by allowing truth values of propositions to range continously from zero to one. It is not clear from your question which proposition you consider in the context of Russells paradox. More general, which statements do you have in mind for your proposal? In the context of propositional logic you aim at replacing the truth function with values zero or one by a truth function psi with values in the intervall [0,1] of real numbers – or more in the spirit of quantum mechanics, in the domain of complex numbers of modulus <= 1. In order to elaborate your proposal I would recommend: 

The quoted passage explains the principle to unify several different explanations by one single explanation. Often the concepts of a certain explanation can be reduced to the concepts and laws of a more fundamental explanation. This principle is named reduction of theories. The example is to reduce the concepts pressure and temperature from Boyle's law of thermodynamics to the concepts energy and impluse of molecules and to apply Newtonian mechanics. Hence to reduce Boyle's law to mechanics, or more general: To reduce themodynamics to statistical mechanics based on Newtonian mechanics. It is always a big step in science when seemingly different phenomena can be understood and explained as different aspects of one single phenomenon. Examples: Magnetism and electrostatics are unified by electrodynamics, optics becomes part of Maxwell electrodynamics, mass and energy are equivalent according to E = m*c**2, weak and electrodynamic interaction are united to electroweak interaction, time and space are combined to spacetime, etc. 

Kant emphasizes that our experience is not an image but a construction. Our understanding constructs experience with the help of two types of intuition, space and time, and the categories. The intuitions and the categories are a priori. We do not know anything about the thing-in-itself, because we have no direct contact. As a first approximation, thing-in-itself is a synonym to noumenon. And phenomenon is a synonym to experience. The concept of mind-space seems a risky term in this connection. Better calling the domain of experience mind-space. Because it is result of our constructive experience. The outer world of the thing-in-itself is sometimes named reality. But one has always to check how the author in question defines his terms. Kant is a philosopher who separates noumena and phenomena in a strict way. He does not aim at unifying them. 

Before, Descartes had defined God - in accordance with the Scholastic tradition, the dominant philosophy and theology of his time (III.22): 

If I correctly understand your question, you ask: Why do people, who are not satisfied with introducing a creator god as first cause, demand a cause of this creator god? IMO that's obvious: If someone terminates the chain of cause - effect relations by postulating a creator god as first cause, then the question seems legitime: Why not terminating the chain one step earlier and just postulating, that the world exists as its own cause? I consider this whole discussion about the cause of the world an overestimation of our capabilities to step behind the limits of our knowledge just by reasoning based on general principles. These principles have their value in explaining a lot of phenomena within our world. But questions concerning the cause of the world show the boundaries of our concepts and philosophical principles. 

In the first half of the 20th century a group of philosophers, called Vienna Circle, discussed the question: How to establish a border between science and metaphysics. Prompted by their discussion but in contrast to their findings the Austrian philosopher Karl Popper stated the following demarcation criterion: The difference between scientific and metaphysical statements is the fact, that the former can be falsified but the latter can not. For Popper’s thesis see his book „The Logic of Scientific Discovery“. Popper‘s thesis is in accordance with the fact, that scientific theories like the Theory of Relativity and Quantum Theory are open to falsification by observation. Up to now, these theories have not been falsified, there are no observations which contradict these theories. But we can identify there domain of validity. On the other hand there is no scientific theory which includes Big Bang as an event. Big Bang is a limit of the cosmological standard model. But Big Bang is not part of the theory, because several physical quantities become tend to infinity when approaching Big Bang backwards in time. However, there are some scientific speculations how to embed Big Bang into a cyclic cosmological model. The status of String Theory is highly debated. It is unclear whether String Theory makes any observable predictions at all. The question is whether String Theory is metaphysics or science. But in any case, String theory relies on an interesting mathematical theory. 

Kuhns book The Structure of Scientifoc Revolutions (1962) is a work from history of science which touches also philosophical issues. E.g. see the preface of the author. The concept of revolutions is a basic of Kuhn's book. In chapter XI Kuhn draws parallels between scientific and political revolutions. He writes: 

It's no solution to postulate a primordial source as a remedy against infinite regress. The concept of a primordial source prompts at once the question for its cause. To say it is "causa sui" - the answer of Christian philosophy - does not answer the question but rejects it. My conclusion: We must not overestimate the power of pure reasoning. Instead, we must restrict ourself to the insight that today certain cosmological questions have no answer. 

A baby when growing up learns to make a cut between his body and his environment. In order to establish this cut it is of fundamental importance that the baby explores the world not only by seeing and hearing but also by acting - not only sensing but also acting as agent. Those objects where I can act upon and get a sensual feedback, they form my body. I see my foot, touch it with my hand and have a corresponding preception. All objects where I can act upon without getting such feedback, they form my environment. Hence the cut between the system and its environment depends on the feedback from the motor areas to the sensoric areas of the cortex due to intentional actions. So far - in short - the first approximation. I do not know whether Dennet coined a separate term for the cut between the system and its environment. Thomas Metzinger, also coming from cognitive science, names the system in question the “phenomenal self-model”. Hence the cut is the boundary of the phenomenal self-model, where the latter embeds into the world-model of the system which is the environment. Both the system and its environment are located on the mental level. Both are inner models. For a survey see Thomas Metzinger: Empirical perspectives from the self-model theory of subjectivity: a brief summary with examples. In: R. Banerjee & B.K. Chakrabarti (Eds.) Progress in Brain Research, Vol. 168 (2008) Apparently an individuum can extend his self-model due to later experiences, e.g. by using tools. Temporarily it can even release the phenomenal self from the body and make an out-of-body experience. Anyhow, I would consider the notebook from the example of your post, being a kind of external hard-disc, part of the system – and not of its environment. The Cartesian cut is the mind-body problem. It is still unsolved but it is tackled now also by methods from neuroscience. The Heisenberg cut - or Kopenhagen cut – seems to be not the final word. Since the beginning it has been highly debated whether such cut between system and observer – or more general between micro-cosmos physics and meso-cosmos physics – exists at all. The concept of decoherence attempts to bridge both levels by a unified explanation. 

On the other hand, the following passage is generally interpreted as speaking about the dead of the body, a kind of matter: 

Plato emphasizes that we have two ways to obtain knowledge, our senses and our thinking. To the domain of forms we have access only by thinking. Hence we grasp the idea of the circle as well as other mathematical ideas solely by our thinking. In the symposion Plato describes the ascent to the domain of ideas as a kind of mystical intuition. But even when Plato employs words "to see the idea of beauty" he always means to intuit the idea by our mind. In his late philosophy Plato starts some speculation about numbers. Possibly a lecture "On the Good" existed dealing also with numbers. Aristotle refers about Plato's conception of numbers in Metaphysics (Book 1, 987b15): Numbers are considered a third type of entities, between the sensuous entities and the forms. In addition, Aristotle refers: Numbers come into being by participating in the One (987b21f). In any case, according to Plato we do not grasp numbers by our eyes but by our mind. Hence mathematical Platonism is not necessarily geometric. In my opinion, all Platonic ideas and also numbers are formed by abstraction: From "two bottles, two persons, two trees" we abstract to the number Two. 

Benjamin Libet in his book "Mind time. The temporal factor in consciousness (2004)" carefully describes the experimental setting of his investigations. His result: First, our brain starts the process of volition. At about 350-400 milliseconds later, the proband realizes - consciously - that he wants to act. Libet explains that a proband can well discriminate whether he acts on the base of his own volition or whether he is forced to act because his motor cortex is stimulated by an electrode of the investigator. In his book Libet discusses a series of conclusions from his experiment which refer to the concept of free will. The second topic from your question refers to the book "Richard Dawkins: The Selfish Gene (1976)". In my opinion Dawkins point of view is very helpful and sheds new light on the principles of evolution. But I would not expect that every facet of human behaviour and human decision is determined and can be explained solely from the genotype of the individuum. An individuum is also strongly affected by his sociological and his cultural environment as well as by other factors of his personal situation, e.g. concerning the decision whether a person wants children or not. I consider both, the problem of free will and the problem to which degree the "selfish" genes determine our behaviour, two big and unsolved problems. Combining them and asking how they are linked, seems to me more than today's neuroscience, biology, psychology and sociology can work on. Therefore I would consider each problem in separation and postpone the answer to your original dilemma. 

Added in 2018: The detection of gravitational waves confirms the statement of the General Theory of Relativity that spacetime is a physical object, not just a container. Gravitational waves are oscillations of spacetime due to the acceleration of masses. 

I have the same question like you. I do not consider it helpful to approach Anselm's ontological "proof" by making a distinction between having an idea and mental existence. The case of this "proof" has been settled by distinguishing 

Ignoticism as defined in the link from the OP question emphasizes the general rule that any discussion presupposes that the dialogue partners have defined - explicitly or by common use of language - their terms. A sound definition requires that the terms in question are reduced to well-known terms. And that the latter terms are not contradictory. Without these presupposition any discussion between agnostics, atheists and theists is senseless. Accordingly, in any theological discussion an ignostic person will insist that the term "god" has first to be defined by the interlocutors. But - according to the link above - an ignostic will 

Some scholars consider Plato's myths particular deep insights. But I would conjecture that here Plato is at his wits' end. In my opinion, a philosopher must not tell myths, he should present arguments. Added 9.7.2015: I would like to explicate some of my statements above. First, I think my claim that a philosopher has to present arguments does not need any support according to the rules of this philosophy blog. Secondly, the dialogue Phaidon illustrates my statement, that Plato starts a myth when he has no arguments left. The Platonic Sokrates aims at convincing his conversational partners that the soul is immortal and that one should live according to certain moral standards. Plato expands at least three series of arguments for his position. Eventually Simmias is not fully convinced (107b). At this point the Platonic Sokrates tells a myth to colour life after death. Afterwards (114ff) Sokrates questions the truth claim of the myth when taken literally. But within the same sentence Sokrates emphasizes a truth claim for the content as a whole. One can ask: Where from does he know that the content is true but the details possibly not? Sokrates continues: It is worth to risk such a point of view – the risk is beautiful (kalos) – and one has at least to talk oneself (epadein heauto) into this view. The choice of the terms already shows that Plato has left philosophical argumentation and entered the domain of persuasion. Thirdly, sometimes Plato’s use of myths is even worse. At Politeia (414b) he advocates to invent a certain myth to cheat (pseudos = deception, lie) the citizens of the state.