There was no reason to continue the war: a. Ideologically, Hitler objectives towards France were to retake the "German" (Alsace and Lorraine) land back into the Reich. From a practical point of view, France was no longer a threat, and a likely-minded regime was set in power. The treaty gave Germany everything they wanted. b. Despite the fast success, the German campaign was not "a walk through the park". There were significant losses (including 1200+ planes and 700+ tanks), and the French army was still a fighting force (with more experience as the war progressed). The faster the campaign ended, the faster those loses would stop. c. There was still a war going on. Until France was taken out, any attempt against the UK would have to be delayed. If it lasted long enough, autumn and winter would set in making any crossing of the sea very dangerous. France had other options. The governments of many of the occupied countries had fled to London, transfering whatever assets they still controlled to the Allied war effort. In the case of France, these assets were considerable (its colonial empire2, its fleet -both military and commercial-, as many soldiers that got to evacuate).There was even a proposal of an Anglo-French union3, uniting both countries (so the fall of the "continental" French-UK country would mean not the defeat of the country). The armistice gave the French an acceptable treaty3 to agree and avoid such scenario. It also kept the French colonial empire inside the German area of influence (even if not under direct control). It eased the German burden of occupation. It would not need to garrison Vichy controlled zones, and in all of France Vichy police forces and administration continued to operate. A French functionary could refuse to collect tax for the Germans in order to avoid being later considered a traitor, but would have it better if he were collecting taxes for the French government (even if the French government used it to pay the German occupation forces). 

I don't know about other cities, but Chicago appears to have had many troubles with its underground terrain, to the point that, to build their sewer system (once these things became "fashionable" :-)), they had to raise the entire city instead of building it underground. From the link: 

Historically, changes in the relationship between metals have been mostly been caused by colonizers getting to new territories with easy to mine resources (Potosí, Gold and Silver rushes) and improved trade with other regions of the world with a different proportion of gold and silver (Far East), but those events were few and their effects are very documented. 

Medieval, and way older; as Saturnalia, Carnival or whatever the name your culture had for it. Festivities about role reversal seem to be abundant. For example, for Saturnalia: 

1As a side note, old comics like "Zipi y Zape" used "the complete list of Visigothic kings" (all 33 of them, in less than two centuries) one of the most hard to learn/feared school themes. Thankfully, by the time I got to school teaching was less memoristic, that list was long gone and only a handful of relevant kings were mentioned. 

1OTOH, the technological differences between the two forces were not as loopsided as it was in Isandlwana. 

An example in which the native forces were numerically inferior1 the colonizing forces was the Battle of Annual in Morocco in 1924. Not in Africa, but still part of the colonial efforts, in 1857 the Indian Rebellion managed to expel the British East India Company for two years. 

On the other hand, an overlooked Russian (and Western) influence was the use of the rights of Christian minorities as an excuse to wage war against the Ottoman Empire. Any time a Christian power wanted a casus belli, an incident or a riot would be used to justify a new war, a new defeat of the Ottoman Empire, and new territorial losses and concessions. This could have greatly increased the appeal3, to the Ottoman empire leadership, of building a Turkish only state. 

All of these have been related in a lot of ways... not only a city would be a local trade hub and could become an international one; if a trade hub appeared in a place where no city did exist then people would start stablishing there to profit from it, founding a new city. Similarly, even if a king did chose to move his court to the country, it would attract a considerable amount of follower and artisans who would form the seed of a new city. The administration of the country, the trade, etc., would in turn need the existence of a class of people with some culture and the stablishment of communication links with other cities, favoring the interchange of ideas. Also, live in small towns and villages favours a communal way of living, that usually punishes those who step outside the stablished traditions, while live in the city allows for a greater degree of personal freedom. So in the cities you get: 

In addition to o.m.'s answer, it is worth commenting that it was not as if commanders refused to try new solutions to avoid the horrifying loses and break the stalemate: 

1 Legally, Tunisia was a protectorate which meant that it kept a local government, though it was the French administration which really held the power. 

First time I have heard about that. Remember, Greek people were rebelling (again) on their own against Ottoman power and fought a pretty brutal war against them, so they likely had very little sympathy for anyone who could side with Istambul. And the reason that they were rebelling was because they wanted to live in a Greek state, under Greek law (and, at the time, law included religion). It was the time when the ideal was the "nation state": a single, unified national identity under the same state. Really, there is no need to look for2 external factors to explain that. 

If you are a totalitarian state in a total war setting, money is not that important. In a market economy with other factors yes, paying salaries has effects in production. People want to buy new things, and capitalists/individual workers direct their effort to produce the things the public wants (food, clothing, building, enterteinment, transport, etc.) diverting that workforce and production means away from more "war-friendly" production. But in Germany in 19441, things were not like that. It would not matter how many "money" the public had, Porsche or Volkswagen could not have decided on their own to stop producing military equipment in order to sell more private vehicles. And even if you were a company that had no direct orders about what to produce, you would not have access to the raw materials, and your workers would have been subject to conscription. Some consumer goods were produced, of course, as people needed food, clothes and other basic stuff, but those would have been rationed so more pay would not have helped. Of course as the war advanced and less and less goods were available to the public, that did lead to the logic inflation, as items at "official" price became scarce and black market did flourish; in a sense you could say that the state did cut the soldiers pay by creating the conditions for this scarcity and inflation, but without the public face loss of actually reducing the soldiers'pay slip. And of course, DevSolar is right that "the turning point" was not D-Day and that a more relevant refence would have been the defeat at Stalingrad and the German reaction to it; if you want more precision the Sportpalast speech on 18 February 1943 is routinely quoted as the beginning of total war by Nazi Germany.