Ignorance (Avidyā) - encloses our limited perception. It creates limited models - Mental creations (Saṃskāras) - such as "it's good to find such fruits", leading to - Consciousness (Vijñāna) - limited view of the world, such as becoming busy with chasing fruits, and neglecting other things in our travel - 

I love to observe the world, to investigate what happens in the mind. Do you love that too? Every child loves to learn. Only with time we lose that love for learning - some people to greater degree, some to lesser. So another method for calming the mind is to supplement that calming with investigation. For example, if you can't reliably "turn off" your anxiety, can't let it go, then you can watch: "Is that mental whirlpool helpful?" Or: "Does this anxious concentration on the object of passion help?" Observe. Then one moment a realization might strike, like a lightning in the dark. You would realize that this process of repetitive anxious thinking doesn't help anything. And that realization will make turning your attention away easy. Moreover, this realization will affect your motivation. You will understand your mental processes better, and you will be less prone to developing unhealthy processes. More likely your thinking will be healthy, your personality will become more joyful and unconstrained, people will feel your kind, free attitude to life, and so you will help others even by your presence - with calm, relaxed, easy-going mind. It is said that all Buddhist practice boils down to the Three Highest Trainings: 

Giving selflessly drops our egoistic burden. Every time we give without egoistic concerns, we return a step back to our original unconstrained and natural feeling. Discipline means to keep our wholeness despite habits and distractions which try to carry us away from our natural heart. Patience is an art of remaining relaxed. We have habits to be dissatisfied, to rush somewhere else rather than to be just here. Patience means we want to live every moment in complete wholesome manner. Not wasting our life in chasing feverish desires, not escaping this moment to self-compressed heat of constraint. Enthusiasm comes from understanding that if we remain passive then our energy dissipates, and we live in dull, gray world. Concentration is all the previous perfections together: 

Our original condition is unconstrained easiness and contentment. Imagine how a little baby feels in comfort. No worries and concerns. Everything is simple. Gradually children lose that state of satisfaction, because we attach to "good" and run away from "bad". "Good" and "bad" create worries and concerns. We develop thirst to "feel better" and start to chase something out there. We lose our original unconstrained natural condition. Oppositions start to rule our life: chasing and escaping. Thirst and suffering. Having lost the original paradise, we wander in search of satisfaction, we feel lacking something. We feel lonely and insecure, in oppositions with this and that. Rather than perceiving the reality as non-divided wholeness, we perceive "myself". We think how to make "myself" happy. But the original happiness has no "myself". There is non-divided unity and harmony. It's not possible to cut out a piece - "myself" - and make it feel to be whole. That separated piece will always remain lonely. To regain wholeness, "myself" and all the oppositions should be realized as illusory. All identifications should be realized as illusory, and we should drop reliance on them. Then there will be nothing to attach to, nothing to be concerned and worried about. In Buddhism that is called awakening, liberation from suffering. In practice, how would we act? Not being lonely, not separated from others. In Mahayana Buddhism we say that there are basically two approaches of awakened beings: Arhat approach and Bodhisattva approach. Arhat can just sit in contentment. The world is so perfect that Arhat doesn't need anything. Bodhisattva feels the same, but because other beings wander in illusions, then why not help them? So Bodhisattva stands from his sitting meditation and goes to work for others. 

Paying attention to faults, we gradually find so much hateful things around that they make our world to be hell. That's because our mental processes involve "selective amplification", exaggeration of some details. Likewise, if we develop greed and insatiable wish to have some things, our world becomes the world of hungry spirits, and so on. The same river is seen 

Wisdom (prajna) - seeing how things happen, mainly by watching causes and effects. Calmness (shamatha) - letting the mind to relax, to calm down and come to natural contentment, like in childhood, when we felt no dissatisfaction and didn't need chasing desires. Discipline (shila) - trying to act from the wholeness of the heart, rather than from impulses of bad habits and delusions. 

Pure Dharma can be defined as clear, unmistaken explanation of the path all the way to complete awakening, endowed with Buddha's blessings. "Buddha's blessings" here mean that a teacher doesn't only say words and explain theories, he also does it with proper atmosphere. For example, some lecturers might explain "correct words" but with disrespectful attitude or with restless mind, and so these "correct words" are not well perceived by listeners, so they will not practise them. Unmistaken explanation means, in particular, that words correspond well to the situation - it's not like explaining a teaching poorly suitable for the present case. Thus a good teacher should have clear understanding of what he teaches and how that relates to our situations; he should have clear mind - with proper attitude and "atmosphere"; he should speak what he knows and refrain from speaking what he doesn't truly know. Expounded with clear mind, explanations are clear. With correct "blessings", they are accepted by people and inspire them to practise. There are such teachers nowadays: they practice thoroughly, they awaken, and they teach clearly. Thus pure Dharma exists now, it is not lost. 

The purpose of money is to reward for provided value. When someone extracts money - not creating value for anyone - that's not healthy. People who did something useful don't get all the proper reward, when part of money was extracted by speculators. Thus speculation is a form of stealing. PS. Some people misunderstand that I'm speaking not about trading in general, but only about speculation - as "not creating value". If traders transport goods, store them, provide comfortable access to them - that service probably has value for customers. But there are cases where some people just remove cheaper merchandise from the market and replace it with the same merchandise at higher prices. For example, mafia boss Berezovsky forced factories' management to sell him cheap cars, and then resold them for many times more. So there's a difference between trading that creates value for customers and speculation. PPS. So please re-evaluate your downvotes. 

What do we do depends on what we know and feel as meaningful. If we have meaningful things to do, and some things know and feel as rather meaningless, then the correct choice comes naturally. Due to habits we might lack awareness and we might dwell in habits. Then by regulating our priorities we can change our activities. We can think of it as finding our wholeness, or "true self". An illusory self is entangled in activities, conditions, attachments, submissions etc. "True self" is never there. Think of it as not a real object, not a theoretical notion. Finding "true self" means the experiential discovery of the freedom. There is nobody who could be attached. All things and their meanings are here, now. 

So if this ultimate happiness is not as strong as sensual pleasures, then why it is so good? Maybe it is not so good? If it is neither suffering nor happiness, then isn't it just too bland? Is it worth the efforts? Maybe it's better to enjoy strong sensual pleasures, even if they alternate with suffering? Many people say so when they hear about Buddhism. Maybe they are right? Through the practice of meditation and investigation of our feelings, we can spot something interesting: our heart in its depth does not actually like so much those strong pleasures. Because they are virtually always mixed with a grain of suffering. We don't feel totally easy when we experience them. So Buddhism says that the worldly pleasures we chase are actually not happiness, but a form of "the suffering of impermanence". On the surface it seems pleasant, but there's always some uneasiness deeply inside. We chase such experiences only because we try to escape our usual condition of dissatisfaction. So even when we enjoy worldly pleasures, uneasiness remain. We might see it particularly clearly watching those who lead a dissolute life. If a person drinks a lot, has a lot of sex here and there, gambles in casinos, tries drugs, rides fast etc., does that person look happy? We can feel pretty easily that despite the lifestyle full of sensory pleasures, so devoted to chasing them, such person must be very unhappy. Happy people just wouldn't need such way of life. On the other hand, imagine a person who lives in very simple conditions, satisfied with minimal things like little food and shelter, very calm, would such person seem unhappy? We might feel intuitively who is happier, even though our restless mind associates pleasure with throwing money, big cars, nightclubs, expensive wines, random sex etc. rather than with simple life. So the happiness pointed by Buddha is said "being beyond happiness and unhappiness, and that's why it is called real happiness". It's beyond that worldly image of happiness - with incessant chasing, inner constraints, tensions, vexations, never completely satisfying. The ultimate happiness is being satisfied. The chase is dropped. Vexations ceased. Tensions relaxed. The uneasiness is completely relieved. It's feeling free, very natural, unencumbered, alive. In harmony of all things, with fresh, clean senses. Compassionate and responsive. Wise and not limited. That's why real happiness is superior not only because of being constant and free from impermanent conditions, but it's superior also because deeply in our heart we like it more. When we experience it, we realize that we like being free, natural and easy more than we would like strong pleasures combined with those inner tensions of samsaric encumbrance. 

So that discipline relates not to hiding from original stimuli, but to how we react to them. For example, monks don't avoid seeing women, but they avoid looking at them with sexual passion. That's how they guard the sense doors: not allowing the thieves of vexations to steal our natural mind. 

Naturally these two views lead to different understanding. If we try to connect the concepts together, not realizing that they show the opposite viewpoints, we naturally get confused. For example, in some texts we read ($URL$ 

In that light, it seems quite possible that Venerable Mahakashyapa abides in Sambhogakaya to these days, and it's not impossible to meet him and receive teachings. 

I will explain some views in accordance with Madhyamaka-Prasangika: "Essence" is something assigned by mental elaboration. Therefore we can say that apart from mental elaborations there is no essence. Another view is that whatever appears (as an individual phenomenon) is its own essence. That's because the phenomenon is what can be directly perceived; anything else would be mental additions (conceptualizations, associations). Therefore only the phenomenon itself can be its essence. In that sense we can say that appearance and essence (or "essence and function") are the same thing. See also discussions on svalakshana. Note that, in order to understand "what is", we can't rely on flat view of "is" or "isn't". We should see how does appearance relate to mental processes; only there we can see real answers. So "existence" can be seen as a construction, a way we construct our world - elaborating over directly perceived appearances. And the deeper we go there, the more we understand that ultimately everything is "Don't Know". PS: Note that from other points of view other concepts will be true. It would be wrong to think that a Buddhist school claims its concept as the only possible truth. For example, in Zen we can use views both of Yogachara and Madhyamaka, though they seem to contradict. "Everything is Consciousness" and "Consciousness doesn't exist". Logically these two sentences seem to contradict, but in fact they can be seen as both true; only as constructions built from different starting points; describing different levels of analysis. Likewise, we can discuss the duality of essence and function - in order to understand something - and then we can say that essence and function are the same thing, and understand something even deeper.