What are the differences/similarities in the concept of faith as used in Buddhism and Christianity? Faith is an English word. It is defined in Oxford Dictionaries: Definition of faith in English: 1 Complete trust or confidence in someone or something. 2 Strong belief in the doctrines of a religion, based on spiritual conviction rather than proof. 2.1[count noun]A particular religion. ‘the Christian faith’ 2.2[count noun]A strongly held belief. Definitions 2, 2.1 and 2.2 are applicable to faith in Christianity. These definitions are not applicable to Buddhism because there is no God in Buddhism. This gets further complicated by the fact that there are numerous Buddhist traditions. Dhamma of Lord Buddha (Sammasambudda), 'four noble truths' (Cattari Ariyasaccani), from which all Buddhist traditions have been developed after the Parinibbana (extinction without remainder), does not entertain faith or beliefs in any form. Dhamma is without beliefs. 

"Was Buddhism a rebellion against the Aryans?" It is difficult for me to understand this question. Oxford Dictionary defines Buddhism thus: A widespread Asian religion or philosophy, founded by Siddartha Gautama in NE India in the 5th century bc. Aryan is defined as: Relating to or denoting a people speaking an Indo-European language who invaded northern India in the 2nd millennium bc, displacing the Dravidian and other aboriginal peoples. I am unable to see the connection between Buddhism and Aryans. However, it is a fact that Pali Text Society, London, publishes a set of books it calls Tripitaka. In this set there are two Pitakas called Sutta and Vinaya Pitakas. These Pitakas attribute virtually all the saying in them to a person named Bhagava, meaning Lord. There are many other epithets by which he was known. The Sutta Pitaka essentially contains the truths about all beings--humans, gods, animals and so on. This is the Dhamma pointed out by the Lord (Bhagavata Dhammo). The Lord was the Leader of gods and men (Sattha Devamanussanam) and the Dhamma was for the welfare and happiness of all beings. The word Ariya is found in the Dhamma. It has no racial connotations whatsoever in the Dhamma. There is no English equivalent for the word. One of the guiding prinicples of the Dhamma, called Avihinsa is never to kill or hurt any living being under any circumstances. Why talk about rebellion? The Dhamma of the Lord, was verified by the Lord by seeing with his own eyes (Sacchikatva) before proclaiming to the world. They are absolute truths. 

He who has arrived in such fashion, i.e. who has worked his way upwards to perfection for the world's good in the same fashion as all previous Buddhas. He who walked in such fashion, i.e. (a) he who at birth took the seven equal steps in the same fashion as all previous Buddhas or (b) he who in the same way as all previous Buddhas went his way to Buddhahood through the four Jhanas and the Paths. He who by the path of knowledge has come at the real essentials of things. He who has won Truth. He who has discerned Truth. He who declares Truth. He whose words and deeds accord. The great physician whose medicine is all-potent. 

Individuals may experience nirvāna as an object of mental consciousness. Certain contemplations with nibbana as an object of samādhi lead to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation if the individual realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and nibbāna is realized. With regard to nirvana, a distinction is made between a person's experience of nirvana during their life and after their death. These two aspects of nirvana are described as: 

Four great elements : what is the other 2 elements? In the Nikaya Texts, there is a term called 'Cattari Mahabhutani'(four Mahabhuta). These Mahabhutani consitute Rupa. (See Sammaditthi Sutta). A being (human being is an instance) is defined in terms of six Dhatus. It is Cattari Mahabhutani and Akasa and Vinnana Dhatus (Caddhaturo Ayam Puriso) (See for example Bhahudhatukasuttam.) However, there are no meaningful translations of these Suttas in any language. These Suttas could be understood only by Lord Buddha's direct disciples, who listened to Lord Buddha in person. This non-understanding is the reason for the existence numerous Buddhist traditions and sects. 

Isnt the desire for giving up the desires, a desire? Yes, certainly. That desire is what causes one to give up. If I use the term Tanha for desire, then Tanha is the cause of existence. Tanha is eradicated only reaching the statuse of Arahant. 

"What are the “Qualities of the Buddha”?" Qualities of 'Bhagava Araham Sammasambuddho' is infinite and cannot be known by any human being. Please see Sampasadaniya Sutta of Digha Nikaya. The expression "qualities of the Buddha" belong to English Buddhism. Oxford Dictionaries define the 'the Buddha' as a historical figure that lived about 25 centuries ago-his birth date or the date of death is unknown. However, the Tipitaka published by the Pali Text Society refer to a Bhagava Araham Sammasambuddho, in the Sutta and Vinaya Pitakas. Most of the words in the two Pitakas are utterences of Bhagava; the word means a spiritual teacher. Human beings who have no clue to even the physical form of Bhagava, what would they know about his mind? 

There are four stages of enlightenment (as described in the Anapanasati Sutta), Sotapanna, Sakadagami, Anagami and Arahant; stream-enterer, once-returner, non-returner and Arahant; respectively. 

You need to also recognize that what is impermanent is stressful and what is stressful and impermanent is not self. 

From an academic perspective the wikipedia article "Tathāgata" has good information. According to wikipedia: The word's original significance is not known and there has been speculation about it since at least the time of Buddhaghosa, who gives eight interpretations of the word, each with different etymological support, in his commentary on the Digha Nikaya, the Sumangalailasini: 

Through practicing samatha and vipassana meditation. After abandoning the five hindrances and after mastering the Jhanas a practitioner turns their attention to and attains Insight Knowledge, Supranormal Powers, Clairaudience, Mind Reading, Recollection of Past Lives, The Passing Away & Re-appearance of Beings, The Ending of Mental Fermentations and Conversations with the Gods. From the Maha-Assapura Sutta: 

I am not referencing any suttas for this answer, it comes from my own experiences (I am not an arahat). One who has obtained nirvana can choose whether or not to experience pain and can choose the level of suffering that is associated with that pleasure or pain. Having obtained nirvana an individual has the ability to reside beyond pleasure and pain and it also gives them complete understanding of pleasure and pain and things can not be understood without being experienced. After some research, Sakalika Sutta: The Stone Sliver talks about how buddha cut his foot and endured the physical pain.