How to find it? Black holes are by definition invisible the only way to find one is to look around to see stars being blocked out by them. How to get data? To get data from a black hole you would have to study the effects on what it does to the surrounding area and not the black hole itself. Sizes of black holes: A "small" black hole is an instant death due to spaghettification of the human and the probe. 

For me, never as long as the current rate of inventions etc. keeps going. Especially when space travel will be a thing. You could get your own spaceship and explore star systems far away. I'd probably do something like that. Favorite things to do would probably be: 

If you are in a world of SkyNet and Terminators, it could be technologically possible. The fastest ones in Greenland move 10 miles a year. A city under a glacier would be transported away at that speed in it's entirety except for the basements, it could be similar to searching for bullion from a ship in the deep ocean. SkyNet has large energy capabilities, and it could blast large access holes through 2km of ice, maintain them, and then mine for debri in the rock bed. if you use nuclear and TNT or major heat sources you can completely get through a glacier and divert it. They could literally just put in black substrate and lazer it using the sun. The gold would not move fast if it was protected by overlying material, and it would always tend to sink under other rocks. If you got there within a some years and you said that the vault was on a protected hillsidre or in a basement it would be ok. A glacier doesn't dig that fast vertically every year. 

A large black hole is a slow death because the event horizon spans much further out where the gravity is still "survivable". This would probably be the most amazing way to die because you would see the universe slowly fading away. On earth maybe 100+ years might pass because of time dilation while for you only 10 minutes might have passed. Event horizon: It's very simple: You pass it and there is no way to get you or your data out of it. A black hole by is by definition black because it sucks in everything. X-Rays, radio frequency waves, entire stars and also light. This means that once you're in you'll have to play cards with yourself until you and the shuttle disappear from existence. Time dilation: 

It's not possible to make a pure fusion bomb because the weight of the equipment to achieve fusion temperatures, and the electric power station to put in that energy, would be a lot more than the weight of the biggest planes. If you were to concede the Pure constraint to using a dense energy input, it still wouldn't detract from us needing to use fission as an energy input. That already exists, and the result is that, whereas previously you could destroy the world, now you can destroy the world... even more? Same as you being dead multiple times. logical? The power of the explosives is already high enough and practical enough, the only difficulty in practical warfare is interception, surprise and large numbers. 

It is possible however a horribly inefficient use of materials. Venus' atmosphere contains 96.5% CO2, 3.4% Nitrogen and other gasses with the major one being, sulfur dioxide. The atmospheric pressure is also 93-98 times more than earth, the same as being about 1km underwater. A probe has been crushed 18km above the surface. Also, the surface temperature is 450 degrees celsius which can melt lead so goodbye cheap radiation shielding. And the nice fluffy clouds you see are sulphuric acid. As you said we have such materials but would it not be easier to build something that is efficient? If you want to build something that needs to get a lot of energy then I would suggest building a massive solar array in space because it will require less maintenance, is a lot more "human" friendly and probably costs a lot fewer resources. To send the energy back to earth you could: 

I am working on a story where ballistic weapons are completely banned across the entire planet in favor of smell, sound, and drug-weapons. For example, the police are equipped with somnambulizers and hilaritazers, depending on the situation... somnambulizers make someone sleep instantly, and hilaritazers have a LSD related substance, which makes people laugh and forget where they are. A huge metropolis in Texas has become rebellious and has 3D printed guns and ballistic weapons and has walled off the city, and the big brother has to make everyone flee from the city safely, using only smell, sound, and drug based weapons, so they can attend citizen-responsibility classes to read the little red book. What kinds of sensory and drug based tactics can the government use, from rotten fish, tranquilizers, LSD, fluffy toys that sing, to make the city completely docile and make people flee from it, without killing anybody? 

Use a laser. Save the energy in nano-tube power banks. You are currently using a semi-solar solution but if you convert to full solar power you will have a lot more energy to work with. *semi-solar because the greenhouse gasses which keep the warmth from the sun that in the end warms the water. Also: because the pressure is a lot higher your water will only start boiling at a mere 300 degrees celsius 

Bonus point: Theoretically you could terraform the planet to suit your need but this would be very expensive but afterwards, could be used as a hospitable colonization for humans without needing to transport the energy. 

It's an animal behaviour question. Ants and bees and to some extent cows do this. Can humans have no territorial, sexual, racial, criminal, adventurous instincts, and no fear of death in service of it's community? Primates typically don't. It's the same as news reports about racist and sexist issues, they bypass the human rational system because they act on primate self defence instincts that act in the periphery of your concious vision and make you react emotinally faster than you have actually visually identified the subject, through a primitive fast neural pathway. It means that you have to re-program the brain significantly to make the individuals less carnivorous and tribal and more like ungulates like cows. Cows don't have tribal wars and they are settle their ownership disputes once a year and are relatively peaceful, the female cows are not very agressive. Indian Sadhus are supposed to live selflessly, but they have to defend themselves because most of the population still acts with ownership. Legal structures to turn primate instincts into a benign society are very complex in our own society. You have an idealist argument of a utopic nature which sidelines the human behavioural aspect. Everything in the human sphere today is about crowd control and primate emotions, personal thirst for blood, racism, sex, socialising, playing, thrills, and territory. The communist doctrine was written at a time with very low workers rights and worker pay in factories and was relatively good, except that it didn't give a mechanism of action, Ghandi did, and if communism and Ghandhism had some kind of combination of fervor and method, perhaps communism could have survived a bit long in spite of it's flaws. 

A black hole is so heavy that time itself behaves differently. This is because we dont merely live in space or in time but in spacetime. Spacetime can stretch depending on how "heavy" something is. For example, every 60 years our satellites need to add 1 second to their own clock because on earth time goes a tiny bit slower. This is exactly the same near a black hole as on earth except that it is magnified so much that once you pass the event horizon someone flying outside it would see you falling forever. Spaghettification Spaghettification happens when gravity on the close end of an object is higher than the further end. (On earth this would be your feet.) Because a black hole is much more powerful than earth it will stretch you from the closest end to the furthest until you are basically one long string of human. Gravitational Lensing 

You can check out simple radio electronics, and design one using nanotechnology... So, Graphene is used for the antenna, it's a tiny long graphene ribbon implanted somewhere rigid, because it has to be as long as a radio wave, i'd say an endoscopic implant in the top of the head. The capacitor would be a few microns, made of a futuristic ceramic perhaps, and the diode would be a few microns of germanium. describe a radio circuit in nanotechnology and connect it to the ear/the brain. Radio-Waves travel far, because they interact very little with matter. If there was a radio wave signal on earth that helped survival, for example weather forecast or food that transmitted radio waves, I believe animals could have evolved to hear them, but it would be as complex as ocular apparatus.