This means that Charles must have already raised a substantial force in the field by the time of Parliament's ultimatum - just not with him personally at Nottingham. So while Parliament doubtlessly miscalculated, the declaration was still not a critical factor in enabling Charles to raise an army, unlike portrayal of the quotes. The bigger impact is probably that it steeled the resolve of the royalists to fight. For example, in one speech to his troops, Charles reminded them that: 

The problem before this was that you need quite a sizeable amount of steel, about 10kg, for a breastplate. Prior to the late 13th century or so, European bloomeries were generally not large enough to produce so much steel in a single chunk. To make a steel breastplate then, you'd have to weld two or more separate plates together, which compromised its protective value despite an enormous price tag. 

Because it would have been suicidal and unproductive. The bulk of the German U-boat fleet barely had enough range for operations in North America at all. They did things like filling water tanks with diesel just to get enough range to hunt convoys. The bigger, less maneuverable Type IX did have better range, but they were also clumsier and more detectable. Even if they made it to US ports, the U-boats didn't have arms to attack ports properly. More to the point, they would not have been able to stand up to the conventional surface fleet. The U-boats suffered enough losses as it is doing convoy raiding. Lastly, your whole strategy seems rather dubious. The U-boats wrecked havoc on merchant shipping. That is a concrete contribution to the German war effort. I'm not sure how helpful being "distracting" would be, compared to preventing vital supplies from reaching Britain. 

Notice how St Augustine has no qualms with the Earth being "scientifically demonstrated" to be spherical. All of his arguments in this chapter were merely that the other side of the sphere was not populated. In any case, St Augustine was more explicit in the lesser known The Literal Meaning of Genesis: 

Reviving an Ancient Name: the dynasty began where an ancient state existed, and took its name from its ancient predecessor. Examples include the Former Song, whose founder's family had lived on the ancestral lands of the Song state for generations. This is probably the most common type, due to the situation described in #3 below. Place of Origin: the dynasty took its name from the name of the location it started at. More often used by nomadic dynasties; for example, Liao and Jin were founded by tribes hailing from the banks of the rivers Liao and Jin, respectively (alternative theory is they were named after the metals). In some cases the location name was also derived from an ancient state name, such as Song. Its founder was the military governor of Shangqiu, the ancient capital of the Song State; the city was also named Song at the time. Previous Title: a twist on the previous two types; the dynasty's founder previous held a lower title (typically king or duke), and kept the name when upgrading to emperor tier. Examples include Han, whose founder was made King of Hanzhong by Xiang Yu. The Sui and Tang dynasties were founded by the Dukes of Sui and Tang, respectively. The original title is typically derived from the location, à la the previous two cases. Ancestral Name: a previous member of the clan (i.e., sharing the same surname) had founded an illustrious dynasty; and the new upstart chose the same name. Often there is no actual family link whatsoever, and this was instead a political strategy for shoring up legitimacy. Examples include the Later Tang, founded by a nomad whose ancestor was given the royal surname. Legitimate examples include the Eastern Han, whose founder was descended from a minor branch of the Han Dynasty ruling house. Made up on the Spot: sometimes a dynasty's founder simply came up with a catchy name he likes for some random reason. Examples include Qing, which was renamed from Jin by its second emperor for no apparent reason (there are unsubstantiated theories). Another is Mongolian Yuan, which was apparently named after a phrase in the divinations book I Ching by the fifth Khagan of the Mongol Empire. Surname: when the dynasty is named after the surname of an exceptionally egoistical founder. Only ever happened once, with Chen. It didn't last. 

Probably some of the Indians went on to Rome, though the evidence is lacking. As a side note, Indian was one of the nationalities the poet Martial mentioned in his lampooning of a certain (fictitious) Caelia: 

Both sides promptly forgot to notify the world until 1991, when Saudi Arabia finally registered the treaty with the United Nations. The negotiated border became internationally recognised thereafter. As you can see in the 1993 map below, the neutral zone was divided up through the centre. 

Generally speaking, Pytheas of Massalia had an apparently undeserved reputation as a "liar of the first magnitude" during antiquity. Much of what we know of this comes from Strabo, who is incidentally Pytheas' most vocal critic. Strabo argues against the authenticity of the Massilian's reports primarily based on the dimensions of Great Britain and the (non)existence of Thule. While not on your list, other classical writers such as Polybius shared this disbelief. Polybius in particular could not believe the grandiose achievements, probably out of envy. On the other hand, not all writers were so sceptical. His contemporary Greek historian Timaeus is reported to have believed him; Pliny the Elder, who relied on Timaeus' second hand source, is not always convinced, but did incorporate his materials into his own works. 

Another possibility on the Via Domitia route was the Col de Banyuls, which was closer to the Mediterranean coast. Some have suggested that Hannibal might have crossed here, but this is not considered likely because it would make the Carthaginians much more likely to be noticed. 

This modern tradition has its roots in the First World War, when Japan entered on the side of the Allies following the Anglo-Japanese Alliance. Japan's entry carried an initial, overt goal of restoring the German Kiautschou Bay Concession to Chinese sovereignty. The Siege of Tsingtao, the administrative centre of the German concession, ended in the surrender of the German garrison. The 4,700 prisoners of war were then transferred back to Japan and until the end of the war, in generally good conditions. The Germans were eventually consolidated at Banto, Tokushima, on the island of Shikoku. To pass the time during the war years, the German camps set up various activities, comforting themselves with sports but also cultural events. Each camp organised performances of classical German music - including Beethoven's Symphony No. 9. They entertained fellow German prisoners, but eventually also the Japanese locals. 

Louise Bryant's predictions, while certainly idealistic, were also an understandable product of her circumstances. 

I think both sources copied Early European History by Hutton Webster, published about a century ago. The underlying claim is true: Medieval animals were much smaller than today's. However, it is obvious that "a calf" is not a meaningful unit of comparison. The historical weight of livestock is mainly determined from archaeological studies as well as records of butchery transactions, and reveal significantly smaller farm animals than today's. See for instance the following figures: