There's less risk than you think. The crazier the cult is, the more likely that nobody will believe it. If somebody turns you in, act incredulous and make fun of them. I've heard lots of stories of weird cults kidnapping and murdering people. And I've heard lots of people dismissing these stories as wild tales by TV stations trying to boost ratings or crazy people trying to get attention by claiming they were former members or victims. Which of these stories are true and which are false? It's very hard to say. Some suggestions what to do if someone reveals cult secrets: 

A long life span would certainly give advantages in a struggle for dominance. But there are plenty of other factors that could give one group or another an advantage. It's not at all clear that long life span would inevitably outweigh everything else. As James says, maybe the elves' world view simply doesn't put much value on dominance. There are many human beings in the world, I'd guess a substantial majority, who have no particular desire to conquer and subjugate their neighbors. Personally, when I fantasize about my ideal life, the first thing that comes to mind is not "beating my neighbor senseless and forcing him to bow down to me". It's more like, "being able to sit quietly at home, play computer games, write books, and have the company of a pretty girl". Of course there are people who enjoy dominating others for its own sake, whether by beating them up physically, having political power over them, manipulating them psychologically, or whatever. But not everyone is like that. It's not unreasonable to speculate that elves have even fewer such folk. Elves may have some skills but not others. Elves may, for example, not have the mechanical aptitude to build and maintain machines. In a war between side A, who have honed their skill at archery to a high level, and side B, who are mediocre at using their tanks and machine guns and nuclear bombs, my money would be on side B. Elves may be great archers but terrible strategists. Elves may not be good at managing large organizations. Maybe they're all too independent. Etc. 

If the empire has no beginning, then its history up to this date is infinite. A finite number of books could not record the complete history. This either presents a problem for the empire to explain, or it gives them a way out: Over the millennia the books eventually rotted away, or the material to make them had to be recycled. So you could say, yes, the empire has existed for an infinite amount of time, but we only have history going back a few hundred years. Maybe you say that we have preserved a few very old records, perhaps a list of emperors going back 20,000 years, but you say all information besides their names has been lost. Or maybe you make a few fragments, here's a mention of a battle fought 5000 years ago, here's the winning song from the Singing With the Emperor finals 10,000 years ago, etc. You run into some problems with physics: If the empire has existed for an infinite amount of time, then presumably the world and the universe have also existed for an infinite amount of time. So why haven't they died an entropy-induced heat death? Maybe the science of the empire isn't advanced enough to understand this, maybe they explain this away somehow, or maybe people who bring it up mysteriously disappear never to be seen again. If there are other nations in the world not under your control, I'm not sure what you'd do to prevent them from telling your people that this empire really just began 200 years ago. Likewise, what happens if someone finds an old book that discusses the founding of the empire or a time before the empire. Oh, you tell them these people are liars and heretics, I suppose. "You say the empire really isn't eternal? That's crazy! All the members of the Emperor's Science Advisory Board agree that it is. I just saw a documentary on the Imperial History Channel that explains it. What are you, some kind of anti-science religious fanatic?" Maybe you can keep enough people convinced and the rest intimidated into silence. And many apathetic. "You say the empire is really only a few hundred years old? Maybe so. Hey, look at this funny cat picture!" 

Let's ignore for a moment the requirement that it carry 3 people. To just say, could there be a living create with a jet engine?, I think the answer is obviously yes, because there really is something that resembles such a create: the bombardier beetle. It doesn't use it's "jet engine" for propulsion but rather as a weapon, but the principle is there and clearly works, because bombardier beetles really do exist. Note the bombardier beetle's body solves all the problems that others have discussed here on a small scale. So the question is, could such a system "scale up" to be a viable method of propulsion for a create of any given size? And if so, would it scale up to the point of being viable for a creature capable of carrying 3 people? I doubt that the specific chemicals used in the bombardier beetle would work in a larger animal: if they were powerful enough to propel something the size of horse or cow to significant speeds, they would likely be so powerful that they'd blow a beetle to smithereens. But could a create exist that used other chemicals? It's difficult to do calculations because you have to make up the details as you go along. And if I could absolutely prove that, say, chemical X does not have sufficient energy, is there not some alternative chemical Y that might? You could point out that there is no animal in existence that has a body part that does Z, but so what? Proving that it is not possible for such a creature to exist gets tough. Clearly you cannot prove that there is no way possible for jet engines to operate, because of course they do operate. So the issue is whether it is possible for a living creature to have a jet engine, or, I presume, something analogous. Which I just don't know how you could ever prove that it isn't possible. And by the way, a lot depends on whether you are assuming that such a creature had to evolve by chance process, was created by a creator God, or was built by people using bioengineering. Lots of things that would seem impossible in scenario 1 are much more plausible in scenarios 2 and 3. 

As I understand your premise, you're saying that Earth will react strongly if the Martians build weapons using materials imported from Earth, but don't care if the Martians build weapons using local materials. This seems rather implausible to me. If Earth wants to keep the Martians unarmed so that they can be kept under Earth's domination, why would they be unconcerned about making weapons from local resources? In any case, what resources is Mars getting from Earth, and what resources are you assuming the Martians can find and exploit on Mars? Presumably the Martians can easily make your classic melee weapons: Any stiff piece of wood or metal can serve as a club. They surely have the technology to sharpen a piece of metal and make a knife or a sword. They likely have heavy hand tools like big hammers, axes, picks, etc. A side advantage of weapons like this is that if caught with them, they can always say that they are tools and not weapons. I have a number of tools in my shed that would make good hand-to-hand weapons, but I didn't buy them to use as weapons, I bought them to do yard work and home repair. Presumably if these people are running a functioning colony on Mars they have a fair amount of technical sophistication. There must be people who know or could figure out how to make guns and bullets, air guns as another poster suggested, rail guns, etc. Do they need Earth resources to do this? I really don't know what metals and chemicals are available on Mars. Well, there's iron, right? If they can build large vehicles, however they're powered, they can surely put some extra layers of metal on them and some sort of weapon and make a tank. Etc. I don't see much of a limit. Presumably in the very early days of a colony they don't have a lot of mining and industry, but I'd think this would be among the first things they'd try to get off the ground. Hauling bulk metals from Earth would be hugely expensive. It would make a lot of sense to get basic industry going on on Mars, and quickly get to the point where the only imports you need are high-tech goods. 

Couple of stray thoughts to add to what's already been said: Fundamental first question is: What is universal and what is coincidental? Some things are basic facts of science, or can be proven by simple mathematics. To take a simple example: Aliens will not have triangles whose angles do not total 180 degrees. Aliens will not have Platonic solids that we have never thought of. Or in science, assuming that our chemistry and physics are not totally wrong, aliens will not have stable elements that we are unfamiliar with. Etc. At the opposite extreme, I would be very surprised if aliens who had previously had no contact with humans used USB cables. I mean, cables with the same number of wires, and those wires arranged in the same order and performing the same functions. There are too many details in there that could easily have been done a different way. As we've never met an alien race, it's difficult to say how much technology is "inevitable". At a fundamental level: Would aliens even use electricity? Or would they have some alternative technology that accomplishes a similar purpose but works in some totally different way? Maybe aliens use a form of energy that we have not even discovered. Just like people 200 years ago had only the vaguest knowledge of electricity, maybe aliens use some form of energy that we don't presently understand at all. Or more plausibly: Maybe aliens build machines using some principles that we are familiar with but haven't built a technology around. Like their machines all use magnetism, or gravity, or water running through hoses. I tend to doubt it, but I wouldn't rule it out. Assuming they use electricity, I think they would have to have concepts like voltage and resistance. Those would seem to be fundamental scientific truths. Could they build sophisticated devices that do not have wires and resistors and transformers and transistors and so on? I don't see how they could not use these basic devices. As others have discussed, identifying any particular alien electronic component, even if it is just like a component we use, could be difficult. Is there any fundamental reason why resistors have to be cylindrical and have color-coded stripes on them? Why couldn't someone make square or pyramid-shaped resistors? Etc. I'd have no confidence that I could recognize a component just by looking at it. Presumably with sufficient test equipment you could figure out the simpler components. 

I'd be very hesitant to stake my life on claims that a recently-invented preservation technique will keep food edible and nutritious for 1000 years. How do they know? How are they measuring the rate of decay? How reliably can this be extrapolated into the future? Maybe your measurements are not precise enough. Maybe decay starts out slow and then accelerates. Etc. When CDs were first invented, studies supposedly proved that they would last for 100 years or more. In practice plenty of CDs have failed within a few years. Or: One of the big selling points of compact fluorescent lights is that they last for 5 years or more. In practice, I bought a new house 6 years ago and put CFLs in most of the fixtures, umm, about 25 of them. Only 2 of those are still working. I haven't kept records to calculate the average life span, but no way has it been 5 years. So what food has actually been preserved for 1000 years, or some appreciable fraction of that? Several other posters have mentioned honey in Egyptian tombs. Sugar and vinegar can also last for centuries. Canned goods can last for decades. Dehydrated foods, too. But I think that's about the limit. (Irradiated food lasts for at least decades. Irradiation has only existed for a few decades so it's hard to say just how long it will last.) There's also the question of how you'd build the bunker. For all you know, an area that is remote and isolated today might be the middle of a major city 1000 years from now. Lots of cities today are in places that were wilderness in AD 1016. And could you build a bunker that would survive intact for 1000 years? Yes, there are buildings standing today that are 1000 years old. But most of them have had people working to maintain them. Places left on their own tend to collapse into ruin. If the hero can't bring supplies with him, or send them ahead ... it's a tough problem. 

Years ago I read a column where the writer said that it used to be that you had to do something important to become famous -- make a great scientific discovery, lead a major nation, etc. But today, we have "celebrities", people who are famous for being famous. If you mean, Could someone be famous for no good reason, or without accomplishing anything important, the answer is obviously "yes". There are plenty of people today who are famous singers or actors but who have no particular talent, they just got lucky. There are people who are famous because they were on a reality TV show or made a video on posted it on the Internet. There are people who are famous because their parents are rich and they embarrass the family in public. There are people who are famous for making sex tapes (presumably an accomplishment that almost anyone could duplicate if they have no morals or sense of privacy). Etc. If you mean, could someone be famous and no one knows how they became famous, I'd think that would be pretty tough. Even when someone is famous for a silly reason -- like reality TV stars and people who post videos of themselves singly badly -- presumably if you cared, you could track down just how they became famous. For a fiction story, of course you could say that no one knows how he became famous, and every attempt to find out always ends up referring to some other event. Like, He's famous because he was on a dozen TV talk shows. Why was he invited on these talk shows? Because he was famous. So how did he get famous BEFORE he was on the talk shows? Oh, everybody was talking about him on the Internet. But why were people talking about him on the Internet? Etc. The nature of a good mystery story is that it doesn't have to be LIKELY, indeed the most entertaining mystery stories are often the wildest. It doesn't even have to be possible. You just have to make it sound plausible. 

I'd ditto Joel Harmon: Make the nukes local. Other obvious alternative: Somewhere near the beginning of the story have a scene where the government changes the security protocols so that missiles CAN be launched remotely. This is exactly what they did in the 1983 movie "War Games". There's a scene early in the movie where the military conducts an experiment where they order nuclear missiles to be launched, where the launch sites are all dummies so no missiles will really be launched, and they find that a high percentage of crews lose their nerve. So the top brass change the system so that the missiles can be launched remotely from the Pentagon. Then later a hacker gets access to the computer system and almost starts World War 3, etc. How much time you devote to this depends on how important the plot point is. 

Make it political. If any of the accused cult members are prominent politicians, claim this is an absurd attempt by the other party to discredit you. If none of you are politicians, have some of the fake witnesses from item 2 accuse prominent politicians of being part of the cult. If you're lucky, the politicians' party will defend them. Lump the revelations about your cult in with conspiracy theories and wild tales that few people believe. Like if you control any sort of media -- TV, newspapers, whatever -- start airing documentaries or printing stories about "modern legends, like UFOs, Bigfoot, the Foobar murder cult, and Kennedy assassination theories". If you don't control any such media, these days it's easy enough to publish books, create websites, etc. 

It might work as a way of resolving conflict, but only between countries that would never have gone to war with each other in real life anyway. Why don't countries today resolve their differences with a soccer game, or by tossing a coin, rather than going to war? While obviously technologically much less sophisticated, the concept would be the same: we play out the conflict in a harmless game rather than with actual destruction. Countries go to war because they are unable to resolve their differences by peaceful means. Talk to any military man. The goal of war is to destroy the enemy's ability to resist, to reduce him to a condition where he has no ability to stop you from doing what you want to do. Frankly put, war is not a game, but a deadly serious business. Literally deadly. Suppose that two nations hate each other, both say that the other nation should be destroyed, all its people massacred, and their land taken over by the other nation. Someone suggests that rather than fight a war, they play a video game to resolve the conflict. Whichever side lost, would the people all really then promptly commit suicide and let the other nation take their land? I doubt it. The loser would never voluntarily live up to the terms of the agreement. There would have to be someone with the power to force the loser to follow through. That is, someone who could go to war against them and win. The one scenario I can see where such a video game could substitute for a real war is if it convinced one side that victory was hopeless. Then they might surrender rather than fight a real war. In most wars, both sides start out believing they will win. If they thought they were doomed to lose, they'd make concessions to get a negotiated peace. So maybe if everyone was convinced that this simulation was extremely accurate, and it predicts that they will lose, then they'd make concessions rather than actually fight and lose.