Rear hubs are generally quarter inch (9 per side, so 18) and front are generally 3/16 inch (10 per side, so 20). Obviously, if you're going to do this, order extras. See this crib sheet from Sheldon Brown. 

Clipless pedals let you pull up a bit and road shoes are rigid-ish, so you can get some more power from each turn (of course, you're using your muscles in a bit of a different way). This also gives a bit of a different pressure distribution than platform pedals (look at the layout of say, a Look pedal versus a platform pedal). In an off road situation, they prevent you from bouncing off the pedals as well. You can use them for going for long distances just fine -- in fact, thats where they're primarily advantageous (note that for riding long distances, you need to be sufficiently physically fit and have a sufficiently well suited bike, such as a well bike fitted touring bike -- if you don't, no shoe can help/hurt you). However, walking around in them can be annoying (there are cleat covers and other things for dealing with this) due to the cleat and the type of sole in most cycling shoes. Note that just because something is labeled mountain doesn't mean it won't work with road (you just need the same type of cleat and pedal). They do make one side platform one side SPD (a type of clipless) pedals for people who ride with regular shoes sometimes and SPD shoes at other times / are transitioning. $URL$ is good reading. $URL$ is as well, though note that SPD is also available for road use. The most important thing is fit and knowledge of how to use them - you don't want to fall down while stopping or have uncomfortable shoes for long distances, so you may want to invest in shoe fitting when giving them a shot. Much like buying boots, you may not use the same size cycling shoe as you do sneakers (especially if you wear US 13 sneakers like me...). 

First, if you're using a conventional cantilever brake (i.e. with a yoke, not a link wire), you need a fender or reflector or something to avoid the yoke catching on the tire. As usual, Sheldon is excellent. There are several types of fenders: Downtube mudguards: 

No -- You've got several problems here. 10 speed mountain Shimano has different cable pull than 10 speed road Shimano (which is the same cable pull as 9 speed mountain Shimano, I believe, so if you double check this, you can drop a 9 speed Deore in). Then, you have the mountain vs road FD, which if you're using brifters, you need to use a road FD. Front derailleurs are cheap anyway, so I don't see why you'd want to save money here. The V-brakes are pretty easy to deal with with a travel agent (a pulley to let you use short pull levers with V-brakes) or you can use mini-V brakes and not use a travel agent. 

First, I'll give you an estimate on the weight of a cardboard box. Then, you can read the side notes at the end of this answer to see why the weight is a relatively irrelevant quantity. EDIT: This link sells a bike box and lists the weight as 7.40 lbs. The rest of this answer gives you a way to estimate this, as well as tells you why this whole problem is irrelevant from a cost perspective. According to this link, the density of cardboard is approximately 30-90 kg/m^3 or 0.03-0.09 grams per cubic centimeter. Now, lets estimate the amount of cardboard in a box. Say each side of the box has thickness T centimeters, and the sides of the box are L,W,H in centimeters. Then, the volume of the cardboard in the box is 2*T*(L*W+L*H+W*H), so the mass of cardboard in the box is density*volume of cardboard or between 0.03*2*T*(L*W+L*H+W*H) and 0.09*2*T*(L*W+L*H+W*H) grams. Now, lets estimate the dimensions of a box to ship a bike. According to this thread, the typical bike box is about L=130 cm long, W=18 cm wide and H=79 cm height. For thickness, to make the numbers a bit easy, lets say the cardboard is T=1 cm thick (this is significantly thicker than most bike boxes I've seen). Plugging into the formula, we get a range of approximately 800-2500 grams for the box (1.75 to 5.5 pounds). I suspect the thickness of the box is closer to half a centimeter (which would halve the estimate) and the density is probably on the higher end of the scale (but probably not 0.09 grams/cm^3). So, I'd guess the weight is closer to 3 pounds. The simple solution is to take a scale, and a bike box and weigh it. Side note 1: The dimensions from that thread are only slightly different from your box, and the values come out to be nearly the same. Side note 2: With carriers like UPS and Fedex, the expense of a shipping bicycle is not primarily the weight, but the fact that a bike box has large dimensions, so it can count as an oversized package [and paying the LBS to pack it]. For small packages of the same weight, note that the cost of shipping will be significantly lower (go to the UPS shipping calculator and put in your source and destination with a small box, say, 10 in x 10 in x 10 in weighing 50 pounds versus a bike box weighing 50 pounds). UPS calls this dimensional weight, so for your bike box, it will charge you assuming that your package weighs ~75 pounds even if your bike weighs 10 pounds packed. So, I guess you can fill your bike box with some rocks or something cause you're paying for 75 pounds even if you don't use it anyway! 

Thats just the adhesive from the old rim tape. Get a cloth and some rubbing alcohol and rub away, and it should look brand new. 

25000 km isn't a lot. There isn't a time or mileage you should consider swapping out a frame. Instead, you should look for damage, such as dented tubes or cracks. You should be especially wary if you've been in an accident to check your bike out. Carbon fiber complicates this a bit, because its failure modes are generally more rapid than metal and harder to detect damage visually. The mechanic might be trying to sell you something (most likely) or he might be right. You may want to get a second opinion from another mechanic. 

If a bike is just sitting in a shed or something for a few years (where few can be a few decades), the best way to recycle it is to just throw a set of new tires+tubes+brake pads on, lube up the chain and then go ride it. This is probably the most environmentally friendly thing to do (possibly via donation to a local charity/bike co-op). An ancient bike might require some new bearing grease and stuff, but a bike isn't like the leftovers in your fridge -- you can bring it back to acceptable condition quite easily. You can still ride an old bike fine -- my current road bike is 27 years old (and there are still tonnes of 70's bikes on the road, just not among the road racer crew). If the bike is in very bad condition, usually in a co-op situation or something, you can still strip some parts from the bike and recycle the rest. As for recycling, there is a huge variation in whats accepted for recycling even between neighboring towns (or even parts of the same town) in the US. You have to check with your local ordinance to see if/how you can recycle them. A scrap metal shop might (unlikely) also take a frame, or artists for art projects. Tires are often recycled on cars/trucks, but I don't know if an automotive shop will take a bicycle tire. I'd suggest checking with your local bike shop to see how they recycle old bicycles/ chains/ tubes/ tires /cassettes/chainrings/etc. -- there are services which specialize in this, and they may be subscribed to them (and you might be able to use them for a nominal fee or free, maybe). Most cyclists I know use a few of them as ties on a luggage rack or things like that, but you accumulate so many of them that they have to be thrown away. Check the packaging for the bicycle parts you buy -- if they're recyclable, they should have some recycling logo. Then act accordingly to it for your local ordinances. 

(Source: Schwalbe) and for a 13 mm width, 18-25 mm tires and for 15 mm width, 23-32 mm tires. So, So, a 14 mm width (assuming you're measuring properly) should be fine with 28 mm tires; you can exceed the recomendations by a bit usually without adverse effects. 

The CAAD10 disc frame uses 700c wheels with standard hub spacings (135 mm rear, 100 mm front). The width of the rim you should choose depends on the size of tire you intend to run (which is limited by your frame). It looks like the bike was originally spec'd for 700x25 tires. Based on other Cannondales, I'd guess this is somewhat tight to begin with, but if you're lucky you might be able to run 700x28's. So, pick the rim width accordingly (likely 13-17 mm). I'd suggest buying complete wheels (or getting a wheel made by a competent wheelbuilder, who should work with you on selecting appropriate rim+hubs+spokes for your needs). Note that you need disc brake hubs on a CAAD10 disc, and your rotors have to be compatible with the hub (or you have to use an adapter). Often, you can't get the exact parts spec'd from OEM's (there are lines of parts specifically for OEMs). But its not hard to find equivalents or improvements for around the same price (even if you can get them). Note that a decent number of wheels (especially cheaper ones) need some adjustment before they're ready for the road (even if they're brand new) -- you'll likely want to use a bike shop for this. 

As I was browsing Youtube for cycling related videos, this one on making your own tubeless setup caught my eye. The procedure is essentially as follows: 

You should only hear 6 clicks: 1->2 , 2->3, 3->4, 4->5, 5->6, 6->7 when shifting up on a 7 speed system, and reverse the arrows when shifting down. If you can't shift through all the gears, check that the derailleur is not bent, you have adequate cable tension, the low and high limits are set correctly (these should be a set once and forget it thing) and then play with the indexing adjustment (the barrel adjuster at the derailleur). See this link for more details. If your cables are old and rusted or kinked, you may need a new shift cable as well. If you just purchased the bike from a shop, they should adjust it for you for free if it was recent. Note that these are cheap shifters, so if there is indeed something wrong with the shifter (e.g. you meant to say you were only hearing 5 clicks), you're going to have to throw it out and buy another one for around 15 dollars. 

As I said in a comment, there are 25+ years of 105 and Ultegra (well, ultegra was called something else back then, but the line has been around for quite a while), so you need to find the right 105/Ultegra you're talking about. You can find the Product Info at this link. In 11 speed: The Ultegra RD-6800-SS and 105 RD-5800 SS both have a 28t max. Thus, Shimano doesn't recommend you run a 30t with a short cage. The RD-6800-GS and RD-5800-GS both have a max of 32t. In 10 speed: The 105 RD-5701-SS has a 30t max. Note that Shimano has mucked up cable pulls between 10 and 11 speed road, so you can't just put a 10 speed RD in a 11 speed system. Note that also there may be several RD's under the same group under the same year or # of speeds (e.g. in the Sora case), so you need to look up the particular RD you want to use.