Run a set of pipes from underthe stern onto the deck and coil them to make a heat exchanger, then back into the water (Piot steam jet or Piot heat engine). You have a mage powered steam jet boat, with nothing newer than bronze age technology. Wikipedia has a good introduction to the physics that make it work. $URL$ $URL$ 

Temperature in the cities must reach 900 degrees C to guarantee complete incineration of organic remains, but must not exceed 1200 degrees C or there would be glazes and ceramic remains of the buildings. Heat as low as 600 degrees C can do the job given enough time, but 900 degrees guarantees cremation in about an hour. The oxygen levels in the affected area must remain high enough to allow for combustion of organics. There can be no significant ash fall. The buildings must be broken apart to leave no clues. Heat alone will not do this, but bombardment with pyroclastic rocks would do so. Said rocks would blend into the background of the igneous rubble and clays native to the area (from which the buildings were originally constructed). A new crater cannot be formed, since that would leave clues. An event the scale of Mount St. Helens would leave traces all over the continent. Fortunately, there are plenty of old craters in the Dead Sea valley to use for this purpose. 

I need a planet that is a combination of chlorine world and vitriolic world. The planet is extremely hot and under high pressure, covered in oceans of pure sulfuric acid and a chlorine/fluorine atmosphere replenished by silicon-based autotrophs. What are the optimal conditions for such a planet to form and remain stable? Surface temperature, atmospheric pressure, and so forth. 

It is a common assertion that an irresistible force and an immovable object cannot exist in the same universe at the same time without ceasing to be irresistible or immovable. However, is not an irresistible force and an immovable object logically the same thing? An immovable object cannot be changed from its current course, but if it is moving on its own then it would be an irresistible force to anything in its path. An irresistible force, if stationary, could not be moved from its position and would be an immovable object to anything trying to move it. Therefore, if either an irresistible force or immovable object existed, then both would exist since they are one and the same. Since neither may coexist with the other, then neither can exist at all. Thus, an unsolvable paradox. Is my logic sound? If so, what kind of physical laws (or absence thereof) would be required to allow such paradoxes to exist? 

It has been done. This chain discusses some of the past experiments: $URL$ RPG7 uses a peizo electric primer, and Remington had a peizo electric primed cartridge for its 700 series, but the ammunition was cost prohibitive. $URL$ 

The citizens of the beseiged city would adapt the same way that institutionalized hearing impaired children did for centuries before standardized sign language - they would invent their own form of sign language. ($URL$ it is worthwhile noting that militaries have used signing for centuries when stealth was required. Since this is a seige, I would expect that the local military sign language would become the standard form of communication, and would become enriched into normal day to day life usage. Some researchers believe that signing predates spoken language, and certainly human infants can learn to sign before they can speak. 

Poise, competency, and success. I have a 12 year old on my webcast team that looks and sounds about 10, but when he's in the technical directors chair the rest of team knows Exactly Who's In Charge. It's amusing to me to see him light into a 20 something year old that's more than twice his size for playing with their cell phone when they should be watching their camera, but he mostly commands by earned respect and rarely has to raise his voice, even in the noise levels of a live webcast production. 

Chromosomes, when paired, occur as both autosomes and allosomes. A pair of autosomes are identical in form, size and behavior. This is not necessarily the case for allosomes. Whether the allosomes in an organism are homozygous, heterozygous, diploid or haploid is typically used to determine the sex of that organism. In the absence of allosomes and environmental factors, what mechanism(s) would allow autosomes alone to determine the sex of an organism? EDIT: There are two such autosomal mechanisms of which I am aware exist on Earth. 

This hypothetical marsupial species raises young in a manner loosely similar to seahorses. Only the males have pouches: after gestation the female deposits the fetus into his pouch to compete development. Is this adaptation competitive? EDIT: Here are some revisions to address problems brought up by answers: 

The argument for superheroes to capture villains alive is that superheroes are already illegally operating as vigilantes and compensating for muggle law enforcement is all they are morally obligated. The burden of dealing with super villains permanently falls squarely on the justice system, not the the superheroes. Super villains are domestic terrorists. All attempts at rehabilitation (other than brainwashing and lobotomies) end in failure. Keeping them in prisons and asylums they will inevitably escape only puts the public at further risk of mass death and destruction. However, a world where governments did this would be a world where conventional superhero plots just can't happen. There needs to be a reasonable justification for why governments and the public at large are perfectly comfortable putting their lives and property at such risk every week. 

Dragon scales are a natural chobham armor composed of layers of organic silicate and metal deposits. While diatoms are microscopic, they do establish a metabolic pathway for manipulating silicate with organic processes. Likewise, some extremophile bacteria establish a metabolic pathway for laying down metallic deposits organically. Combine those metabolic pathways with a layering mechanism similar to that of normal crocodillian scales, and you have a beast that is literally armored like a tank. 

Biolumiscent algae or bacteria in the air can respond to moisture by lighting up. While I am not aware of any real airborne organisms that meet the criterion, the biochemistry is well understood and employed by aquatic micro organisms and macro organisms from all kingdoms and environments. 

Robert Zubrin talks a lot about this kind of problem in his book "The case for Mars". As other people have already noted, airplanes can operate at much higher altitudes than humans can. In real life, Mars' atmosphere is sufficiently sparse today that it would make a very creditable attempt at creating a hard vacuum in a laboratory here on Earth. While the storms kick up a lot of dust, you would hardly even feel them because the air pressure is so low. the major hazards they pose are visibility and dust contamination. Between its low gravity and low air pressure, the biggest part of Mars' attraction for development lies in the cheapness of transportation. Long distance travel by suborbital rocket is incredibly cheap compared to air travel on Earth. Travel to Earth's moon is actually cheaper from Mars than from Earth. If you thicken the atmosphere sufficiently to prevent explosive decompression, you lose the advantages that make Mars desirable. There are two approaches to building a low pressure environment suit. The first is the "bubble", which is how current generation space suits work. You seal the suit and then pressurize it with air to something tolerable by a human. The second approach is to use the suit fabric to apply mechanical pressure directly to the wearers skin. What you need is the latter, a mechanical counter pressure (MCP) suit. Robert Heinlein actually had some pretty good ideas about how a quasi "shirt sleeve" environment might work in his 1950's novel "Red Planet". While some of his ideas are definitely based on a faulty knowledge of Mars' true environment (canals, martians), his engineering skills were working at 100%. Reading the first chapter might give you some ideas. 

What you seem to want is a species whose culture is devoid of prejudice, but your proposed solution of removing all differences is impractical. If every member of the species is indistinguishable, then that would imply they have little to no genetic diversity and this is undesirable if the species is to survive for a long period of time. Furthermore, prejudice may be based on socioeconomic factors and differences of opinion. Addressing this would require removing individuality, which isn't impossible but means their psychology would be fundamentally alien to our own. I propose a few alternative solutions. No individuality The species as a whole lacks any kind of individuality: they all think and act as one. Since they cannot have differences of opinion, prejudice is impossible (anymore than our brains may be prejudiced against our limbs and internal organs). An explanation for this that most readily comes to mind is that the species is eusocial, like some kinds of insects. The species is divided into castes that perform different but equally vital roles, such as labor, combat, reproduction and complex thought. An example of this are the various "bug" civilizations in science fiction, such as Pseudo-arachnids in Starship Troopers, Formics in Ender's Game, and Tyranids in Warhammer 40,000. Empathy communication The species communicates by exchanging thoughts, feelings and memories directly rather than through imperfect intermediaries like writing and speech. This overcomes one of the vital enablers of prejudice: lack of empathy. Since this method of communication is so efficient, compromise is much easier to achieve and prejudice has difficulty taking hold. Any prejudices that survive will probably be held by the entire species and then only because they all agreed it is necessary. Depending of the degree of exchange they might not develop individuality or consciousness in the way humans understand it. At the extreme end they might consider their physical bodies expendable so long as most of their knowledge and memories are preserved elsewhere. An example of such a species would be the "Super Happy People" in the web novella Three Worlds Collide. Eugenics and brainwashing This is probably the exact thing you didn't want, but one possibility is that the species practices an extreme form of eugenics. Long ago most differences in appearance and opinion were wiped out (perhaps by natural disaster, perhaps by war), then the survivors used genetic engineering and brainwashing to create a truly homogeneous society. An example of such a society would be the Fords in Brave New World, the Borg in Star Trek, and the cenobites in Hellraiser. 

Heavy equipment can only take you so far. Coincidental with Iraq war, there was a move to stop bayonet training for US forces because it was expensive and unlikely to ever be useful. Needless to say, when there was a steady two hours of bayonet work for platoons moving into Baghdad proper from the newly established base at the former international airport, the movement silently disappeared. US forces have the highest tech around, having superior firepower, air cover, tanks, and other vehicles. Neverthless, they had to get boots on the ground using 18th century techniques to take the city. We saw the same in Fallujah, and Mosul. The same theme played out in Vietnam. Ultimately, it requires boot on the ground to take a position. Airpower and ranged weapon support can augment ground troops, but cannot replace them. 

This is not a symbiote, but it provides an example of the principle. Chickens are relatively resistant to salmonella - the bacteria harms humans but not so much chickens. Eggs from an infected bird will be infected with salmonella because the bacteria are included in the fluids before the shell forms. There is no reason this principle could/does not apply to beneficial or symbiotic bacteria 

There are few examples of radiotrophic ecosystems on Earth. Of those discovered, the radiotrophs are limited to single-celled organisms and unique mutant fungi. The reason seems to be due to a lack of concentrated radiation. The Chernobyl reactor is an energy source similar to a star or steam vent, able to support more complicated organisms. What would be a natural equivalent that would drive high energy ecosystems seen on the surface and deep sea? 

Many mythologies across the world independently devised monsters with similar appearances and/or modus operandi. Many modern encyclopedias of mythological monsters often include cross references between similar monsters from different mythologies (e.g. compare lilith and lamia, hippogriff and simurgh, etc). A modern subgenre of fantasy known facetiously as "kitchen sink" fantasy (from the expression "everything but the kitchen sink") includes elements from all world mythologies and usually makes no attempt to reconcile them. If one wanted to avoid this and write a kitchen sink fantasy where similar mythological monsters are different manifestations of the same archetype, what would be good resources? 

Definition "Scifi Writers Have No Sense Of Scale" is an observation that the scales given in speculative fiction are often nonsensical (Source). Premise Let's assume that these incongruities are not simply a mistake on the author's part but are accurate depictions of the fictional world itself. What could explain these departures from our own reality? Example The scales given in the series A Song of Ice and Fire seem absurdly exaggerated (Source). These figures and the official map are used to estimate the size of the setting, the "Known World," which comes to roughly 89-104% the size of Earth (Source). I strongly question the accuracy of the official map, which seems completely unreliable (Source). It's clearly a wildly inaccurate map created by medieval cartographers using substandard data and tools. Nonetheless, it is treated by Martin and fans alike as an accurate depiction of the story world: official and unofficial estimates of distances and travel times are based on that map. If Westeros is analyzed from a demographic perspective, it makes no sense for it to be anywhere near the size of South America (Source). The demographics of Westeros are more homogeneous than any feudal empire in Earth's history. However, because of the previous calculations any attempt to reduce the size of Westeros to a realistic figure also reduces the planet's diameter by over half, making it denser than the densest known mega-Earth K2-56b. There are other instances where the Known World displays impossible physical properties: