And don't be over-optimistic. Dreaming is beautiful, but we must wake up eventually! Accept that they will offer less than expected, evaluate, think, and be ready to say no. "The train stops only once in your life" a proverb says 

Our company makes software. Issues are common in this sector, and we always take customer reports seriously. We also triage our software issues to give priority to the blocking ones leaving cosmetic fixes at the bottom of the queue (I rush for resuming low-priority old tickets but I can't find a lot of consensus on that). Our customer made up a short list of issues, of which one is functional and can be resolved in short time once they send us information requried, and other two cosmetic that have been just tracked but require a little more time to deal with. We would like to provide the customer with working code ASAP. Since we are already scheduling an upgrade (due to planned evolutive maintenance) in the next months, I would like to push the functional changes as fastest as possible to production and wait for the next upgrade for the other issues. I am going to reply to my customer requesting information. How can I professionally tell the customer that we are not fixing the cosmetic issue for this release? Should I: 

Of course if customer insists on getting lower-priority issues fixed ASAP, we will start working but will push the ETA by one day. 

The topic is very upsetting. No one shall lower barriers when interviewing. Diversity is a good thing for two reasons: first, it helps company's marketing image, and second it allows people with different mind setup to cooperate and do better work together. I would be happy myself to hire a foreigner as coworker, or just a person of the gender opposite to the company's majority to get a different view of things. For an LGBT example, I would be really happy to hire a male homosexual as director's assistant (most are commonly women). In software devleopment, I don't personally think that differences in race and sexual orientation helps productivity. But that's my opinion. And maybe I am spending too much time on this topic. Definitely, your friend's boss is looking for a "diverse" candidate to improve the company's public image. That's normally a good thing, except when... 

But IMO your friend's boss is simply trying to achieve a goal that is noble in its broader sense, but pursued the wrong way. I.e. the boss is actually trying to lower the mean qualification of his employees. Or there could be worse. Is the boss looking to lower salaries with the excuse of a "diverse-friendly" work environment? It is a (sad) fact that women earn 79 cents on every dollar earned by men, the same could be applied to race differences or, worse, to sexual orientation differences. A "diverse-friendly" workplace is a workplace that treats everyone equal, not one that highlights differences. If you have the same opportunity to be promoted or fired than your black deskmate, you are in a "race-friendly" environment 

Some other thoughts, written in 2nd person like somebody else asked If you really want that job... ...perhaps because it's that fantastic Fortune 500 or cutting edge startup that works with Star Trek-like technology... you have to lower your expectation. After all, it's market's offer&demand law Don't undersell yourself... If you correctly computed that 100 is the minimum wage to get a decent life, don't go below it at any cost. Maybe for 90 or 80 you will still be able to pay your rent and bills, but what is it for? Why giving up what you already have? Be firm in declining any offer below lower bound. This assuming that the number of 100 is statistically correct. And don't even try to oversell... Try to be modest, and if that Glassdoor salary is considered average, try to count that as upper bound. Try to understand the level of meritocracy in that company. Of course the meritocracy scenario is a best-case. Evaluate carefully what kind of environment are you going to join. But anyway, in general, if you end up asking for too much on first chance, you have a high percentage risk that there will be no negotiation later, as stated in the question. Remember the costs Relocating costs. A lot of money. Your family may help. Sometimes you will need to borrow money from a bank. Take this into account. In face-to-face, try to explain, and try to be very modest, that you will be needing extra resources and that need justifies your demand. Don't act like an IT rockstar, it won't work. Work hard and become a rockstar day by day. But be a little like a rockstar Since they called you on first hand, and since you said that your current salary is above the average, remember that and try to use it in face-to-face negotiation. That may be an argument. Since you cannot compare the absolute value of the current vs their salary, use proportions. Try to negotiate as being paid "X% above the average" is an equality condition to your current status. Everyone want to improve their status. Imagine: 

The real problem here is the difference between and . Normally a systems account represents a person's identity. In this case it looks like the OP's company has failed in respecting the non-mentioned software's license clause which is bound to an individual by means of his (domain?) account. But accounts are still computer objects, they can be created and deleted at IT administrator's will With this answer I would like to highlight that, in my understanding, the company provisioning software for a single licensed account and allowing others to use it, is willingly committing into software piracy. They may have had at least the smart thought to license the software to a fictional account. Technical/service accounts are widely used for any kind of purpose, including illegal/unethical ones. I am not to discuss about the goodness of this practice Definitely, I see two options here. Switch accounts One is to discuss with IT the opportunity to switch the license to a service account. This might not be done easily, as it could be impossible under the software's license. Another option, or better trick, is to make your current account (which is a software object) a shared account. Even if it carries your name, your company may establish that the identity is a shared identity, and give you a new personal account. A different object, but at least one that you can bound to your identity and use private information with. The old must be detached from anything personal to you, or better any enterprise resource than the software you are licensed to. The above fixes the privacy issue but not the piracy issue. Put constraints Since you know that multiple people can access your account, you must make constraints, better in written form, to prevent things turn against you. First, you have to establish with senior management and HR that your account can be used by different individuals. Then you must, if you can, purge any data that you can deem sensitive from your account. A lot of employees store personal information such as their Google account in their workstations. While not acceptable in large organizations and theoretically unacceptable in general (as a work computer can't be used for anything rather than work), it is an established practice of the kind "we don't ask, you don't tell". Then if your account is enabled at accessing work data that is very personal to you, like payroll, and you have real concerns about people trying to abuse them, you have very little options: