Mentioning it to your boss is probably the smart move regardless; it's best if he hears it from you in the context of "I just heard about this rumor; there's nothing to it; I talked to [her name] about it, and going forward we're going to make sure it gets squashed." 

Edit: as commented below, my answer was geared towards the employee who was feeling harassed by his manager. That answer has been moved down and the following is an answer to "how do I, as a manager, respond to senior management when they ask about an employee who reported to them that they're feeling harassed by me?" First, gather your facts. Write down any information you have about the instances when you spoke to the employee, starting with the time you informed them that a "no-call-no-show" was unacceptable. Then, write down anything you've changed since that time that might indicate to the employee that you're "giving more work than he/she can do" or "keeping a strict eye on his/her activities". Compare it to your behavior prior to the incident - is it possible that you are giving him/her extra work? If so, is there a reason (other employees were on vacation, crunch time on a project, etc.)? Is this employee receiving additional scrutiny in the wake of the missed day? Are other employees receiving additional scrutiny as well? Are you holding this employee to higher standards than you did prior to the incident? Are you holding them to higher standards than other employees in their position? Once you've gathered all your information, you should be prepared for a meeting with the senior manager. You need to go into this meeting calm and collected - regardless of how frustrating it may be to hear what your employee might have said, you need to show that you don't take things personally and that your goal is to improve the relations between you and your employees. Have responses prepared to explain why your employee said what he/she said. Have a plan in place for how to deal with the employee moving forward - are you going to invite the senior manager to sit in on future one-on-one discussions between you and this employee? Do they want to be CC'd on emails between the two of you? If management is worried that there will be retribution (such as you piling on work, or assigning work that the employee is too junior to complete), then you need to assuage their fears and assure them that your actions will be beyond reproach. In theory, this can all be laid out in an email. However, a meeting allows you to show that you're taking the allegation of harassment seriously, that you've considered the situation in depth, and you've come up with a solution that you think will benefit the company and the employee, while giving them the opportunity to add their own ideas or suggestions for improvement. 

I think there are a couple of things that might help. 1) Start out by stripping out all the non-essential and making the smallest version of it that you can (often referred to as "Minimum Viable Product"). You're more likely to finish because it's small enough that you'll still be riding high on your dream, and not worrying about the finishing tasks. Maybe everyone visiting your site is an admin at first. That's fine! Colors are off, buttons are square. No worries! Just get it out there and prove to yourself that the idea has value. 2) Once you've finished a small version of your final product, start asking for feedback. Maybe some of the things you're bogging down in aren't actually as important as you think. Anything you can trim off your list will bring the finish line closer. Alternately, having proved you've got something valuable, you may be able to attract a "finisher" to help you through the end. (Note: I'm not saying you should post your code / put your site URL up on Reddit and ask for reactions. Find a small group of people you trust and who will give you good criticism. Tell them "this is a project that appeals to X to help them Y" so they understand the constraints.) 3) Make sure you have a list. If you can keep track of everything that's left, then you can split up the mundane tasks so you can divvy them up - alternate between the mundane and the interesting. (Or at least, the mundane configuration issues and the mundane bug-fixing.) 

If they're still very interested, they'll take that into account and realize they'll need to accelerate their timeline to accommodate you. If either they're not interested, or they're unwilling/unable to modify the timeline, then you'll either have to risk losing the other offer and continue through the process, or you'll have to let them know that you're accepting the other offer and dropping out of the process. (You can also add in a note about why company B is more desirable to you: 

The outcomes can vary, from no reaction to immediate termination / withdrawal of an offer, but likely it'll be closer to the latter. It's possible you'll find a company that doesn't care, but I would wager more companies would consider this to be a fabrication of your qualifications and would not consider you for a role. With a large enough number of candidates, it's hard to justify keeping someone in the "in" pile when there are other qualified candidates who didn't embellish their resumes. 

For this to work, you'll need to put this in terms of why this is bad for the company, in terms of lower productivity, etc. 

I would just go to him and say "I already made plans for Thanksgiving this year and I won't be able to attend the volunteer event." (Or you could state whatever your actual reason is, if you want to.) If your boss has a problem with that, then you have several options. 

That's polite enough for personal discussion at work, and it gives him an option for the future - he can either be respectful of your schedule, or he can find his own way to travel. 

I know that I've heard of this type of rule in retail/restaurant-type workplaces, though I believe it's typically only in the case of "calling in sick", not "taking a vacation". Even then, though, it can be a difficult rule to work with, if many employees are unwilling or unable to fill in on their day off. That said, employers can put in place many different rules specific to their workplace, and you will need to abide by them if you wish to work there. If you want to change your manager's opinion, your best bet is to speak with him/her and ask why the new policy was put into place. You can also ask what to do if you can't find someone to cover your shift. "If I get the flu next week, and I call everyone who's not scheduled, but no one answers the phone, what should I do? Should I come to work and expose everyone else? Should I call in and explain 'I can't come in, but no one else would take my shift'?" If they can't answer this (or if they answer it in a way that you find unsatisfactory), but they continue to insist on the new rule, then you need to accept that this is the way the company wants to work going forward, figure out how likely it is that you'll run afoul of the new rule (do you get sick often? are your coworkers likely to ignore their phones when they're not working, so that in an emergency, you're unlikely to find someone to take your shift?), and determine whether you want to continue with this job or begin a search for a new position. 

There are potential downsides - if he comes to the interview extremely unprepared, or an obvious bad fit, then there may be people who will hold that against you, even if you explicitly stated "I can't speak to his fit". As a result, having coffee with the candidate before forwarding their resume is a great idea, to ensure you screen out someone who might reflect badly upon you. 

Then wait for their response. It's possible that they're including something else (bonuses, perhaps, or possibly free insurance or stock options) in the total value, which brings the total value of the offer up to 26k, which they had earlier lumped together and represented as the "salary". It's also possible there's been a company-wide pay cut, so their offer has been lowered accordingly. There are a number of other different possibilities as well - you can't know what's happened until you ask. That doesn't mean that you have to accept the new offer - they made you one offer, which you accepted, but now they're showing you something different, which you're free to turn down or negotiate further. (Side note: you say , which makes me wonder if the company knows or suspects that, and is attempting to lowball you into accepting less.)