The Pacific Rim is pretty much defined by the so-called "Ring of Fire." It consists of the "stomping ground" for a disproportionate number of earthquakes and volcanoes, and the affected territory extends up and down the coast of North and South America, up and down the East Asian coast, and into the "Australasian" islands like Indonesia, the Philippines, and New Zealand. Apparently it has something to do with the presence (or absence) of tectonic plates there. Why is there such a configuration of tectonic plates, and the resulting earthquakes and volcanoes in the Pacific, and not to the other oceans? 

The currents run counterclockwise. That's why the Humboldt Current cools the Pacific coast of South America, because the water is coming from the "six o'clock" position in the Antarctica. But in the Northern Hemisphere, the "six o'clock" position is warm water near the equator, which warms Oregon and Washington. In the northern hemisphere, the cold Labrador current cools land to its west. That's because the water is coming from the "12 o'clock position near the Arctic. On the other hand, the west coast benefits from warm water currents running in a counterclockwise direction. That's because the "6 'oclock" position in the northern hemisphere is near the tropics, which brings warm water to Washington and Oregon at the "2-3 o'clock" position. All other things being equal, colder air carries less moisture than warm air, and land near cold water currents is dryer than land near warm water currents. 

Supervolcanos have occurred in the recent geological past, but not within the past 74,000 years. Is it possible to find the magma chambers with no previous history of supervolcanic activity that are likely to produce supervolcanos? 

When comparing the average distance of the all known earthquake epicenters to the nearest pole, is the longitudinal distance to the equator or the poles the smallest of the two? Please note that any period for which earthquakes were able to be tracked must have taken place globally and allowed the location of the epicenters to be be estimated in a meaningful way as it relates to the question; meaning if the location is off by 3% that's likely okay, being off by 50% would not be okay. The Global Historical Earthquake Archive (1000-1903) 

Venus appears to be the closest to Earth in mass, density, size, etc. - though they clearly have different atmospheres. Why do Earth and Venus have different atmospheres? 

Robert Mallet is sometimes referred to as the "father of seismology." He was helped (around 1850) by the newly created science of photography, which enabled him to create seismic "maps" of the earth, at different depths. He has started life as an iron engineer/manufacturer, but turned his talents to seismology after a number of devastating earthquakes in Europe. His earlier work with iron gave him a background in the use of explosives to "open up" the earth at critical points. Paleoseismology is a related field that relies on paleontology to form estimates of various properties of the earth. 

There are several factors that determine the spectrum of wave frequencies of earthquakes. They include the following: 1) Size of the earthquake. All other things being equal, the larger the earthquake, the larger the spectrum of frequencies. 2) The texture of the rocks or other materials. Hard materials have a wider range of frequencies than soft materials. 3) The ratio of "body" to surface waves. Waves emanating from the body of the earthquake have higher total frequencies (and greater variation), than waves emanating from the surface of the ground. 

Appears that the answer is that it is highly likely that the water that the ringwoodite minerals point to is an "ocean's worth" of water, not a true subterranean ocean. Do ringwoodite minerals point to an "ocean's worth" of water, or a true subterranean ocean? 

According to the graph below, which appears to be sourced from the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, more tornadoes happen late in the day - why is this? 

Though this graph from the ESA’s CryoSat satellite show that the volume of Arctic sea ice increased 50% from 2012 to 2013: 

Fundamentals of atmospheric modeling show that the height of the tropopause depends on the location, notably the latitude, and that the troposphere is roughly 8km higher at the equator than the poles depending on the time of year. First guess was that the temperature of the would impact its density (for example, here's the data for -50° and 50° c) - though this does not appear to show the cause of why is the troposphere 8km higher at the equator than the poles. Why is the troposphere 8km higher at the equator than the poles? 

The Pacific coast of South America is affected by the Humboldt Current, a wind-driven "upwelling" system running counterclockwise that is cold and windy but nutrient rich.. The "six o'clock" position indeed touches Antarctica, and then the right edge of the "clock" reaches Chile, Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia, as far north as the Galapagos Islands near the equator, making those areas cooler than equivalent latitudes on the Atlantic coast. The reason the currents don't "originate" in the Antarctica is because they are part of a circular system that spans a whole ocean in the southern hemisphere. But they "make stops" there. The ocean and atmosphere mutually interact to create a "coupled" system that brings about the so-called ENSO El Nino (La Nina) Southern Oscillation, with its characteristic weather changes. 

To build on Drew's excellent answer, I would note the following: Weather forecasts of the future are built on historical frequencies. A "forecast" of a X percent chance of rain (however defined), means, based on the current configuration of casual variables (temperature, humidity, air pressure etc.), there has historically been an X per cent chance of rain in 24 hours. Therefore, we forecast X percent for tomorrow. Sometimes a forecaster will try to incorporate unusual events into the equation. (Chernobyl comes to mind.) Then the argument might be, historically the chances of rain were X percent, but we're bumping up the forecast to y percent, because of all the atomic particles released by Chernobyl. 

Possible this is not what you need, but here's an archive of the Guidelines for Construction of CF Standard Names, which is "Version 1, 3 December 2008" and was cached on July 28, 2013; guessing that the page has not been updated since December 2008. Also, the source code repository for CF Conventions website you linked to (cf-convention.github.io) is viewable from here; if you had questions about the status of the site, you might try contacting the developer listed on Github for the project; their email is listed on their Github profile. UPDATE: Here's the contact info for the CEDA Data Scientist; their "main role in CEDA is the development of metadata standards, particularly the CF (Climate and Forecast) metadata conventions." 

Curious if to what degree it is possible to cluster epicentres as originating from a single formation/fault? Seems like it is possible that apart of the issue might being able to map the hypocentre of a faults slope, but what is not clear is if that is true, or if faults are really more a collections of formations that vary and at a high-level behave as one, but often independently behave when reviewed on a small scale due to the formations local attributes. Which leads to my real question, what is a fault? 

Yes.Thermohaline circulation is dependent on differences in water density, caused by differences in temperature and salinity between different bodies of water. It therefore requires deepwater areas, of which the northern and middle Atlantic have the most, for these differences or "gradients" to form. These are influences on the Gulf Stream. In addition, the Gulf Stream is wind driven, as is true of most currents. So it depends on both influences. 

"Rare earth" metals consist of Scandium, Yttrium, and 15 other metals of the so-called "Lanthanide" series toward the bottom of the Periodic Table of elements. Basically, these are the chemicals that we didn't study in chemistry class at school. Like other metals, they have two electrons in the outer shell, but unlike "metallic" chemicals such as sodium or magnesium, they have a special "metal" shell for electrons. They are located at the "left" (relative to the carbon family) or akaline end of the Periodic Table, which is why they are found near alkaline magnatism, in alkaline "compounds." This is in contrast to the more common chemicals, which are typically found as "oxides," or "sulfides," or possibly in combination with fluorine or chlorine. These common chemical compounds are on the right, or acid side of the periodic table. 

Nereus as is, is currently not replaceable, but it was insured at a replacement value of $3.1 million, and my understanding Woods Hole currently plans to replace it, though unlikely at this point that there's a solid timeline for this taking place. Landers, fish traps, and sediment core samplers will still be actively used, but again, these are not really comparable to the areas of research that Nereus was able to cover. UPDATE: These appears to be the last log entry for the Kermadec Trench 2014 expedition, and the official statement on the day of the event. 

Clouds on Venus After a quick search, it appears the clouds found on Venus are different than Earth's: 

Since reliable modern records of climate only began in the 1880s, proxies provide a means for scientists to determine climatic patterns before record-keeping began, though it appears that the the distribution of proxy records for global average temperatures, just like the instrumental record, is strongly non-uniform, with more records in the northern hemisphere. How accurate are climate proxies in giving us a clear picture of global average temperatures throughout Earth history? 

It mainly depends on where you are "coming from," rather than where you are "going to." In September, you are "coming from" a hot summer. The earth has been hot recently, and will take some time to cool down (in your part of the world. In March, you are "coming from" a cold winter. The earth has been cold recently, and will take some time to heat up. "Cold and "hot" are where you are "going to," in September and March, respectively, but the weather on the equinox days are dictated by the "rearview mirror." Put another way, the amount of solar energy that reached the earth "today" is less important a factor in the heat than what happened "recently" or just before. 

An example of a "bad" (or at least notorious) oil spill was that of the Exxon Valdez in 1989 in Alaska. It was variously estimated at between one-quarter and three quarters of a million barrels of spillage. The sensitivity of it was due to the fact that it took place in the Prince William Sound (near land) instead of on the open ocean, and greatly affected wildlife. 

Few things to notice are that while the Arctic Sea volume increased 50%, the volume increase was marginal compared with the volume of sea ice in 1979. Next, if you review the graph below, one year spikes are not that unusual, though if there was another 50% the volume increase from 2013 to 2014, it would be of note, given the rarity of significant year over year increases in Arctic Sea volume. 

If radioactive decay supplies only about half the Earth’s heat, what are the remaining sources of heat? 

Looking for a historic record of the average temperature on Earth going back millions of years, and this 2002 graphic the from the PALEOMAP Project is currently the best I am able to find. Is it accurate, and if so, why? If it is not accurate, is there a graph that is? 

Realize that comparing planets is hard, but is Earth really that unique? More to the point, if everything say 20-km below sea-level up into the exosphere disappeared (and the moon too) - what would be left to differentiate Earth from other planets?