So, sure enough, (4) is true: it's a material conditional with a false antecedent; nothing in s not being the case can make it false that if s then r. The puzzlement over this line of the truth table of the material conditional is recurrent at Philosophy SE. Look around and you'll find other related questions. 

The result of this body of work was a true change of tide in contemporary philosophy: today, many accept the existence of de re modalities, and endorse one version or other of the causal theory of proper names -- and post-Kripke descriptivism bears little resemblance to pre-Kripke descriptivism. This contemporary essentialism is, of course, a huge improvement above the Aristotelian variety. For one, it benefits from the advances in formal logic of the XXth century -- and one of the key developers of modal logic was Kripke himself --; it is also informed by contemporary science and contemporary linguistics, and, well, everything between Ancient Greece and now. If you have any more concrete interest on how contemporary essentialism differs from Aristotelian essentialism, let me know and I will try to elaborate (if I know anything about it). Kripke, S. 1980. Naming and Necessity. Blackwell. Putnam, Hillary. 1975. “The Meaning of ’Meaning’.” Minnesota Studies in the Philosophy of Science 7: 131–193. 

A more idiomatic paraphrase of is: not everything is a bird. That is, of all things, some are not birds. That is: . You say 

Suppose that all names can be named. (Just like, for example, "Schiphol" is a name of my name.) If so, no name is enduring and unchanging. No paradox here either. On the other hand, maybe there is an enduring and unchanging name, and that name has no name. This is semantically implausible, but not paradoxical. Anyway, introducing the notation: Nxy: stands for the relation of x being a name of y We can say that a is a name iff there is an y such that Nay, and your second sentence can be rendered thus: 

This is a paradox (solvable, but rather undecidable at this stage), but not an aporia (logical impossibility). I would consider your model as incomplete: there is no definition of the object "wish". In particular what is the scope of the effects it can have? May a wish (effect) influence back the source (genie) or not? If yes, what are the rules and limitations? In mathematics, this comes under the heading of "feedback". In order to decide on an answer to this question, you would have to define the feedback function and see what happens to your system. It might stabilize to a definite answer (which is preferable), flip-flop to two or more answers, become wildly chaotic, go to infinity, etc.. The simplest way to solve the issue is, of course, to forbid feedback: a wish is invalid if it concerns the genie in any way, shape, or form, as well as someone else's wishes. But that would also remove the challenge in your question. The answer of gnasher 729 is not that off the mark, even though it is formulated, as it were, as a reductio ad absurdum: his implicit assumption being that the genie is omnipotent: hence not only the wish cannot affect him, but he can break it (a value of humor is that is shows absurdity). His is an acceptable axiom, though perhaps not what you intended either. But since you invented the problem, is up to you (not the genie) to give a more substance to your problem, so that it becomes decidable. 

Any reflection on the moral character of an action would have to take the environment into consideration, particularly the dominant norms. This principle should also remain valid if one does not regard them as absolutes, or even in the case one disagreed with their legitimacy (freedom of thought). Hence you might want to divide the question into two distinct situations according to the environment: the state of nature and the state of society (a concept that traces back at least to Hobbes, but see also the Social Contract by Rousseau). This dichotomy might be useful. In the state of nature1 where there is no police and no justice (and supposing that could really exist, since some state could still claim jurisdiction on the location) the decision would be in principle strictly personal, by definition; in other words down to the individual's own sense of ethics (or more likely, and at a lower level, survival instinct). This would, consciously or inconsciously involve weighing chances of survival when selecting courses of action; or in the extreme it would boil down to killing with one the various techniques animals use in nature (pursuit, ambush, face-to-face duel, poisoning, stealing food, etc.). In the state of society the functions of police and judicial have been delegated to the state. According to the social contract, it is not up to an individual to make that type of adjudication. So a citizen who reasons like this would be in breach of the social contract and would undermine the rule of law. In a state of society, this "thin line" you are contemplating is the laws of the land, specifically the criminal code, which explicitly forbids this kind of behaviour. On top of this, this runs against the dominant moral codes of most human societies, which consider killing bad per se. Indeed, acting by pre-emptively killing someone would qualify as assassination, which carries among the highest penalties in criminal codes. Since those law codes are consciously written by people who carefully ponder a "scale of represession" (or whatever it would be called), this is an indication of the extent to which such a behaviour is considered a dangerous transgression for a society. Going back to a similar situation in a state of nature, let us remember that an individual would also probably want to go back to "civilization" which (still and regardless of the specific conditions) enforces its dominant set of values. If the behaviour of the individual had violated those rules, the individual would also have to live later with it privately, or else need to justify themselves to their fellows; including (because of the practice of territorial claims, or even extraterritoriality) in front of courts. And then the "thin line" would be back to the only admitted exception, i.e. self-defense. Perhaps with some allowances due to mitigating circumstances (due to the harshness of the conditions), as well as the presumption of innocence. 

Therefore A. EDIT: I see by your comment below that you are interested in question-begging arguments in general. 

The reason some empiricists (most notably Popper) have denied that we can verify an empirical hypothesis is that they were thinking of universally quantified statements such as 

Up until the late 60s, philosophy was dominated by a cluster of views very much influenced by logical empiricism: 

Well, such sentences will be true for all precisifications, because either Andy has n hairs or he doesn't, for all n. Therefore, the sentence comes out supertrue -- this is the supervaluationist for accepting it as true. Its negation ("it's not the case that Andy is bald or Andy is not bald"), by the same token, comes out superfalse. The same will happen with every other vague sentence: the supervaluationist semantics validates LEM. Supervaluationism is a semantics that validates LEM but not PB. 

What you have in mind is the principle of the identity of indiscernibles: the idea that no two different things can have the exact same properties. The SEP entry I've linked to above has a nice bibliography at the end. This principle entails your claim that no two things can ever be identical: if a and b are identical (i.e., if they have the same properties), then "a" and "b" are two names of the same thing. 

Will a proof by example do? A venerable position in epistemology, since Plato and until mid XXth century, was that knowledge should be analyzed as justified true belief. This was the mainstream philosophical position up until Gettier's 1963 paper Is Justified True Belief Knowledge?. This paper, two pages long, demonstrated to everyone's satisfaction that knowledge is not justified true belief. This is a clear example in which philosophical progress leads to the answer of a substantial philosophical question -- the question in Gettier's title. 

The problem with your assumption is that formal checking is only that: formal checking. Someone could write gibberish and translate it into valid logic. Say (in the style of Alice in Wonderland): 

What you are dealing with is an evolution of the meaning of words. Kant, in his essay on Perpetual Peace, refers to the Roman republic and rule mob, which he assimilated to tyranny. To him, that was the definition of democracy. Today, that would be called ochlocracy. In his First Definitive Article, Kant gives the three cumulative criteria for what he considers republican: 

The underlying question is one of political philosophy: why societies have regulations, controls and punishment for offenders. It also raises the question of what a "good" and "bad" regulation is. I do not hope to answer or even circumscribe the question. But if we watch carefully how laws are worded, the lawmakers make an assumption beforehand that their laws will be violated. This can be seen in the clauses of a law that specify enforcement measures (e.g. taken by a court and applied by police) or that specify penalties for offenders (such as reparation of damage, fines or prison). More specifically: 

So in that logic system, an entity called God exists. It doesn't mean anything about the existence or non-existence of God outside of it, and particularly that the philosophical entity God is the same or different from the entity in this logic system. For all we know, they could be homonyms. 

The bottom line is that what you personally observed and adjudicated could be what matters first. What others think is subsidiarily important, from a moral (social) viewpoint. Then putting the two in tension might suggest you a solution out of your quandary. 

This preoccupation of fair laws is indeed inscribed in the Preamble of the Universal declaration of human rights: 

is that such a statement is as hard to falsify as the original statement is to verify -- and, conversely, as easy (!) to verify as the original statement is to falsify. This point is not new, of course; it was already made by Hempel back in the day. 

EDIT: The above is how one can see that negation as suggested by Belnap and Dunn is reasonable. But I agree with the questioner that it is unclear that the logic, so described, is a product system. A bit more detail on how to see Dunn/Belnap's system (DB henceforth) as a product system: In DB we have four truth degrees: 

appropiate. In the philosophy I am familiar with, the debate is cast as being about the norm of assertion: The quest for the norm of assertion is the quest for a norm (roughly, an imperative) such that a speech act counts as an assertion if and only if it is subject to said norm. Candidate norms of assertion take the form Norm Schema: : Assert that p only if F(p) where F(p) is a function that takes the proposition to be asserted and outputs a specification of the circumstances in which such an assertion is warranted. There are various contenders for the role of F(p) . Let me discuss them briefly in turn. Truth: : F(p) takes p to itself. That is: one should assert only what is true (see Weiner 2005, 2007.) This looks like a natural demand on assertion; after all, assertions aim at the truth -- that is, it is very likely that they fulfill their function in language by mapping onto facts (see Millikan 1984, p. 108f). The standard complaint against Truth is that it is far too weak to be the central norm of assertion. For what if one truly asserts that p on the basis of extremely poor evidence, e.g., one asserts a lucky guess or a correctly believed product of wishful thinking? Surely, one may claim, the asserter in these instances would be subject to criticism despite satisfying Truth. (Lackey 2007, p. 604) The obvious fix to the this problem is to demand that the asserter be justified in believing the asserted proposition. Thus, the justification norm, Justification: : F(p) takes p to the asserter is justified in believing that p. This is sometimes put in terms of the asserter having a reasonable/rational belief in p. Justification is also plausible: it seems reasonable to assume that the asserter has to be in the right kind of evidential relation to the proposition asserted -- and, indeed, we find assertions blameless when they are done in these circumstances. On the other hand, there are cases of objectionable assertions made in the appropriate evidential state. Lotteries seem to supply such examples: if I assert 'Your ticket did not win' merely because I know that only one in a milion does, I may have extremely good evidence -- one that makes you ticket not winning overwhelmingly likely, and my belief that it won't rational and reasonable -- but I still contravene the norm of assertion. Williamson summarises the idea: 

Clearly, you are asking a question from a viewpoint of applied ("hands-on") philosophy. From what I understand, you are concerned about doing research in a field where it is not known yet whether it is ethical or not. Here is how I would approach the matter. 

That could be a fallacy of the "excluded middle" since practical experience is complicated and things cannot be open and shut. There is no "quantum shift" (or "slipping") from one absolute proposition to the opposed one. In more detail, a key distinction exists between responsibility and liability. Responsibility is a much broader concept that covers present (doing one's intended or expected actions), future (predicting, preparing, etc.), and past (assuming causality and consequences of one's actions). When one introduces fault (and hence the liability of a person to repair the damage), then a number of logical pre-requisites are typically required [philosophers of law or law experts do not hesitate to complete or amend]: 

Freedom of the members of society Dependence of all on a common law (rule of law) Equality of the citizen. 

It depends how one interprets this statement. Offhand, "it's not the time or place for that" is very vague (in the worst case, it could be a non-sequitur). On the other hand, the "time" argument could legitimately be interpreted e.g. as: 

This tells you how the model should look like. It doesn't tell you how to get there, except by increments (pare down and toss away elements that are not strictly necessary, add new ones that are missing, subject your model to "stress tests", by making experiments or trying to find calculation errors, inconsistencies or contradictions, etc.). Most importantly, the adjudication on what your "good" model should be, is on a case by case basis, according to the function of the model you need (e.g. *what is one trying to do with the cars? Producing them, selling them, managing a company fleet, or starting a personal collection?*...).