It makes sense to believe life is more likely to evolve on the surface of large objects like planets, moons, and asteroids. However, a common fantasy trope is the massive space creature: some kind of vast spacefaring organism travelling between planets or stars, typically ancient and often sentient. I love the idea, but I have a hard time coming up with a sound scientific explanation to such a creature's origins. What conditions would be necessary for such a creature to realistically come into being? No magic, no artificial intervention, no interdimensional rifts. I don't care about the details of the creature's biology: it could be a giant jellyfish, or a giant turtle with elephants on its back, or a living planetoid, or a form that defies all human comprehension. It just needs to be big, spacefaring, and have realistic origins. 

Machinists win - just convert brains to digital and download to solid state hardware. As a bonus, computer brains could require far less accommodation than biological brains and their support systems (i.e. their bodies), thus reducing both complexity and mass of your torch ship drastically. Furthermore, with the increasing prevalence and capability of AI, the next phase of human evolution must be able to compete with the vast processing power computer hardware can afford, so this is a smart direction to move in even in general. The Anamists could take a similar route and convert the human body into a sentient amorphous gel composed of intricately interconnected microstructures. Remove the importance of macrostructure integrity (and presumably make those microstructures far more resilient to high sustained forces, which is a lot more manageable) and your survivability problem is much simpler to solve. 

With the right technology, smaller ships can hit as hard as larger ones by combining their firepower. Here's an example from Star Trek: Voyager: 

Over the long term, materials degrade under environmental stress (and therefore in unpredictable ways). They require endless, regular observation and repair. "Intelligent" materials (e.g. impregnated with nanomachines) or structural integrity systems could automate the job of keeping materials in top shape, provided they have ready access to an unlimited supply of repair material, appropriate infrastructure for removing waste, and the ability to completely maintain and/or replicate themselves. Assuming the ship structure and materials manage zero gas loss when their state is within some margin of ideal that this system is capable of maintaining, you'd be fine. Even if the structure or materials do permit some small loss in their ideal state, this kind of system (especially nanomachine-impregnated materials) could also enable a kind of active reverse-osmosis by consuming energy to repel escaping gases back into the ship. Unfortunately excessive damage would still lead to rapid gas loss before the automated maintenance system could repair it, and given enough time such damage is virtually guaranteed. But as others have suggested, replacing the lost gases would make up for it, and a system that already has the infrastructure and materials to fabricate repairs to containment systems could use its resources to generate lost gases as well. All of this assuming we're within a few centuries of cost-effective, micro-/nano-scale matter-energy conversion, which is probably the only way to solve all of these problems (maybe even just one of them) with a single system. 

If only 0s and 1s are being sent without any form of context, how can the data being transferred be correlated with the ideas being represented? The people at the receiving end would have to compare the signal patterns being received with a database of all known natural patterns in the universe in the hopes that some kind of match is found. Even then, you're hoping that the format of the data collected on those patterns matches the format that the signal is encoded in. Eventually it might be possible to establish a basic dialog strictly in terms of natural phenomena this way, but how do you advance from there to more abstract concepts like philosophy, personal identity, culture? That would depend on an understanding of how natural phenomena affect the other species, which is impossible without context (biochemistry? physiology? psychology?). If any of these things were known you'd have a leg up (e.g. if they breathe oxygen and are fatally allergic to hydrogen, you could associate the concepts of "positive" and "negative" with patterns which map to these elements), but you know none of these things. Ultimately, all you could do is communicate about the wormhole. Perhaps the species that opened the wormhole could work with the other species to stabilize the wormhole enough to facilitate transfer of matter, so they can meet face-to-face or else somehow gain data about each other's nature that can be correlated via observation to those signals. Other than that, it's a long shot to believe meaningful communication would be possible. 

It's commonly said that magic (spells, miracles, etc.) is merely science we don't understand yet. The only way you can truly unmask a god is to show ordinary people how to become that god. Simply giving them godly powers isn't enough - they have to understand the source of those powers and how they work. They have to see that there is a logical connection between those powers and the way the world as they understand it works. In my mind, this is why religion will always exist: as long as something remains unexplained (and even long after an explanation is found, until it becomes common knowledge), at least some people will assume a higher power is responsible for it. It doesn't matter if you make them forget about their god, or get them accustomed to being unable to explain the things that happen around them, or give them any degree of control over the unexplained. Humans naturally seek to understand everything about their world, and some satisfy their lack of understanding by believing the things they don't understand are beyond comprehension because they are part of a power operating beyond their own limitations. Note: I don't intend to discredit religion or imply superiority of any particular mindset. Let me know if you find this answer offensive in any way and we'll try to rephrase it accordingly. 

This is called "multi-vector assault mode", in which one large ship splits into multiple smaller craft. This spreads the firepower of one ship across many, allowing them to attack from multiple directions at once. Each ship can move in a different way, allowing all kinds of neat strategies you can't afford when your firepower is concentrated at one location. So, if you can't decide, you could go the "multi-vector" route and make one ship that becomes many when necessary. Best of both worlds, really. 

How about an infinite number of Earths orbiting an infinite number of stars? If the ability to walk infinitely on your own two feet is critical, then introduce artificial mechanisms which manipulate physics to keep some or all of the planets very close together (a mile or less, perhaps). Then you simply walk to the point where two planets are closest together, and then jump and float to the next planet (gravity at this point would be near-zero). Something which maintains an appropriate atmosphere across this "gravity bridge" would probably be necessary, or else some kind of space suit for the low pressure and oxygen. The "stars" would have to be appropriately scaled to fit in among the planets without scorching them. 

The vampire could merely choose not to enter without permission. Not even by compulsion, but by rational thought. Perhaps the "curse" reveals the vampire's true nature if they were to enter their prey's home uninvited. The element of surprise is critical to a clean and efficient hunt. Should the alerted prey somehow escape, the vampire's presumably hidden identity could be revealed to the community. A vampire might wisely choose to wait until they're invited and can approach their prey without suspicion. A code of honor could also drive this kind of behavior. Brute force is violent, messy, barbaric, and far too easy with the vampire's superior strength and resilience. A vampire worth their mettle earns their meal by subtler, more sophisticated means. It's easy to believe that vampires who default to assaulting their prey are considered improper, rude, immature, simple, backwards, etc. Playing the game could enhance the flavor or actual effects of feeding. Pheromones used to subdue prey might only work if the prey is both calm and very close for some amount of time - impossible to achieve without being welcomed into proximity. Those same pheromones might also drive biological changes in the prey, e.g. releasing serotonin or other pleasure chemicals into the blood, or triggering metabolic processes that make the blood more palatable or digestible. The prey's emotional state might affect the taste or effect of their blood, so most vampires probably prefer to avoid heightened emotions (or even attempt to rouse very specific combinations of emotions for a specific flavor). Being typically very old and worldly, perhaps they are just bored and looking for a challenge. Or maybe they're psychopathic and can only find the pleasure of cordial social interaction in the people they prey upon. 

Mankind is beset by an insidious virus. Its modifications to the host's DNA are virtually undetectable. In the time it's taken for us just to realize the virus exists, it's already infected every living human. These changes are folded into a part of our genome that's always transferred completely to offspring. Attempts to remove them have all failed disastrously. The entire human race is irreversibly infected. The effects of infection only manifest in response to certain biological events occurring specifically during the 43rd year of life. I won't go into the gruesome details here, and ultimately they don't matter because there's fortunately a viable form of relief: llamas. By simply spending a short time in the company of a llama just as symptoms begin to manifest, the effects of the disease are negated. The most worrisome of these effects are quite brief, only lasting a day or so, but some individuals experience long-term discomfort lasting several months or more. It may be necessary to keep a llama for as long as a full year to ward off the unpleasant effects of the disease. The llama's ability to fight the effects of the disease is an as yet unattainable holy grail to pharmaceutical companies. While the mechanism is fairly well understood, the technology to faithfully reproduce its effects simply doesn't exist. It will be a long time before an artificial, more convenient alternative can be safely, reliably, and affordably developed and manufactured. This has led to explosive demand for llama companionship. The private llama industry has erupted, and llama prices skyrocket despite the best attempts at regulation. There are also the worsening issue of llama abandonment as people irresponsibly buy llamas purely for their healing qualities and then discard them on roadsides, leaving them to fend for themselves (typically at great cost to the local environment). Already reeling from the tremendous expense of hiring llama cowboys en mass to wrangle the growing herds of abandoned llamas, and concerned for their poorer citizens who are forced to suffer the terrible effects of the disease as they can't afford now-expensive llama therapy, more and more governments are taking on a stance of direct intervention. Government subsidized llama ranches now offer rental services, even offering free rental and expense coverage with medical necessity. A government llama is likely to be less than ideal, but serves its purpose well enough. This has not only solved all llama-dependent medical crises, but also stabilized the private sector once more as private llama vendors now compete with the government's minimal baseline by breeding quality specialty llamas for ever more-desirable traits such as portability and diversity of appetite. Many young people, and conservatives of all ages, tend to complain about the resulting increased taxes, but since nobody has any better ideas the slight financial discomfort of all is generally considered an acceptable preference over the otherwise terrible fate of those who most benefit from it.