The tenth chapter of Geoffrey Sampson's Writing Systems: A Linguistic Introduction (1985) discusses English orthography, and by and large reaches a conclusion which somewhat resonates with yours; that logographic writing (such as Chinese) is efficient for the reader, somewhat at the expense of the writer, and that the quirks of English orthography push it in the direction of obtaining some benefits of a somewhat more logographic approach (so the different and sometimes decorative spellings of some homonym pairs in English accidentally but conveniently help the reader quickly distinguish between them). Sampson quotes many sources, some linguistic (e.g. Chomsky & Halle 1968) but many others from "the psychology of writing". I don't know if this is a proper subfield of psychology, or just Sampson's informal label for these studies. Notable references include Albrow 1972, P.T.Smith 1980, Wijk 1969, Frith 1979, 1980, and Bryant & Bradley 1980. 

There is no "famous, red, blue, wet, dry, lethargic, celestial", as in Esperanto they're "fama, ruĝa, blua, malseka, seka, letargia, ĉiela". All are adjectives in both languages. "angrily, wetly, very, lethargically, on Mondays" are "kolere, malseke, tre, letargie, lunde". All are adverbs. "sincerity, hound (dog), dilapidation, epoch, eczema, shoulder-blade" are "sincereco, hundo, ruinigo, epoko, ekzemo, skapolo". All are nouns. "pony, puppy, kitten, duckling" are "ĉevalido, hundido, katido, anasido" (ido means "an offspring", so it's like "baby horse"). 

You can get online news and bloggers to write about it, you can ask indie companies about putting some words of it on their CD cases and organic soy milk, etc. Basically it has to somehow reach the mass public without them in any way actually looking for it. 

Unfortunately, my sources for this are in Swedish and/or from old periodicals from the actual time when Esperanto was new, so I can't link anything. If you can read Swedish, find the book called "100 years of Esperanto", and in Esperanto there's another book you can try, "La Esperanto-Movado en Upsalo" (as I remember the title). Basically what happened is, the book first came out in Russian, and from there people just found it as something amusing or interesting to do in their free time. That's how it spread very minorly to other countries, through bilingual people who translated it. Once it got to Germany, some people who had visited Germany and who were students at the University of Uppsala noticed it and decided to not only form a club (there was also a German club at this time, but it was the only club in the world I think) but also, when they heard that Esperanto was starting to be banned in Russia/a Russian Esperanto periodical was closed down, they started their own which grew to be very big and influental in the first few beginning years. (Swedes are easily outraged about injusticies so honestly that's probably why they started it, also Uppsala is very well-known for being a "linguistic research capital".) They managed to get funding from people outside of Sweden, among other things, and used it to distribute flyers (they also got flyers from Zamenhof himself and wrote to him a lot, asking about stuff). Their periodical was simply called "Lingva Internacia" or something like that, but it included all sorts of stuff, like both local Swedish news and Esperanto news. The club and so on was written about in the Swedish newspapers too, among other things, so that's how it got some more publicity. Basically for about five years, Uppsala was the "capital of the Esperanto world" due to this, and they influenced other groups to start making their own periodicals. I believe the very initial list of potential subscribers was obtained by mailing Zamenhof himself and asking about it. When other countries started having more periodicals and clubs too, they also started being advertised in the countries' local newspapers - this was sometimes in a normal news-y way, but other times the members actually paid for advertising in the hopes that it would make new members; this was a very expensive thing to do at the time. This doesn't mean that the clubs or periodicals were any big (it only takes two people to form a club!). Don't forget that this is also a time when you did normal advertising in the newspaper, so anyone looking for an Esperanto penpal or teacher would likely use the newspaper to place the ad. It was also possible to subscribe to periodicals even if you lived abroad, so ex. there were French readers of the English Esperanto periodical. Of course, this was also a different time from today, where it was extremely normal to try out new things and different clubs and so on. It seems like most of the people simply heard about the language from friends or from various newspaper articles about it. A lot of people simply told even strangers they met about it (ex. on the train). Even back in the 1920's and earlier though, there were elementary schools (among other things) who were teaching the language to children in preparation of either "the general future" or for them learning another language later. The craze about this was honestly slowly growing to be very big, even train personnel and the police in a few different countries were being instructed in Esperanto for training for dealing with foreigners. Though of course, the world wars and then the monolingual English speakers growing to power really squashed a lot of it. And of course, most people used it as a hobby instead of thinking about it as a serious world language, but they did at least consider it fun so that's how it was propelled. I also remember reading that news about Esperanto was randomly broadcast on the radio in its early days; that's how I heard it reached the Faroe Islands for example. Also, a lot of the people who initially learnt the langauge were very educated to begin with (ex. rich French people, rich Swedish University students), so they had some influence on other people already. Those days were also different from today in that people needed a world language, but there really was none - English certainly wasn't big (German and French were much bigger!), but it was an age of new technology, new ideas about psychology, and easier/cheaper travel between countries and so on. But honestly I think the main point was that people were bored and thought learning a new language was simply fun when they heard about it, and it was an easy way to make foreign friends and get foreign news (this is a point I've read about quite a few times when I read texts from the same era - the local news was usually not at all accurate regarding foreign countries, and people loved collecting stuff like stamps and postcards). Edit: Something I forgot! I've read that people used to take a text (ex. a book) in Esperanto, and then translate it in their head, reading aloud, in real-time in front of their friends in order to convince them of how easy it was to understand and how fast it was to learn. This is mentioned in that one book that's a collection of Zamenhof's answers about grammar and vocabulary questions. Teachers were mainly pressing the fact that it was a good test of how good students were at language ("if they fail at Esperanto, we know they're no good at language and it's useless to teach them ex. French in secondary school"), and that it really gave the kids enthusiasm about history and geography, since the teachers were having the main part of learning Esperanto center around having the students send letters to lots of different countries in it. This is mentioned in quite a few places and pretty much corresponds with what modern educational tests with Esperanto are saying today, but I remember one source for this is here: $URL$ 

Let me post a slightly tongue-in-cheek answer, then perhaps expand on it in useful directions. If your corpus is 2.3 million words, the ideal gold standard is 2.3 million words. Now, to try to frame that, what I really mean is that you are approaching this from the wrong direction. You are not creating a corpus to satisfy your statistics teacher; you are creating a corpus for a particular purpose, and you want to maintain the highest quality you can with the available resources. Ideally it should be perfect, but we all live in reality - and if you can't make something perfect, at least strive to make it useful. That means, document what you have; explain to your prospective users what they can realistically expect. To approach this from a different direction, let's say you have a toy corpus - for example, written weather reports in English from a single weather station. What can we hope to do with this? Well, a linguist might look for variations in linguistic expression. In really formulaic (and these days, probably mostly automated) language, you will get bored after 5 or, if you are really patient and/or easily amused, maybe 20 reports. That's good. Now we don't need any more data because we have a reasonably representative - not to say exhaustive, even exhausting! - sample of the phenomenon we wanted to investigate. Maybe that's not the only linguistic inquiry we could think of for this example (aberrations in punctuation? Diachronic evolution, if you have reports from different decades?) but let's stop here. The point should hopefully be clear - you have enough data when a lot of it is redundant. Expand this to a real-world corpus and there will always be too little data for some of the hypotheses somebody will want to test - too few samples, of course, but also too few samples in some particular subcategory, and too little metadata (was this sample old or new? Produced by a native speaker? Produced by a member of some minority? From the Midwest? In a noisy environment? Under stressful conditions? Male or female? Young or old?) and there's only so much you can do to improve this. There are two obvious conditions I want to point out for your specific question. You want to make sure there is as little garbage as possible in the full 2.3M, and you want to take as much as possible of it into the golden set. The procedure I'd like to propose is iterative. If you decide to try to start with 0.5% for the golden set by random sampling, it is somewhat likely that some part of those samples are unsuitable for various reasons. That's good! Now you know what problems to look for in the rest of the corpus. Then maybe try to push it to 1%. By and by you will also get a feel for where there are problems which you can't solve by just discarding bad data. That's not so good, but definitely something you want to mention in the accompanying documentation. We really cannot tell if 0.5% is reasonable. If each sample is a single word then even 0.1% should be sufficient. On the other hand, if samples are sentences (on the order of 23 words) or paragraphs (on the order of 230 words) an off-the-cuff estimate of a good number of samples to review thoroughly for inclusion in a gold standard set would be higher. But again, this depends a lot on the types of samples, and the cost of processing and reviewing them. Without seeing your data or understanding your requirements, we can really only reason in very general terms. But a good rule of thumb at least to get you started is to assume that you have a logarithmic distribution -- if not exactly a Zipf distribution then at least a few phenomena with a lot of hits and a long tail of different types of outliers. And in the absence of any better data to guide you, remember the 80/20 rule -- 20% of the explanation will already cover 80% of the samples (so in your case, if you have a set of rules which capture 1/5 of the corpus, you can expect to put in roughly 4x this amount of rules to achieve reasonably full coverage). This also extends to error estimation -- when you start seeing mostly the same error over and over again, you have covered roughly 20% of the total errors. (Sorry if this is a bit rambling; I seem to have gotten a bit over-enthusiastic here.) 

It needs to be learnt in a fast amount of time, and be very, VERY easy but still not lacking things. This is especially true since you will need to capture large amounts of monolingual speakers, for example most English-speakers. The average person from the USA doesn't even feel like they have enough time in the day to cook dinner "from scratch" (I've even heard complaints about how "it takes such a long time for water to boil for my instant ramen"), but at the same time English speakers pride themselves on the small nuances that come in word pairs like "handrail, banister, balustrade", and often believe that other languages don't have them. So the constructed language has to heavily cater to both of these aspects. There needs to be proof that the language works and that people speak it. Meaning, before you even publish the book that teaches it, set up a forum for it, translate material and write original material in it, have some audio recordings, etc. People already say things like "you're learning Icelandic? WHY?" because they believe it's useless and there's nothing worthwhile in it, so you have to combat this very strongly starting from the very beginning. 

The lexicalization of loans is a longer process, you have many words which are undiscernible from native words by a layperson because they have been so completely internalized. In English, you have words like ditty and because which can be traced back to stems of Latin origin, but which have been so completely adapted to the form of modern English that you need specialist knowledge to establish this. In Swedish, a lot of the old Norse vocabulary has been displaced with German loans which sometimes make little sense in Swedish. Everyday words like anhörig and begära are somewhat opaque (though some morphemes trace back to shared Germanic roots which were also present in older Norse) but make perfect sense in German. Some others which are outright peculiar in Swedish include fogsvans (literally "joint tail", where the German word means "fox tail" -- still a weird term for a saw). Later, French loans have entered the language in the 18th century, originally in forms like lavoir and manquements, but now have modernized spelling and native-like pronounciation lavoar, mankemang. Finnish is pecular because even more than Swedish, it has replaced much of the original Fenno-Ugric vocabulary with loans of Indo-European origin. A large number of words like pallo (ball) and ranta (beach, cf Swedish strand and German Strand) are clearly of Germanic or even earlier Indo-European origin, and there is a set of trisyllabic words like mehiläinen (bee) and kuningas (king) which are of somewhat later origin, and sometimes attest to forms which are no longer straightforwardly recognizable in the neighboring IE languages. In all of these languages, you can find recent loans which are used in a form which is much closer to the origin. With reading and writing skills approaching 100% of the population, the process for internalizing these is likely to look quite different -- it is not unlikely that résumé and coup d'état will remain in English in their French form for a very long time. Similarly, obviously English loans like jazz and policy may well have come to stay for the foreseeable future without any further adaptation to the host language.