Nietzsche was well aware of the epoch-making achievement of Darwin but considered it as too one-sided because he misunderstood natural selection as a poor necessity and not as a plentiful supply. In the “Fröhlichen Wissenschaft” he calls Darwinism the last great scientific movement in Europe and remarks that he thinks Darwinism is true although he also mentions the horrible consequences of Darwinism. (Kritische Gesamtausgabe Band III, 4 – 19,132). In general Nietzsche had a rather negative attitude toward Darwinism: Darwin has forgotten the mind or spirit. The influence of the external constraints is strongly overestimated by Darwin. Contrary to the quote above he also claimed that the Darwin's school has erred everywhere. So we get an ambivalent picture of Nietzsche's understanding of Darwinism. More original quotes (in German) can be found here. 

An attempt to save transfinite set theory is to claim that the empty limit set does not mean a state after all natural numbers but only indicates that all received dollars are returned somewhere. This explanation fails already because unions and intersections to calculate the set limit range over an infinite domain. Further, if interpreted in actual infinity, the failure of completing the return at any finite step disproves the complete return. Another attempt, to argue by the limits of analysis, is besides the point: Let q(n) = 0.0...01...10... be the sequence of rational numbers having digit 1 in kth position iff Scrooge McDuck possesses dollar note number k at day n. So q(n) has 9n digits 1, but in the limit of that sequence all these digits 1 are gone. Is this is a contradiction in the notion of limit? No. The analytical limit 0 of the sequence (q(n)) is nothing that the terms q(n) would "evolve to". It is simply a real number that is approximated better and better by the terms of the potentially infinite sequence. The limit of the number of digits 1 of the q(n) in mathematics is simply the improper infinite, i.e., for every number there is a larger one (but never omega is reached). For the sequence of sets things are quite different. There one set S(n) is transformed into its successor S(n+1) by adding and removing dollars. If their infinity is actual such that it is possible to complete the set, but if no dollar remains forever, then the complete loss of all dollars leaves the empty set. That is not mathematically possible. A "limit" with quantized numbers, integers or cardinalities, different from all terms of the sequence, is impossible per se. Simple to see in the present case: For every step n there are elements. In the "limit" there are none. Contradiction. Mathematically reasonable is only the limit 0 of 1/W(n). It does not require an actually infinite or complete sequence (W(n)). Summary: McDuck will never get bankrupt, where "never" means never and not "at omega". 

Why not apply it to the fact that no natural number is sufficient to make the set |N actually infinite? Theorem: The sequence of natural numbers is not actually infinite. Proof: The natural numbers 1, 2, ..., n do not produce an actually infinite set. If there were natural numbers capable of producing an actually infinite set, then one of them was the smallest, call it a, such that the theorem was valid for all x < a but not for x =< a. Contradiction. Of course the natural numbers are potentially infinite. This cannot be disproved. With respect to this fact, proofs like the present one would be hilarious – and they have frequently been called so. But when the critics were silenced, then the meaning of infinity would be changed on the quiet and unnoticed from potential to actual. – A really perfid procedure. That's why set theorists refuse to understand the difference between potential and actual infinity. Their standard procedure would become obvious. There are many more contradictions collected in chapter VI of $URL$ 

First what you call matching requires counting too. Matching of countable sets is in general done by bijecting one of them with the set of natural numbers. And even if the natural numbers are not involved, the bijection works with ordered sets, i.e., sequences. But also for uncountable sets order and therefore counting in an extended sense is required. A "mush-set" of unordered numbers could not be counted. That's why the axiom of choice is so important. It allows to well-order every set. The necessity of order my become clear by the following quotes of two forbears of set theory: 

Set theory is by no means the foundation of mathematics or analysis but in clear contradiction with it. Although set theorists choose to simply have a blind spot in this matter, it is clear to every objective observer. The simplest example even understandable to non-mathematicians is this: When Scrooge McDuck daily receives 10 enumerated dollars and daily spends one dollar, namely that one with the lowest number, then he will get bankrupt in the set theoretical limit. In the mathematical limit he will become infinitely rich. When McDuck spends always that dollar with the highest number in his possession, then he will become infinitely rich even in the set theoretical limit. This index-dependence shows that set theory cannot have any scientific application either. 

The axiom of choice has gotten its bad reputation because it leads to contradictions with uncountable sets. But it is a very natural axiom and is frequently applied without notice in mathematics as Zermelo has correctly pointed out when defending his invention against objections of Borel, Peano, Poincaré, and others. [E. Zermelo: "Neuer Beweis für die Möglichkeit einer Wohlordnung", Math. Ann. 65 (1908) pp. 107-128] The problem is only, as mentioned above, the application of the axiom to uncountable sets. In the history of mathematics, it was usual to fix factual conventions by an axiom, like "it is possible to draw a straight line from any point to any point" or "if n is a natural number, then n+1 is a natural number". The application of the axiom of choice claims for the first time a counterfactual convention, namely to choose an element without knowing what is chosen. At least in 1904 it was clear that there are only countably many finite strings of letters, including strings defining mathematical objects. Cantor knew this theorem, as he wrote in a letter to Hilbert in 1906, although he did not believe that it is true. "If König's theorem was true, according to which all 'finitely definable' real numbers form a set of cardinality aleph_0, this would imply that the whole continuum was countable, and that is certainly false." [G. Cantor, letter to D. Hilbert (8 Aug 1906)] Today there is no doubt that König's theorem is true. In order to maintain transfinite set theory, it is necessary to have the (in this realm) counterfactual axiom of choice for proving the basic theorem of set theory: Every set can be well-ordered. Otherwise a lot of ordinal theory would be unprovable. Therefore set theorists have agreed that the axiom is "not constructive", i.e., we can prove that we can choose every element, but we cannot choose every element. Although Zermelo used the axiom to prove that every set can be well-ordered, i.e., he thought it could be done and not only be proven that it could be done, knowing that in fact it cannot be done. [E. Zermelo: "Beweis, daß jede Menge wohlgeordnet werden kann", Math. Ann. 59 (1904)] But what is the value of a counterfactual axiom? We could state many other axioms of same value like: 

Finally, to answer your last question, it has turned out that set theory is in contradiction with mathematics and therefore is insignificant. It cannot serve as as a basis for any scientific or realistic endeavour. One of several proofs collected in $URL$ is this: Scrooge Mc Duck earns daily 10 enumerated dollars and spends daily 1 $. If he always spends that one with the lowest number, he will get bankrupt according to set theory, because the set theoretical limit of not spent dollars is empty. According to mathematics he will get increasingly wealthy. 

There are two answers, both contradicting omniscience. 1) You are talking about a creature. Therefore I assume it has been created and is living in the universe. The universe has at most 10^100 particles in an accessible domain of 50 billion light years (and perhaps more, but always finitely many in a larger but accessible domain). Since every information must be stored within a memory by a material device consisting of at least one particle, no creature can have more than 10^100 pieces of information. That's a lot but less than the information required by an omniscient creature. 2) Every information must be stored in some way. That means the information is encoded by something. That means the encoding device has a state and a function. Simple example: If your neurons number n to m are active, then "you know the sky is blue". An omniscient creature must know as well about the blue sky as about the state of the neurons n to m. The latter would require another device, say a sensor, which again would require another device, say a sensor for the state of the sensor, and so on. Therefore an omniscient creature is impossible, independent of the materialism considered in paragraph 1. 

Mathematical induction is a powerful method to prove properties of natural numbers. If you prove a property for the first natural number 1 and if you prove that the natural number n + 1 has this property whenever the natural number n has this property (of course without fixing n) then every natural number has this property. Because you can put n = 1 and get the property for n + 1 = 2, then you can put n = 2, and so on. This powerful method is a basic tool of mathematics. Nevertheless there is a philosophical position not accepting this, namely that of Cantor's set theory. The reader may be surprised to find set theory differing from mathematics, but the refusal of mathematical induction and Cantor's own words prove this case: Cantor said (on more than one occasion, for more see $URL$ "The general set theory [...] definitely belongs to metaphysics. [...] and the fact that my presently written work is issued in mathematical journals does not modify the metaphysical contents and character of this work. [...] By me Christian philosophy is for the first time confronted with the true teachings of the infinite in its beginnings." [G. Cantor, letter to T. Esser (15 Feb 1896)] Cantor assumes that infinity can be finished. For instance in a letter to Lipschitz he said (more can be found loc cit) "The erroneous in Gauss' letter consists in his sentence that the finished infinite could not become an object of mathematical consideration. [...] The finished infinite can be found, in a sense, in the numbers ..." [G. Cantor, letter to R. Lipschitz (19 Nov 1883)] (my italics) How can the infinite be finished? For instance, how can the equinumerousity of natural and rational numbers be proved? Only by refusing mathematical induction. There we prove the important property of every natural number n: n belongs to a finite initial sequence which is followed by an infinity of natural numbers. There is never an end and there is never a finish that would allow anybody to claim equinumerousity with another infinite set. Set theory however does not accept this proof by mathematical induction but claims that somehow simultaneously the infinite can be finished. "Simultaneously" in order to neglect the fact that the sequence of natural numbers has an order and mathematics allows (and in doubt demands) to interrupt the sequence at every position. There are other philosophies like ultrafinitism not accepting mathematical induction but that is based on arguments about reality and is certainly less severe than Cantor's metaphysics. 

Cast in the same mould: "We repeat this process countably many times." [Paul J. Cohen: "The discovery of forcing", Rocky Mountain Journal of Mathematics 32,4 (2002) p. 1076f] "If this procedure is iterated aleph_2 times ..." [Karel Hrbacek, Thomas Jech: "Introduction to set theory", 2nd ed., Marcel Dekker, New York (1984) p. 232ff] 

Who is a philosopher? I think a mathematician who ponders about this topic is at least a philosopher of mathematics. Here are three: Mathematics is a part of physics. Physics is an experimental science, a part of natural science. Mathematics is the part of physics where experiments are cheap. [V.I. Arnold: "On teaching mathematics" (1997)] But there is hope for a grand-unification! In twenty years (perhaps sooner!), mathematics can once again become a unified religion. All we need is to worship the new God of Experimental Mathematics! [D. Zeilberger: "Opinion 113" (2011)] Mathematics as monologue, dialogue, and discourse needs tools of describing and communicating ideas. MatheRealism denies the existence of entities which, in principle, can never be observed or communicated – in particular thoughts that no-one can think. [W. Mückenheim: "MatheRealism" (2018) p. 351] The most important theorems of a mathematics oriented towards reality can be proved in good approximation by means of experiments, performed mainly on efficient computers. Computers are the telescopes and microscopes of mathematicians. They improve the perspective and allow to distinguish details that cannot be seen otherwise. [W. Mückenheim: "Mathematik für die ersten Semester", 4th ed., De Gruyter, Berlin (2015) preface]