Chicken is a very good protein provider, and if you do not get enough from this... Maybe you should just have a bigger cut. Get a big salad, but remember to have the calories filled in. Fruit like bananas are very good too. When to eat You should eat and fill up the depots shortly after the exercise. The studies have different opinions though. Between 20 min and 60 min after the exercise is told here: $URL$ Within the first 15 min. after exercise is told here: $URL$ I have heard others say between ½ hour and 2 hours after. A rule I have always lived by is to eat a small amount withing the first ½ hour afterwards - just some fruit like an apple and a banana. This is easy enough to handle and comply with. Then the bigger meal can wait a little longer. It is not a good idea to eat a heavy meal just before going to sleep, but I would in your case prioritize filling up the depots first. That your training is that late is just a shame. About the drinking problem: My own experince: The body either desperately needs and strives for water in wild thirst! Or it seems dry but still won't feel thirsty and you are not able to drink that much. The solution that always works for me is to "force" water inside the unwilling body. That is take a drink of water (a quater of a litre if possible or maybe just two, three big mouthfulls) every 10 min. after the game. Have a bottle with you anywhere and do this to fill up and compensate for the water loss strechted out over the next hour. You can always take a mouthful of water, thirsty or not, so when you, as now, know that you need the water, but aren't thirsty, then you just have to drink less but more frequently to avoid it being uncomfortable to drink. In the morning if you still fell the dryness in the mouth and maybe a lack of energy, then do the same. When the alarm wakes you up, then the two first things you should do is: 1) Stop the alarm and 2) take a drink of water. Then continue to take a drink in small portions. If the mornings are stressful or whatever, just remind yourself to drink whenever you go by a sink or faucet. The water drinking might give you some extra toilet visits but is something you can feel the effect of just a few hours later. In addition to the water consumption, remember to eat salt as well. Salt is hugely important as it "holds on to" the water in the body. The salts in the body are slowly flush out while drinking a lot, and I've heard of marathon runners and soldiers on long marches who become critically dehydrated from a lack of salt. So, remember salt on the lunch, and you should be hopefully be just fine. 

I find Camelbak ($URL$ very simple and elegant, and from my own experience after using Camelbak in military activity for a couple of years now I can absolutely recommend it. Example for your requirements: $URL$ even though it is for 3 litres. I don't know Deuter from your link and can't say what's best. 

The cause of muscle cramping hasn't been definitively proven, however contemporary studies on the matter suggest the cause to be associated with fatigue and muscle tightness, in addition to the traditionally assumed dehydration/electrolyte depletion theory. Here's an abstract from a peer-reviewed 2009 study on the matter: Cause of exercise associated muscle cramps (EAMC)--altered neuromuscular control, dehydration or electrolyte depletion? I would totally agree with Tony Stark's comment regarding visiting a doctor (more specifically a sports medicine doc; preferably one who lifts), but in the meantime, get plenty of rest, stretch and mobilize the both the agonist and antagonist muscle groups that are bothering you, and experiment with electrolyte sources (e.g., a 2010 Bringham Young study showed that pickle juice can help with muscle cramping...haven't tried it myself, but...yeh, let me know how that goes). 

I'm 6'4 250 lbs, and a current BJJ and kickboxing practitioner (though I compete very rarely). I have a couple favorite methods I use to stay in decent fighting shape: Two handed, lightweight (~35 lbs in our case) kettlebell swings. I really try to focus on driving the bell down, and using the hip action to pop the bell up. The explosiveness, especially in the hips, is fantastic for supplementing striking power. I've also recently fallen in love with the sledgehammer. A lot of folks hit a tire indoors, but I prefer hitting gravel piles, for what it's worth. I typically alternate both sides using a 12 lbs hammer. I usually design my workout in intervals based on the length of rounds I'm training for. For instance, if I'm training for 3 minute rounds, I'll do kb swings for a minute, sledge swings for a minute, then shadow box (usually working on a particular set of combinations for a minute). Rest however much time you're alloted in between rounds, and repeat the cycle the maximum number of rounds the fight might last. This will probably gas you pretty good. don't overdo it, especially the first few times. I train in class twice a week, lift heavy three times, do light aerobic work twice, and a high intensity anaerobic cardio workout like this max twice a week (and mobility and stretching whenever I can). That said, you'll probably have to feel it out for yourself. 

You can definitely work out twice a day, generally speaking. If you're talking about light-to-moderate aerobic sessions and split resistance training, you shouldn't have much to worry about. I'm assuming that you're not focused on any sport-specific performance training, or worried about fine tuning gains for an upcoming bodybuilding competition. If you're just a dude looking to get/stay fit, your main concern with two-a-days should be avoiding fatigue. Again, it doesn't sound like you're at risk with the type of programming you noted, but there are multiple ways to monitor your central nervous system (CNS) to make sure aren't taxing it too heavily: 

Treat every daily session as push up practice, rather than a workout with pushups in it. What you're going for, especially in the early stages, is getting all the correct muscles to contract and inhibit in perfect harmony (while eventually strengthening the muscle fibers at play). At this point, it's closer to learning a new dance move than it is "exercising". Once you get to the 20-25 range (I know it's arbitrary, but 20-25 is a solid foundation to build on...at my age, it would be enough to meet the minimum Army PFT push up score), start playing with different push up variations. Honestly, just Google "push up variations", and experiment. Use these new variations to program a path to your goals; whether they be strength, muscular endurance, or hypertrophy (muscle growth). If you want to just keep on bumping up your max count (like...I don't know...100+) at this point, I recommend a program designed specifically for doing a lot of push ups. Stew Smith is a master in this domain. He has a lot of different programs to help US military ace their fitness tests, but here's a relevant free one: Stuck on Pushups? Try the Pushup Push Workout! I tried the above myself (along with pull ups), and had very solid results (went from 51 to 64 in two weeks). I wouldn't recommend this without a strong foundation, and he says to only do this once, maybe twice a year; he's serious...it's taxing, but it's a great plateau killer. Here's a write up on my results if you're interested: Over 20% Push Up and Pull Up Gains in 14 Days Using Stew Smith’s Program Be patient and consistent and the results will come. 

It is possible to train the human body into needing much less sleep. It is sleep quality and not amount that counts. I have heard about people from military elite educations, who make their body used to no more than 4 hours of sleep at night. And they are still fit and surprisingly energized the next day ready to continue their rough training. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ First of all it all depends on ones own body. Some need more, some need less sleep to reach the same level of rest. Then it also depends on your sleep quality. You've got to fall a sleep fast and immediately go to the deep and good sleep, and get quickly past the REM sleep (Rapid eye movement sleep) which is the more superficial dream sleep. Then your body also has to be able to recover fast. This follows your psysical condition level. Lastly, remember to eat healthy and have the right amounts of protein etc. after training for the body to have perfect conditions for recovering fast. If your body ever shows signs on burnout you should react. This could be simply having sore muscles the day after the exercise, if you do this exercise of these muscle groups regularly but with no soreness. If you find yourself loosing focus and concentration and feeling tired then of course you need sleep. In the end, without training to need less sleep, some people just appears to need less anyway without any effort. It varies from approx. 7-9 hours in average. If you are the 6-hours kind of guy this could be just you, and you should find out by about this. Give it ago and keep focus on soreness and pain in the very early stages. 

No. This way of exercise is very common for top-athletes. By isolating muscle groups you can, as you describe, theoretically train and work on your muscle building continuously. It is very effective. It is though a tough way of exersicing, and it requires a lot of self discipline, planing and routine. It is very difficult to totally isolate specific muscle groups 100 %. Usually you can almost never stop unintended muscles to "help" other parts of the body, during high pressure and hard work. See link below. You must work on the planing, so you keep exhausted muscle groups at a "distance" from those, you work on next. $URL$ On the other hand, you may wish to be very strict with your diet and overall health. When keeping a constant and never-ending high pressure on your body through constant muscle work, you must be aware of your immune system and always be sure to get plenty of high-protein food etc. Be sure your body has optimal conditions for super-compensation, which I believe is what you are seeking to improve effectivily. Lastly, giving a specific muscle group just one day to compensate and regenerate is not much. It requires a good physical condition beforehand - or else you will need several days for the muscles to repair themselves and super-compensate. This link is an article about a scientific research on different animals on how well they supercompensate (looking at specific brain functions and chemicals) and how their supercompensation is improved over time. $URL$ . It is not easy to find an article with exact information about how long one needs to rest between exercise. It's a very individual matter and depends both on physical condition in the moment and basically on how one is build. This all depends on the level of training severity you are experiencing. You mention a 15-20 minutes of exercise at a time several times a day, but exactly how hard you are training I can't know. You must fit the advice for your needs. And have fun. 

It really depends on your goals and programming. The answer could be yes or no. With my current routine, for example, I dead lift, front squat and bench press three times a week, however, I only complete 10 reps of each lift per session (broken up into 2-3 sets, rarely more than 85% 1 RM). Without getting into the fine details of my current program, I'm mainly targeting strength gains (borrowing from some of the core concepts of Dan John's "Easy Strength" musings). In the said routine, I could care less about hypertrophy. If you're targeting hypertrophy (muscle growth), completing a high volume of reps, and/or approaching near failure during sets, you could find yourself in an "overtrained" state pretty quickly (though, as Daniel implied, you'll probably get injured first). In that case, I'd strongly consider completing heavy, compound lifts (ie DL, Squats...) once a week, and work from there. It's hard to completely answer your question without some more details, but if you're really concerned with overtraining prevention, get yourself an HRV (heart rate variability) monitor, keep a log, and go big when your body tells you it's ok. Have fun! EDIT: I see you added that you're doing a 5x5 (sorry if I just missed it the first time around). You could do a 5x5 approach over four days if you wanted, and complete big lifts, like DLs and squats, twice a week. If you're employing this method, a key element to consider is how you progress the load in between sets. Take this guy's program for example (the second program of the two): $URL$ He builds 10-15% each set, until he's finally lifting near his 5 RM in the final set. He does his over 3 days, but you could easily spread it out over 4-5. 

Both of these lifts train the brachialis and the brachioradialis (as well as the biceps brachii). Growing these commonly neglected muscles, and continuing to train the lateral, medial and long head of the triceps, will grow your arms' overall cirumference, and likely add the perception of increased "fatness". 

Moderate exercise boosts your immune system, but you experience diminishing returns as you increase in intensity (one study here). The two biggest factors that can have negative effects on your immune system are inflammation (inflammation suppresses your immune cells), and overtraining syndrome (list of symptoms to monitor). David and Berin's answers are solid; get plenty of sleep, eat right (especially avoiding foods that cause an inflammatory response in your body), and allow yourself to recover. The only thing I would add, especially if your going hard during those two hours, is listen to your body before, during, and after training. Consider monitoring biomarkers like HR, HRV, CNS tap testing on a daily basis; push through discomfort, but don't push through pain; and on the days you're working out, if you're not feeling it, don't kill it. 

If your goal is simply to achieve the ability to do a bunch of push ups, you should attack it with volume (in other words, you gotta do a lot of push ups to do a lotta push ups). Spread out the load throughout the day. Here's how I would take it if my max rep range was 5: