I wrenched for a cyclocross team and those bikes see pretty torrential conditions. How are you cleaning the cables? If you're just cleaning them as they are on the bike it probably won't do much good. You need to take the housing out of its stops. How to do this: Rear derailleur: Shift your bike into the largest/inner rear cog. Now WITHOUT turning the crank click the shifter as if you were shifting into the smallest/outer rear cog. This will create slack in the cable and you'll be able to easily pop the housing out of its stops. Front derailleur: Shift into the big ring. Now WITHOUT turning the crank click the shifter as if shifting into the inner/smaller ring. Again, you create slack and be able to pop the housing from its stops. Brakes: You need to release the brakes. On a side pull there is usually a quick release lever on the caliper itself. On cantilevers you need to unhook one end of the straddle cable. Again, this puts slack in the lines and you can pop the housing out. Once you have the housing free of its stops you can slide it to one end of the cable and wipe down the cable then slide it back to the other end and wipe the remaining cable. It only takes a minute or two to do this. Do it after every wet/muddy ride and cables should last all season. The more extreme and effective solution is to run full length cable housing. Basically if you have non stop housing from brake/shift lever all the way to the derailleur/brake there won't be as many points for grit to enter. This is how all bikes used to be but in the 80s everyone went to split stops because it was cheaper for manufacturers and also because more housing means more housing compression and that means spongier brakes and less precise shifting. Modern housing is much better than the stuff from 30 years ago so that need is no longer as great. Thanks to the rise of hydraulic brakes there are now little adapters designed to plug into the split cable stops to hold hydraulic lines in place. These same adapters can be used to hold full length housing in place and I've seen guys use them for the rear brake and derailleur cables on cross bikes. Here's an example: $URL$ 

One semi-related tip: wrap the tube you carry with you in a sock or leave it in the box. I've wrenched at lots of centuries and multi-day rides and very often we get people coming in for mechanical help because they flatted, put in their spare tube and discovered it too was flat. The problem was the tube was sitting in the seat bag along with a multitool and other items. Over time the multitool would rub a hole in spare tube. This is also why presta valves come with a little plastic cap - it's to keep the metal tip from wearing a hole in the tube. 

You can though I can say that in 40+ years or riding and many years of working in shops I've never once had to do this. Rim tapes come in various widths from various makers so you should be able to find one that will fit. Also a little too wide is far preferable to a tape that is a little too narrow. 

If you're friction shifting go with the Dia Compe. They have a ratcheting mechanism in them originally developed by SunTour to counteract the spring in the derailleur. This gives them a very even feel in both directions - you apply as much pressure to upshift as to downshift. They also look better on older bikes. The Shimano shifters OTOH rely purely on friction when in friction mode. This means shifting into lower gears takes more effort than shifting into higher gears. Of course the advantage of the Shimano shifters is that they also have indexed mode though you need an 8 speed cassette. 

It should be fully closed. The lever is only intended to be opened to allow the tire to pass during a wheel change or if you hit a pothole and knock your wheel badly out of true. If your pads are too close to the rim you make an adjustment with the barrel adjuster. Riding with the quick release open compromises the braking power of the caliper. You may not notice while riding along normally but in an emergency stop at speed it absolutely will result in slower braking. 

Check the teeth on the chainring. Feel to see if any are hooked. The tips of the teeth should be smooth or they can catch the chain and keep it from cleanly releasing the chain. If you find any burrs carefully file them so they're smooth. Make sure the rings are mounted correctly. Rings these days are designed to operated together and for this to happen the ramps need to be properly aligned. There will be an alignment mark to indicate how the rings should align. Pretty rare for this to happen but every great now and then you see it. Make sure your cables are clean. Cross destroys cables! Shift your bike into the big ring. Now without pedaling shift down into your small ring. The chain will stay on the big ring but the cable will no longer be under tension. This will allow you to pop the housing out of the stops. Slide the housing to one end and wipe down the cable. Repeat in the other direction. Drizzle a little lube on the cable and wipe off the excess. You should do this for all of your cables and do it after every race or wet/muddy ride. If you race a full season expect to replace your cables at least once a season. I used to wrench for a cyclocross team and we'd replace cables at least twice a season here in the wet Pacific Northwest. Check the angle of the front derailleur in addition to its height. Looking down onto the derailleur the outer plate of the cage should be parallel to the chainrings. Sometimes derailleurs get knocked a little out of alignment and it's amazing how big a difference being just a little off can make! Consider a larger inner chainring. The smaller the difference in teeth between the rings the better things will shift and the less likely you are to drop a chain (this is why at Paris-Roubaix teams will often switch to a 44 or 46 tooth inner ring since the race is flat as a board). This really depends on your local conditions and fitness. If your conditions are generally pretty dry than a 34 ring is a bit on the low side. If you need a 34x27 (or lower) gear there's a good chance you'd be better off by running. OTOH if it's muddy you'll want to keep that 34. 

The Specialized will be fine in the Elite trainer. The one problem you'll find is that knobby tires don't work well on trainers such as this. If you plan to primarily ride on the road I'd strongly suggest investing in some road tires. A cyclocross bike can take some fairly wide tires so I'd suggest running 28-32mm wide tires. They'll be MUCH more comfortable than regular 23-25mm tires, faster/more efficient than knobby cross tires and will also still allow you to ride on gravel roads. Trails that are too easy on a MTB suddenly become a real hoot on a cross or road bike! It's arguably a better way to improve your bike handling skills than riding a MTB on more technical trails. I'm a big fan of Panaracer Pasela tires which can often be had for less than $30, have a nice ride, are quite durable and available in a variety of widths. If you want really nice tires check out Compass or Grand Bois. These are probably the nicest, cushiest road tires made but they also cost 2-3 times what the Paselas cost and won't last as long. Good tires can make a huge difference in how your bike rides. Finally, trainers tend to wear tires down much faster than regular road riding so I wouldn't go crazy investing in expensive tires if you plan to spend a lot of time on the trainer. They actually do make special tires just for use on trainers. As for riding on the road, there is no easy way around that. Start on quieter streets or streets with bike lanes or wide shoulders. It really is just a matter of getting used to it. Riding with a group will also help. 

Suspension forks with lock outs also have blow-off valves for exactly this sort of situation. It takes a really hard hit to damage the fork. You'll more likely dent your rim first. 

Do NOT use 3M Fast Tack! Some people swear by the stuff. I've personally seen several tires roll from using it. This is especially true with Continental tubulars. Fast Tack actually dissolves the glue that holds the base tape to the tubular casing. Someone a few years back did a study on tubular cements and Fast Tack did very poorly ($URL$ Stick to Continental or Vittoria. Mount the tires to a clean rim, inflate them to high pressure (120+ psi) and let them sit for a while (as in several days). This will make it much easier to mount them. People will tell you to put a foot in the tubular and then pull up until you hear a popping sound. They claim this is stretching the tire to make it fit easier. These people are idiots. The popping your hearing is the base tape detaching from the casing or threads in the casing tearing. Don't do this! 

The lugs don't look familiar. It has horizontal dropouts and full length brake cable housing so that dates it to sometime prior to the mid-80s. The fork is 100% not original to the frame. It has bottle braze-ons so it's likely made sometime after the mid-70s. The one peculiar thing is that it has bottle braze-ons but not shift lever braze-ons (and this bike most definitely predates integrated brake/shift levers such as STI or Ergo) It also has brazed on cable guides for the derailleur cables. I'm guessing the dropouts are 126mm spacing? It could well have been made for a 26.8 post. That rattle can paint job could be compromising the fit and it's also not unusual to have the seat tube become slightly ovalized due to over heating the seat lug during assembly. 

Tsunoda are/were a mass manufacturer in Japan somewhat similar to Schwinn in the USA. Most of the bikes they produced were low end though they did make some mid-to-upper end models (I once had a Tsunoda made Lotus branded frame from the early 80s). I believe the brand is still around in the Japanese market but now mostly making folding bikes. Your bike sounds like a mid-range bike based on the SunTour parts. It's a very nice sport-touring bike. It's nothing special though arguably better made than comparable bikes of today. In their day the Japanese made mid-range bikes were almost always better built than comparably priced European bikes and often better built than many high-end European bikes! Japan still make amazing bikes though exchange rates keep them from being exported the way they used to be. The rear end is 126mm, not 125. 126mm was the standard up until the late 80s when 8 speed cassettes were introduced. The 126 spacing, VX derailleur and SunTour 6 speed freewheel likely dates your bike to the late 70s to mid 80s. The 27" rims while rare in most of the world by this time were still very common in Japan. Not sure what you mean by "handset". Are you talking about the STI brake levers that also act as shift levers? I'm assuming you are since those are now the norm. If so, there are a few things to consider: 

Yeah, it's like overkill if you're riding on the street. I use a Busch & Muller lamp powered by a dynamo hub and it puts out plenty of light even when riding downhill on potholed roads. Also keep in mind lumens is only one factor in determining light quality. It's sort of like having a computer with a fast processor but not enough memory. More important are the actual optics which disburse the light. A lot of lights - even really expensive ones - come with nothing more than a plain lens on them which means a lot of the light they put out isn't lighting up the ground in front of you. No point in having 750 lumens if most of it doesn't illuminate the ground in front of you. Peter White has some good examples of how important beam pattern is in determining how good a light is in the real world: $URL$ Another problem is where the light is mounted. A powerful light mounted up high (helmet or handlebars) can wash out the terrain making it tricky to spot a pothole. There's a reason why randonneurs - who often ride throughout the night - prefer to mount their lights lower (usually on the fork) If people are wincing when you approach then your light is almost certainly aimed too high.