Carb loading (cycling weekly) is reckoned to be useful for exercise over about 90 minutes, so is probably a good idea for all-day riding. Done properly you're taking on extra carbs starting 36--48 hours before the event. I've seen some advice online but it's all from gel/energy drink manufacturers, so biased towards their products and away from proper food. So: How does this translate to multi-day riding? Or in more detail: 

There's plenty of life left in that tyre. I commute on marathon plus that are more worn than that. However I wouldn't set out on a long tour with a tyre in that state, especially on rough roads far from the nearest bike shop. If you're fitting something new you could take the chance to consider whether the marathon plus is what you want for that ride. It might well be, but you might be better off with something like a marathon mondial if it's going to be really rough. 

You're probably OK as the wheel was (hopefully) properly rebuilt rather than assembled on a production line. I assume it was the same wheel, rather than just a swap-out, as the hub motor is an expensive part. It would be more surprising if they did change the type of spokes, as that would mean holding stock of an extra part. The thread depth is a small fraction of the spoke diameter so shouldn't weaken it too much. There are a couple of e-bike specific issues here which can increase the failure rate: 

You have an excellent answer to the question as asked already, but even if the answer is "very few" there are some things you can do to help yourself at such little effort that they're still worth doing (IMO of course). They may also help with scary near misses which of course aren't logged, and it's also courteous to be clearly visible so long as you don't dazzle anyone. I'm impressed by the reflective sidewall stripes on tyres like Schwalbe Road Cruiser and Continental Comfort Contact even when quite muddy - try walking towards a bike with them holding a torch. And they're good commuting tyres anyway. I've also got light up valve caps and use white/translucent little silicone LEDs on the offside fork and chainstay or rack. The former might be just a gimmick - but they show up a long way off, the latter show red at the back and white at the front anyway,* with the diffuse light at the side an added bonus My bike also has retro-reflective paint on parts of an otherwise black frame - again, even dirt-spattered it's pretty obvious when a light shines on it - I don't know if there's anything easy to retrofit. *I advocate multiple steady lights front and especially rear - I used to commute by car on country lanes in the dark, shared with bikes, and 2 steady rear lights meant I could instantly tell how fast I was gaining on a bike, and get a good idea of how far away it was. 

Bicycles cost money to maintain. Even if you do all your own mechanic work, you still need to purchase parts. That being said, more expensive bikes are generally more expensive to maintain at the level you bought them at. By this I mean you can purchase a replacement derailleur (of roughly the same quality) for a $250 for perhaps $10 to $20. If you had purchased a $2000 bike, that "same quality" derailleur may run you $100. The point being, if you had purchased a $700 bicycle up front and done no maintenance, you likely would have spent roughly the same amount of money or slightly more on repairs (based on your description). More expensive bicycles and parts do not require less maintenance. In your case, if you were happy with the performance of your $250 bicycle for five years before you needed to spend money on it, you may have been better off buying a new $250 bike. ~$50/year for a bicycle that you are happy with seems like a good return. 

Pumps have other uses as well. If you have a tubeless setup, punctures can be sealed by your tubeless juice, but still cause some loss of pressure before self sealing. In that case, carrying a pump without a patch/spare is completely appropriate. It allows you to replace air lost while your tire sealed itself. Additionally there are styles of riding to which frequent pressure changes are important. Winter cycling races are a good example. Over a long course , it may be well worth it to put additional air in your tires if trail conditions improve or the temperature drops significantly. Punctures are of small enough concern during winter racing here that I often don't care a spare tube, but will still carry a pump to adapt tires to changing trail conditions. 

I only recently bought a torque wrench small enough for bike use. You can get quite a good idea of the torque by working through the physics to find what mass you'd be lifting given the leverage of the tool, then applying a similar force to lifting such a mass (ideally something you'd hold in a similar way). For pinhead skewers this works out to being quite firm with it but not using maximum effort. For me. Torque measurements don't say very much about the actual tension force in the skewer anyway, because the relationship between the two depends on the friction between the nut and the skewer,as well as between the nut and the drop-out. I could be wrong but I've a feeling they sell a socket type adaptor for the skewer type kit as well as the keyring. 

What riding conditions are usual for you? Do you have mudguards or anything else to stop muck being thrown into the rear brake mechanism? Bits of a bike near the back wheel can get dirtier than near the front, and dirt in the pivots can also degrade the performance of v-brakes. So if you ride off-road or on dirty/wet roads, a regular good clean and occasional oil of the rear brake pivots might also be needed, on top of cleaning the cables. 

It looks like it's been cut too short so can't be tucked out of the way. But you may be able to cut it still shorter and use a smaller end cap/ferrule, or just part of one, or a blob of glue to stop the end fraying. Bending the cable may work too -- you might not have enough length but a sharp bend away from the tyre might work. Use longnose pliers. This stopped my front derailleur cable irritating my leg, for example. You're right to want to fix it -- metal rubbing on tyres isn't a good thing. 

I've seen this done and mostly work out ok, but I still wouldn't recommend it for the commented reasons. If do want to attempt to reuse the spokes, you'll need to buy a hub with as close to the same flange size as possible. If you go with a wider flange, you'll end up with spokes poking through your rim that you'll need to cut and possibly rethread. If you go with a smaller flanged hub, the spokes may not be long enough. Spokes are the answer to a question involving the effective rim diameter, flange width, pattern and a few other variables. If you change any of those variables, the answer will be different and you'll need different spokes. 

I've seen it done that way when the whole tube is split and used as a liner to make a tubeless system out of a non-tubeless wheelset. As pointed out in the comments, if you already have a tubeless wheelset, the couple of bucks you save probably isn't worth the hassle you will experience trying to get the "bodged" valve to seal to the rim. It might make more sense as an emergency measure if you have destroyed a tubeless valve. 

I would really recommend re-looking at a backpack. There are a large variety of packs out there and the drybag styles ones seem to get better every year. I have found that a backpack is a more dynamic way to carry weight. You might look for one with better airflow built into the padding section. I find that if I dress just a little more lightly and have a pack with good airflow, "sweaty back" is a bit less of a problem. If you can't find a drybag style pack that works for you, you could always look for a base pack that fits all your requirements and then just stuff a uber-light drybag in it. Along those lines, you might also look at Revelate Designs new holster bag. Essentially it sits under your seat and provides a secure place to stuff a drysack with ease of on/off for the drysack. Your personal opinion will dictate whether it meets requirement 6 or not.