The point is: The moral behind this is, that understanding the facts about physical state must put our effort on two different states (physical state and immaterial state) to balance our life, to balance our possibilities, to make us better human, to make us aware that there is another state that can be considered as real as it can help us to improve our life. To make us realize that we have choices as big (or even bigger) as we ever did on physical state. 

(All)P then Pr = All(cd1) <- (c1) (If there are all propositions, then, those are provable) (several)P then G = several(cd1) -> (cd2) (If there are some propositions, then, several of propositions are typical G) G then Pr = (cd2) <- (c1) (If some of propositions are typical G, then, those are provable) 

There is no absurd understanding here, because "the wall has a right to defend itself, but not, as envisioned in humans". It's not about conflicting one understanding to different situation irrelevantly. It's not about giving the rights to animals or giving the rights to the wall or similar things the same as giving the rights to human. It's not about giving the rights to anything equally. But this is only way to ensure: on our understanding How far for an understanding can be widen to let us see an understanding from any different angles. Further this can be used to determine where to put ourselves or any other things fairly, correctly. 

You may wish to look at Rebecca Newberger Goldstein's book 36 Arguments for the Existence of God: A Work of Fiction; she is the wife of Steven Pinker. 

The translation/commentary by A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupāda, Bhavavad-Gītā As It Is translates the term praduṣyanti as "polluted" in the text, and explains in the commentary that this refers to a failing in the "chastity and faithfulness of womanhood" and "being misled into adultery." He adds: 

The answer is that this can occur only in cases where "the lack of complete understanding" is of a structural (i.e., transcendental) nature and not of a purely contingent or accidental nature. In other words, where we are dealing with situations where X is viewed as a necessary condition for the possibility of Y, uncertainty about X can invalidate positive claims about the presence of Y. In practical terms, you're unlikely to run into this problematic outside of the quantum level, or other unusual edge cases. 

That's not necessarily the case, as your friend has pointed out. One can have a belief in the general trustworthiness of a person, and thus be inclined to believe any future propositions made by that person, without any regard to the propositions in question. However, this is still operating at the level of folk epistemology. If you want to move this discussion to a more properly philosophical domain, you're going to have to make reference to a particular epistemological school of thought. 

Causation is a very thorny philosophical area, and the literature on it is immense. Here is an introductory article (from the SEP) on the subject. If you are beginning your research, I'd suggest you begin by looking at Hume, as he raised issues that everyone since has had to grapple with. 

There is no way for us to understand completely (essentially) selfless except by understanding that completely selfless must assert "no connection to our thinking and our emotions". Essentially (without our consciousness): 

It may be considered incomparable in between "something" Versus "nothingness" (whether it maybe considered "doesn't make sense", contradiction in between both or whatever), but it can be considered as our trial to push our logical to the farthest extent and see where is it going to? And eventually it asserts there is only "dimensional" which assert "something". 

It's not direct answer, but it's the fact that moral act doesn't have to be necessarily beautiful. But the most important is: 

Liar Paradox An example of the use of dependency of proposition can be implemented to analyze this issue, a liar paradox. Liar paradox, "He is telling the truth that He is lying, therefore He is not lying." Syllogism 

If this kind of relationship can be constructed nicely, it will be a mutual relationship to both. Both will gain assertions, corrections and possibilities wider and wider (applicable knowledge) than before, from both (philosophy and science), one to another. 

These questions can be answered by understanding that: animals, wall, and any object within reach as far as interaction with us, have certain consequences relevantly. 

H then T = (c1) -> (cd1) (If there is him, then, there is telling something) T then Ac = (cd1) -> (cd2) (If there is telling something, then, there is action from himself) H then Ac = (c1) -> (cd2) (If there is him, then, there is action from himself - telling the truth) Ac then Ev = (cd1) -> (cd3) (If there is action from himself, then, there is another event which is never happened as he told - he is lying) H then Ev = (cd1) -> (cd3) (Therefore, If there is him, then, there is another event which is never happened as he told - he is lying) 

It seems to me that there are two different questions here-- one regarding the reliance on classical logic, and the other about Cox's theorem in practice. The latter appears to me to be better suited for mathematicians or statisticians-- it is certainly beyond my ability to answer. The former question, though, is a properly philosophical question. It appears to me that Cox's theorem is implicitly reliant upon classical logic; but then again, so is most of mathematics. If we reject the three laws of classical logic, it becomes extremely difficult to argue for anything rationally; however, we have absolutely no way of grounding them, and are generally forced to take them as axiomatic. It's certainly possible to propose non-classical or deviant logics, and there are those who have done so-- but these tend to have local applicability at best; most people believe that classical logic is most suitable for everyday operations. 

Or that the universe is not ordered in a random manner. At least one of those three hypotheses has to fail. Fortunately, that's not a problem; there's no particular scientific evidence leading one to believe that these things are true. 

...is not true. (If p then q) and (if r then s) does not in any way allow us to claim that one of (if p then s) or (if r then q) is true. So, we're not dealing with valid formal reasoning here, but fallacious reasoning. Now, as to the larger issue of whether or not formal logic is appropriate for arguments. The short answer is: yes, it should be used, as far as it can be-- but the meat of most arguments lies in the definitions, and the implications to be drawn. It is rare that you will see a philosophical argument fall due to an error in formal reasoning; much more likely, it is attacked because of some unquestioned assumption implied in the structure of the claims. Finally, it is dangerous to think that formal logic is the "one reliable tool for reasoning", because it raises the question: by what means do you reliably know that formal logic is reliable? Logic is (famously) not self-grounding; there is no logical proof that the axioms of logic are valid. For a nice (and canonical) example, see Lewis Carroll's What the Tortoise Said to Achilles. EDIT: I just want to clarify that I know that the "tautology" listed above is, indeed, tautologous according to the truth table. However, in order to be able to apply the formal logic encased within to something less abstract than the truth table, we need to construe the material implication operator as having some real-world significance. In this case (and in many other cases), this translation fails to obtain. This does not mean that formal logic is wrong, per se, as much as it is not applicable to the domain (of facts, and not the domain of truth tables.) I suspect that this is the very point the OP's professor is making, and his warning should be heeded. 

Because, there is no way for us to get freedom beyond any boundaries, since it's unreasonable. Whether we believe causalities or not, but no matter how hard we try to be free, we are still within boundaries. 

Understanding something (whether it's a question or not) with no relation whatsoever to appropriate possibilities of reality, is the same as understanding something outside reality. It's out of question! What is wrong with this question? What is wrong with this condition? What is wrong with this request? Does this condition lead to something? Can you help (response) appropriately to this condition? 

Discussing about moral (based on religion or ethics generally) are rather broad, but at least there is one thing we can hold on. It's not about "moral act has to be necessarily beautiful" or more and more ... . But at least moral act or ethics (to the specific extent) as far as we can try to accomplish, that we must "do not hurt yourself and do not harm anything involved with us" as good as we can do it. There are number of definitions, categories for something to be considered "do not hurt yourself and do not harm anything involved with us". But the point is, this philosophy ("do not hurt yourself and do not harm anything involved with us") may be a start for us to ignite our creativity or to inspire our acts to do properly (whatever standard we use). Perhaps doing so, somehow we can put our acts in line with harmony and perhaps it looks like beautiful. It's not about telling that goodness is not beautiful, or it's not about telling that moral acts has no relation with "has to be necessarily beautiful", but it's about placing our starting point at correct placement, and further the beauty on our acts will follow later, i hope :) . 

Taking the latter part first: yes, there are definitely religions/philosophies which have proven difficult to categorize. The government of Australia, if I understand correctly, is currently trying to decide if Buddhism qualifies as a religion; the government of the US has decided that Scientology counts as a religion for tax purposes, while the government of Germany has decided the opposite. In Norway, the second-largest "faith/life-view" organization (after the state Lutheran church) is the Humanist-Ethical Society (i.e., a group of atheists) which qualifies as a "religion" for many purposes (including tax status.) The fact that this confusion exists in practice shows that there isn't any clear, reliable indicator one can point to. The obvious candidates (such as the belief in a deity, or a soteriological path, or the presence of rituals or dogma) break down when you actually try to apply them in practice: exceptions abound. So, that being the case, I would turn the question around: why does it matter? What benefit would be gained by drawing such a distinction? If we could answer that, perhaps we'd have a clearer way to finding an appropriate criterion. 

Already, we are in a bit of trouble here. "Category" is a philosophical term, dating back to Aristotle, and "smartphone" is not a category in this sense. "Class" used in this manner is not; it is a software engineering term. Since we are speaking of groups of properties, let us propose "entity" as a philosophical replacement. 

Following the Wikipedia page on Philosophy of Mathematics (linked from the article you cited) would lead you to the Embodied Mind theory, and further, to the canonical explication of this theory in George Lakoff's Where Mathematics Comes From. For future reference: if an uncited claim in Wikipedia includes a link, follow the link-- the citation may be on the other side. 

Second understanding: The question asserts "How can we know that we are not placed on reality that are completely different but fake?" 

Anything we do based on our thinking and our emotions. Whether we did something because of someone else, but eventually we did: 

It's when philosophers are using their reasonable thinking, high accuracy and ability to see something with clear distinction to support their: 

(ONLY IF) (Q) then (P) (IS A MUST) = (ONLY IF) (I buy a wallet) then (you need a wallet) (IS A MUST) = "*ONLY IF I buy a new wallet then (it indicates) a new wallet MUST BE needed by you *" 

How can we decide that one statement is more objective than the other? The more a knowledge can be accepted by as many as our possible senses, the more a knowledge can be considered more objective, the more it becomes closer to us (more real). 

Aware of something. It's function to perceive differences. Further it leads us to thinking on something. Feeling on something. It's function to put us on focusing on something. It has relation with emotions. 

I am aware, it means i perceive difference. I feel something, it means i am not perceiving difference, but i am focusing on something. I am aware is, when i am thinking, and i feel something is, when i am feeling of something without thinking. But indeed sometimes (mostly) we couldn't keep our feelings longer, and it will cause distraction and switched quickly from feeling of something to thinking about situation (supported by aware of something, perceive differences) to maintain what we are doing (feeling of something itself). We may guess that feeling will involve thinking, but actually it won't. We just have to think deeper, strictly and see the border that may be very thin. "I am aware" has nothing to do with focus. I am aware and it's merely part of our thinking that active to aware from one point to another point to see the differences. If we thought that while we were aware of something also we felt of something (aware = focus), it's wrong (aware is not focus). What really happened was, that we did, comparing, and (quickly) after that we switched to feeling (focus on something) and this will make us looks like thinking & feeling of something that is equal to aware of something, but it's wrong. Aware of something (perceive to be) may be asserted as, "i perceive differences to be felt", and i feel something (perceive that) may be asserted as, "i perceive it without proceeding comparison". Illustration 

This is, of course, a tautological argument. Let us take the example of some flower which appear white to us, but which actually have stripes and other patterns in infrared colors, visible to bees. To us, at least up until the last century, the flowers are white; to the bees, the flowers are striped; now that we have instruments capable of registering infrared light, the flowers are striped for us as well. With this in mind, let us ask: what assurance do we have that the universe does not possess all kinds of attributes, patterns, objects, entities, etc., that are not observable by our senses (or the instruments we have invented to extend our sense-perception)? The answer, of course, is none: to use Rumsfeld's schema, we have no way of even beginning to assess the size of the unknown unknowns. Which means, of course, that what we call "the universe" is nothing more (or less) than "the portion of the universe knowable by us". And this is necessarily always the case. So, there's no need for a rigorous definition of "consciousness" in this regard; what is relevant is the limits of our sense-perception (as extended by whatever technologies we have developed.) And, the criteria to judge whether or not a configuration of the universe has consciousness in it is: yes. Since we're talking about it, it does. If it didn't, we wouldn't be capable of raising the question. 

I haven't done any research on the number of citations, so instead I'll just mention some major historical touchpoints. In terms of classical philosophy, Lucretius would be a well-attested example of a materialist; he owes much to Democritus, but less of his work survives. Stephen Greenblatt, the noted historian (and Shakespearean) has recently published a book on the importance of Lucretius entitled The Swerve: How the World Became Modern; I've not (yet) read it myself, but it has gotten excellent reviews. In the early modern period, Pierre Gassendi is a good example; his work made its way, via Ludwig Feuerbach, into Marx's historical materialism. In terms of current philosophers, much of the Analytic tradition is materialist: Davidson, Searle, Fodor, and Dennett come to mind-- but this is not to write off the Continental tradition, either: Sartre seems to be a materialist, at least in his Marxist works.