The Roman numeral system was "designed" for calculating using an abacus. One wrote out the number by the values of each channel (we picture an abacus as a wood frame with wires holding columns of beads for counters but the Romans would usually have used a table, a "TV-tray" if you will, covered with ample sand, running a finger down for the lines, and placing small stones in the channels for the counters). The use of "fives" (i.e.: one counter for half a column's value) cut down on moving counters. Nothing to do with the Etruscans as we are always told. Each "five" (half column value) symbol was literally the column's symbol cut in half. "V" = top half of "X" and so on, though long before the realization their symbols for numbers mostly matched various letter symbols (mid-100's BC). One did not only write out the results going column by column, one read them in to establish the first value, then to work in the other values in the calculation. So chunk by chunk, if you will. "MVM" would never have been done because the "V" literally had nothing to do with the "M" and "C" columns. One had individual hundreds of half the column (500) to subtract from the "M" but the "V" column (the tens) only affected the "C" (hundreds column), not a second or fifth or whatever column further left. Hence 1995 moves one "M" counter ("M" of "MCMXCV"), then the half and 4 "C" counters (physically: move the half counter, then all the single hundred counters (the "M" in "CM"), then move one back up ("subtract" it - the "C" before the "M" in "CM"), then the same process with the "XC" (tens column) as just done for the hundreds channel, and finally, move the half in the ones column. (Note that just a bit of that is notional. They used 4 counters in the bottom of the abacus, not 5, so one pretended to be moving 5 down, then one back up. This is why I was a little cagey expressing it above.) Again, the "V" would NEVER come before the "M" except when one wished to be... less traditional... whimsical... that kind of thing. It would aggravate most users. Picture some modern Japanese abacus expert challenging Western calculator users having his skilled, efficient, magic fingers jammed up by reading the Japanese equivalent of "MVM" - he'd be crying foul pretty quickly. Although... the Romans were just as we are. They even dropped numbers into words to shorten the writing of them, much like a 12yo texting friends. Roman numbers maintained for so long because the underlying technology for calculation had to have an alternative and the uses to which they were put had to form a need. It is no surprise that Hindu numbering did not come into heavy enough usage to replace Roman number use until bookkeeping moved into the ledger phase in which columnar presentation which required simpler representation of values to work well. Picture what a ledger, or spreadsheet for that matter, would look like if each column were broken into "digit" columns (those green ledger books everyone has seen) in which an entry might read "C" or "DCCC" vs. the Hindu single digit "1" or "8": far more compact and "regular" and hence far easier to grasp at a glance. Handling the Hindu numbers had been figured out 700-1,500 years earlier depending on which "evidence" one accepts. But it required a surface like an elephant leaf to write upon, or paper. Paper it turns out was amenable to industrial scaling and so became cheap enough to use for mundane things. The last portions somewhat exceed the bounds of the question in content, but I included them to emphasize the importance of utility in most things man does. Roman numerals were the product of the sole good method of calculation that existed for a very long time. And cheap: one just removed his counters, smoothed the sand, drew his columns, and everything was fresh. Cheap, once one learned the system. Try that with paper and even pencil! 

Not being a native speaker of English, my interpretation might not be correct, but this is a quote from "Narrative of the expedition of an American Squadron to the China Seas and Japan"; 

This is probably more appropriate as a comment to Semaphore's extensive answer, but since I don't have 50 points yet I will post it as an answer. Hopefully this sheds a little more light on the difference between Japan and other Asian countries. The old Japanese word for govern is Matsurigoto (政)、the modern word for politics is Seiji (政治), notice that they use the same character? The old word is derived from Matsuri (祭り), today meaning festival, but in olden days it covered not only that but most religious ceremonies. Before the introduction of Buddhism, the Son of Heaven was (and to some extent still is) considered a descendant of Amaterasu Omikami, the Sun Goddess that created Japan. Hence, to the Japanese he has never been an "emperor", implying political power, but always a Son of Heaven (Tenshi [天子] later Tenno [天皇]) implying divination and religious power. As the need for more profane political power developed it was always disassociated with the "imperial" person, but put in control of the "imperial" institution belonging in the hands of people closely associated with the Son of Heaven. This was for all intentions a conscious effort to separate what we would call church and state. Those around him realized that political power was something that created desire and avarice, and the Son of Heaven could not be subjected to such base needs. The earliest military struggles in Japan, such as the Taira and Minamoto, was thus never for the Chrysanthemum Throne, but for the offices surrounding that throne. The difference being that a Chinese emperor sat on the Mandate of Heaven, but the Japanese emperor was an integral part of Heaven, thus could not be questioned, whereas the mandate is up for interpretation. 

Finland was even under Russian rule semi-independent. The Soviet Union said that they were not going to make Finland a Soviet Union. The Soviet Union didn't annex Finland, even though they could have. 

This is the 26th of March during Operation Searchlight, the start of the war. As I suspected, they had tanks and used them from the beginning. 

The document you link to provides the answer: There is a belief among Hijras that Khwaja Gharib Nawaz blessed Hijras, and once even made a Hijra pregnant. So they view Khwaja Gharib Nawaz as one (of several) "patron saints". "Khwaja" does not mean Eunuch. The term "Khawaja Sira" or "Khwaja Saara" does seem to be used to mean Hijras, but that is a compound term. The "Khwaja" in Khwaja Gharib Nawaz rather means "lord" or "master". I do not know if the "Khawaja" in "Khawaja Sira" has the same etymology. 

The first mention of Israel anywhere is in the stele of the Egyptian pharaoh Merneptah c. 1209 BCE, where it says "Israel is laid waste and his seed is no more". In other words Merneptah claims to have crushed the Israeli nation so badly that it can't rise again. This is in fact the only mention of Israel in any Egyptian records. The reason is that Egypt never more expanded it's borders that far, so no more wars happened between Egypt and Israel. By the 9th century BC the threat to the Israeli kingdom is instead from the east and Assyria. By 732, Israel is possibly ruled by the Assyrians, Judah seems to have been at least, and after that Israel is an independent kingdom only in brief periods between the fall of one great empire and the rise of another. Egypts enemies after this time are therefore not Israel, but the Mesopotamian empires that rule Israel, and this doesn't end until Alexander the great takes over both regions. That means that we know that Egypt and Israel fought a war around this start of the 13th century BC, but then we don't know anything else. Based on how things typically works, this means that Egypt and the region where Israelites lived probably had quite little political contact, but likely a thriving trade. 

The bold is mine. Could this not be interpreted, by Japanese speakers, as the guns being fired for demonstration? This from their visit in Hakodate, similar demonstrations most likely occurred in Edo bay, but I don't have the time or resources to llok for that right now. The above quote is from page 470 and forward in volume one. 

There are diary notations to that effect from the history of another daimyo, but it never happened to Ieyasu (Toranaga in the novel). Clavell have taken that story and applied it to his Toranaga character. 

"The Japanese officials took especial interest, on the occasion of their frequent visits to the ships in the inspection of the armament, and were often gratified with the exercise of the guns, the filling of the shells, and other matters of military discipline and practice. Though, in their later history a pacific people, the Japanese, as we have already said, are fond of military display, and seemed particularly desirous of scrutinizing all the warlike appointments which made their visitors so formidable; as if they felt the necessity, in the new relations which were opening with foreigners, of studying and adopting the best means of attack and defence, should either ever become necessary by any future collision with the great powers of the west. With proper training, no people would make better soldiers. Every opportunity was afforded them, without restriction, of satisfying their curiosity, which was naturally directed towards those points in which they were conscious of their greatest weakness; and this liberality of the Americans, in the free exposition of their power, deeply impressed the Japanese with a conviction of the pacific intentions of their visitors, who desired to show that they looked to a friendly intercourse, and not to a violent invasion, for those mutual benefits which were to accrue from more intimate relations between the United States and Japan."