Document everything espescially the contradictory orders. Any time you get an order make sure you get it in some form of writting. Make sure it's clear when you got the order and who it came from. That way when somebody asks why did you do X instead of Y you can show them that that your were told on such and such day and time by such and such superior to do things that way. If your company has a formal process for requesting and documenting these orders make sure that those processes get followed to T. When you get an order that contradicts a previous make sure you point out the contradiction, in writting. Make sure you add everybody who gave you orders to the email. If possible CC a common manager. Explain what the contradiction is then very explicitly ask which version of the order you're supposed to follow. Again make sure you get everything in writting. Finally after you've gotten enough of these incidents documented to show a clear pattern I would escalate these issues up the management chain. Don't point fingers. Instead say something like "I think there is some confusion as to what needs to be done for project X and the requirements keep getting muddled. How can we avoid these issues going forward". I think at this point it's clear that somebody higher on the food chain then you is determined to sink your ship. The purpose of all this documentation is so that you can show that you did everything you can and you are not to blame for the issues. 

When I first moved to where I currently live one of the first real friends I made in the area was a somewhat attractive female I met at work there isn't inherently wrong with it. My advice is to keep it casual. Break the ice with small talk. Nobody will think anything of it if you make small talk with or if they see you two having a friendly conversation in the break room. That being said as people like happybuddha have mentioned some workplaces do have strict policies about dating and the like between coworkers and most don't discriminate between actually dating and being "friends with benefits" type situations so if you do start to do stuff with her outside the office you should probably make sure it stays there. 

This is exactly why I wouldn't say anything. It's never good to complain about a job no matter how bad it was at times and instead you should only leave with the positives. If you really wanted to say something to those that recommended you just keep it brief. Something similar to: 

At my first job I asked for a salary increase and they dismissed it saying that my salary was competitive with the current market in the area. I was however asked to have a look around myself to ensure this fact was correct. I was young and so asked what they meant by that and simply put they suggested looking on job websites and comparing the salary provided for the same role advertised in the same area. It was competitive according to that but I still felt underpaid for what I did and for my potential. I moved on and gained an increase in my salary in a slightly different role. As time went on I still felt I wasn't being paid enough and no I wasn't being greedy. As you get older, life gets more expensive; children, mortgage, bills etc. I asked for a salary increase and again was refused as it was competitive. I was lucky however and had a recruiter contact me for a local job. I took it. It was a £10k pay rise putting me apparently £15k more expensive than the going rate in the area. It's not really, it's fair. Before leaving my employer wanted to see if they could match. When I told them the offer they nearly fell off their seat. They couldn't believe the wage I was being offered and were in no way prepared to match it. I now feel I'm getting the wage I deserve for the job I'm doing in the area I'm in. If you want to write to a letter, you'll have to show your research. The best research will be job sites which are offering the same job in the same area. This will give you a good indication of what you can ask for at your current job. TL:DR your best bet is to move jobs. This I've found is the easiest way to get a pay increase. 

Personally I don't think you need to take this any further with anyone. You made it clear to the company you were working for why you are leaving and that should be enough. Only if the people that recommended you approach you would I say anything. 

I worked at a call center while getting my college degree and I've found a lot of advice that I got while working there applies to phone interviews. 

It depends entirely on the employer. I've had some flat out ask me in the initial contact email if I had a github account and what was it and I've had others who weren't even aware that I knew how to use GIT version control until I got the gig. I've found that generally speaking newer companies and/or ones with younger company cultures are more likely to look at it than larger companies or ones with more formal cultures. The ones that do typically tend to glance through them and see what technologies you use but if you're really concerned it might be best to simply change the name of the repo. 

This will vary from company to company and from hiring manager to hiring manager but in my personal experience I've found that typically when a hiring manager looks at something like a client's GitHub account what they are really interested in is what kind of technologies, techniques, ect you're familiar with. Might also be looking to see what kind of practices and standards you're following (if any) and what type of projects you like to work on when given a choice. For a junior level developer with minimal to no professional experience or prior relevant employment history they might also be looking to make sure you know actually know how to code. Most employers probably won't dive to deeply into any given project. As far as what to include and what not to include it's ultimately up to your discretion but for the most part things will only raise a red flag if they blatantly illegal (ie: some sort of Pirate Bay esque application). However as far as unfinished and/or buggy projects go then you'll probably be fine but you should be prepared to talk about them if you expect it to come up in an interview. If that's the case then be prepared to answer questions like "how would you fix bug x or how were you planning on implementing feature y". 

It really depends on company culture. Some companies are pretty lax about the hours you work as long as everybody is happy with your performance while others are strict about you arriving or leaving at a certain time. Assuming you're performing at a level that everybody is happy with and there's no official (or unofficial) company policy preventing your from leaving right on time or even a little bit early to catch the bus you should be okay. If in doubt ask your manager. 

You may want to alter the wording but I really would keep it brief. There's no need to go into a lot of detail. 

Advise them that they seem a little under the weather and it would be better for them to get home and have some rest. If they can work remotely then let them work remotely and ensure they are paid for it. They may not even be ill, they could have a seasonal allergy. That being said, in all places I've worked, I've had one that allowed to work remotely and they did it begrudgingly. At my current place we are allowed one day to work from home remotely, the others are unpaid. It's not something that I often see being pushed. Often the employer would say if you're ill then take the time off to recover which is all well and good when you can afford too. Here is the problem. I myself don't get paid to sit at home so if I'm capable of getting my two sons ready for school/nursery and I'm not bedridden, I'm going to work. I myself don't like to do this but I'm not in a position to lose a days wage when I have my mortgage/bills to pay and 2 young ones to feed. I understand that people don't want ill people to come into work and spread germs but chances are you're going to catch the cold anyway even if that person is at home. People can be carriers of an illness and not show any signs of having it so if one of those people is in the office you're still open to catching it. Obviously if you are really ill or have a really contagious disease then yes the right thing to do is take the day off. I wouldn't come into work with smallpox for example. I don't like sniffing. It bugs me never mind the person who has to listen to this. Personally I have head phones. Being a developer I often wear these to drown out noise anyway. Get a pair and listen to the radio from your PC. Alternatively move to another location with a bit less noise. 

Of course it is but only if you move to a job that is going to enhance you in some way. My first proper job I loved. I was straight out of my apprenticeship and I did mostly IT networking/support. I then started to get interested in programming and started to learn this on the job. The job itself however wasn't focused in a way for me to build my skills further so I had to make a move. I'd been here six years and I was young so moving jobs was daunting. That move was almost certainly the best move I made in the long term. Not only did I learn new skills in doing so I then found another job more suited to my skills. As an added bonus, on each move I also negotiated my salary. This in itself helps in the long term as you'll want more money to buy all those nice things, as well as affording all those expensive bills that will certainly come along at some point. I'm now in a job that I again love, I'm comfortable in and can happily support my family. So not only did it benefit me, it benefited my family (long before I knew it would). With all that said it certainly comes down to you as an individual. Think to yourself, what can I now get out of my job? if the answer is very little then it may be time to make that move. Either way, good luck.