While there are a number of different systems that might be used, they all operate on the same basic principle, to quote one of the manufactures: 

In the article "In vitro sun protection factor determination of herbal oils used in cosmetics" which was published in Pharmacognosy Journal it was found that coconut oil does offer protection from ultra violet radiations. 

Non-scientific from the standpoint that the sample set is not large enough to make proper conclusions from; however, it does provide a nominal example of confirmation of Nintendo's claims. There is no good way to source this as it is a summary of what I read in various forums and discussion sites and should be treated as anecdotal evidence at best. Most likely a confirmation bias is what was actually meant by the individual interviewed. 

A common story that is sometimes repeated, going as far to be included in an episode of How I Met Your Mother, is as follows: 

Yes, this is a case of art imitating life since early theater patrons were quite rambunctious. An article from October 28, 1883 that was published in The New York Times describes an incident as follows: 

Maybe with major caveats that mean that the answer could be yes or no. First, it is important to define exactly what we mean when we refer to special forces since the first thing that most people will think of is a well known organization such as the US Navy SEALs, US Army Special Forces, or British Special Air Service. However, in a much more general sense they are a part of the military that are trained to conduct unconventional or high-risk missions (i.e. special operations) related to reconnaissance, offensive action, sabotage and demolition, and so forth.1 So from this stand point if the North Korea Special Operation Force (NKSOF) is being trained to perform those missions and the remainder of the North Korean military is not, then in a broad sense we could at least consider them to be special forces due to their intended operational capacities. Next, we must also remember that North Korea is an extremely secretive state and is known to publish falsified information for apparent propaganda purposes so anything from them must be verified by third parties. With this in mind it does appear that the claims of 180,000 do not appear to be overly inflated since most estimates are in line with that number and historical data has been showing that the forces were trending in that direction. This means that yes they likely do have the largest special forces in the world since the US military (second largest standing army) has about 67,000 personnel 2 while China's (first largest standing army) is estimated to have between 7,000 - 14,000. With regards to the second aspect of this question with regards to capacity, quite simply the answer is unknown due to lack of data. While there are reports of North Korean forces that are likely NKSOF harassing the South Korean borders, their actual capabilities have not been tested in a manner that would allow for an easy comparison to other forces. In short, even though the North Korean intent might be to train the NKSOF to engage in special operations, their actual capacity to do so might in fact be deficient. 

Meaning that they still feel that for larger data sets their device is likely to be a superior performer over a standard computer for these types of problems. So to summarize, in the general sense of the D-Wave One being a Turing machine, it is not which means that it is not a quantum computer in the strictest sense of the meaning. However, in the more general sense that the D-Wave One is using quantum effects to perform calculations, the answer appears to be yes. 

Maybe, partly due to the Exocet misses still being in active use which means that certain aspects of their operation are classified. However, it has been documented by the Telegraph that the French provided classified information on the missiles: 

No, it appears that this is confirmation bias on the part of the users and in fact, Nintendo warns not to do so: 

According to Cisco's forecasting, the world is on track to have 1.4 zettabytes of global IP traffic per year by the end of 2017. So anyone that is engaged in processing that data data would need to have zettabyte processing capability and given that the LHC already has it, we can conclude that it is likely that an agency such as the NSA would design that into the system. Also, that just includes the IP traffic and other voice and data communications that travel via other systems. With regards to storage of data, the common number seems to be five zettabytes so we will examine that. The capability for exabyte storage system already exists commercially. IBM manufactures the System Storage TS3500 Tape Library offers up to 2.7 exabytes of data, specifically, 

This is some speculation on my part since I didn't have time to search for studies; however, just the regular ritual of church services may allow people to "decompress" and relieve some of their stress which could improve their overall health. 

Since that open letter was not peer-reviewed, it cannot be used as definitive evidence one way or another. Meggs has posted a blog entry discussing the issue in some more depth as well as an article pre-print and is assoicated with a slide-deck presentation, but again, none of this appears to have been peer-reviewed. The issue of vehicles and bicycles interacting on roadways is fairly well researched (one, two, three, four). One article that is focused on attention and expectation problems in bicycle-car collisions the had the following points to make: 

This appears to be a myth that has been repeated in the media. White it is true that whale and sperm oil have been used historically as lubricants, modern synthetic replacements exist from a variety of manufactures to include the Nye Lubricants that is mentioned in various articles as being a provider to NASA of lubricants. At least three articles have been written fact checking the story. The first from Chemical Heritage Magazine titled "Whales in Space" reported the following, 

Finally, the real issue with the NES was one of a fundamental design flaw with the design of the zero insertion force (ZIF) connection, as summarized by Wikipedia: 

Assuming you are talking about what is commonly know as "lazy eye" or amblyopia from a medical standpoint, then yes patching the dominate eye is a common treatment that is used (see also, 1, 2, 3, 4). However, other treatments such as eye drops may be used to force the weaker eye to get stronger by blurring the vision in the dominate eye. 

This can be further born out by examining the cost of purchasing razor blades in the United Kingdom for which we see fees such as those with Edwin Jaggar which shows that 10 Personna Platinum DE Razor Blades cost £2.00 or £1.67 (ex. Tax) which corresponds to the VAT rate of 20%. 

Most likely yes as the outfit and background are consistent with her appearance at the Super Bowl XLVII half time show. A minor caveat due to the fact that I can't find an official source of the image although Huffington Post UK is using it. Similar pictures have actually been turning up due to their unflattering nature and this has allegedly led to Beyoncé’s publicist allegedly wanting some unflattering pictures removed from the internet which has caused them to spread a bit more. I have found the picture in question with the background removed provided for stock for a Photoshop Contest, as shown below. This to me also backs up it being an original as opposed to manipulated already. 

[3]: Casson, L. 1989. The Periplus Maris Erythraei. Princeton University Press, pp. 69, 168-170. ISBN 0-691-04060-5. 

However, the legal standing of the store as a parody is being debated and it is currently unclear how a court case would be resolved, 

It depends on the time frame involved, and it is generally accepted that initially most of the gladiators that competed were slaves by virtue of being prisoners of war, criminals, or slaves bought for the proposes of being sent a gladiatorial school. However, it is estimated that by the end of the Republic that about half of the gladiators were free men that volunteered, primary for the money and glory involved. Thus, while the claim might not be entirely accurate, it is possible that at some point there were more volunteers than not; however, over the the history of the gladiatorial games, the volunteers were in the minority. 

The following article has been circulating which includes a video that demonstrations a Common Core math problem: "This Common Core Math Problem Is So Absurdly Difficult It Stumps College Students and Teachers" via Independent Journal Review. In the video, the following steps are taken to solve the math problem "32 - 12 = ?" (summary from Slashdot): 

The Daily Mail article actually did a good job of providing a source of the "The Shame of Our Prisons: New Evidence" from the New York Review of books which provided a good jumping off point. Doing a fair one to one comparison for this can be tough due to reporting rates, namely that it is under reported. In this case though, the Bureau of Justice Statistics published the "Sexual Victimization in Prisons and Jails Reported by Inmates, 2011–12" report that summarized the findings as follows: 

Which comes from the Learn about Java Technology webpage. These numbers can be drilled down into a bit more (e.g. blu-ray sales, PCs with Windows installed 1, etc.) but the figure they give in the setup actually seems to be fairly conservative. With regards to some specific claims, Blu-ray players have to support BD-J which is used to for bonus content on Blu-ray disks which is why Blu-ray players must support Java. One of the biggest areas of use of Java is in Java Cards which are smart cards containing embedded Java based programs that can be run on various devices. While Oracle cited a number of 1 billion units manufactured in 2007 back in 2008, others have noted total cumulative sales of about 5 billion units in 2007. This is another point that leads to the 3 billion devices claimed perhaps being a conservative estimate. 

Not much research has been done into this topic, although the statistics published in the State of Idaho Highway Safety Plan, Fiscal Years 1981-1984 where used in an open letter by Jason N. Meggs to argue the following point: 

Yes, there are actually a number of systems that can be used with electronic wheel locking systems apparently being the most common. 

The fact that firearms had to be checked explains why contemporary accounts would make reference to secreting their firearms at times, 

The same study when on to find that religiosity had no statistical impact upon the patient outcomes or life expectancy. So while strong convictions may help your mental state, it doesn't appear to do much to help your life expectancy when you have an illness such as cancer. Coming at things differently, the author cites a number of anecdotes about regular church attendee and the social support networks that grow up around them. This has been studied and it has been shown that strong social support carries over into subjective life expectancy and overall quality of life. Having adequate emotional support through stressful events has also been shown to been tied to ones ability to survive those events as well. In this same vein of thought the articles author notes the following anecdote, 

During a recent radio show, at approximately 2 minutes and 30 seconds into the broadcast, Charles Cooper is quoted as saying the following in federal appeals court arguments: 

But it appears that the nature of this information is likely classified even though references to codes or code shows up in searches on the internet. Note that this might be a confusion of context though as it is entirely possible that France may have provided the source code for the missiles which may have exposed a flaw that they could exploit. In short, while it is clear that France did provide Britain assistance with regards to the Exocet missiles, the exact nature of that assistance appears to be somewhat open to speculation and likely classified until some point in the future.