In Presentism, where only the present exists; the past and future do not - how then does time 'flow'? To 'flow' requires a motion; for example, in the standard physical presentation of a moving particle, a particle 'moves' into the future. For Aristotle, change is an aspect of time. Is it possible then to say things change, but not by moving into the future, but by staying in the immediate present, and changing there? 

Categorical logic is of contemporary interest . An (elementary) topos is a generalisation of set theory (without choice), and its internal logic is higher-order intuitionistic logic. It also has a geometric character: A sheaf of sets, is a topos, and is equivalently (which reveals it geometric character more clearly) an etale (projection is locally homeomorphic) bundle. Interestingly, Cohens forcing construction can then be given a geometric description. Also, if (the axiom of ) Choice is enforced, then it forces the logic to become classical. Smooth toposes model synthetic differential geometry, where the fact that the law of the excluded middle fails is neccessary to define the infinitesimal line. homotopy type theory is a new interpretation of martin-lofs intensional constructive type theory. As the natural logic of homotopy, constructive type theory is also related to the notion of a higher topos. Whereas category theory has been mooted as an alternative foundation to matehematics ala ZFC by Lawvere, Vladimir Voevodsky has proposed a new program for a comprehensive, computational foundation for mathematics based on the homotopical interpretation of type theory. 

thus it moves in a straight line (geodesic) when seen from an other (frame/world); from its own frame or world it is at rest; considering all worlds, in a generalised sense, it is at rest (the gauge principle). A world, or frame carries its own sense of time and space (the Kantian perspective). 

This isn't probably what you're looking for, being continental and left-field; however Lacan uses Godel in his re-reading of psychoanalytical theory; he uses his theorem analogically ie by analogy or metaphor (which Iris Murdoch, takes to be an important form of thinking) ie as in 'there is a lack in the other, the other is inconsistent and incomplete'. 

Essentially Cohen is saying that formalising mathematics and logic means that one can begin to think about the structure of the formalism in a way that one could not before. Its like drawing up a map and naming different areas of it so one can begin to talk about it in a structured way mathematical way. In fact earlier he writes: 

This, is a strange reading; just going on the basis of the first passage, Kant warns against morality applied to every & all actions; that is what he calls fantastic virtue. Kant, on the basis of these two passages, could be called rigourous, when one takes into account the full meaning of what he says. That is, it is of great consequence to disallow morally intermediate actions, so long as it is possible. The lattitude inherent in possibility is the bridge that connects the opposite sentiments of the two passages. In one sense, Kant can be said to be not morally indifferent about morally indifferent acts; for he says that they should remain so; to become rigorous here is to become tyrannical. 

I would doubt it; given that he's writing about travel writing, it looks like an early critique of what much later Edward Said calls Orientalism. Said commented as someone born and brought up in the middle-East he couldn't see the texture of life he knew in the representations of such in art & literature; they're represented in their exoticness & foreignness as something to 'gape' at. 

What is this 'still living base' that he assumes? It seems to me it can only be the polytheistic religion of the Romans. Is this correct? (At first sight this question may seem to belong to Christianity.StackExchange; but I assume that they would dispute the validity of a superimposition). 

One can then ask what is that decides the exception - the exceptional case - that in some part lies outside that of the written law; it cannot be the law itself - thus it would be Justice; there is then a scale of values in which Justice stands above that of Rights; it is sovereign, and cannot be assimilated to it. 

'Displacement in time' refers to 'upheaval in laws'; ie a rupture in the traditional order; the author is not talking about physical time as measured by clocks; consider instead the phrase 'our times', or 'nowadays' or even the opening line from Tolstoys War and Peace: 

There is a particular philosophy of the mind that draws a (porous) dividing life through the mind, calling one part of it conscious and the other unconscious. Likewise, it may be the case that everyone has a 'personal philosophy' most of which is unconscious and can only be understood by examining that persons life, his actions and his intentions; this, in practise, is hardly possible. In which case it's not at all strange to have a personal philosophy and not be able to articulate it properly; one might say, that philosophy of various kinds provides a tool-kit or rather, a thinking kit, to begin to understand and articulate ones own personal philosophy. (This shouldn't be taken as a vote for 'pushing ones personal philosophy' of the kind pushed forward by David Icke or even more broadly, scientologists or the like). 

That this is not an easy task is what leads Kant to say in the introduction of the CPR and the Prologemena 

Interesting question; first, the second law of thermodynamics is a basic law of physics - which isn't going to be subverted by what men or robots do; but my impression is this isn't how you're using the law - but more as a kind of metaphor or allegory. Mental labour surely is a kind of labour: a man who works with his mind must still be fed and sheltered; it ought to be part of the Labour Theory of Value - which, I think from how it's been theorised by Locke, Smith, Pareto and Marx has a very strong claim in being the correct theory of value. Is it fair to say that on the Capital/Labour divide that mental labour finds itself on the Capital side as mangerial, entrepreneurial or administrative work? This, doesn't seem quite right. Keynes, I recall reading somewhere wrote a paper on automation and employment, I think warning of inimical effect this is well over half a century ago - and surely given how much automation there is now in the world as to then, there must be more recent work on this that is properly critical. Interestingly, it's Keynes that coined the term technological unemployment ... something you may already know! 

It turns out that of these two cases it is the second that is of the most direct interest. This is because these are the sentences that have well defined truth values under an 'interpretation' that assigns values to x. For example: 

He's setting a scene - a little drama. Has the slave been careless whilst waiting on you at the table? Has wine gone missing from storage? It seems obvious we should blame those who are foreign to us - our slaves. We may allow ourselves to feel a degree of righteous anger. 

Fake news is a term that has become current in the last few years. An older term that appears to have some family resemblence to this is propaganda. Are they in fact the same - if not, what are the essential differences? 

According to Allan Marx, egalitarians hold that equality should be valued for its own sake, or to promote other important goods: such as community, political democracy, personal liberty and self-respect. In the choice that you've put before us is heavily biased against this intuition in that the 'pie' to be divided out is different in both scenarios, and are therefore incomparable; in the first scenario one is sharing out equally two units of utility equally, in the second a hundred and two. A fair comparison would use the same 'pie' to divide out; the first scenario would have the first one sharing out one hundred units equally - so fifty each; and the second two units for one, and ninety-eight for the other. Given this, what would you now chose? Marx is considered popularly as an egalitarian, but in Woods considered opinion he opposes equality as he considers it as a vehicle for class oppression; he holds that it's a specifically political notion arising from the market states of early modern Europe; and whose most basic expression is procedural equality, that is equality before the law; but as Kant points out, and as actual circumstances bear out 

In Spinozan metaphysics God is the sole substance with an infinity of attributes, two of which are extension & thought. How these two attributes manifest themselves describes nature, ourselves included. So our immaterial minds affect material matter though the substance of God. That is motion of mind causes motion of matter due through God. This isn't a million miles away from Al-Ghazalis Occasionalism. God, here, is indeed nearer to us than our jugular vein. Notably, Descarte who introduced this division between mind & matter, also had to smuggle in God to keep his universe moving. Epicurus denied that there was a immaterial world, he held that only the material world existed. What appears to be immaterial is of another substance, the name of which hasn't come down to us. 

Mathematics is rife with contradictions, is shot through with them: the fault-lines lie where theories collide, fade or open up. Does this disturb the incarnation of mathematics - the Ideal Mathematician? The Ideal Mathematician is not. His inward calm being the Being of Mathematics, his third eye cast on the third realm - the third realm of pure abstractions. Unique in themselves and as Singular as crystals and more Splendid; the shadows of which treads his own human mind - the secondary realm of cognition and the intellect. (Can one say, that mathematics is found in the primary world, the realm of actual physical being? Possibly it is obtained as a correlation between them). From the Purity of the third realm, comes the light, that places all things in their correct station and gravity, for in the Third Realm, it is already as such. For in the Third Realm contradiction does not obtain. Thus that Spiritus Mundi of Mathematics - Platonism as Plato did not put it but as co-opted - is not troubled by vast images of discord and diction, they are illusions of our too-human mind. Say, as a hypothetical, that Platonism is also an illusion, that the Being of mathematics is not-there. Then what is left? Not its Being, but its Becoming, and its Becoming must involve contradictions essentially. For there is no appeal to the Ideal to whisk them away. And these contradictions are not on the frontier of mathematics (were we to imagine mathematics as some vast ascending Sphere) but reach back right in and through and back and in through the body of mathematics (though we have banished the Body) - in every place and in every direction. Thus mathematics as Becoming unfolds. Here is the Event of Mathematics - its adventure. Question: Does denying the Being of Mathematics (Platonism) leads necessarily to pure Becoming, and in the Being of its Becoming (and not the Becoming of its Being) are contradictions essential - that is irreducibly, inerradicably irremovable? Coda Given some of the comments about the obscurity and opacity of the language, I thought it might be useful to 'explain' the question. The mainstream ontology, I take it, of mathematics is Platonism where abstractions like the number '2', or the group 'Z x Z' exist; but moreover that propositions about these objects also exist with well defined truth-values. That is the proposition '2 is an even number'; and further that theories themselves also exist, like PA with first-order classical logic. The Platonic realm, is considered to exist outside of space & time. I also consider it mainstream that the law of the excluded middle or that contradictions are possible in this realm are not possible. (Notably, in Aristotles discussion of the law of contradiction, he left open the possiblity of what kind of truth value one can assign to a proposition that refers to the future. But in the Platonic realm there is no time, so no future). I ask, suppose that Platonism isn't true, and that at least time is inherently involved in the ontology of mathematical objects, if not also space. One might position it as taking the epistemology of mathematics as its ontology. I then discuss the role of the law of contradictions when this is done. One might say that what contradiction means in epistemological terms is different from what it means ontologically. And I'm proposing that contradictions are essential epistemologically; because unlike Platonism, where truths are exhibited all at once; epistemologicaly, there are different theories, some of which whose propositions or theorems they may have in common, others may contradict. It may be true, that in the process of time, one may bring these theories in line with each other, but I also expect that very movement also brings into view other theories which are incommensurable. I pick-up Whiteheads terminology for the Platonic realm - the third realm and take the first & second to be Descartes picture of the world as being divided into physical & mental substances. I refer to the ontology of Mathematics, as its Being, alluding to Badious conception of Mathematics as the 'very site of ontology', which is a resucitation of Platos ontology of Forms, but with the Forms as considered as abstract objects - this is (very) different from mathematical Platonism. That I talk about Purity and Light is an allusion to the emanationist philosophy of Plotinus which is indebted to Platos Philosophy; but also interpreted in the question as the 'lack of contradictions', and also as a metaphor for the worlds to influence each other; but also so I can bring in Platos famous picture of his Forms casting 'shadows' in the real world. Becoming is to Being in Continental thought as the Heracleitian Flux is to Platos Forms. Hegel refers to Becoming as the sublation of Being & non-Being, and Heidegger when thinking of Being qua Being, identifies Being with time, that is Becoming. Though I mention the 'Event' of Mathematics, its 'Adventure' as where new ideas 'collide, fade or open up' and refers to Mathematics as an active and creative process, its not the main intent of the question.