Now, there's some historical backfilling in claiming views like Hegel are coherence theories. If we're calling Hegel a "coherence" theorist, then things are a bit muddier as to whether his view simultaneously declares that a proposition is true both insofar as it is coherent with the categories of our thought and insofar as it corresponds to the world. In a broader sense, you could say many (if not all correspondence theories other than naive realism) include a coherence component. This is partially captured in questions about how we should treat universals. Insofar as we can consistently say "the light is red and the pen is red" we have to have a "coherent" definition of red. 

Specifically, the consideration in question is on what it means to have an obligation to one who is no longer living and how executing this is an act of love (in his vocabulary "work of love"). 

Informal fallacies are judgment calls about problems in the structure of an argument. Their applicability is often debatable. (Formal fallacies like affirming the consequent are different in that they show the actual invalidity of an argument). The fallacy of tu quoque is to fallaciously deny an argument because the source of the argument does not follow their own advice. But whether it is fallacious to point out that they don't follow their own advice depends on an interesting problem that we see described as far back as Aristotle. Aristotle talks about akrasia, which we often translate as weakness of the will. It refers to a problem in the "practical syllogism". The practical syllogism is the idea that if I know what I ought to do, then I will do it. It turns out we often fail despite appearing to have full knowledge of what we ought to do. Giving advice about, say, weight is an example where it seems fully plausible that a person giving it may rightly know what they are talking about even if they fail to follow it. Or to put it another way, if the leading scientist on obesity also happens to be fat that does not make what he's saying fallacious. On the contrary, we'd be guilty of a tu quoque to dismiss his knowledge in that arena. There is something bizarre seeming about following his advice on that point, but it's not fallacious to do so. Consider for instance another informal fallacy: argument from authority. If we listen to the world's leading expert on obesity and do something about our weight because she says it, then that's an argument from authority. But that doesn't mean it's fallacious to follow her advice. Why? Because informal fallacies require judgments about the relevancy of her expertise. To sum up, informal fallacies are patterns that are generally errant due to a problematic feature. But that feature is not always problematic, and we have to make a judgment about whether it is or not. I don't generally take weight loss advice from really fat people, because (all other things being equal) it is difficult to accept they are experts on how to accomplish weight loss. But there may be exceptional reasons that make it so it's not fallacious. Conversely, there are contexts where tu quoque is perfectly appropriate (e.g., imagine one smoker telling another that it's easy to quit when the other smoker can't quit themselves. It's perfectly appropriate proof that their claim is wrong that they themselves empirically invalidate it). 

The name of the field that compares moral systems and asks question about the nature of ethics in this way is metaethics (SEP entry). There's three related meta-ethical questions that affect the answer to your question: 

While I don't think that perfectly reflects what a difficult problem is, I think we could possibly derive a definition that a problem is difficult if it requires great effort to solve or nearly solve. A problem is subjectively difficult if it requires of the person in question great effort to solve or nearly solve. And a problem is objectively difficult if it requires specialist knowledge that is contemporary to solve or nearly solve. But I have never seen difficult problems seen as a specifically philosophical problem. 

Of course all of this is more complex if the agents have a duty to perform in certain ways that appear inconsistent but are not. E.g., lawyers and advocates. In such a context, it is understood that there is a responsibility to argue passionately for the position one is entrusted to defend. (N.b., there are still cases where advocacy represents a moral failing). 

The term "properly basic" in reference to belief in God is from Alvin Plantinga and Nicholas Wolterstorff. They propose this as part of Reformed Epistemology. Plantinga's Warranted Christian Belief is a good explication. For a good explanation, see the SEP. The main task is to show that we don't need evidential warrant for all of our beliefs but simultaneously that we are not fideists (a term which regrettably becomes less and less clear the more you look at it) in our epistemology. 

Precisely what this means and how it relates to having ends at all is a question of debate among scholars. Also whether Confucianism too is committed to wuwei is deeply debatable. The Question Itself To return more directly to the question, I'm going to assume we're referring to the philosophically important meaning in Daoism rather than trivial "not doing". In that case, "action without acting" means to accomplish things without obsessing over them or even necessarily caring about whether they happen or not. Alternately to be so in tune with the Dao that things happen with no exertion. 

= approximately if our thoughts about objects have to come from objects themselves, we cannot them without experiencing the objects (here a priori is the opposite of "from experience." 

There's some strange things going in your word choices vis-a-vis Hegel, and you might be looking at the wrong text if you're looking for those definitions. First off, the word "dialectical" means many things for many different philosophers (not to mention people more generally). The way Hegel uses the term, it is the method that leads us to truth by continuously revising our concepts until we grasp the concept as it is (as the final culmination of Spirit in the form of philosophy -- if we're working in the same direction as the Phenomenology). To pick a famous example that illustrates the basic pattern. In the Preface to the Phenomenology, Hegel attacks the most naive account of truth called "sense certainty": 

While there's a type of consent at work here, there's something more important involved in Kant's understanding of citizenship in this moral kingdom (or realm if you prefer). Viz., each citizen is rational and therefore arrives at the conclusions of reason as to what sort of laws would be harmonious for the kingdom to work. Thus, it becomes a kingdom of ends. In other words, it's not that there is ever a moment that asks for our consent based on personal preference, taste, or advantage. Rather, the consent is that as rational beings we consent to rational laws. This is there in abbreviated form in the Groundwork but an extended treatment of the relationship of the members of this community is handled in Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone 

I feel like Sartre and de Beauvoir both wrote things about love that would strongly disagree with what you're suggesting. Michel Foucault, History of Sexuality Many contemporary interpreters of Kant somehow get a polyamory or something like that out of him (even though his own views are greatly opposed to it). 

Second, each of these operations has a different relationship to the truth of A → B. Starting with the easiest: 

I think the question is somewhat confused on two fronts. First, it's quite difficult to maintain that "only the physical exists." This seems to collapse on its face before moving even to the existence of social objects and ideas. Specifically, let's say we accept that there are atoms composed of a nucleus of protons and neutrons orbited by electrons that then form various types of compounds, aggregates, and solutions. Granting this, it seems, at least on most interpretations, that we've imported a large number of laws that govern the interactions of these objects (e.g. gravity, electromagnetism, strong forces, and weak forces). Are these "physical"? If the answer is yes, I'm not sure what you mean by "physical." If the answer is no, then your thesis collapses. Second, the doubts you have about feelings, thoughts, and beliefs seem to confuse two different aspects, viz. a physical science aspect whereby we consider things in light of their properties as material objects and a phenomenological aspect where we consider our experience. Or to put it another, even if materialism is true, there's a difference between X experienced as a belief and X reduced to a physical explanation. It remains the case no matter what else that we do experience beliefs, etc., and in fact, our experience more naturally occurs in these coordinates than physical explanations of reductions. Worded another way, I write on a laptop set on a desk while sitting in a chair. I do not in fact write on a set of carbon compounds with electronic circuits that wire into a complex electrical signalling element that due the combination of gravity, electromagnetic forces, and strong and weak interactions maintains a constant position above polymer surface with a certain density and structural integrity while my carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur organized system interacts using these forces to remain above a combination of organic and polymer matter. (the length is to point out the absurdity of imagining that the physical is what "I really experience"). Put another way, my experience is in the first-order not about materiality regardless of what material my experience stands above. Thus, whether sensation is reductively explained or not matters not as to whether sensation is distinct from the material as experienced. If you want to stick with the materialist view, you will probably call them complex brain states that lead to experience in the subject of this kind.