As we can see from this lecture life may have evolved specifically in the tidal pools caused by having a large moon. There are other theories that state this could have happened near thermal vents, so you could have life, we don't know. There's a secondary question here: Would life have moved on to land without intertidal zones? Possibly not - need sources. Is a lifeless planet habitable? That depends on how you're defining habitable, but in short: Not to us. A planet without plant life similar to ours is unlikely to have the right balance of oxygen/nitrogen/etc in the atmosphere for us to be able to just turn up and breathe. You're going to have to wait a few thousand (maybe million) years after seeding it with photosynthesising plants to give an atmosphere mammals could survive in. 

No Coral is sensitive to depth and temperature, very sensitive to temperature. Ocean currents aren't so forgiving. Basic requirements 18-27m, clear warm waters. That would require them not to just float but to be neutrally buoyant at a specific depth, not easy to do when you're basically a rock. Staying in warm water is also difficult when you're a at the mercy of the currents. Your coral is very quickly going to find itself at the centre of one of the gyres (a.k.a. the garbage patches) or in cold waters at the end of a warm water current. Coral already has difficulty surviving storms and a big storm can do a lot of damage to a reef. Without a solid rock base, and at the mercy of the rolling waves, your reef isn't going to survive long even just in deep ocean before the real storms hit. Flexibility is the key to surviving a storm, an attempt to build a large coral reef like structure will result in large waves breaking it up then the subsequent waves smashing it against itself until there's nothing but sand. 

Growth is not required You can get away with not growing, you can hold steady at your current size indefinitely. Your costs are covered, your staff are paid. The incessant demand for growth from the current market is just greed, your company doesn't really gain anything from it. Your ponzi scheme works by growth, as do your profits, but the system can be stable without it. 

What you need to do is go back to the time period in question and just do what they did. The simplest form is a stick in the ground as a sundial. There's also the 12 hour day option. When the sun rises it's 6am, noon is noon, sunset is 6pm. There are always 12 daylight hours, always 12 hours of darkness. The fact that the hours are of variable length doesn't matter, that's just how the day runs. It also doesn't matter that this measure of time only applies over a very small area, there's no form of long distance travel or communication over which mere hours matter. Here's some further reading on the matter: $URL$ Yes, a real paper book. The reason accurate timekeeping is a subject not mentioned in medieaval periods is that it just isn't a thing. Only daylight matters. Things happen, one after the last, from first light until it's too dark to see, it really doesn't matter what time it is (until you need to navigate the open oceans). 

Humans are a bundle of emotions and instincts with a layer of intelligence laminated over the top. Emotions and instincts are what life is, without them there is no point. They make you get out of bed in the morning. They keep you alive day to day. It's your emotional attachment to being alive that drives you. Without emotions we don't live, we don't reproduce, humanity would be dead in less than a generation. There is no logic to "I should reproduce", no logic to "I should share the fruit of my labours with others", it's emotion that drives us. Without emotions we're just machines going through the motions, it's the emotions that give it all meaning. Humanity will always choose emotion. 

It's realistic but liable to be a technocracy or some sort of second stage democracy where nationally or locally elected representatives elect the council representatives. Look at the EU for generalised chaos in the system and problems with building it. The first thing you're going to have is years of argument about what language(s) it should operate in. The EU is a much better model for this than the US due to the range of languages, cultures and economies involved as well as the mature nature of the existing governments. In a universe with interplanetary travel and multiple human occupied worlds then it's possibly even inevitable rather than possible and could even grow out of negotiations over who does or does not have access to space travel and related technologies. Some of your details need to be worked on: Nobody gets anything done on a 2/3 majority, it's almost unheard of. National armies are different sizes and have different regulations, for example the Germans and Japanese have very different restrictions compared to any others, some armies are bigger, better equipped, better paid, better trained, have more people, etc. Some regions are going to need to take more out of the system than they put in. The regions putting it in are going to get upset about it and you'll need to deal with that. 

The less salubrious side The whole thing is probably a big ponzi scheme When you pay your 50 years, you're not really paying for the next 50 years, you're paying for 50 people for the current year. The rest of the 50 years is being paid for by 49 people who sign up over the next 49 years. Spin up the clocks You don't actually have to run them in real time all the time. You say 50 years, but that 50 years only takes about 50 minutes. Time runs faster on the inside than the outside, the client experiences 50 years on your luxury resort but nobody has to pay for it. Put people on pause at appropriate points for appropriate periods of time if they seem surrounded by other elderly relatives who may be rich enough to join them. 

Define normal Make normal places Define the edges of the normal places Graduate how close things get, the further from the normal places, the worse the things you'll meet 

No. The question after this becomes rather opinion based. Are there jobs that shouldn't be automated? Considering the possibilities of the next 30 years it's entirely possible that everything from conception and maternity* onwards could be automated. But would you really want to? There are also jobs where it's probably not cost effective to automate even on these timescales. Soft fruit picking is one. Currently it's done by lots of people, usually, and traditionally, migrant workers. While it could be automated, the high cost of developing/purchasing a machine capable of doing the job would not be viable relative to the low cost of day labourers. This factor of cost effectiveness is going to be the prime consideration in almost all cases. Is the machine cheaper than the man/woman/peasant/illegal immigrant? People have to be paid, but machines have to be purchased, stored, maintained and repaired. *Life begins when the kids leave home and the dog dies 

Moving people quickly People don't want to move, they certainly don't want to move quickly. No matter the disaster, they'll hang on thinking the bad times will pass and then everything go back to normal. It's only when they understand that it's all over and there's no going back that you can uproot entire populations. It will take time, it will take severe discomfort, you will have to kill a fair percentage of them, and even then, some will stay. 

Our current moral code is not compatible with the moral code of the period that he tends to crop up in and very possibly with his moral code. He's more bothered about the destruction of fruit trees than the slaughter of the innocent, which tended to be encouraged. Things you're not going to see 

Taking a dystopian view The wealthy and powerful will bid to be the executioner as from doing so they gain the lifespan of the executed and the murder victim. Slightly less dystopian The lifespan rightfully belongs to the heirs (family) of the victim, they may appoint a family member to be the executioner as a way of returning that lost lifetime to the family. It's a utopia because I say it is The great and good are offered the chance to execute and prolong their lives. All they have to do is kill this person they've never met before. Some rules like having to make eye contact while doing it to gain the benefit needed for full effect. No "push this button and walk away" they have to know what they've done. Death penalty is wrong Killing someone just means you get to spend a longer "rest of your life" in prison. Some people have been there a very long time. All the way the other way Ritual sacrifice of additional children is a social norm. Once a traditional number of children are born, any further children are ritually sacrificed by senior members of the clan to ensure a long and healthy life. Children are considered property rather than people until they reach the age of majority and don't count under murder laws. 

As has already been shown, there's no point nuking the ice. Assuming you still want the ice to melt, your best bet is to darken the ice. If you coat it with a layer of dust, ash or other general pollution it will absorb more heat and give you a greater summer melt. $URL$ 

As you can see, this required the scientists direct intervention to trigger germination. The previous record holder was a 2000 year old Judean Date Palm recovered from Masada which only needed appropriate conditions to germinate. So it's not entirely improbable, but preservation of organic materials on that timescale is a complex game. Seeds must not have the conditions to germinate, but equally not have the conditions to decay. Masada is high and dry, Siberia is permafrost, both suitable environments for long term preservation. Merely clearing the ground is not likely to trigger growth, but a good fire might.