However, the mysqldump will still have the at the end of each . You will have to perform the 5-Step plan I mentioned above including changing the to . DO NOT CHANGE THAT FOR THE mysql DATABASE !!! Change only those tables that are yours. 

This will allow immedidate login without authentication and without any remoye connection sneaking in on you. 

This should add 20% increase in speed for reads. OPTION #4 : Use MySQL 5.5 for Semisynchronous Replication Before MySQL 5.5, when a Master has Multiple Slaves, this is how an SQL statament is processed among the slaves (Example will be a Master with two slaves): SQL Statement is 

From the question, it looks like what you have written quasi-resembles what Oracle calls an anonymous code block. MySQL does not facilitate such a mechanism. With regard to what you want to accomplish, you do not need a stored procedure. Try assembling the SQL statement like this: 

Look at the files. They are owned by . They are supposed to be owned by My guess is that you copied the data rather than use MySQL techniques to import. Perhaps you should change the ownership of the entire data folder. Please run the following commands: 

This will cause the logging for the general log and/or slow log to go to a CSV file. You can convert that CSV to MyISAM as follows: 

Once you have MySQL running on the Windows machine, you can go to to create a Server Instance Profile. The key here is to install MySQL first. 

At this point, you may need to run FLUSH HOSTS and see if this unblocks. The MySQL Documentation says this about FLUSH HOSTS: 

NOTE: Doing stop SQL processing but continues collecting binary log events from the Master. Open another session (Session #2) and copy the , , and files to your heart's content as you stated in the question. When you are done copying the files from the Slave to the target server, simply kill the sleep session in Session #1 and mysql session. Log back into mysql and run 

There is no SQL mechanism for select every other row. You will have to use an user-defined auto increment variable as follows: ODD 

If mysqlbinlog dumps the expression BINLOG, the file it is reading can be trusted to be a binary log because it encoutered the binlog magic number when parsing the file. For more information on this: please see MySQL Internals on Binary Logs 

I would like to recommend something with regard to LOAD DATA INFILE: You need to increase bulk_insert_buffer_size (such as 256M) because a special tree structure is made to accommodate the loading of the data. Even with LOAD DATA INFILE, the tree structure is used when loading data into non-empty tables. According to the MySQL Docs on bulk_insert_buffer_size: 

This will create Stored Procedures as well Here is the copy operation, which must take place from the OS level calling the mysql client 

Just hearing the question makes me think of two aspects: ASPECT #1 : Functions are supposed to be DETERMINISTIC If this so, this implies that a function should present the same return data consistently for a given set of parameters, NO MATTER WHEN YOU CALL THE FUNCTION. Now, imagine a function that produces a different answer because of gathering data at different times of the day based on static SQL in the function. In a sense, that can still be considered DETERMINISTIC if you query the same set of tables and columns every time, given the same set of parameters. What if you could change the underlying tables of a function via Dynamic SQL? You be violating the definition of a DETERMINISTIC function. Notice that MySQL added this option in /etc/my.cnf 

STEP 02 : On ServerC, run Let's say the output was master-bin.000003 position 12345678 STEP 03 : On ServerC, run 

Please send these queries to your IT people and have them email the results back Please keep in mind that mysqldumps do not contain indexes. A mysqldump is simply a logical representation of the data plus the commands and directive to crate the table, load the table, and make indexes. What get generated physically upon restore can be known by these queries before launching the mysqldump. 

These commands have their and commands issued from the mysqld server daemon, not the client program. Your web application is not restricted in any way from reading and writing ordinary files because you are doing so from the application layer, not the DB layer. If you click on each link to those three(3) commands, the FILE privilege is specifically mentioned. 

PostgreSQL The internal datatype serial is used for auto increment from 1 to 2,147,483,647. Larger ranges are allowed using bigserial. Oracle : The schema object called SEQUENCE can create new numbers by simply summoning the nextval function. PostgreSQL also has such a mechanism. Here is a nice URL that provides how other DBs specify them : $URL$ Now concerning your question, if you really want to have multiple auto_increment columns in a single table, you will have to emulate that. Two reasons why you must emulate this: 

What disturbs me is the average length. Why? I have easily seen 1 Billion Row MyISAM tables and never had a client switch its pointer size. This may be a good time to reevaluate the table's layout. Here are some possible ways to shrink the table without touching the pointer size ? 

Personally, I would choose Option 2 because creating new settings, optionally removing old settings, and checking for existing settings would all occur at one table. The method of retrieving settings would all be the same. Under Option 1, you would have to query information_schema.columns plus make certain assumptions about the settings table. The sequence of events for retrieving settings may change from code version to code version. 

Setup ucarp on two different servers in such a way that each ucarp instance communicates with the other along a virtual router ID DBServer1 will have 

If you have the query cache disabled, then a high read environment of where the SELECTs are very simple, then there are no locking mechanisms enabled. I just recently experienced this with MySQL 5.5 using Multiple Buffer Pools. If you call the same basic queries repeatedly, no need to parse the same query over and over again till the cows come home. A small query cache should suffice in a heavy read environment using a small set of SELECTs you know will always be called. memcached is much more handy for large sets of data in heavy read environment. Query cache is a lame duck at that point. 

Under the hood, both of these commands will only check for the presence of .frm files in the currently selected database. In MySQLWorkbench, you must make sure you have a Default Schema selected. Otherwise, you should not get anything back. Here is what effectively happens from the mysql client's point-of-view: 

I have another example in : MySQL Create Table with Partition Slow on server machine Each partition is treated as a separate InnoDB table with a distinct tablespace. What overhead exists ? 

GRANTS Each major release of MySQL changes the MySQL schema in some respects For example, in the post I answered (MySQL service stops after trying to grant privileges to a user), I mentioned how has a different number of columns. Here is the updated list of the column counts When you run this query 

Redo Logs, Undo Space and Locked rows are come into play. You must also considert he InnoDB Buffer Pool (where you can measure dirty pages with innodb_max_dirty_pages_pct, innodb_buffer_pool_pages_dirty and innodb_buffer_pool_bytes_dirty). In light of this, READ COMMITTED would know what data appears like permanently. Therefore, there is no need to look for dirty pages that were not committed. READ COMMITED would be nothing more that a dirty read that has been committed. READ UNCOMMITTED would have continue to know what rows are to be locked and what redo logs has be read or ignored to make the data visible. To fully understand the Locking of Rows to Manage Isolation, please read The InnoDB Transaction Model and Locking 

You are better off just getting the necessary root access to ssh straight in and scp the file or dump. If you cannot ssh into the server with root access but you simply interested in dumping the file inside the local DB Server, you have very limited options. In fact, I can only think of one option. The only way to mysqldump data locally is not to use mysqldump itself but duplicate what mysqldump can do. Since mysqldump is capable of creating CSV files but you do not have OS access, you need to take matters into your own hands. Login to mysql and run . Here is a sample for the MySQL Documentation on 

You need to get confidence in with embedded. Only way to do that is the following SUGGESTION 01 : Proper Indexing 

Give it a Try (Hope it works) !!! CAVEAT : Hopefully, there is some TokuDB Doc you can look up at the Tokutek site. According to one of the Docs, it says: 

InnoDB (innodb_file_per_table disabled) With innodb_file_per_table enabled, table data and its indexes live in the system tablespace file better known . The data pages and index pages are 16KB blocks where rows and TEXT/BLOB overflow are managed. MyISAM For the MyISAM , three files comprise its logical presence 

DISCLAIMER : Not a Menial Base 2 person VACUUM is a sqlite operation for defragmenting tables and tablespaces. It also helps reclaim diskspace. It defragments all sqlite tables by copying data from the sqlite tables to a temp tablespace. The VACUUM operation will then swap out the old tablespace and use the new one. Database pages lost due to DELETEs and UPDATEs will no longer exist. MONyog also uses sqlite tables for collecting database statistics and features a VACUUM operation. 

They both produced the same EXPLAIN plan. I will change my answer to implement your way. You get a +1 from me although it's +2 for simplicity. You should go ahead and accept your own answer on this one. Here is an interesting factoid about VIEWs in MySQL : A view is represented in two places in the information_schema database 

SUGGESTION #4 Perhaps recreate the table from a start date. For example, to keep the last 30 days, do this: 

Give it a Try !!! UPDATE 2011-10-26 12:43 EDT Perhaps you may want to try masking the domain as follows: 

You will either see or . If you see , then it was an RPM install. If you see , you either have a source-compiled in or possibly a yum-installed mysqld service that's gone wild.