I have read that rotation among nine hereditary rulers of provinces determines who is King of Malaysia during a given 5-year term. This seems to stand out from related practices e.g. over the history of the Holy Roman Empire or between emirs in todays United Arab Emirates that tend(ed) to favor a single dynastic family while it lasted. So my question is this: do we find other examples (in history or contemporary politics) where the most senior governmental role rotated between hereditary rulers of territories, families, or similar? 

I once (quite naively) thought that those who were awarded titles of nobility in olden times would henceforth life charmed lives in their splendid houses, etc.: until I noticed e.g. in several biographies of British statesmen of the 19th and 20th centuries that financial wealth may (at least by that time and in that country) have been a prerequisite for rather than a consequence of noble titles. If I remember correctly, friends of Benjamin Disraeli (made 1st Earl of Beaconsfield) had to contribute to a fund so he could fulfill the prerequisites for accepting a relatively minor title. Both Lord Salisbury (3rd Marquess of Salisbury) and Winston Churchill (made Sir Winston Churchill) were offered dukedoms by their grateful Queen and King respectively, but both declined evidently for reasons of cost. I'm not sure whether the latter two where coy for other reasons, but the cost of maintaining the lifestyle esp. of a Duke (who is perhaps reasonably expected to maintain a grand country estate as well as a residence in the capital) must indeed have been and remain huge. Some of the old peerages were created together with sufficient territorial designations or other significant resources to bear this cost, but maybe by the 19th century there was not enough "white space" left (conceivably so in the case of the Dukedom of London that was offered to Churchill; perhaps not so in the case of Dukedoms created for the House of Windsor since 1890; theoretically not so in the case of the Eardom of Kandahar in Afghanistan) and there were now rich industrialists around who presumably did not mind the expense, if they only got the title. So I am wondering what were the exact financial ramifications of becoming a member of the aristocracy (esp. the higher aristocracy, in the UK, and by the 19th century). For instance, were there set rules as to the funds that candidates would have to have acquired (next to the merit, of course :) and for mandatory representation, and could titles be lost e.g. if money ran out? 

Here is a relevant example concerning the Jewish minority in late 19th-century Vienna, as recorded by Peter Gay in Freud: A Life for Our Time: 

I agree with @spyder in that I think equality never happened for both historic (officers' roles descended from noble men's) and practical (clear separation helps discipline at least in certain situations) reasons. Perhaps communist countries subscribed to nominal equality in their lower ranks to some degree. However, here is one anecdotal evidence from Jung Chang's Wild Swans: Three Daughter of China for actual privileges awarded to officials (and presumably also officers) that speaks to facts on the ground. Since her book on Mao I consider her a biased source, but this account has always staid fresh in my memory, because her mother was pregnant at the time and she eventually lost the child due to the hardship on this long march: 

Jawaharlal Nehru (1889 – 1964) was of course the first Prime Minister of modern India. I am wondering whether the remark (made in a casual way after the "official" recoding had ended) should be taken at face value. Do we know anything definitive from Nehru's upbringing or perhaps his autobiographical accounts? And is there a consensus view among historians? 

Bonaparte's biographer Vincent Cronin's mentions the British naval blockade but no further preventive countermeasures (that I could find upon brief reconsultation). Perhaps this is because this is a one-volume biography of a (in some ways :) big subject. As to Sidney Smith's role (he is also mentioned in the Wikipedia article), his biographer Tom Pocock cites several letters from Smith to Bonaparte in A Thirst For Glory: The Life of Admiral Sir Sidney Smith, which seem to follow normal military practice of the time. One of them, written closely before ending the Siege of Acre, may have caused the (possible) misunderstanding about Sidney furthering French royalist interests by letting Bonaparte escape from Egypt. Pocock introduces it thus: 

My question is: were such sensible health precautions as changing one's dirty underwear (in an attempt to minimize infection if skin were penetrated by weaponry) common at the time and were they perhaps even recorded in military manuals and regulations? 

The Spanish-American War took place in 1898. Cuba became independent only in 1902. History records February 24, 1895 as the date, when the (preceding) Cuban War of Independence began. The latter war turned into the former when America intervened. If one were to refer to the Spanish-Cuban-American War instead of Spanish-American-War, others could perhaps make the argument that it should be the Spanish-Cuban-American-Catalan (or even Spanish-Cuban-American-Catalan-Texan) War on the (off) chance that Catalonia (and even Texas) will become independent countries one day. 

The quote's greatest value (relative to the other answers) is perhaps in reminding us that this question is still linked to political circumstances of today. (As to its limitations, I wonder how Freeman can possibly anchor the claimed sentiments of most Macedonians in primary historic sources.) 

Inevitably, theirs was a complicated relationship. This is from Conrad Black's Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom: 

Here is one source from a fictional account confirming midnight of August 15th, 1947 (Bombay local time), Salman Rushdie's Midnight Children: 

This is a large topic where you cannot expect a single accepted answer or point of view: I don't know if by now historians even agree on when reliable information about mass killings reached the German public for the first time. However, one quote from Heike B. Gortemaker's Eva Braun: Life with Hitler (referring to some time in 1940) staid firmly in my mind, perhaps because it points so strongly towards the banality of evil (if that's even the right term): 

"Hindsight is an exact science", but the aftermaths of wars (and of course wars themselves) are messy. From what I have read the reconstruction of Japan became a success partly because the victors left Emperor Hirohito on the throne: was he a war criminal? Remember how Paul Bremer, then a top representative of the victors in Iraq was criticized for his handling of De-Ba'athification in 2003, which put soldiers out of work and soon rearmed on the streets: perhaps he wanted to cut through the messiness but certainly he did not succeed. "History is written by the victors", but don't expect great consistency across all chapters. 

What is the oldest musical composition that exists both as verifiable historical notation (or some other primary source) and as available recording on CD (or better e.g. on YouTube)? For instance, Gregorian chants (e.g. as performed by Schola Gregoriana Pragensis) are very old -- from the first millennium AD. China's Imperial Music Bureau as an institution is even much older. 

A recent interview by C-SPAN host Brian Lamb with Washington Post staff writer Rajiv Chandrasekaran touched on many controversial issues of the F-35 acquisition program where evidently a lot of pork is cut and political favors are passed around. One gets the sense that it all started out with the sensible idea of building a single fighter plane platform for three services (the Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps), but then reality intervened on costs. At some point they quote an Army officer as asking: 

In 1984, an Austrian artist declared the Republic of Kugelmugel (about 8 m in diameter and situated right in the Austrian capital Vienna). He pulled a stunt by printing and publishing his own stamps and ran into expected and some unexpected troubles with various authorities accordingly. His republic was doomed as a sovereign entity among nations, but he ultimately received personal protection from being fined as he was seen as a likeable outsider (and perhaps of interest to the tourists also). 

The Colonel was of Scottish descent and served with the King's Own Scottish Borderers in WW I (according to Wikipedia). The trouser pattern in question could well exhibit the unit's (mainly green-and-blue) tartan. Also, the cape he wears appears very similar to those exhibited at the King's Own Scottish Borderers Regimental Museum's web site. And as for him wearing trousers instead of a Scottish kilt I'd say: maybe it's some (Scottish) Winter uniform :) $URL$ P.S. Nice web site about the Colossus computer, BTW. 

Do we know what Thomas Mann (via his attorney Valentin Heims) yielded in these negotiations with Hitler's Nazis? (The article cites Golo's Mann's autobiography, which I do not have ready, as source for the last sentence.) I assume its fair to refer to negotiations with Nazis, because the article identifies the driver as a follower of Adolf Hitler. Thomas Mann was about to emigrate to the U.S. 

This is a wide-ranging question that perhaps permits many answers, e.g. of both linguistic and political kinds. Sometimes renaming a town was a way of exerting a (outside) ruler's power: e.g. what was once Königsberg is now Kaliningrad, what was once Vindobona is now Wien (Vienna). Notice that it's not always straightforward to determine what the "right" name should be even from today's perspective. The phenomenon also occurs within single languages: e.g. what was once Leningrad (and I should use the proper Russian name here, but don't read/speak the language) is now (again) St. Petersburg, and what is now Wolgograd was once Zarizyn then Stalingrad. It would seem that there are also more innocent versions of the same phenomenon: for instance the English name Prague for Praha is perhaps to approximate faithfully the pronunciation of the city's German name Prag (and notice that Praha had a German-speaking majority well into the 19th century). Personally, I try to avoid corrupting "correctly" formed city names when pronouncing them in English, our modern lingua franca: e.g. the normal English pronunciation of Montreal (in a way, even more so Montpelier) must be quite "horrid" to a native French speaker (and notice, these are quite clearly French names: mont = mountain); I try to do better (or "better") when situations permit. (Presumably this also affects native Spanish speakers vis-à-vis the English pronunciation of Los Angeles.) BTW, how do you call Mt. Everest (aka Chomolungma aka 珠穆朗玛峰 ...) or Pope Francis (aka Franciscus aka Jorge Mario Bergoglio ...). The business of "canonical" names IMO seems quite hopeless (note to self: Wittgenstein I vs. II :), but of course one should be cognizant and respectful of places' (let alone the people's inhabiting them) histories and facets. 

The German Wikipedia article on Propaganda im Ersten Weltkrieg (apparently w/o English version) includes a few more examples, such as a U.S. poster from 1917 that may have preceded King Kong. Starting from there, one can find more British material e.g. here and here. Unfortunately, it apparently does not reveal specific Indian propaganda posters either. I think @cleopterist's point about poverty and population levels deserves consideration as the (a) possible explanation: literacy rates in India climbed from approx. 40 to 65 percent between 1980 and 2005 (a bit higher for males alone): they must have been well below the 40 percent mark at the time of the Great War. (Though one might perhaps argue that posters target both literates and illiterates alike, as may still be true for Bollywood movie posters to some extent.) 

The Wikipedia article on the U.S. Democratic Party cites JFK and LBJ next to FDR (whom @Mark C. Wallace cited above) in this context. I have read biographies of all three Presidents, and based primarily on evidence from Robert Caro's The Years of Lyndon Johnson I would vote for LBJ's case being the strongest even among those three. Here's an excerpt from the introduction of Book Three: Master of the Senate (2002): 

At this point Pocock references p. 300 in Christopher J Herold's Bonaparte in Egypt, which I do not have available for consultation right now. He also says that the letter stung Bonaparte. There is no indication that e.g. de Frotté may have influenced Smith towards sending the letter (and the leaflet). Pocock specifically mentions that Smith made use of the Naval blockade to prevent Bonaparte from returning to France (this is after the end of the siege): 

From what I've gathered from books (e.g. Joseph Baratz' A Village By the Jordan: The Story of Degania and Daniel Gavron's The Kibbutz: Awakening from Utopia) kibbutzim were of critical importance to Israel prior to and in the immediate period after of the state's foundation. They were both collective and agricultural enterprises, they also offered local protection to early settlers. As the Israeli society matured and modernized and the local industrial economy grew to strength they tended to loose in overall importance in the decades since. 

For what I remember, Chiang's relationship with the Green Gang is addressed in detail in Sterling Seagrave's The Soong Dynasty ("One loved power, one loved money, one loved China: three remarkable sisters who shaped China's greatness") and to a lesser extent also in Jay Taylor's The Generalissimo: Chiang Kai-shek and the Struggle for Modern China. Here's from the introduction of a Seagrave's 1985 account: 

I can think of examples from history where societies erupted in revolutions against elites or perceived moral corruptions. Is there any good example where the cause of a major revolution was too rapid progress in contemporary technology (and its subsequent impact on mass employment or the environment, say) and where a form of Luddism then prevailed in society for some time? Presumably concrete revolutions always have several of these causes: I'm looking for an example that best fits as a luddite revolution. 

Is there a canonical primary source (or recommended secondary source) that covers this significant event in the history of ideas in detail? 

I was listening to a (German-language) podcast where this argument was made (tranlation into English courtesy of Google translate):