No one location Pick out several locations - clumps of trees in a park, alleyways, abandoned warehouses, car parks, shopping malls - and vary your route between them. Muggles are pretty awful observers, after all, so you can take advantage of that. Yes, people are going to notice that StackExchangeMan flew out of a building, but they were very unlikely to have been paying any attention to LukeN when he went in. If witnesses can give any description at all, it's likely to be vague and generalised. If you can get more than one witness to disagree on what they saw, even better. If you changed in a park last time, assume that park is full of Downvoteite and had for the shopping mall. If you entered the warehouse through the north side, fly out through a window on the east side. Go in on the bottom storey of a multistorey car park and fly out through level three (not the top level, though - too obvious). But best of all? Don't tell anyone that StackExchangeMan has a secret identity Make it known that StackExchangeMan lives in his Fortress of Review in the wilderness of Detroit, and comes out when needed. If you have the technology to create robot duplicates of yourself, build one that can sit on a deck chair in front of the Fortress whenever you're not in action. People shouldn't even be looking for your secret identity, because even the fact that you have a secret identity is a secret. 

I don't think you're ever going to find a society where the concept of personal names doesn't exist - personal names are one of the very few true cultural universals, concepts that exist in every human society. A society that didn't have such names is almost unimaginable. HOWEVER... A society where all formal interactions are deliberately anonymised might be plausible. Let's suppose a culture where taking violent revenge on any tradesman who provided perceived substandard goods was not just accepted, but required; one could imagine that tradesmen might start anonymising themselves, so that one could never be certain which blacksmith made the horseshoe that broke. Alternatively, consider a culture in which a person taking on a particular role was considered to be personifying a (deity/spirit/djinn) that oversaw that role. They might wear formal robes and masks to help sell this idea, entirely subsuming their personal identity behind that of the god. Such a custom could expand to others, so that eventually all business was being conducted between anonymous masks. Personal names and identities would only be used in social or family settings. A crime committed by one of these masked individuals would have to be reported as "The blacksmith did it!" - but who's the blacksmith? How can you identify exactly which blacksmith it was, or even who is a blacksmith in their family group? It's not even any good to just go in and execute all the blacksmiths, because the person who was working as a smith on the day of the crime might not be doing that job today. 

"Stone" isn't really a thing, in the way think of it. It's not a simple substance like plastic, glass, or metals that can be melted and molded. The properties that make a stone come from a complex interplay of many factors. Stones made from exactly the same elements and molecules can behave in radically different ways depending on how quickly or slowly they cool. Marble, specifically, is composed of calcium carbonate crystals. Normally it has started out as limestone, produced by biological processes, which is subjected to heat and pressure that causes the calcium carbonate to crystallise in an interlocking pattern. If you were to take that marble and melt it at atmospheric pressure, you'd actually destroy the calcium carbonate, and be left with calcium oxide and carbon dioxide. To melt it down while maintaining its chemical composition, you'd have to subject it to enormous pressure while heating it to around 180°C at the same time. This wouldn't melt the marble, but it would allow you to reshape it. You would then have to control its cooling very precisely, to allow it the time to form the interlocking crystal structure that makes it marble. This would likely take a long time, though I can't find exactly how long; generally, the more slowly something cools, the larger crystals it would form. The same answer applies to most other rocks as well. In most cases, if you simply melt down a rock and let it cool, you're going to get some form of glass. After all, we make glass by melting sand, and sand is simply pulverised rock. The way minerals cool is actually more important to what they become than what they started as. It's all about the size of the crystals you can form in a given sample. Take a look at this: 

A Bajoran handheld weapon. While the configurations are similar, notice that the grip of the cardassian weapon extends from the body at pretty close to 90 degrees, an angle that a human would find very uncomfortable. The bajoran weapon has a much more familiar angle to its grip. This fits the fact that cardassians are intended to be an enemy species that look very different from humans, while bajorans just have bumpy noses. The design in this case is intended to suggest that different species not only have different rubber prosthetics, but that their limbs are hooked on differently. So, while all species face the same structural design considerations, the goal they're trying to reach with their structures and technology can be very different, and they may be working with different physical needs - all of which can justify some very different designs, and keep concept artists fully employed. 

On the whole, people would probably handle it very well The scenario you're describing isn't really that much different from, say, sitting on a train and looking out the window when you enter/leave a tunnel. Your body is not propelling itself anywhere, but the scenery outside is changing drastically and instantaneously. Our brains are on the whole remarkably flexible, able to adjust to all kinds of 'unnatural' events without any serious difficulty. In this scenario, probably the worst you could expect would be a serious case of jetlag. 

Psychopomps Many cultures have had some kind of tradition of spiritual beings whose duty is to escort the souls of the dead to the afterlife. These beings are called psychopomps, which literally means "Guide of Souls". These beings are often gods or animals. These guides could be a natural part of the world, provided by God/the Gods to ensure the safety of their followers. Perhaps one has to be sure to live according to the religious codes to ensure that their guide will be there for them when they die. Alternatively, they could have been created by man, specifically to guard the souls of the dead; perhaps there are a handful of priests who train all their lives to become powerful spiritual warriors, able to leave their bodies to find and help the souls of those trapped in the real world. Perhaps there are warriors who are trained for years to become models of selflessness, powerful fighters and guardians, who are then sacrificed and their bodies are preserved, allowing them to remain tied to the world as psychopomps. In any case, there would be those - mages or priests - who specialised in communicating with the guides in order to find these bodies as quickly as possible. Body-finders If there are no psychopomps, then there is an opportunity for profit. Adventurous people could be hired to go to battlefields, plagued villages, dangerous places, to find the bodies of the deceased and return them for proper burial. Some body-finders would be respected, spiritual men, who journey ceaselessly across the land seeking out bodies, perhaps by magical means or by communicating with the dead, to return them without thought of reward. Others would be pure mercenaries, hardened fighters who go to places of danger to recover bodies and then hold them for ransom. Others still would be beachcombers and fishermen, finding bodies washed up on the shore or floating in the sea and taking them to the priests. The priests would have a duty to reward anyone who brought a body to them. Blood Magic Blood relations have always had a powerful folkloric connection, and in a situation like this that could probably be exploited. There could be people, perhaps mages or priests, who are able to trace a person's family from their blood. If father goes away to war and doesn't come back, a priest or a mage could take some of their blood or just their psychic fingerprint and use it to home in on the location of the body so that it can be retrieved. Of course, this can be combined with either of the other ideas, or all could be used together.