For more reasonable examples see: J Occup Health. 2012;54(6):416-26. Epub 2012 Sep 1. "Cupping for treating neck pain in video display terminal (VDT) users: a randomized controlled pilot trial." Kim TH, Kang JW, et.al. 

By comparison, an article in the Journal of Arboriculture 29(2): March 2003 indicates that the city of Davis, California 

One of the latest (Jan 2013) studies on this topic" published by the Journal of Separation Science begins by writing that "smoke is an extremely complex and dynamic aerosol" which forms from "a series of complex processes including combustion, pyrolysis, pyrosynthesis, distillation, sublimation, condensation, filtration, and elution." The same study isolates "almost 2,500 individual compounds" from cigarette smoke (by using comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry). An earlier and widely-cited study by Green and Rodgman puts that number at 4,800, using a different method. Other studies (which I saw cited, but have not reviewed myself) range from 900 to 10,000 compounds. The important thing to note here is that "cigarette smoke composition is known to be sensitive to cigarette construction and the way the cigarette is smoked" and that the results of divergent findings "cannot be compared with other studies" directly when the methodologies differ. A 2007 study by a group of Chinese scientists isolates 141 compounds in burning straw, but they again use a different methodology from the studies cited above. "The carcinogenic compounds in oil smoke particulates from Chinese cooking practice have not yet been characterized," concludes another research paper in the Chemical Research in Toxicology, circa 2000. Some tentative conclusions after reviewing the literature: 

Note the years. Having a remote base like Groom Lake allows for that (as well as other extraordinary security measures). As for the physical location, it is well known, and before the government took control of "Freedom Ridge" people could even photograph parts of it. Also, you can request information from the DoD as long as it isn't classified. It exists, and again, for what the USAF is doing, the Wikipedia article is generally accurate. That is not to say that there aren't projects going on there that no one really knows about. We may be developing some sort of micro-UAV, or a high flying persistent ISR platform, UCAV, or whatever. What one can say with confidence is that there are no "mystical" or extra-terrestrial artifacts there. The evidence against those items are supported by the whole of science. And keep in mind, any government project is most likely not limited to just one location. There will be things that can only be tested at other places (like the McKinley Climatic Hangar). And some basic science may come from AFRL in Kirtland, Wright-Patt, or wherever. Any DoD program will by definition involve a much larger operation. 

The search for "miswak" returns 72 hits on PubMed, which is one of the most comprehensive databases of references and abstracts on life sciences and biomedical topics. I have briefly reviewed the abstracts of each, and none support anything but claims related to oral hygiene. Having said that, there are numerous studies supporting the link between oral hygiene and general health. See, for example, "Periodontitis as risk factor for acute myocardial infarction: A case control study" in Heart Views, 2013 Jan;14(1):5-11. So, in a sense, the claims have some truth to them in so far as taking care of your teeth and mouth, whether by miswak or with a toothbrush, is better than doing nothing.† † Please note that this answer does not constitute medical advice. It is only meant to summarize published research related to the topic and limited to the cited sources. Consult your physician about what these results may mean for your health. 

BACK TO CONSPIRACY THEORIES: As we understand weather and earthquakes, there is no known mechanism by which HAARP can accomplish either conspiracy goal. Since HAARP uses EM, it does not fall into any known application for having an actual effect on weather (Wiki). As for using any sort of EM to control earthquakes, most of this stems from theoretical work that there may be some precursors to earthquakes. (Wiki) Although, if this was reliable, I am quite certian Japan would also have this level of technology, and would have actually used it to warn their population prior to the 11 MAR 11 earthquake. Does that mean that the research these agencies do can't go beyond analyzing the ionosphere for those particular applications? No. They may indeed find some interesting applications that they weren't aware of before starting the study. Is there anything nefarious going on? Well, wanting to detect missiles, and perhaps enabling covert communications could be considered "nefarious" by some, but not beyond the scope of what agencies such as the USAF, USN, and DARPA do all the time. So if the government claims HAARP is ionospheric research, and a conspiracy theorists claims it's meant to control the Yellowstone Caldera, what answer should any reasonable person give? A simple "no" will of course be met with "the government is lying" response, and no matter what is shown to the believer, they will claim that there is something hidden. In these cases, it is standard policy to ignore these fringe elements because engaging them is ultimately more destructive than just ignoring them. 

You often hear a variation on the idea that plants "absorb" air pollution. For example, in a Yahoo News article on Beijing smog, the reporter writes: 

The performance artist Marina Abramović has said the following in a forum at the New York Public Library: 

This is not my field, but I have taken graduate-level courses on Andalusian history and the history of mathematics. From what I can tell, the claim is at best imprecise and at worst an outright misrepresentation of history. For example, in an article published by the British Society for the History of Science, "From Abacus to Algorism: Theory and Practice in Medieval Arithmetic," Gillian Evans writes that: 

Even so, it takes a great deal of research on the part of anyone who is digesting poll results to really get an idea of what is truly happening. Sadly, the general public does not put forth that effort, nor does the media traditionally delve into polls beyond the surface results. Does that mean one should discount the results entirely? No, as previously stated, the science and methodology is actually pretty well understood. It's just what people do with the results that ends up making the results so difficult to parse. There is an actual quarterly publication journal for polling organizations. I suggest you read up in Public Opinion Quarterly if you desire to learn more. (1) By controlled random is that the pollsters actually understand how their selection methodology may bias a "random" population. For instance, if they only call people with a land line, they are more apt to get older and rural respondents. If they conduct it via the internet, then that population also has a bias. 

The results can be seen on his website, where Seldeen writes: "unsubscribing reduced average emails from 350 to about 80 per day, a decrease of nearly 80%."1 Michael Dayah, a web developer from Knoxville, Tennessee writes: 

Obstet Gynecol. 2003 Jun;101(6):1345-9. "Bust enhancing" herbal products. Fugh-Berman A. Department of Health Care Sciences, George Washington University School of Medicine, Washington, DC, USA. fughberman@aol.com 

While I cannot speak to the veracity of the video, gutter oil is mentioned enough times in other verifiable sources to make it a reasonably accurate story. An article in Bioresource Technology mentions "popular concern on food security caused by illegal use of gutter oil in China" as well as "producing biodiesel from gutter oil."1 There is another article in the Journal of China Executive Leadership Academy with the title "Dilemma in the Supervision of 'Gutter Oil.'"2 It starts like this: 

It depends on where you look. And exactly as people have said, what defines happiness. According to some studies, religious people tend to be happier. 

EDIT DUE TO QUESTION EDIT: Well, how "common" are solo sailors on marathon journeys? I did a quick search, and wikipedia gave me a list of 49 names. Assuming that this list is most likely incomplete, we still have a very small sample size. Again, I think there are more Navy SEALS than there are solo sailors. The SEALS display this as a common technique because they are forced to do it. For the solo sailor, this would equally likely be the case since there are many things they need to do while navigating a boat. There is a community of single handed sailors that discuss sleeping, and the "not being in control" part seems to be a frightening thing for them. Another consideration is that there are no navigation light signals that indicate a sailor is getting sleep. While the big ocean theory may hold for most, it would be a bad thing to get hit by another boat if you are sleeping. Another factor to consider is that as technology changes, the sailors may be able to get more sleep and only get woken up if a condition warrants their attention. Many folks (myself included) don't consider things like auto-pilots for boats, and a proximity warning system. So while the sleep deprivation may have been a normal technique to deal with the requirement for attention, that requirement may be getting solved by technology, thus reducing the need to take this drastic sleep measure. This 2002 trans-Pacific race features the plans some of the sailors were going to use, and they say things like: 

There are studies on cupping, but many are of poor quality, published in alternative medicine journals, and mostly done in East Asia--which can influence the results. The short version, is that there is some evidence for efficacy of cupping for specific conditions. But the results are not very rigourous. For example, Zhen Jiu Lin Chuang Za Zhi (Clinical Journal of Acupuncture & Moxibustion) publishes studies like these, which look like science, but have conclusions like: 

In summary and in (partial) answer to your question, with many caveats outlined in the above to papers, girl brains develop faster than boy brains. This may correspond to earlier "maturation" in the colloquial sense, if that sense is understood, for example, as the development of the frontal lobe, which is responsible for impulse control. The issue of whether such differences are affected by nurture is not addressed in these studies. There is however strong evidence for significant physiological differences in the rate of brain development.