We can derive from (1) a true sentence if we replace the pronoun she by the definite description the witch reported on in the Gotham Star, but this definite description may not be available to any of the participants in the conversation (perhaps none of them reads the newspapers). The point is that the sentence in (1) may be true even if all the sentences derived from it by replacing she with a contextually available definite description are false. 

According to (3) and (4), in deriving the meanings of the expressions almost half crazy/sane, the meaning of almost half combines each time with another meaning, and therefore it is not surprising that the two final expressions differ in meaning. A second way to solve the problem is to accept the constituent structure in (1), but to deny that half crazy and half sane have the same meaning. Maybe the meanings of half crazy and half sane always combine with some approximation/precision value, and when such value is not expressed it is taken to be the absolute precision value (the value expressed by exactly). We can now assume that the meanings of half crazy and half sane are such that they give the same meaning when combining with the meaning of exactly but not when combining with the meanings of other approximation/precision expressions (like almost). A third way to solve the problem is to accept the constituent structure in (1), but to deny the principle expressed by (2). We can now assume that in deriving the meanings of almost half crazy/sane, the meaning of almost is combined with the meaning of half, even though it doesn’t form a constituent with this element. Reference: Invitation to Cognitive Science, 2nd edition. Daniel Osherson, general editor; in Part I: Language, Lila Gleitman and Mark Liberman, eds. MIT Press, Cambridge 1995, pp. 311-360. 

Unicode (within and beyond the BMP) has nearly 75,000 code points for CJK (Chinese Japanese Korean). The vast majority of these characters are actual words (most modern Chinese words are made of more than a single ideogram, yet most Kanji/Hanzi characters have meanings equivalent to our words). More generally Unicode encodes many (at least partially) ideographic writings (many of them from ancient languages: e.g. Hittites, Cretan and Egyptian hieroglyphs, etc...). So Unicode already has a lot of characters for "words". Having one character per word could seem a nice idea but there are a few hurdles in the way of course. If you have one character for each word, you need: 

Let's start with a real meaning of "outside". This is from the Genesis (as you can recognise). v 1355. 

At least in my dialect of Spanish (Rioplatense) sometimes the imperfect past tense is used instead of both the subjunctive and the potential in conditional sentences (as exemplified below). This is colloquial and I'm sure many people would view it as ungrammatical, but is used often enough. 

There is not a single R-sound in French. There are at least two rhotic sounds considered "standard": [ʁ] and [χ] (voiced and voiceless uvular fricatives respectively), and not long ago the Paris dialect had a uvular trill [ʀ] instead (listen to Edith Piaf). But French is not only the educated standard or the Paris dialect; in Southern France older speakers still use an alveolar trill, as in Quebec. It seems that uvular R is not originally Germanic, and there is no evidence that Germanic languages influenced French in this sense. Some believe that the reverse may have happened (that uvular R in German was borrowed from French) but this has also been contested. The guttural pronunciations in French are attested only since the end of the 17th century, and only becomes common in the 18th. It's clearly possible that both French and the Germanic languages (as well as many others) evolved their uvular sounds independently. In the French SE post the question starts by saying that "in every romance language, except French, the phoneme /R/ is an alveolar trill [r]", which is wrong, since Portuguese also has a variety of guttural (uvular and velar) realizations of R. 

Subject and object are names of grammatical function categories. The grammatical function of a constituent in a sentence is determined by its relation to other constituents in the sentence. The subject, for example, is what the meaning of the predicate is predicated of, and it also agrees with the head of the predicate - the main verb, if there is one - in person, number and gender. Note that verb is not a grammatical function category but a syntactic category. The verb in a sentence realizes the grammatical function of head of the predicate (sometimes called the predicator), as can be seen in the syntactic structure tree below, where the grammatical function categories appears in blue. You can read a little more about this distinction here. 

Assume someone utters this sentence to a group of people who are familiar with Hob, Bob, Nob and Cob and their livestock, but who, up until the moment the utterance of (1) is made, have been unaware of Hob’s and Nob’s belief that a witch has been harming farm animals. Assume further that all the participants in the conversation rightly believe that witches don’t exist and that Hob and Nob are wrong. Such a context provides the two definite descriptions in (2) as possible substitutes for the pronoun she in (1): 

Men have traditionally been "public". Men are often traditional rulers (kings, chieftains) and the heads of households. Not so long ago men were the only visible political agents, as elected leaders, ministers, etc. and also (in democratic societies) as voters. In many countries it was only in the last century that women could enter some public professions, graduate from universities, etc. Traditional gender roles, still prevalent in many parts of the world, place men in the public sphere and "hide" women. All of this has no doubt influenced the shift of words like homo from "human being" to "man, male". This is however speculative. We don't know why people started using homo to mean "male human being", thus losing a perfectly good generic word, even when they had another perfectly good term, vir, to designate men. We can only document the change and guess at the cause. Gender roles aside, historical contingency obviously also plays a role. While English changed the main meaning of man from a generic human being to a male one (all the while preserving the generic sense because of the gender issues mentioned above), closely related German did differently: it did change Mann into "male human being" but kept Mensch (derived from the same root) to mean "person", and the indefinite pronoun man to mean "one" (not unlike French on). Modern German also notably employs Mann and Frau ("man" and "woman") as synonyms for "husband" and "wife", a parallelism that is not found in other languages (e. g. in Spanish one says mi mujer, lit. "my woman", to mean "my wife", even though mi hombre "my man" does not mean "my husband"). German speakers are, I'm sure, not particularly less prone to assign gender roles than English speakers, but this does not show in this particular subset of its lexicon. 

The finite clause (with or without the complementizer that) is a different syntactic category than the noun phrase, as can be seen from the fact that finite clauses have a different distribution than noun phrases. Some examples are given in your question and in @curiousdannii’s answer above; two more examples are given in (1) and (2). 

Adopting (2) means that according to (1), we derive the meaning of almost half crazy by first combining the meanings of half and crazy and then combining the meaning of almost with that of half crazy. Since half crazy has the same meaning as half sane, it’s not clear how almost gives one meaning when combined with the first and another meaning when combined with the second. One way to solve the problem is to deny that the expressions almost half crazy/sane have the structure in (1) and assign them instead the constituent structure in (3), which is also given by the tree in (4). 

In OE, you have both utan ("outside") and innan ("inside"). Often found side by side (just as we do today): "inside and outside" => innan and utan (e.g. Genesis 1320).1 

Now about the semantic shift from "outside" to "unless" which ultimately led to the displacement of ac/ak (the "but" as a conjunction in Old English). Here are a few examples I picked from the corpus of Old English Poetry gradually evolving from from "outside" to "unless". All 'translations' are mine and are deliberately literal in order to facilitate the word to word correspondence. 

As well as ufan and utan "above and outside" for the rhyme. In Dutch, innen has survived as a verb: "to cash in" 

I don't know enough about West Germanic (or Dutch) to trace the etymology of composition of be ("by") and ut/utan. However, here are a few observations on that topic. 

(1) demonstrates that certain verbs that take finite clauses as semantic complements can (or must) be separated from them by non-referential it; but this is not an option for noun phrase complements of the same verbs. (2) demonstrates that noun phrases can appear between a verb that selects them as argument and a predicate (rude above) that is also an argument of the verb; but this is not an option for finite clauses. However, phrases of different syntactic categories may sometime overlap with respect to the grammatical functions they realize in the sentence. Both noun phrases and finite clauses (with the complementizer that) may be the subject of a sentence, for example. You can read a little bit more about the difference between syntactic category and grammatical function in this post. 

Not only do you have butan as "outside => except/unless" but also binnan "within", formed on the same model (be+innan). So yes, the adjunction of be ("by", PDG bei) to indicate a positioning relative to self is confirmed. PDG still has innen and binnen. Dutch as well retains binnen and buiten.2 If you think of it, it is also present in Present Day English: that's the with- in within and without.So far so good. 

So basically, a Unicode for words, as you put it, is probably for the time being a regression for many synthetic languages. After all, before the advent of computers, the Phoenician alphabet was hailed as an important progress. This might change with the generalisation of Text To Speech and Voice Recognition technologies. But we're not there yet. 

In a comparative work Maya script is said to employ semantic determinatives in a particular way. After citing a trio of near-homophones which are spelled with the same glyphs, it says that 

Evan(s) and Ivan also come from Ioannes, so whatever happened did not happen only in Italian. (Forget about the h; most Greek dialects lost it early, and Latin also lost it, and the Romance languages that gained it by other processes also lost it. I don't know how it got there in German, but it's entirely possible that it was learned, i. e. copied from the Classical Latin rendering of the name, as was the case with the name of Christ.) Italian got the name from Latin. During the long evolution of Latin, the sounds we see today rendered orthographically as b and v changed a lot. At times there was actually no v (as in English /v/); the leter V was used to indicate /u/ as well as /w/ (some people prefer to say those were just variants of a single sound /u/, but that's of no consequence here). Now at some point Latin /w/ changed into /β/ (a voiced bilabial fricative) and then into /v/, in certain contexts. At this point I'm guessing that more or less the same process that gave Spanish Juan its medial /u/ (phonetically [w]) and Welsh Ifan (= Evan) its /v/ also gave Italian Giovanni its /v/. It looks like there was an insertion (epenthesis) of a glide [w] between /o/ and /a/. This is to be expected as Latin and Romance languages historically tend toward CV syllables and dislike hiatus (so adjacent vowels in different syllables tend to be simplified, turned into diphthongs or separated by a consonant). In any case it must also be taken into account that proper names often evolve (phonetically) in unpredictable ways. This is especially true of classical and biblical names. 

You are not wrong; German unter and Latin inter are actually related. See for instance wiktionary PGm entry for under: 

This explains why in OE, under had both the meaning of "beneath" and that of "amongst/between". Only the former acceptation subsists today. As an aside note regarding the latter meaning of "between", you can have a look at de Vaan 2008 inter (many cognates meaning "entrails" in many languages - gory). The prefix under in undertake is to compare to unter in unternehmen ("undertake" in Present Day German) - since "nehmen" means "to take". And as a matter of fact, before switching to "undertaken" in Middle English, Old English had undernimen. But then, during Middle English, taken displaced OE niman - IMO under the influence of Old Norse. Undernimen was therefore logically replaced by undertaken. Also note that, in its other meaning of "understand", undernimen also disappeared and only understandan remained as PDE understand. French entre is, as you well know, a direct descendent of Latin inter. Romance languages use inter or in 1. Italian has both imprendere/intrapendere - as you know prendere is to take. Also Spanish has emprender; Portuguese has interprender. You have a similar phenomenon with underwritan ("underwrite") and unterschreiben). But this time, German takes schreiben from Latin scribo and English sticks with PGm *writana. See subscribe. Also worth mentioning is entertain (cognate with French entre-tenir etc); to compare with German unterhalten (halten = to hold/tenir). This time there was no OE equivalent for entertain, so a Romance loan word was imported. So to summarise, PDE undertake does not come from Anglo-Norman entreprendre (mostly "to attack") or even Late Latin imprehendere/interprehendere ("to assault by surprise", "undertake"). However they do have common traceable PIE roots and there is, as you suggest, a correspondence between entre and under in a number of cases.