Weapons Also, just to make this answer complete, I agree with the other answers about using aluminum as a weapon material. That would not work well because being soft makes it not hold an edge, and bending on impact is bad for a weapon for the same reason it is good for a set of armor, it spreads out the force of the impact. Additionally, if you are trying to cut someone else wearing iron or steel armor, your aluminum weapon won't be able to penetrate it at all. 

Armor To disagree with the other stated ideas here, I think Aluminum could be a surprisingly good armor material. Disclaimer: I don't have great sources on this and I am definitely not a materials engineer so please correct me if I'm wrong From what I can tell aluminum is about a third as dense as steel, about a third as stiff as steel, and about half as hard as steel. That may sounds like a bad material, and it is if it is difficult to make in large quantities, but it also has some advantages. 

One point that hasn't yet been covered by the other answers is that it is quite possible to show someone that you have complex speech capabilities without actually sharing a language. I don't speak Chinese, but when I hear Chinese spoken, I can tell that there is meaning and structure there compared to when a dog barks or an ape using various grunting noises to communicate. Similarly, we can tell that there is some meaning and syntax among the "languages" of other intelligent animals like dolphins, and we have put quite a lot of work into establishing communication with these species even though we don't expect them to ever learn English. The advanced ape species may not realize that your speech is as advanced as theirs, but I suspect that just by speaking to them in your native language you could convince them that you are intelligent. If you coupled that with writing things in the dirt or on the wall, you may really pique their interest. That would get you past the issue of them thinking you are just imitating their speech like a parrot. If you could catch the interest of one of their zoologists, then you could work more closely with them to teach each other your languages, which would greatly increase the speed at which you learned. 

For somewhat Meta answer, Skeptics.SE would get a question next day asking if God really existed. It would get on Hot Questions list, gather 4242 upvotes, be closed as "Current and developing events are off topic"; later re-opened; and have every single upvoted answer deleted because there are no papers confirming the proof of what happened and no way to do a randomized double blind study. 

Another likely angle: if your moon gods are themselves specialized (the question seems to reject that option?), a new god would be a patron god of something. And if that something happened to be a recently powerful demographics that didn't have a patron god, they would clearly make it worth your priestly while if you ensure that now the god has them covered. Maybe, you recently had a rich class of luxury traders. Or a new agriculture branch gained prominence (Who's up for god of Quinwa or Monsanto?) May be that's how patronage of gods over specific things starts in the first place. 

By some combination of changes in both the environment, and human biology, humans evolved on Earth in a way that basically makes them 100% unable to alter their minds using traditional methods: 

The priestly class would react by amending the mythos to include the new god. And - color me cynical - parlay this to their benefit. Plenty of natural explanations to use: Path #1: mortal ascension to godhood. Plenty of examples from our own history. Just taking Olympians, we have Dionysus being granted godhood in many versions (see Wiki discussion on he late addition to the mythos). Same thing happens in Heracles story. Dionysus is a very good example as he was clearly added on to earlier pantheon separately, as Wiki notes. Path #2: Baby god arriving. Again, drawing on Olympic tradition, we have Hermes. Well, the entire set is basically each other's kids :), but Hermes was added on later. This is probably the likeliest path - having children is a natural thing for human's gods. Your people would probably find details of the new moon (size, color, location) that are in-between of two existing ones and explain that it "inherited" from both parents. Or even more likely, all the moon gods are kids of sun god and Earth goddess (the latter seems to be typically female for obvious reasons). Path #3: Errand done. The god was missing due to being on an important errand, and finally got back. Or was completing training or right of passage and now it's done. Probably slip in an obscure legendary prophecy about it (that someone just made up). If I'm the priest making the prophecy, I get to ensure people pay me more goodies as a consequence. Path #4: Keep up the good work worshipping!. The god was previously unhappy and unwilling to show its face. As a result of heroic efforts of the priesthood (and now pay us more goodies to sustain that) we got the god happier... and if the goodies keep coming we will work to ensure the continued happiness. Path #5: We have always been at war with Oceania. If the religion has a more centralized and hierarchical priesthood (ala Egyptians), not a big deal to amend your official Party Line and add in a new god. You issue a new set of rules, everyone falls in line and worships under new rules. It may be good practice to smooth things over using one of the approaches listed above, but not entirely necessary. 

Because it is a third as heavy, you should in theory be able to make it about three times thicker than a steel alternative while being about as easy to wear and use. This more than makes up for the lack of hardness, and actually has a significant advantage just by being thicker. That advantage is that when slicing through it, you have to pass through three times as much material, which means three times as much friction and mass to displace, which means that you may actually have better piecing/slashing protection from aluminum armor than from steel armor by weight. Because aluminum is softer than steel, it is more likely to deform rather than totally break. This is particularly good when dealing with blunt impact because it absorbs a portion of the energy of the blow by bending, similar to crumple zones in a car Another advantage of being softer is that it could in theory be easier to shape for the smith, which would also potentially make it easier to repair when damaged. This may be contravened by needing to be thicker, but I don't actually know that much about smithing, so I'll leave that question to someone with expertise. If you need lighter armor at the expense of protection, aluminum would make for great chain mail. It would still do well enough for glancing/slashing blows, though it would do much worse than iron or steel at stopping a piecing weapon. The major concern (and I don't know how this would work in reality, but I would love to see a practical test), would be if the steel slashing weapon (lets say a knife) might just cut through the aluminum rings and get to you anyway. 

A possibility that I don't see listed elsewhere here is that we may have some sort of physical trait that they find to be very useful. For example, they may be very small, very large, aquatic, unable to breath in oxygen rich environment, etc. For that reason they may want us to become more technologically advanced so that we can work along side them in a mutually beneficial relationship. Imagine that we came across a relatively intelligent alien species, but they had the anatomy of a flea. Setting up communication with them, teaching them about more advanced technology, and figuring out how to work together could be super useful. Just think how good that species would be at doing precise work like dentistry or brain surgery. At the same time we would be good at things they are less good at like building large machines, having better vision, etc.