One such basis is to reduce the world around us to a finite number of indivisible pieces, which is more manageable than a continuous infinitely divisible structure. 

This makes logical sense if and only if you maintain that saying that the will is not free doesn't necessarily imply that one has no freedom at all over their will. It would thus be wise to modify that part of your speech to include this disclaimer. 

A "belief in God" refers simply to the adoption of a set of assumptions involving a "God", whereas "gambling with the truth" is a statement involving a system, relative to a definition of "truth", which is another system. The first refers to a description of a single structure, the second refers to the relationship between two structures. 

This depends on the definition of "enjoyment" at hand, which is ambiguous. One can define this term to cause both equality and inequality in "life fulfillment". 

Descartes regards his cogito ergo sum argument as a premise (i.e. an assumption), rather than a proof or a conclusion. Hence, to Descartes, for an object, the quality of being conceived is strictly less general than the quality of existing. Thus, to Descartes, there might be unconceivable objects which exist, but there are no conceivable objects which do not exist. 

Sarcasm, in part, by definition, means "the use of remarks that clearly mean the opposite of what they say". That being said, a truth table that is the inverse of the truth table for the non-sarcastic version of the statement seems to be valid. However, as mentioned in the comments, there are other aspects to sarcasm that don't lend itself to a truth table, mainly that, by definition, sarcasm is "designed to cut or give pain" and is "bitter, caustic, and often ironic in language that is usually directed against an individual". This aspect of sarcasm does not lend itself to a truth table. In short, one can use sarcasm to convey the truth or to attack someone or both. It can also be used as a method of humor and in such cases , though the sarcasm may offend the person(s) that are targeted, the ultimate goal is more light-hearted and benign e.g, to illicit laughter. 

You might want to look at the arguments made with regard to the philosophy of David Benatar, a professor of philosophy at the University of Cape Town in Cape Town, South Africa. I realize you mentioned he does not see himself as a pro-mortalist but this paper may be of interest to you nonetheless. Benatar’s anti-natalism equates to pro-mortalism paper 

"Logic" varying does not mean that it is unreliable. What we have seen in the question is that there are different forms of logic which correspond to different mathematical structures. Contradictions only arise when one attempts to identify one with the other. Mathematics is thus universal in describing these structures unambiguously and finding their links. 

This depends on the definition of "foundation" at hand. If one uses this term to refer to the historical development of both fields, then both have helped and contributed to each other hand-in-hand, at which point your question becomes equivalent to that of the chicken and the egg. If, on the other hand, one uses this term to refer to the inclusion of one in the second, where the second "builds upon" the first, so to speak, then since there are aspects of one not in the other, neither is included in the other, so the answer to your question is neither. 

In your question you use the term "perfect" in two different ways: as a property of God, and as a property of the unicorn. If God and the unicorn were perfect in exactly the same way then they would be the same (assuming the definition of "perfect" in question allows for the existence of only one perfect thing, much like the maximal element in a fully ordered set). However, the "perfectness" of the unicorn is understood to be bound to the form of the unicorn itself, as imagined by the observer in question. Thus, the answer to all your questions but the second is no. 

Time is a physical factor and the term used to capture this concept is the word 'TIME'. You attempt to give 3 different definitions that appear to need reconcilation. I would submit these are not equal definitions of the 'concept' time which has an experiential factor. Time, is a term that captures the concept of change, and can include a measure for reference. Time as a 'consciousness' is - sorry to say - mumbo jumbo. This is mixing concepts in an imprecise way to capture some separate 'emotional state'. History is not relevant to the concept of time. History is by-product of the 'passage' of time. Edit: To expand my use of 'mumbo jumbo' I will say that 'time' is a term with a more precise or concrete definition and usage. Humans mix metaphors like 'I felt time slow down...' but here the concept of time is trying to share a feeling. Time is the anchor to hang the feeling on. Like 'cold as ice.' Consciousness is the more subjective term which includes less concrete usage and clarity. Consciousness can be used to describe the act of awakening my mind and body, or my mind only like Descartes great leap of reason driven by consciousness. Only then consciousness is used loosely in medical terminology or when describing the interaction with an animal that 'feels' human like or touching. One might say the animal felt conscious. Then you have collective conscious, higher conscious, stream-of-conscious that all use conscious in a slightly different way. So 'mumbo-jumbo', used here, is what I would call the new age practice of using more precise terms to lend legitimacy to less precise terms and ideas. [ I read a lot of philosphy so this is not my idea... but I cannot site reference ] Time is relative - is saying that time exists and that it is experienced differently. Two of your definitions capture and refine the definition of time and answer the question in the affirmative that Time is both a concept and physical. 

You can always assign positive values to such roles, by using a function from the set of roles to the set of positive real numbers. 

This, from the outset, assumes the existence of a "present reality", which undermines the rest of the argument. 

Here, the logical meaning is not "produced" by the adverb. The phrase "only if" is to be regarded as a single lexical item with an accepted meaning, the one you mention in your question. 

Recall that forces are just mathematical structures that we have created as a convenience to help explain the behavior of the world around us; they do not define the behaviour of the world around us, but merely define the behaviour of a model which we apply to the world around us. Hence you are not "a force of nature", but there are useful models within which you are represented as a "force of nature". 

Noting that mathematics is, at its core, the study of structure, the study of systems is thus called mathematics.