I believe you should search for backpacks that are specifically marketed for snow-shoeing/ backcountry skiing and check if they allow carrying ice tools as well. I haven't tested it myself, but it looks like Osprey Kode 30 could be a good fit for you. Well, at least if you don't require a bigger bag. Also, the post seems a bit old, not sure if they still sell those backpacks. In any case, from my experience most of backcountry skiing backpacks do offer a possibility to attach ice tools in one way or another, but I have no idea if they are any good for carrying snow shoes. 

When hiking in early summer I often come across patches of old snow. Till now I have managed to cross those by cutting my steps in the snow or walking around. And whenever I had my hiking sticks with me I was really happy. I believe microspikes could be of great aid in those situations as well. Something like that: 

No, it is not a good solution for foot wear. While it will bond, it forms a waterproof bond that you can "Sand, Paint or Stain". It is great for many thing you might sand, but not for things that flex. 

Before paper there was clay, papyrus, wood, slate and parchment, After paper there are electronics. The paper is medium for transporting recorded data. Additionally I beleive you can download all the questions and answer from TGO 

I just saw this BBC news clip Does Canada have the solution to slipping on ice? at about 1:20 into the clip (not counting the commercial) a scientist says "most footwear performs poorly" he also says just looking at the tread of the shoe/boot is not a good guide. For those who can't watch the video. Canada has an indoor lab with ice floors that can be angled to test traction on both frozen and partially melted ice. There is a related web page that has ratings for different boots. Neither the news clip nor the web page tells me how to identify good footwear, there is an option to see ratings for tested boots. We have a couple of existing questions about footwear and ice, that mostly talk about how to walk, or what & when to use add on traction devices. 

I am a side sleeper. I use a v2 Klymite pad but my hip still hurts during the night because there isn't enough vertical room. I'm considering: 

If a isobutane canister says 4 oz, does that mean it has 4oz of fuel or is that fuel+canister weight? And I assume that is 4oz of wheight, not volume, right? 

use the backstep I don't know if that is the official name. It's what we called it. It's intuitive but it's incredibly effective to give you more reach. For supporting yourself on left foot and right hand: 

I tried pure gasoline (which is supports) and a lot of gas spilled out onto the stove and burned black, leaving soot all over it. Now the stove won't light. I'm not getting any fuel to the burner. I'm considering: 

As mentioned a few places here already, mounting a cooking surface directly to 20lb LPG container is going to be a stability problem. If you shop for a Turkey Fryer you should find something that will meet all of your needs accept the direct mount to the top of the tank. The entire unit with cooking surface, large pot, and gas regulator can be purchased new starting at around $30 (US). You can cook soup for a crowd with this. 

I have not actually had a sailing canoe in the water, but I have looked at a bunch of pictures and videos. Almost every leeboard you see on a canoe is hinged so it will raise up when there is an obstruction. When the canoe gets up any speed then the water becomes an obstruction, this video is for an add on sail kit maker for canoes. Notice that when the canoe gets any kind of speed the leeboard tilts up and is barely below the hull of the craft. Canoes being relatively narrow tend to get tilty/tippy when any side force is present. As seen in the captured image of the example video the outrigger is just barely touching the water and the leeboard is within a few degrees of being horizontal. At this point neither is really adding any value. 

Actually, Kamtschatka would be the one place I would really want to go to in Russia. And since it is rather difficult to get there (remoteness, special permits), it is also the one place in Russia for which I would consider joining an expedition. Other than that, I am not that familiar with what there is in the country. Well, Baikal lake, of course, but an expedition is probably not really necessary for it. Maybe Altai or Ural mountains? Maybe smth in Siberia? Assuming that it would be possible to avoid being eaten by the always-hungry Siberian mosquitos.. 

The Alta Vista hut is at 3260 meters above the sea level. That means you would need to do all those hight meters in one day. While not undoable, as we can see from the other comments, you have to be quite a beast to accomplish it. I personally would never plan anything more than 2000 height meters for a day. But if you hike, you should know your own limits yourself. As hiking goes, the hike itself is fairly easy, you don't need any particular experience or equipment for it. Just bring (lots of) water and food for the trip. Keep in mind that the hut does not serve any food whatsoever, well, they do sell some overpriced candies, that's it. You can cook though, and the water is sort of OK for drinking there, at least after boiling it first. I believe you have done your research, but in case you did not: you will need a permit to climb to the summit. Permits are free and easy to apply for online, but the amount of them is limited, and they run out really fast. If you stay in the hut, you are allowed to go to the summit the next morning. The hut fills up pretty quickly too, but there always are cancellations. And what concerns altitude sickness, I would not be too worried about that. At this altitude (what matters is the altitude you sleep at), there is very little chance you will get altitude sickness. And if you do, it is really easy to descent, even at night. 

I'm trying to figure out how many cannisters of isobutane to bring on a 5 day family backpacking trip. I figure we'll boil about 1.5 gallons of water per day (use this as a unit of measurement: gallon of water to boil). So, to simplify: Let's assume 8 oz of isobutane (or whatever unite you want to use) 

How about a Figure 8 Bend? Easy to untie even under heavy load. We use them all the time in rock climbing. 

I have heard that you can use Wax to at least "fill" the gouges. Won't be as good as new, but will be a bit better. Remember, Nordic folks did just fine with no fishscales for, what? 100+ years? 

How about if you hang the hammock so that there is 3' of space below it, then run a "clothesline" below it? then hang the boots and pack of the line. As long as they are below the hammock they shouldn't get wet. And I'd think it's fine to have the outside touching the ground. 

The following question was asked in a comment, and to give it a decent answer, I am posting it as a new question. 

I might be taking it out of context, but as I read the comment it seems to imply something I have heard previously that wet clothes in water are somehow significantly heavier than dry clothes on land. Personally I have been fully dressed in the water several times. When I was in the Army we marched fully clothed in to deep water and expected to stay alive in the water (not cold) for an hour as part of "Drown Proofing". More recently I have found myself fully dressed and treading water (with a life jacket) There is no doubt that once you get out wet clothes are heavy on land, but in water, they are just full of water, which weighs the same as water, hence it not any heavier. Often the clothes will also trap air and may add to your buoyancy. I find that clothing also tends to keep me warmer. How dangerous is swimming fully dressed in cotton/denim clothes? 

I'm planning to use a butane "canister stove". The only canisters I can find locally are Butane/Propane mixes. My understanding is that Propane canisters are extra heavy b/c Propane is under higher pressure. Are Butane /Propane canisters heavier then other Butane mixes? 

How can detect, in the outdoors with minimal equipment, if I am dehydrated or need electrolytes? Update Some background: I get overheated very easily, possibly because I don't sweat as much as most people around me (in the same conditions). When I get overheated I get migraines. I found that Hammer Strength Enduralytes (electrolytes*) really help with the Migraines. It'll basically keep a headache from turning into a migraine. I may just be overheating but I thought that perhaps I was low on electrolytes. 

Put on a thick layer of silicon to protect the boat from the screen and staples as well as to act as a gasket. (triangle of wood is used to support center of screen while adhering washer to screen) Once the silicon is dry, cut silicon out from center of washer and use a cross-tip (Philips) screwdriver to open the whole in the center of screen for the rope to pass through. 

I want to install a deck plate in the top of the fresh water tank of my camp trailer (RV) to allow for cleaning the inside at the start of the season. The product I am looking at recommends "Lubricate with Vaseline or Teflon grease". Looking around to see if Teflon is toxic I found this Non-toxic when used in quantities and applications as intended; contains no carcinogenic or hazardous air polluting (HAP) ingredients, and emits no Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) but here it is being sold as bicycle lubricant. When choosing between Vaseline or Teflon to lubricate and seal a potable fresh water tank, which is the better choice? P.S. Thanks to "RV Geezer" who suggested this in a review I found while looking for a deck plate to use for my boat.