To expand upon @Dave's answer, you should get away from the Smith machine and start using barbells. Here's why: 

I am currently doing the Stronglifts 5x5 workout program, and I was wanting to incorporate a stretching routine into my workout that would both: 

Each of these has their own pros and cons, and you'll need to evaluate what is best for you given your circumstances. 

There is a popular practice called "Greasing the Groove" developed by Pavel Tsatouline which is similar in practice to what you are doing currently, but with one key difference: intensity. Pavel's GTG is designed to increase your performance in a specific activity (e.g. pull ups) through the simple formula . Specificity means you are doing one particular exercise--let's say pull ups. Frequency means you are doing that exercise several times a day (at submaximal effort). Success means you will increase your performance in this exercise over time. The key to GTG is that you do it at submaximal effort, so that you don't exhaust your body (as opposed to your approach of training to failure). This allows you to balance GTG alongside your existing training program without seeing performance loss in either. With your current situation, it would be easy to overreach by training to failure, and as a result see degraded performance in your lifts on the primary workout days. Additionally, it doesn't make sense logistically: if you are training to failure the muscle last worked out, that only covers Tu/Th, it doesn't cover what you would do on MWF. With GTG you have a set plan for every day, and have a measurable performance goal (increase to maximum reps). Anecdotally, I've done GTG several times. First with pull ups, then with push ups, and most recently with handstands. At no point did I see a performance decrease in my primary lifts when doing GTG, because I was always careful to keep my daily exercise at submaximal levels. In contrast, I noticed much more muscular development in the targeted areas (shoulders, back, pecs) and much better rep performance when doing GTG. 

I lift for an hr. and a half every other day... I have noticed that as I get further in(after 1 hr. of lifting I am breaking a sweat...) my face turns red and I sweat. Should this occur with weights? I thought it was solely cardio. 

I am really eager to know how to achieve those coconut shoulders! Could someone who has them that isn't a drug user please say how they got them?! 

It probably maximizes hand strength and works the same as regular push ups(chest, triceps, etc.) But why would you do push ups on your thumbs? You'll end up with 2 broken thumbs and even more serious, 2 broken wrists. Also, not only that, but your traps(upper back) muscles are worked with regular push ups anyway. 

So I am having financial trouble and don't want to pay for a gym membership, so I'm wondering about working out at the playground. I would probably be doing pull ups, decline push ups, one legged squats, knee tucks, dips, chin ups, and incline push ups. I should note that these exercises would be accompanied with running a mile and a half around a track and that all of these exercises are about 3-15 repetitions. The workout excluding the running would be about 45 minutes long, 6 days a week. Is this satisfactory enough to build muscles up? I should note that I used to lift weights recently, and my body is already sort of built up. Also, how many dips should I be able to do each day without causing a shoulder injury? 

It has been proven that gains will still stay with you even years after, so not really. But gaining fat isn't a whole lot better then losing muscle. 

So I have noticed that I am doing far beyond 20 reps of push ups and still, after I have done about 50 of them, or even 2 sets of 25 my arms feel like they're expanding and growing muscle, both the biceps and triceps. This is confusing to me because I thought that over 20 reps only builds stamina and endurance, not stronger muscles. If this is the case, why do my arms feel like they're growing? Are they? 

I have read some good things about high intensity interval training (HIIT) programs, and wanted to give one a try. The problem is I don't know how the structure of one works, so I cannot build one custom to my own needs. Is there a standard structure or any considerations I should take into account when building a custom HIIT routine? Are there any popular or well tested programs that I can take inspiration from? 

This depends entirely on how you are defining failure, as there are essentially two definitions, and it is crucial you understand the difference between the two. 

Additionally, I think it also pays off to arm yourself with as much data as you can before you start a program. This gives you a meaningful way to measure and gauge your progress throughout the program. 

In contrast, barbell squats engage more muscle groups, allow for a natural movement, and engage your stabilizing muscles; in other words, barbells are both safer and more efficient at building muscle than Smith. Based off of the points above, the fact that the Smith machine forces your body into unnatural positions plus the fact you were testing what your maximum squat weight was leads me to believe the Smith machine is the direct result of your injury/discomfort, and the problem will only get worse with continued use of the machine. 

People all learn things differently. Some may be able to figure out a complex movement from just a diagram, whereas others might need a video, and then there are those that learn simply by doing. Regardless of your particular brand of learning, however, there are two things that will remain constant: 

Like climate, the fit of trousers is incredibly important; after all, you don't want to be uncomfortable when running. If your clothing is too loose you'll constantly be pulling your pants up, and if it's too tight it is constricting and hard to run in. Since you cannot wear belts with running trousers, there are two typical ways to address this issue: elastic bands and drawstrings (and sometimes both). Ultimately this decision comes down to personal preference. Additionally, you'll want to consider how breathable the fabric is. Many people like very breathable fabric while others might prefer to sweat when exercising. 

What I would tell you is that for upper body, chest, shoulders, and triceps usually work together(bench press, dips, push ups, shoulder press, chest press, tricep dumbbell bench press(see bodybuilding.com)...) well back and biceps usually also work together(pull ups, lat pull downs, curls, rows, chin ups, iso row, etc.) Legs and abs are a different category, but to answer your question, yes, chest and triceps should be worked on the same days. 

So I have noticed a considerable amount of guys in my gym will not do any leg work(as much as 50% on some days).... All they do is bench and do bicep curls... Why don't a lot of guys wanna do leg work? 

Actually, this answer can vary. If you are lifting 3 days in a row and are doing only upper body as you say in your comment and are working on the same muscle groups day after day, then your muscles are probably not getting enough time to rest to grow back stronger in between your workouts. However, if you are doing the bench press on Friday, curls on Saturday, and "nose breakers" on Sunday you are getting enough rest but may not be exercising each individual muscle group enough; not to mention that nose breakers can cause elbow tendonitis. You should be training each muscle group at least 2 times a week. And not to even mention, where are your leg days? Legs and glutes are the strongest muscle groups on the human body, so why would you deny them? Overall, I think you need a real workout plan. Try something like this: Monday: Full body workout(chest, back, legs, biceps, deltoids) Wednesday: Full body workout Friday:Full body workout And take the other days for rest. Don't worry about working abs individually, as they will be worked through squats and deadlifts. This way you are exercising your entire body 3 days a week and giving it time to heal back up. 

From my personal experience, I'd say the following six tests do a pretty reasonable job at assessing a person's fitness. (I know I've had to do more flexibility assessments than just the sit and reach, but nothing is coming to mind at the moment; I'll edit this later if I recall any). 

Support your head with your neck. Have your hands cupped behind your head during the exercise, gently supporting your neck so it is in alignment with the spine. Don't lift with your head. There is a tendency in some to use their hands to lift their head up through the movement, making the head the primary driver. Avoid this and use the form described above. Don't swing. It is very tempting to use body momentum when exercising to squeeze out a last rep or two, but avoid this because at best you aren't working out the muscle and at worst you are straining other muscle groups. Keep the feet firmly planted, and use steady, controlled movements. 

So, you may in fact by an outlier that only needs 5 hours of sleep to be well rested and functional, but that is unlikely. Instead of considering how much sleep you need to "not have problems" consider how much sleep you need to "perform at optimal levels." So you may not be tired after 5 hours of sleep, but your cognitive abilities and physical abilities may (and likely are) affected by your current lack of sleep. 

Smith machine is less effective at engaging muscles and building strength than barbells, because it balances the weight for you. In fact, you'll find that when you move from Smith to barbell, you'll be doing only 50-70% of the load because it is that much harder. Smith machine forces your body into an unnatural straight vertical movement. Since this movement is unnatural for your body it will end up stressing your joints and back (especially if you are doing heavy weights, which is what you were doing when you hurt your neck). Smith machine, like all other machines, balances the weight for you, and thus takes your stabilizer muscles out of the picture. The result is you have stronger muscles that cannot resist lateral/rotational forces because your stabilizers are underdeveloped. This is a recipe for throwing out your back when lifting heavy objects.