Yes. The helmet mount provides the most stable video because any terrain roughness has already been absorbed by your body. In addition to shakeness the handlebars mount will provide a not so pleasant video because it will constantly be panning left and right due to the automatic microadjustments you do to keep you riding straight. 

Quickly move your weight back first and then low. The momentum and force put in this movement should exactly match the force you put on the lever. If you do it well enough then the rear wheel will not skid and you'll have achieved maximum stopping power with the rear only. I do this often when I'm bedding new brake pads on the rear brake. p.s fix your front brake 

Have a look at those riders on how smooth they land both wheels at the same time. Doing anything other than that in those speeds would be really dangerous: $URL$ Also, have a look at another explanation by some pro riders why landing with the rear is not good: $URL$ 

I've ordered small and large parts from bike-discount.de. 100% satisfied and cheapest price for those specific parts at that time after comparing with at least 6 other known e-shops. Regarding cheap german bikes, I don't know about Radon (they don't seem to be well known to the rest of the EU), but I own a canyon torque for the last 3 years and a pal of mine owns a yt noton (both companies well known around the globe). Both are cheap german bikes with high end specs at lowest price possible. We are both 100% satisfied with the bikes, the build and 90% satisfied with after market support. 

The reason racers sometimes pedal out of corners is unrelated to grip. They do this in order to maximize the exit speed, especially in case they didn't corner perfectly (probably tapped the brakes) and lost momentum. 

Of course, that number just an estimate. An aggressive rider, a heavy rider, or a really rough terrain may require higher than the minimum suggested values. 

No reason at all. NWD10 is a classic old school movie. You don't see purposeless skidding like that in today's MTB movies nor do you see it in real life MTB riding. Kirt Voreis (the guy in that scene - legendary rider) is probably doing this for no reason, just for fun, or at least what used to be fun in these old times. 

There is no easy and free solution for this, since your bike is not meant to be going downhill. The best thing you can do is go downhill using the largest front chainring and a pretty large rear cog (but not the largest). This will ensure a pretty good rear derailleur tension which will most probably prevent the chain fall. If you are willing to spend money on this you could convert to 1x10 or 1x11 (after making sure that the gearing will be good for your rides) and use a narrow wide chainring and a derailleur with a clutch mechanism. 

My question is, would you use grease between that black plastic part and the axle cup to protect the bearing from water and dust? I'm talking about a lot of waterproof grease which upon bolt tightening will overflow. Of course I will wipe out any excess after tightening. I'm asking because even if the bearings are of high quality, I will sometimes find that dust or other small particles have entered its inside area making the bearing lose its smoothness and eventually making it wear faster. So, could that extra grease on the outside act as protection? Edit: This question doesn't regard greasing inside the bearing. I'm asking whether puting grease on the bearing, covering the metal and the black part, will prevent water and dust from entering. 

Also, it is obvious that new tyres help. Lastly, when you approach the exit of the turn start pedaling again to gain what you've lost while cornering. Note that the above tips is what I do on mountain biking. There is a possibility that tip #4 doesn't apply to road or track bikes, but I am not sure. 

In short, you can't. I find turning my head to the side a bit reduces the noise a bit in one ear, but you can't do this all the time. A rear view cycle mirror may help you. 

You will find (usually an allen/hex key) bolt on the brake pad itself. Loosen that, align your brake pads then re-tigthen. You may also need to adjust again on the bars to get it to fit. You will also find it easier when loose and aligning them, to pull the brakes right up to the rim and tighten the bolts. Everything you need to know you will find here: $URL$ 

In addition to the good answers already; Lean forward and kick your leg over the back wheel so that both feet are on one side of the bike and your standing on one pedal, then hit the ground running whilst continuing to hold the bars. Takes a little practice. Maybe it cant be done at very high speeds. 

My free hub body has cracked and im looking to replace it. I have discovered it uses a 14mm hex key to remove. I cannot find a freehub body for sale that matches m785. Will a "m760-m765" body fit my "m785" hub? 

Perhaps try for a used fork. For a decent new 29er fork you're looking at £250+ (I estimate thats around $300) (such as rockshox reba) - or go rigid. It's sureley better than a cheap fork. 

It could be a number of things. The most likely it sounds as if your cable is sticking/jamming. Try replacing your cable and cable housing. This shouldnt cost much for DIY (read up on how to do it, you dont want to crush the housing when cutting), but would cost more from a mechanic. I would firstly check that your deraileur isnt out of alignment and/or loose or bent first. Another thing you can do is check that you have the right chain for your cassette and that the chain isnt worn (a cheap tool will check this for you). If your mechanic has not solved this, I suggest trying a different one. 

I can appreciate that some materials are lighter than others and some have more flex than others, but overall, how do different frame materials affect handling of the bike? Assuming the same geometry and design. What are the main handling characteristics of each of the below common frame materials? 

There are a lot of things you could do that would make it difficult to make a speedy getaway. Anything that would hinder you would also hinder a thief. 

One for every removeable or adjustable part on your bike (including tyres). With the exception of those you will be unable to repair/fix on the trail, such has hubs and bottom brackets. They need not all be combined with one tool though (sometimes individual tools can be lighter) 

You can go as tall as you like. Have you seen those tall bikes that people must climb up a ladder to use? However practicality is another thing. As the comments have said - enough room to stand-over is a good start. Try getting a bike-fit, adjusting certain geometry (saddle hight, stem etc) may help in your circumstances. 

Most components will have an instruction sheet detailing the reccomended torque. This is typically measured in Nm (newton meters). Torque wrenches can also be purchased that show you how much torque you apply. Some components even have the reccomended torque value on the component itself. Checking other components will give you an indication of the difference in required torque in relation to your BB. 

I would reccomend against this. It only takes 10 seconds to hop on a bike and make off. Although some suggestions come to mind 

Manufacturers will use machines to build the wheels, however on top end bikes the manufacturer will build the wheels by hand (a skilled wheel builder's work is considered better than that of a machine). Your LBS will unlikeley have a machine to build wheels and this will be done by hand. So in summary. New bike - wheel was most likeley build by machine. Repairs - wheel was almsot certainley built by hand. As @arne said. You can search youtube for "cycle wheel building machine"