The Gruen Transfer describes an effect that shopping malls are said to have on shoppers. In a 1992 essay, The World in a Shopping Mall, Dr. Margaret Crawford explains, in a discussion on the deliberately confusing architecture of malls: 

Many years ago, I learnt of the concept of "personal space" - the idea that people carry a small territory around them that they do not like strangers to invade. In particular, the size of one's personal space is claimed to be inversely related to the population density of one's culture. I probably read about it in some variant of the Pease's Body Language franchise. Here's one (plagiarised?) source: 

Suddenly women only account for 1-in-10 porn-viewers. This is explained further by another part of the same table, which is limited to only those who indicated they watched some porn, ever: 

This experiment involved 20 volunteers in a randomized double-blind trial, where they applied aloe vera cream (or placebo) either before, after or before and after exposure (twice daily for 3 weeks). 

This article from The Times isn't from a peer-reviewed scientific journal, but describes two blinded taste-tests of different salts, where the author is surprised to find that the difference is detectable. 

Going back the first reference (Bowe et al), this 2010 review drew similar conclusions about the role of diet and the link with high-glycaemic load and dairy: 

These claims are the end of a long chain of poorly sourced chain. The Uberfacts meme vaguely attributes the claim to "Microsoft". Microsoft Canada does make the claim (Huge hat-tip to @JamieC), and vaguely attributes the claim to "Statistic brain" Statistic Brain does make the claim: 

Note: Some machines manage a growing jackpot. Where there is a jackpot, the expected payouts between games are not independent. Disclaimer: I have a friend who used to work in the gaming validation industry, but not for this company. I have no connection with Gaming Laboratories International. 

From comparing these two numbers can see the area of the ice is decreasing. [Ooh! Be careful. Some simple original research, because scientists don't seem to find this comparison useful.] We also know that the typical thickness in the Antarctic is lower, so the trend in the overall volume of sea ice is dropping. (I haven't ruled out an short-term increase; the patterns are quite variable each year.) The NSIDC Sea Ice Index tool provides more up-to-date data to cross-check these trends. 

I was taught in school that nutritionists measure the calories in food with a bomb calorimeter. Dummies.com make the same claim: 

The graphic attributes the data to "www.floridapoliticalpress.com". However, the Florida Political Press web-site disavows the graphic and the data in it, as a distortion of their earlier claims: 

Note: The short-term body-weight loss here is presumably mainly water-loss not fat-loss. The definition of cold varies between the two studies cited. Which brings us to another interesting study. 

This immediately brought to mind this issue with the ideomotor effect. I understand that there are volitive movements and reflexive movement [ref], but simply declaring that there is a third type of movement between the two (where our bodies secretly act in line with our expectations, without any conscious awareness), and referencing a study 150 years old to back it up, is not terribly convincing. Even if a person has the expectation that the dowsing rods will cross, the idea that that will be automatically turned into exactly those movements requirement by the hands to enact such movement is an extraordinary claim. That those movements would turn out to be extremely subtle (as opposed to macro-level movements, immediately perceptible to anyone watching) is another extraordinary claim. Finally, that, unlike breathing or the reflex to retract from a hot surface, the conscious mind will be completely unaware of these movements (post hoc), even when thinking about them - seems quite unbelievable. If skeptics are to dismiss many different paranormal effects as being due to the "ideomotor effect" they should have substantially more evidence (and preferably a model of the mechanism) than a Latin phrase and the same 1852 paper that seems to be the primary source to many of their documents. It is not enough to prove that dowsing doesn't work under controlled conditions. If you are going to make the positive claim that dowsing appears to working under uncontrolled conditions purely through the mechanism of the ideomotor effect, you need to have some substantial evidence to support that the ideomotor effect exists and can meet all of the above extraordinary claims. 

Check out the official web-site of Dikul's Rehabilitation Centre in Moscow. Ignore the "English" link - it is broken, but Google's Translate tool does a passable job. There is much discussion about the technique, including a section titled "Medical and psychological basis of the methodology" (Google translated) . However, nowhere are there any references to any medical journals whatsoever. The only sources are the book by Dikul describing his anecdotal experiences. I was surprised to find the web-site does not even provide testimonies from other patients! I had a bit of a web-search and found a lot of desparate, hopeful people trying to learn more, and some patients saying it was too expensive to finish the course. I think it is fairly reasonable to conclude that if there was scientific evidence to support the effectiveness of the treatment, it would be cited somewhere on a web-site designed to attract new patients and tell them about the process. 

Pollsters are aware of a number of problems with polling. Some of the other answers address this, but they don't seem to focus on the core issue: respondents giving unreliable answers about their true intentions. In election polling, one such suspected bias is known as the Bradley Effect. 

Similarly, it have some effect as an antitussive (cough suppressant) in guinea pigs. Human evidence related to colds When it came to humans, there were some more interesting results: 

Vi Hart (Wikipedia biography) has produce a three part series of videos describing this phenomenon, called Doodling in Math: Spirals, Fibonacci, and Being a Plant. It explores the nature of spirals, Fibonacci and the patterns seen in plants. The third part in the series describe how this phenomena can be explained with a simple model of growth hormone. Now, this isn't a formal academic document, but Hart provides a follow-up video containing appropriate references. If the goal of a good Skeptics.SE answer is to popularise scientific results, while retaining rigour, Vi Hart achieves this goal better than I ever will, so I am happy to defer to these videos as an answer. 

This entire chapter does a detailed analysis of the question, based on research from 2008 and how it affected the 2004-2005 budget year. It is worth a look. Looking at just the tangible costs, Table 17.2.3 has a column looking at the cost to the government, which appears to be Devine's concern: 

[Emphasis his.] He then gave anecdotes about 11 out of 12 SSDs failing within 18 months (average lifetime: around 227 days, according to one commenter). The commenters added more anecdotes. Dire predictions indeed. Meanwhile, the manufacturers are painting a far rosier picture: 

For reference, Jimmy Carter was president 1977–1981, overlapping the late stages of the implementation. 

My point here is that the question is futile, if we can't agree on the definition. Once we agree on the definition, the answer will be trivial and uninteresting. The second is whether the modelling is successful. Yes, it is moderately successful. Not all of it is perfect - some people may have private models that are plain wrong. Even the higher-quality models may not be perfect, and have limitations. The goal, though, is not to be always right, but to be right often enough to make a living. Note: In the example fan-chart given, the blue lines do not represent all of the possibilities, but just the 95% confidence range (or 99% confidence range or the 99.997 confidence range - alas the reference did not define it.) Coming up with one example of it being outside this range counts as anecdote in a world where risk is an intrinsic part of life. (No references, because this is all my basic understanding from working in a related field of mathematical modelling, where being right 55% of the time would be very profitable.) 

The FDA page contains links to journal articles to support their claims, which I have omitted in this summary. 

Today, I expressed guilt for eating a large, coconut-based treat, not in keeping with a balanced diet (but quite delicious). I was assured by a friend that coconut oil isn't fattening. Natural News repeats the claim. 

Yes, it is the shortest stalemate ever found. It was discovered by Sam Lloyd. [Ref] Frederick Rhine discovered a similar stalemate, also in 10 moves: 1.d4 c5 2.dxc5 f6 3.Qxd7+ Kf7 4.Qxd8 Bf5 5.Qxb8 h5 6.Qxa8 Rh6 7.Qxb7 a6 8.Qxa6 Bh7 9.h4 Kg6 10.Qe6. [Ref] Lloyd's contribution continues to be quoted on many sites maintained by experts as the shortest stalemate ever found, despite there being strong competition to beat it. Note: Some juniors in Sweden actually played out this (pre-arranged) match in 1995. [Ref] 

In this August 2015 Psychology Today blog article, a child psychiatrist and author, Dr Victoria Dunckley makes a number of claims about how screen time is causing symptoms of mental health problems. I am interested in a large number of her claims, but to keep this answerable, I am going to focus on this subsection: 

The do mention that the existing literature is contradictory. Perhaps this surprising result of reducing the short-term risk but increasing the long-term risk explains some of the difficulty. 

This is a near-miss answer: it addresses only 60 km/h roads, not highways. Nonetheless, it addresses some of the attitudes to driving described in the question, so it may shed some light on the answer: For 60 km/h speed-limits: 

Yes. This is known as a death erection or a terminal erection, amongst other names. Helen Singer Kaplan wrote in 1983, in The evaluation of sexual disorders: psychological and medical aspects (page 167): 

This contains a fundamental misunderstanding of the research. Firstly, practically every child has a drastically different personality 40 years later. They are more mature in numerous ways. If you found a 47-year-old with the personality of a 7-year-old, they would likely be in a mental institution. Secondly, they didn't measure the same things - e.g. "impulsivity" was measured as a child, and "loud speech" was measured as an adult, and they were found to correlate. This study could not show that personalities were the same even if they were. Thirdly, even the strongest correlations were fairly mild. e.g. one of the strongest correlations was between "Verbal Fluency" as a child and "Shows interest in intellectual/cognitive matters" as an adult, and it was r=0.30. Without giving a full lecture on how correlation works, an r-value of 0.30 indicates a mild tendency, not a strong prediction. You write: 

From a health perspective, the microbes should be a far greater concern than the trace amounts of pesticide remaining. (e.g. FDA recommendations don't even mention pesticides; they recommend washing to avoid harmful bacteria.) According to one reviewer: 

This answer is circumstantial evidence, but perhaps it is enough to persuade you that the figures are plausible. Apple make a number of products. Looking at Apple's latest (at time of writing) quarterly results, we can see their figures in the three months ended 24 September 2011. They received $28,270,000,000 in Net sales, and had a Cost of Sales of $16,890,000,000. That is, their Cost of Goods Sold for all of their products accounted for around 60% of their sale price. Presumably (non-Apple Store) retailers add their own margin on top of that, so the real figure by the time you buy it will be lower still. Note the sources of error here: 

I wasn't happy with the lack of peer-reviewed data in the [previously accepted, now deleted] answer, so I did a literature search. It appears the topic has been examined several times over the years. 

Has camel's urine been studied scientifically? Yes, it has, although I only found preliminary studies and nothing that would suggest it was useful in clinical or practical circumstances. Anti-bacterial/anti-fungal