The key issue to address is whether your employer is aware of and OK with the fact that you will live at the workplace. While the idea of living at work may sound odd, there are circumstances where this is perfectly normal (e.g. Park and Forest Rangers, Caretakers). If your employer is willing to let you live at your workplace, then they should have no problem giving you something on letterhead that you will reside at to satisfy California DMV. $URL$ A cell phone bill is listed as one of the approved documents, and I've never had a cell phone company challenge me to provide them with proof of residency. They simply accept whatever I give them. 

I would leave this for the boss to handle. If you want to send an Email just to this person, copying only your boss, that seems OK. However, as you may already know, politics is attached to everything, including Email. As such, only you will know best as to what the boss would want you to do. Your boss is the only person you should be focused on in this matter. WWYBD - What Would Your Boss Do WWYBS - What Would Your Boss Say WWYBWYTD - What Would Your Boss Want You To Do WWYBWYTS - What Would Your Boss Want You To Say If you don't know answers to these--and you're best equipped to know these answers--then do nothing and wait for boss to return so that the two of you can discuss it. 

Always play it by ear, but be prepared to pay. If they are paying, which is the norm, let them. Don't fight it. Several times, I've had a company buy me lunch, dinner, plane ticket and hotel room to come out for an interview, and the like. Only time I've ever had to pay my own was with the rental of a vehicle, which I believe is connected to the liability insurance risk. They reserved it, but I had to use my own credit card to pay for it and then get reimbursed. Even when the company is paying, you should still consider being reserved. It's an opportunity for them to see if you are frugal or extravagant. Whether you will have the ability or authority to approve spending decisions or not, you might be tasked with reviewing a product or software and it's better to be seen as frugal than extravagant with the company's money. While you don't have to order the absolute cheapest item on the menu, do NOT order the most expensive item on the menu. Generally the company will be very upfront about it. "Order whatever you like. The company is paying." I once was told almost these exact words. The executive then went on to praise the blah-blah-blah on their menu. It was a median priced item, it was what he ordered, so it was what I ordered. Subtle directions like that should be followed, unless it's something you are allergic to or you really do not like. It may sound simplistic, but it's an easy way to plant a brief message in their mind. "Frankie likes the Club Sandwich, so he must be a good guy." If you are one of the final candidates, a hiring decision can be swayed by such nuances. If you get no such directions, choose wisely in terms of how easy the item is to eat. BBQ ribs have a high potential for making a mess of you and your clothes. If it's a BBQ place, maybe order a pulled pork sandwich. 

In large part, this is going to depend upon the rules in your office and the laws in your area. In the United States, the Family Medical Leave Act, or FMLA, could potentially be in play here. In the State of Washington, the Washington Family Care Act imposes additional rules when it comes to sick leave. Unless you are say going to be out for an extended period of time, because of either a planned or unplanned major medical issue, it's generally accepted most places to call in each and every day you are out sick. If it were me, I would have called in sick each and every day that I was out sick. The means of notification will also vary from one organization and supervisor to the next. Some will insist upon a live human being speaking to another live human being over the phone. Others are fine with voice mail or Email notifications. Increasingly, I see Email notifications as superior as I routinely see instances of people calling in sick, getting voice mail, and the person who gets the voice mail is themselves out of the office--either for sick or other purposes. I personally send an Email to the Team Email Distribution List, which includes both my supervisor and my coworkers. In my view, this provides for the greatest possibility of someone who needs to get hold of me getting the message that I won't be in the office that day. As for what to say, as a Union Shop Steward I tell people to be brief and not go into details. This is especially true with FMLA, but it is serves everyone best if the information is brief. "I am out sick today." "My child is sick today." "My elderly parent is sick today." 

Speaking as a hiring manager, it is not dishonest to include skills that you never want to use again. It just means you'll have an extra thing or two to talk about during an interview (that you have the skill, and that you don't particularly want to use it, so you're just making sure this job doesn't require it). As you note, all the skills you have work to make you the person you are, and have provided you with experiences you can learn from or leverage in some way. Also, if you list it, and it's remotely related to the position I'm interviewing for, I'll ask you about it. The responsibility is yours to apply to positions that you want, just as it is my responsibility to try to make your resume fit what I'm looking for. Let's say you had 5 years of experience making widgets lefthanded, and 3 years of experience making widgets righthanded, but you never ever want to make widgets lefthanded again, don't take it off your resume -- just don't apply to any lefthanded widgetmaking positions. If I need a widgetmaker of unspecified handedness, I'll see lefthanded and righthanded widgetmaking, and say "ok, this person can make widgets!" In the interview process, you can tell me you never want to make widgets lefthanded, and I can say "no problem, how about righthanded?" and you can say "sure!" and everyone is happy. Or, I can say "well, sometimes we might need a lefthanded widgetmaker" and you can say "you know, I never ever ever want to do that again" and then with my cards on the table (a possibility of having to dabble in a despised skill) you can make the decision that's best for you. If you didn't include your despised lefthanded widgetmaking experience, I'd think you were maybe some run of the mill widgetmaker, not the well-rounded widgetmaker that you are. But if the possibility of having to discuss the despised skill is too much to bear, and it doesn't add any benefit to you at all, leave it off. Note: Will there be recruiters who use those skills as keywords and seek you out based (possibly) on things you never want to do again? Absolutely. Just delete those emails. 

In general, the further you move up the chain (high school, university, first job, etc), the less relevant the information is down the chain. This is especially true early in one's career. Once you get that first professional job in your area of specialty, your high school wouldn't matter to me (and honestly, your high school would never matter to me, selective or not, after you were attending and achieving in university courses, work-study, and the like). Similarly, once you have worked in a professional setting for more than a year, your university wouldn't even matter to me (although of course this information you should always include). The reasoning behind all of this, and why it is especially true early in one's career, is because these are all completely different contexts for learning, interaction, and collaboration. For instance, someone who is wonderful and brilliant in a high school context may not be so in a university context because the environment and pressures are different; similarly, someone might be lousy in a university context but be the best employee ever because the constraints of academia just don't fit. Also (and this would be a minor point but still valid), if I were reading a resume for a junior level employee and I saw they were still listing their high school, I would honestly wonder if they'd not achieved anything since then. Once a person is in the working world, it's the accomplishments and experiences in that world that matter the most to prospective employers. 

In general, the people you select to be your references should be those people who are best equipped to talk about you and your work, work ethic, personality, competencies, and other qualities that match the position or position types you are targeting in your job search. As a hiring manager, I don't care where those references come from; in the specific situation described, of using a professor to be your reference for a position outside of academia, it wouldn't make a difference to me as long as the reference is valuable for the reasons I described above. Plenty of hard working, smart, personable, competent people were great research assistants or teaching assistants for professors and can use that experience in industry an thus the reference is "valid". Similarly, even if you did not work for a professor but he was your major advisor or someone with whom you had several classes and he can honestly speak to the qualities I'm looking for in a professional reference, then that's great! Here's when the "using a professor as a reference" goes awry -- and this is both for jobs inside academia and in industry as well: if the professor doesn't remember you and can't speak to your skills and expertise and other personal attributes, if you are only using the professor's as a reference to get a foot in the door and have nothing of your own to back up that reference, or if you are still using professors as references after your second, third, or fourth (or more!) job. By that time you should be considering using actual industry references, otherwise a hiring manager is going to wonder what is wrong with your or what went wrong in all of your jobs since school. As always, different hiring managers are going to have different interpretations of the types of references they value and do not value. As long as you have put some thought into the reference request and your referee can provide a thoughtful and personal reference for and about you, you've covered all the bases. 

It's been my experience, from 25 years in IT, that it is always incumbent upon the applicant to demonstrate tenacity in the job search process. Do not expect HR, the hiring manager, a recruiter, or anyone else to get back to you when a position is available again. Even if they tell you they will, the person who does is the exception and not the rule. This isn't to imply that the hiring world is full of idiots. Quite the contrary, they are generally capable if overburdened. I was on an interview panel a few years ago in which a position was open for just a few days. 35 candidates applied. In 2011, a friend of mine, who's an attorney, applied for a corporate attorney position. The position was only open for a few days, and the company got over 900 applicants from all across the United States. In recent years, Boeing has implemented a candidate screening process that is heavily computerized and automated because they get so many candidates applying. Boeing actually goes around to job fairs and Worksource (unemployment office) teaching a class on how to apply for jobs at Boeing. You need to do whatever you need to, and feel is right, to make yourself stand out from the rest. That said, don't become a pest. Use your judgment, and if necessary ask direct questions. "Is it OK if I follow up with you in a month to ..." Do follow up on Emails. I would leave out Happy Holidays just in case someone becomes miffed that you didn't specifically cite whatever holiday they celebrate. Courtesy and respect go a long way. A coworker at a previous job told me the Rule of Always, Sometimes, and Never. Always say Thank You, Sometimes say Please, Never say #$@! 

What you say next depends upon what you want to do. Do you want to continue doing the freelance work, but perhaps at a different pace or fewer hours spent on the work each week? Do you want to abandon the freelance work altogether, which has the potential of eliminating any future freelance work. One of the unknowns, or at least not stated in your post, is how long do you expect the freelance work to continue. A few more weeks, a few more months, a few more years, something else. If you don't know, ask. Maybe there is light at the end of the tunnel, and the work he needs you to do will be ending soon. 

It sounds as though the other freelancer was adhering to a principle that can be encapsulated with the phrase, "Here's your piece of 'junk', ma'am/sir." Over the years, I've been in this situation more than once. I'm writing junk that should be thrown away. I know it, the client knows it, and we each know what the other knows. There are at least three explanations for it. 1) Sometimes it is cheaper to just "keep the wheels on" something that has a known, short, life expectancy--keep the TPS Reporting System alive until it's replacement arrives later this year. 2) Other times, a dysfunctional system is the elephant in the room that everyone sees yet no one is supposed to acknowledge or speak of openly, so don't. 3) Almost every system has some dysfunction. Occasionally, the level of dysfunctional is not widely known by management, and addressing the dysfunction is a first step towards resolving the dysfunction. Because the messenger is often the one shot, speaking up and addressing the dysfunction can be brave or foolhardy, depending upon the outcome. Under #3, it's brave. Under #2, it's foolhardy. On the specific question you ask in the subject line, I would say it depends, but mostly No. It is possible to address dysfunction within an IT system without laying blame on anyone doing the work, past or present. Laying blame opens up the possibility that the person who was responsible is held in high regard by Management and other Stakeholders, whether it is deserved or not. Even if the person or persons you blame are no longer with the organization, or are not held in high regard, others may have been involved in decisions that led to implementing the dysfunction, so you are indirectly blaming them. Why engage in a fight you don't need to? Just document the dysfunction without assigning blame. Neither the problem nor the solution needs to depend upon any specific human being. If you refrain from naming or blaming human beings in the discussion, then it increases the chance for logic and reason to prevail.