The Long-Run Elasticity of New Housing Supply in the United States: Empirical Evidence for 1950 to 1994 (Blackley (1999)) 

Trade Adjustment Assistance at Wikipedia Canada had a program like this into the 1980's. The comparable EU program is called The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund. 

They may, but probably not much. Because stocks cannot be used as a substitute for money in most transactions there is no direct channel. However, because stocks can act as collateral for loans, and loans have the capacity to create money through the money multiplier mechanism they can have some effect, just as anything that relaxes borrowing constraints could increase the money supply. Collateralized loans make up the vast majority of bank debt. Suppose, for example, that banks only made collateralized loans. Then when stock prices go up, some borrowers formerly at the limits of borrowing constraints due to limited collateral, would be able to take out additional loans. These loan proceeds could then be deposited in banks or spent, either way likely ending up in banks eventually where, through the mechanism of fractional reserve banking, they could be used to create additional money. However, as you can see in the figures below, margin debt is a very low fraction of GDP in contrast to say household overall debt. So in general this is not going to be a big channel. 

You cannot reason directly from a price change. Prices may increase because supply has fallen or demand has changed. In general we can't distinguish between the two unless we know something about the demand and supply curve in particular and not just prices and quantities. For example, when demand increases (the demand curve shifts to the right but supply curves are held fixed) this increases demand for gold at all prices. Which means that equilibrium quantity increases (more gold is produced) as well. . But that gold doesn't decrease prices. The only reason more gold was produced was because prices were higher. If prices fell in response to higher quantity produced the producers (who have the same supply function by assumption) would not produce more. So in response to a demand shock for gold prices increase in order to clear the market for gold. Otherwise there is not enough gold at the old prices. 

Research highlights of the Consumer Expenditure Survey redesign Page 6 of BLS Handbook of Methods, April 1997, Chapter 16: Consumer Expenditures and Income has a nice, detailed description of how "The estimation of population quantities of interest, such as the average expenditure per consumer unit on a particular item category, is achieved through the use of weights." Be sure to check that out too. 

I don't believe $w>0$ is necessary or sufficient to get a positive standard deviation everywhere. I think you need $\sigma_0 \geq 0$ and $w\geq 0$ with one of the two inequalities strict. If $\gamma > 1$ then the series $\sigma$ will grow explosively if $w + \gamma \cdot \sigma_{t-1} >0$ or behave explosively harmonic if $w + \gamma \cdot \sigma_{t-1} <0 $. Neither of those seems particularly desirable most for economic situations. 

Chartalism and the tax-driven approach to money Economics (as a profession) generally focuses on another motive for money, solving the problem of the double coincidence of wants. That is, in barter we generally need to both want what the other has or we can't make a deal (unless we have credit, but consider barter among strangers). Money presents an alternative, a good that we don't want per se, but we can use for transactions because everyone else wants it and we can rely upon to want it later as well. Such a thing should be portable, hard to counterfeit, and easily identified. Then when Art wants to buy a Ball and Charlie has a Ball but wants to a Dog, Art can use his money to buy the Ball from Charlie so that later he can use money to buy a Dog from Eric who will then use it to buy Florence's Goat, and so on... There is an accessible and justifiably famous paper on this sort of money, The Economic Organisation of a P.O.W. Camp, about how cigarettes emerged as this sort of money in WW II POW camps. Graeber singles this paper out for scorn, saying these people already knew about money and so this is not a good example of a origin story for money, but it is a nice example of money as an emergent phenomenon to solve the double coincidence of wants problem. I haven't read Ascent of Money, I recall it getting mixed reviews, but I really enjoyed a Ferguson's somewhat related The Cash Nexus, which might help you understand the national aspect of your question. I also enjoyed The Origins of Value: The Financial Innovations that Created Modern Capital Markets, but that book covers much more than just money. Famous Myths of Fiat Money has some nice examples of commodity money emerging to solve transactional issues. On Money as a Medium of Exchange is a famous (relatively modern) theory paper that covers the benefits of fiat over commodity money. The book What is Money? in many ways is a long answer to your question, with chapter 7 in particular covering a lot of these issues. 

How does the planner know that his central plan is the ideal one? The conventional story is that he's got an objective function that maximizes the sum of all the society's members' utility. He maximizes that sum by : 

Press Release: 15 October 1985 THIS YEAR'S ECONOMICS PRIZE AWARDED FOR PIONEERING STUDIES OF SAVING AND OF FINANCIAL MARKETS This is an extremely valuable insight. The explanation is also clear and powerful. So good and powerful that it is hard to see the world any different once you hear it. In one of the Sherlock Holmes stories, Holmes says "The world is full of obvious things which nobody by any chance ever observes." In TV tropes this is called Seinfeld Is Unfunny: 

People, particularly business leaders, seem to remain confused about this issue even today. At the core of is the question Is equity finance expensive?. We certainly observe in the data that the realized returns on firm debt are much lower than the realized returns on firm equity. Does this mean that firms have too much equity? If equity capital always costs 9 percent per year and debt always 3 percent then a firm would be worth more if management kept equity to a minimum and used as much debt as possible. But in the real world there are lots of complications that might make debt cheaper than equity. Monitoring costs are real, default is costly, tax wedges are large, equity is riskier, and contracts are incomplete. It may be that factoring in these costs, which are hard to measure, provides a complete explanation for the differences in return between debt and equity. Or maybe not. If observable characteristics fail to explain this difference does this mean that firms should take on more debt? Or does it mean that these characteristics are poorly measured? Modigliani-Miller provide a clear way of thinking about this question. In the absence of frictions, as you shrink the amount of equity and offset it with more debt the required returns adjust to leave the firm's cost of capital unchanged. But even so, there is no problem with return on debt being lower than the return on equity. So in and of itself, there is nothing to learn from the lower cost of debt compared with equity. This is a surprisingly robust result: 

The supply of gold increases slowly over time relative to the economy, leading to gradual deflation which is thought to make recessions worse. The use of gold as a backing for currency significantly increased demand for gold, leading to tremendous diversion of resources into gold production. Like any pegged currency, a gold standard depends on reserves which can be exhausted in a panic about the future ability of a government to convert.