Germany already fought on two fronts. This is the first world war. And Hitler fought in this war. He was not an idiot. Germany in the 1920s is an outcast country. The same outrage as the USSR. Germany and the USSR helped each other. But... The USSR is the single socialist country in the world. But the "problem" was that this single socialist country was developing rapidly. Industrialization, free medicine, free education, free land, autarky. This is a threat to the entire capitalist world. It is a flag, a symbol for all Communists in the world. Stalin said that "either we will become an industrial power or we will be destroyed." All the Bolsheviks understood that the USSR was the number one target. The question was: who, where and when will kill the first country of people's democracy. The choice was perfect: Germany. In one moment a friend turned into an enemy. Hitler - huge assassin. Hitler received Czechoslovakia. Hitler received Poland. France did not want to fight and actually gave up. Even the Poles defended the capital. The French applauded the German troops. When Hitler became strong, he attacked the USSR. Because Hitler is a hired killer. The USSR is a victim of a hired killer. Everything is very simple. By the way, there is one more "strange" moment. "Idiot" Hitler did not mobilize the economy. If you are at war, you must mobilize the entire economy. I suppose the master just kept his dog on a leash. The owner was afraid that Hitler could get out of control. The owner put on a muzzle - he forbade the mobilization of the economy. When the hired assassin missed, the customer organized his destruction. p.s. In 1941, Hitler controlled more factories and engineers than Stalin. Mobilization + technology = thousands of Panzes, Stugs, Ganomags, aircrafts, artillery, divisions, corps, armies. The USSR could lose, but the German shepherd had a short leash. 

No country in the world has ever been a perfect example of any system, inasmuch that humans are inevitably far less perfect than the ideologies they invent. Any answer to this question also hinges on how one defines "capitalism." An Austrian-school economist, Weberian sociologist, and Marxist historian would provide very different definitions. Ideologues may reject state capitalism, anarcho-capitalism, and other models as not "true" capitalism. In some ways, no modern society is as "capitalist" as some bygone societies because of contemporary morality and views on government intervention; in other ways, modern society is more "capitalist" than has ever been possible before because computerization, modern communications, and sophisticated financial markets make things like price discovery far more efficient. With that in mind, the Fraser Institute, a Canadian pro-free-market think tank, produces an annual "Economic Freedom of the World" report in conjunction with like-minded research institutes around the world. Note that this report is based on their definition not of "capitalism" per se but of relative "economic freedom"; the word "capitalism" does not appear anywhere in the text of the report except in an essay condemning "crony capitalism." They determine economic freedom, in turn, based on ratings of several dozen factors ranging from the impartiality of the court system to the existence of military conscription to the volatility of the inflation rate. With those considerable caveats in mind, according to the 2011 report, the following countries have the freest economies, and may be judged to be the most "capitalist" on that measure in 2011: 

Yakov Stalin is not Anna Karenina. There is another version. $URL$ $URL$ June 24, 1941. Yakov took command of the 6th artillery battery of the 14th howitzer regiment of the 14th Tank Division. July 16, 1941. Yakov's orderly - A. Kovalev: Yakov got the task of moving the battery closer to the front line. The column was bombed by the Luftwaffe. The horses, Yakov and the adjutant fell from the explosion of the bomb. However, allegedly, "Yakov" quickly recovered. This is already a lie. Mikhail Grigorievich Grigoriev, Colonel-General, commander of the first combination of ICBMs (Plesetsk Cosmodrome), First Deputy Commander of the Strategic Missile Forces of the USSR. He said that he saw Yakov died on the battlefield. Perhaps he did not see personally, because he fought 30 kilometers from Yakov. Stalin's adopted son, General Artem Sergeyev, claimed that Yakov Dzhugashvili had never been a prisoner, but died in battle. The Germans interrogated "Yakov" between July 11 and 13 (the real Yakov was still at war)! The Germans did not know in which regiment Yakov fought! This is absurd! The name, rank and regiment are allowed to speak to any prisoner of war. Doctor of historical sciences Sergey Devyatov: "There are about 10 photographs of Yakov Dzhugashvili in captivity. Specialists of one of the Defense Ministry's centers analyzed them. This is a very competent photomontage. ... when the photos were over, they made a mistake by giving a "mirror image" of one of the photos - on it there is a clasp on the jacket on the other, "the female side"." "In German documents, it is said that Yakov Dzhugashvili - the son of Stalin owned three languages: German, French and English. " The real Yakov at the institute and the academy did not study German and English." Total: There are no photos (10 photos-it's not many) of the prisoner Yakov. Traces of photomontage 10 photos of the prisoner Yakov. No audio record of the prisoner Yakov. There are no video records of the prisoner Yakov. The note of the prisoner Yakov does not match. Witnesses in the camp never knew Yakov before the war. The Germans burned the body of the prisoner Yakov. 

Has the United States officially paid reparations in the form of US dollars to any parties that were a "child" "Civil Liberties Act of 1988" (PUBLIC LAW 100-383—AUG. 10,1988; Public Law 100-383, 100th Congress; 102 Stat. 903. Public Section 105. Restitution. (a)(7)(C)(ii)) 

Is there any primary source evidence that any Black (also called Negro) was a signer of the United States Declaration of Independence, Articles of Confederation, or Constitution of the United States? Were the signers of the United States Declaration of Independence, Articles of Confederation, and Constitution of the United States each a White man? 

Incidentally, while a certain stereotype of social fraternity members as athletes is reinforced in postwar films and television, there is no institutional basis for that association. The first "social" fraternity, Kappa Alpha Society (est. 1825 at Union College), grew out of a literary society, and the "social" purpose of the group was to groom its members to contribute to society, not merely to socialize. Baird's Manual of American College Fraternities is the canonical reference on the fraternity and sorority system. 

The western bank of the Volga in Stalingrad distracted attention and dispersed the strength of the Wehrmacht. In the same way, strikes from the north of Stalingrad distracted the attention of the divisions. Wehrmacht was forced to destroy the bridgehead and defend Stalingrad from the north and south. As a result, all the shock divisions concentrated in one place. Checkmate. p.s. "shock divisions" - 4TA. 

Anyone can declare that he or she is running for president of the United States. That is essentially unrelated, however, to whether he or she will be placed on the ballot, much less have a chance of winning. To become president, one must win a majority in the Electoral College, and barring an extraordinary bout of collegiate faithlessness, that means you will need to get electors who support you selected. The selection of electors is largely a matter of state, not federal law, but at the very least, you'll need to qualify for the ballot in every state and the District of Columbia. If you're representing a party, you'll need to be certified as that party's candidate, a process which also depends on state law and party rules. So, determining the longest-running campaign has numerous answers depending on how you define a candidate: Anyone who declares? Anyone who won delegates? Anyone who got ballot access? Anyone nominated by a party with ballot access in XX% of the states? Anyone who received above XX% of the popular vote in a primary or the general? Anyone who won electoral votes? Anyone who had an actual chance of winning? Some possibilities include the following: Major party candidates 

"race" was unimportant in the 1660's in the British Colonies as "race" did not exist at that time in history. 

1681 Proceedings and Acts of the General Assembly, October 1678-November 1683 (Volume 7, Page 203-205) Liber W. H. 

Having researched the subject matter and time period described within the parameters of the original question, it is interesting to note the frequency with which persons still refer to "white men" and "white race" even when faced with the clear evidence that there were no "white men" nor any "white race" on this planet whatsoever prior to 1681. Perhaps @LangLangC can best convey what the answer attempts to summarize for viewers to understand, without any ambiguity 

It is forgotten in our modern age of fiat currencies, but money was historically not just a representation of value, but a physical store of value in itself. Coins contained a certain amount of precious metal, particularly silver or gold. The size of the coin is only indirectly related to its value, because the true value of a coin lay in its total silver or gold content. A small coin with a high silver content would have been more valuable than a large coin that was mostly copper, which incidentally is why the U.S. dime (10¢) is traditionally smaller than the penny (1¢). Expanding the money supply required increasing the number of coins in circulation, but the temptation to reduce the silver or gold content of the coins was irresistible to rulers. It reduces the precious metals in circulation to the benefit of the ruler, and contributes to inflation (which is, after all, simply the devaluation of money) which would help a ruler pay off debts. As Doug Smith notes, the follis was debased several times, and was far from the only Roman coin which suffered that fate. 

It is very difficult to compare different concepts of the army. Wehrmacht is a Western system (special forces + specialization + logistics). The Red Army is a Soviet system (universal soldier + autonomy). It is absolutely not correct to compare KV-2 and any German tank. The role of KV-2 is an assault tank against the pillboxes. In the Wehrmacht a Stug was this role. Absolutely not correct to compare tanks. No separate tanks are fighting. War - this is not separate tanks. War - this is a confrontation of Army structures. Already in the first days of the war, Soviet KV and T-34 attacked the German infantry. The result: burnt KV and T-34. You can compare the Soviet and German tank company yourself. The Soviet tank company have a 10 tanks. The Soviet company has no other means of reconnaissance. After the battle, the Soviet tankmen repairing the tanks themselves. The Soviet tankmen themselves are digging tank trenches. Soviet tankmen themselves guard tanks at night. The German Tank Company had a 2 platoons of tanks and supply units. There are motorcyclists in a German tank company. Excellent scout. There is a repair truck in a German tank company. Crews are resting. There is a separate supply truck and other tanker-soldiers who repair and refuel tanks. As a result, the German tank company is more mobile. The German tank company rebuilds the tanks more quickly. It does not matter what tanks are in the Soviet tank company (T-34 or T-26). The Soviet tank company is slowly rebuilding tanks. Soviet tank company "blind" on the march. Very often the Soviet tank brigade had one repair truck. You can compare yourself to the German tank battalion. The Soviet mechanized corps consists of 4-5 types of tanks and 4-5 types of fuel. It is impossible to properly supply this monster. The main force of the Wehrmacht is not tanks. The main force of the Wehrmacht is the infantry. But the German infantry had the support of artillery, tanks, aircraft and trucks. During the war, the ratio of infantry and tank units changed. In 1942 the Soviet tank brigades received a lot of infantry. Later, the Soviet tank brigades received a lot of artillery and good supplies. As a result, in 1945 the Tigers and Panthers could not stop the outdated T-34. 

There is a history of anti-Chinese sentiment in Indonesia, but even taking that into consideration, the violence of 1998 was unusually extreme and virulent, attributed to the encouragement of the army and the Suharto regime. Jemma Purdey's Anti-Chinese Violence in Indonesia, 1996–1999 (2006) examines large-scale violence of the kind exemplfieid by the 1998 riots. 

There are many similar competing reports, but this one seems to have the widest number of participating organizations.