Sourced from $URL$ TL;DR: "He started it!" "No HE started it!" "NO HE STARTED IT!!!!!" "OK, there's soccer match in 3 minutes, let's just say we are even" "sulk OK" 

I know that the concept of "citizen's arrest" in USA originated from British common law. It seems that in a lot of countries listed in Wiki are ones that have the same origin of that law, since they were once ruled by Great Britain in one form or another. 

For a bit of an extremely interesting, if not fully research oriented reading on the topic, I would strongly recommend Andy Kessler's "How We Got Here: A Slightly Irreverent History of Technology and Markets". 

I would prefer an answer that references a generic research that shows analysis across cultures, but would be OK with answer that cover a single tribe/culture. However, it must be one that did NOT have easy access to wood for bows (e.g. Levant area doesn't count, obviously, despite having some desert landscape). 

For tribes that inhabited desert areas (e.g. Arabian Peninsula, Sahara, etc...), there seems to have been a problem: a good bow would likely require materials that would be hard to come by in the desert (wood from trees). 

There are a bunch of monarchists in modern Russia. Some are "theoretical" monarchists, some want to bring back Romanovs, some want Putin to be the Tzar. 

There is a strain of historical thought that some of the features of Russian/Soviet state are strongly influenced by Mongol conquest and rule by the Horde. So if you agree with that line of thought, you need to go back to 13th century. 

Are the explanations presented to explain the lack of artifacts something that sounds legitimate from the point of view of archaeological research of the period? Are there other examples of well known battles from a similar period where the event is 100% certain to have happened based on historical sources, yet there is almost no archaeological evidence of the battle (obviously excluding battles that happened in places that later had human habitations built over them). 

As noted above, one has to do with political structure and one with economic. While there are some correlations, there's nothing that precludes a kingdom from having an economic system that can be described as capitalist - United Kingdom would be the classical example. Please note that a kingdom can have many forms - UK is not the same today as Quing China. 

A very detailed discussion is in the second half of the Straight Dope article here (the first half was mostly devoted to debunking an infamous Hitler's gun control "quote"). 

If you use the lens of popular culture (books and especially folk songs), one may come out with the impression that the criminal culture basically ran Odessa around 1920s, with Law Enforcement (GubCheKa) being a boogaboo but largely unimpactful threat to them. What is the picture like from the point of view of historical documents? Objectively speaking, how effective was GubCheKa - and law enforcement in general - at fighting crime during its heyday in Odessa? (judging by numbers - crime statistics, convictions, arrests, high level criminal testimony if deemed reliable etc...) 

Given that the battle took place in 1380, and people have presumably lived/farmed in the area since (but NOT built habitats), the reasons for lack of more finds that are usually given are the cost of metal military equipment at the time (meaning great pains may have been taken to collect whatever they could recover after the battle); and the supposed use of ammonium nitrate for fertilizer that is claimed to be detrimental to artifacts. I have two questions: 

Most web quote pages attribute the quote to 1839 L'Organisation du travail (study of Labor organizations). But when I tried to search "L'Organisation du travail" (the French text of the work), I got no results. When and where did Louis Blanc say the famous "from each according to his abilities..."? 

Wikipedia covers pretty extensively the political details surrounding the 13th Amendment, including difficulties in passing it in the House. However, it doesn't note what the level of Congressional support was for the specific changes made by Lincoln in Emancipation Proclamation, in September 1862. Assuming there's enough data (based on polls/surveys of congresscritters at the time, or their public statements/memoirs/letters), how would the House and the Senate have voted on a proposal which was identical in scope to the details of Emancipation Proclamation if that vote was held on the date of Lincoln's announcement? 

Be careful about logical fallacies. Among the most common encountered in discourse about history is confusing causation and correlation. 

When I was researching the history of The Battle of Kulikovo (битва на Куликовом поле), I was struck by the seemingly complete dearth of available archaeological evidence at the site of the battle (considering the size of the forces - 60-100k by latest estimates from Mamai and 50-60k from Russians). 

Pantheon in Rome (126 AD). Most of the older buildings in the Wiki list ( $URL$ ) are either not in use, or used as tombs only, or were reconstructed significantly. 

[0] - Minor complication would be included in whether hand-thrown edged weapons count as range weapons (which might plausibly introduce as a possible answer some Javelin-exclusive battle I'm not aware of), as hand-held edge weapons (in which case "range weapons distance" must be increased to exceed throw distance), or simply ignored which introduces neither of those 2 complexities 

It's unclear if you mean whether it was (1) a ruse by Wilson against the American public, or (2) Germany against the USA, or (3) Germany against Mexico, or (4) British against USA? 

Basically, pretty much ANYTHING you do that relates to other people is underneath it an economic interaction. You going to work, performing work in exchange for pay. You going shopping and exchanging said pay for something you want to buy. Please note that economic activity is really ANYTHING, not just money. 

Most of the royal rulers in the last 2000 years seemed to be strongly relying - as one of the sources of their power - on the notion that they hold "divine rule"/"sanction of god"/"mandate of heaven" etc... Examples abound - from Pharaoh in Egypt to Christian monarchs in Europe to Chinese Emperors to even Alexander the Great's supposedly half-gold ancestry. I was wondering if there was an example of a monarch who ruled 100% purely based on secular basis, with zero claims to religious mandate. 

Therefore, the moment Russia acted aggressively past Arch-Duke's assassination and Austrian saber-rattling towards Serbia, Germany basically had only one path forward: attack France ASAP and hope to implement the Schlieffen Plan and take France out of the war before Russia got there. As German's government saw it, the only other alternative was to wait for Russia to activate its army, attack Austria, and then together with France attack Germany. 

Is there an evidence that this was indeed a factor influencing the use of bow and arrows as military technology by tribes living in such conditions? If that's not the case, what did they use as far as materials to make the bows? The arrows? 

Could you please provide example of where Qing China is called "feudal"? Most likely, it was a common (not historian) usage, or an abuse of the term. Quoting Wikipedia: 

Try not to let emotions affect you into mistaking incidents for trends (one such example from History SE was when someone described US involvement in Vietnam as being a pattern of massacres. While Mai Lai is indeed horrific, it's (given the scale) a minor blip that serves to prove the opposite trend (out of 1million+ served, 50 soldiers participated) in dispassionate analysis. 

Answer to your second question is "absolutely yes". As a random example, plenty of immigrants from USSR to USA feel 100% American and zero percent either Soviet or Russian. If you want a reference to specific example, you are reading his writing this second. 

I'm going to add another answer specifically to address a separate part of your question: why didn't the same thing happen in Islamic world? The answer is plausibly Al-Ghazali. Quoting from Wikipedia: 

Depends on a teacher. A large portion of teachers in USA are extremely left leaning politically, and don't have a handle from the point of view of someone who doesn't share their politics. More on-topic, people who lean left very frequently have VERY poor handle on economics and therefore can't teach it well. Want an example? If you're left-brainwashed to think that somehow the USA represents the worst of human society because of "gap between haves and have nots" or some other OWS talking point, you need to first go talk to someone who lived in the workers paradise of Soviet Union and knows the difference between how Communist Party bosses lived and regular people. Hint: they will laugh at you, very long and hard. And then ask that left wing person (if they are old enough) why didn't THEY emigrate to USSR or Cuba if capitalism is soooo bad and workers have it so good under socialism. Now, ask them to explain the difference between "unproductive speculation that should be prohibited" and "investment" that should be heavily taxed and their own pension plan holdings (that are all over the sudden not such a big evil). Hint: from both finance and economics point of view, they are principally the same, differing only in technicalities and who is the person benefitting (that teacher or someone else). Another example: Ask any left leaning teacher what their view on minimum wage is. You will probably hear the standard left talking point (without it people will be evilly exploited, it's absolutely required and should be raised etc...). What the DON'T tell you (and likely don't know) is that: