It seems to me that what you are getting is one specific definition, and not general differentiations. So far we have a lot of Popper, but this covers only one scientific method. I trust a workman to judge his trade. So to me, what differentiates science, must apply equally to everything that the great scientists of any era recognized as science in their own day. That includes Alchemy (pursued by Newton) and Platonic cosmology as concretized by Ptolemy (with which Tycho Brahe tried desperately to find a Copernican compromise), even Marx and Freud (which many people at the time of their origin considered scientific, even if they disagreed with them.) Continuing to believe in such things once they are superseded by better explanations is counter-scientific, but in their day, these were science by the standards of those who should know. So Popper doesn't cut it. His is a theory of why science works, not a definition of science, and he is only partly correct. There is not just one scientific method, there are many. And while falsification with calculated risk may provably be the most statistically sound approach overall, it does not explain what a lot of major names in science actually did with their time, or why they were productive. Here are some variations: 

Most traditional theist positions consider God omnipotent. So they do not resist the notion that absolutely everything is the will of God. But as @PedeLeao points out, it is a common context within theisms that the overall plan of God cannot be understood by human beings due to our inherent limitations, and that it is those limitations that create the illusion that God is doing evil things. The position you point toward with your surgical analogy is close to the position of Leibniz in his Theodicy (which Voltaire mocks in Candide). It is summarized in the notion that we live in the best of all possible worlds. All evil exists only to make more good possible. For instance, from this perspective, all suffering now allows for something better to be in the future or the past which would not otherwise be witnessed or understood. It is our limitation in being temporal that keeps us from seeing the whole thing in perspective and realizing that the overall balance is the best attainable. But that limitation itself has a purpose of its own: it allows us to experience freedom and courage in a specific way, by not knowing with certainty the outcome of our actions. Your surgical analogy lacks an important component. God would have to be the source of the disease, as well. The disease itself has to be necessary for a reason. But redemption is possible only when there is something to be redeemed from. For instance, heroism is largely invisible outside a context of struggle and danger. So if it is to exist, and to be understood, those contexts must exist to whatever degree the heroism itself is to be comprehensible. Similarly, it is more important to experience mercy and salvation than to be "more perfect" in our own limited understanding of perfection and therefore have nothing to forgive or to be saved from. Fatalism isn't the only trap implicit in this viewpoint, or the worst one. Another problem within this position is that it puts us too close to the Platonic position that evil is not real, but only illusion, and ultimately pushes us toward a 'New Age' position that in a strong sense there is nothing evil. But then, doesn't that simply make what we consider good, neutral? And if we have been tricked into seeing the neutral as good, is that not in fact evil? We are led into the nest of contradictions that lie at the base of Gnosticism, if we consider God omnipotent, and cling too firmly to the human intuitions of negation and duality. 

is an example of A -> (B -> C) English is replete with constructions expressing implication, so these are often expressed with two different ways of writing '->'. As much as this random variation can be confusing, in this case, it helps. You know you have to implications because two different constructions overlap, and the nesting can be determined by considering what condition is most global. 

Well, is your body either a single material entity, or a collection of members? No. It is neither, both, more than either. The cellular structure is present, so it is not a single object, but at the same time it is a contiguous collection of cells, so it is a single object. The limbs exist, and may map out the body, but is more than a collection of them. (It is the whole constructed of the parts of a human, to paraphrase Quine.) Beyond that, the matrix of cells, or the collected members would be a corpse, not a body. And, animated, it is a body, a thing with specific functions, and would be so even if you replaced the cells and members with functional equivalents. By analogy to this (perhaps overly pedantic) observation, to me there are two logical leaps in your approach to the sould that are unwarranted. 1) Emergent theories of self are not 'bundle' theories even though they do admit that there are lower processes that constitute the soul itself. So 'single cause' vs 'bundle' as a dichotomy is not clean and does not cover the range of options. Like the cells, the soul can have parts that seem to make it up, yet do not totally explain its entirety no matter how you put them together. 2) Good 'bundle' theories do not necessarily involve any misinterpretation. Like the members, even if the soul is woven together out of perceptions and labels, it serves a purpose they would not serve on their own without the 'weaving'. So there is something to be seen there with more structure than a simple collection. So these two concepts, emergence of function, and holistic effects, undercut the idea that the soul must be either single, or separable. The soul may be neither single, nor separable, in the same way as the body: it has parts and aspects, but if you remove a few, it is no longer a body, but a corpse. I would propose there are at least five plausible constructions of the soul, motivated by historical precedents and an elemental breakdown along the lines of Aristotle's four causes: 1) (Quintessential) The soul's naive view of itself is as a 'single substance'. (A la Spinoza, Descartes, et al.) 2) (Formal) The soul is a collection of separate 'substances' that work together, which give it internal boundaries and psychological structure. (A la Plato and neo-Platonists.) 3) (Efficient) The soul is an emergent effect of self-observation, maintained by intersubjective feedback. (The emergentist view. Can be projected onto threads like Desassure, Wittgenstein, et. al, but they avoided speaking in these terms.) 4) (Final) The soul is a functioning entity capturing will and intention, either evolved or designed for this purpose of its own continuation. (A la later psychoanalysts, Nietzsche, et al.) 5) (Material) From a totally third-party point of view, the soul is a confluence of activities and patterns, and nothing more. (The 'bundle' views.) 

It is a good thing that philosophy does not dismiss theories based on science because when science has failed in the past, the rescue has come from philosophical notions at odds with the previous science. If these were not somehow kept alive in at least some historical framework, how would we recycle them? Consider just one notion: atomism. It enters the scene very early, then it is entirely dismissed in favor of substances. It is almost entirely quashed by the time Carnot shows that heat can be handled as a subtle substance. (Along the way Kant declares the problem insoluble -- a bizarre tangent.) But then it comes back in, with statistical mechanics. Yet it contends mightily with field theory, since the fact gravity and electricity spread through open space makes it hard to see how they might be mediated by particles. It finally triumphs when we get the nuclear theory of matter. But then it is again not quite right, when we reach relativity and discover that all of matter is convertible to and from energy, which is basically a continuous measure and not a compartmentalized one. But then it is back, with quantum dynamics, since it turns out that the energy has to come in discrete quantities. (I find this reversal most impressive since the previous loss and his win were both first proven by Einstein.) It is gone again with String Theory, but then back in terms of the Planck length. At what point in this endless cycle of reverals should we have thrown it out, and declared it to be at odds with science? 

There are two dominant ways of looking at what is and is not scientific. Neither of them ever considers any theory 'verifiable'. The kind of truth that has constructive verification is not something science really has access to, perhaps outside of mathematics, and there only by convention. One of them is Kuhn's notion. It focuses on science as a communal activity. The basic idea is that sciences work within paradigms, and that when a paradigm cannot be convincing to a critical mass of invested practitioners, it is abandoned. Then our understanding moves forward sociologically, not based on its content, but on the intellectual honesty of its practitioners. Those who cannot make their case, but insist on operating on a discredited paradigm are being intellectually dishonest, and have become invested in their own paradigm over the progress of the explanatory mechanism as a whole. The other position is Popper's, focused on individual theories. It considers a theory scientific if it is applicable, falsifiable and parsimonious. Theories that are not 'applicable', i.e. that predict falsely at their inception, are not good candidates for truth. But a theory must go beyond that, and honestly risk 'falsification'. It must predict solutions to problems that are currently debatable. Otherwise it becomes a simple repository of memory, a craft and not a science. If those predictions do not pan out, other contending theories should be used to complement or replace the theory in question. At the same time, to prevent the result from becoming an intractable pastiche of theories that really have nothing in common, each theory should be judged according to its 'parsimony', the degree to which it does or does not truly require additional vocabulary and different ways of thinking. Theories that can let other accepted theories do most of their heavy lifting are preferable, in that they are more likely to merge into a single overarching theory and make science itself simpler to use. But if those underlying theories fail, then the whole content of the reliant theory subsumes the complexity of the working part of the failed underlying theory. (So, for instance, when chemistry was created, 'humour theory' consequently became much less parsimonious, and highly questionable. Other alternatives that were no more effective, but only equally effective with less complexity, largely won over the practice of medicine.) Homeopathy is discredited sociologically, in that its working assumptions are based upon alchemy, which has been replaced by chemistry as a predictive basis. And it is not parsimonious, in that it is complicated, but one cannot make the case experimentally the complexity actually improves its performance. Don't take this as an attack on old-fashioned medicine as a craft. There is a lot of room for effective unscientific medicine. For instance, several forms of psychotherapy are equivalent to the 'client centered' approach in effectiveness. 'Client centered' therapists simply cultivate a way of being honestly interested in their clients in a way that does not require a mechanism or theory. But most people cannot do it very well, outright. Therefore we fall back on mechanisms and habits that produce that attitude within us, or the equivalent complementary attitude within the client -- theories of behavior, investment in family dynamics, etc. Those theories are seldom parsimonious, and they are generally unfalsifiable, or even outright unapplicable. So, in the end, the process is primarily still wholly unscientific. At the same time, a vast majority of the curative power of physical medicine is also psychological, in a way we still have very little access to or control over. If you can offer a more convincing placebo with extra machinery, more side-effects, or magical explanations for the reasons behind your suggestions, you may still be doing effective medicine, if quite bad science. 

There is a classical bias in Aristotle that the natural state of things is rest, and inaction is generally forgivable. After all, it is the direction the universe would take anyway. Aside from avoiding an excess of rest, which would be a vice through its sheer excessiveness, rest is always safe. This pervades our history and our law, so it is still a common approach to morality. Only negligence is culpable, not simple inaction. You have to have a responsibility, in order to be held responsible. But Galileo changed all that. The new metaphor is that momentum perpetuates itself. And we observe this to be true in a fairly broad metaphorical sense. So from the viewpoint of many modernists, from Nietzsche to Sartre, this distinction, like many others, simply does not exist. Any tiny inflection, therefore, has a real effect on the future, because the direction of the whole is permanently affected. From a "Will to Power" perspective, if you do not act, when control is open to you, you have let an opportunity to exercise power pass, which is always a waste, unless it is the best use of your power available. From a more basic Existentialist point of view, whenever there is an opportunity, you are in a trap: inaction simply is a form of action, and splitting hairs won't help -- you will act. From the psychodynamic point of view embedded in Critical Theory, drives are active. Action is the default behavior -- you can tell by looking at children. So we work hard to restrain it by layering it over with fear and rules (a la Freud) or balancing out forces to make our degree of engagement and decision-making bearable (a la Lacan). Those choices to learn control and accept inaction as a default state may be unconscious. But they are still choices, and we are responsible for making them. 

Physiological evidence suggests that removing emotion (not lowering its level, but breaking the mechanism that accesses it) limits one's ability to apply logic to situations. E.g. the case studies of Antonio Damasio, simplified here: $URL$ and interpreted in his book "Descartes Error". The reason for this seems simple and direct, to me. I would like to point out that the only way we have of realizing that we have decided or admitted that something is logical is a subjective feeling of clarity. So I would contend that our sense of logic is, in fact, an emotion of its own, and therefore, any preference for acting logically is an emotional decision. If you accept that, there is only internal competition between emotional forces, not some competition between logic and emotion. Feeling calm and competent is a feeling, just as feeling shattered and angry is. Choosing to impose one state over the other is still choosing to be emotional. By choosing to 'ignore your emotions' you are really choosing the emotional state that has gotten you the best return on your investment in the past, not choosing some state that is not emotional. I skipped the answer: Based on this, I am assuming that if we were really emotionless, we would not be able to function rationally. (I am not sure that would make us more like animals. To me, animals seem, in their own limited way, more rationally motivated than humans. After all when it is perfectly logical for pig to kill off some of its children, it just does so, with an emotional equilibrium few humans could muster.) 

Not to introduce politics without good cause, but abortion really is a good test case. For the vitalist, even if a child is to be born with serious birth defects and have a short and miserable existence, it should be born, and the effort of the pregnancy is not a waste. That few months of suffering constitutes a life, and we would be shortening it. For many who still hold the sanctity of life, other values can be as 'holy', such as avoiding needless suffering. Even most of those neutral on the issue often agree that some serious birth defects are a good reason to abort a child. It is intrinsically wrong to shorten a life, but the quantity of pain the child would suffer can be a greater wrong than that.