Here are some figures: $URL$ But, it's a tricky question, and this is why. Being religious requires having beliefs which are not based on valid evidence - being a scientist requires abandoning all belief altogether, and forming opinions that are based on valid evidence. So, the scientific mind set is fundamentally incompatible with the religious mindset. Science does not require one to believe or not to believe in God/Gods - it only requires that, if one forms an opinion about the topic, one bases that opinion on evidence, and make the evidence public, ready to be scrutinized and put to the test of time. Thus, it's not surprising that great many scientists are atheist. Note that being an atheist simply means not believing in a deity or deities. Being a scientist requires you to go a step beyond that - science recognizes that noting is 100% certain, so, a scientist cannot truly be a gnostic atheist. One can, however, make claims about the existence of a specific kind of God (the Christian God, Allah, Zeus...), and form an evidence-based opinion. This is why any scientist who claims to be a believer is essentially living by double standards. In that sense, 100% of scientists are atheist. Some small X% of them don't seem to know it. :D 

Notice that they used the word associated in the above quote meaning that there could be any number of other factors that are not measured in scientific study that could influence this correlation (Eg. moderate alcohol consumption may lower stress and lower stress improves heart health?) 

I have heard a number of people talking about some serious and seemingly implausible allegations that the Sandy Hook shooting was an elaborate hoax. Most of the sources for these claims I have found compiled on Wikipedia which I will post for the time being: 

tl;dr; There are indications for this effect, but the research is still unconclusive. The claim as stated is probably false. The evidence This statement refers to the widely studied Stereotype threat effect, which is often described as the risk of conforming to stereotypes of one's social group. In particular, it refers to the study STEREOTYPE SUSCEPTIBILITY: Identity Salience and Shifts in Quantitative Performance by Shih et al. In this study they tested the math performance of 46 Asian-American women, divided into three groups. The first group (n=14) was primed with questions about their female identity, the second (n=16) with questions about their Asian identity and the third (n=16) with neutral questions. They found that 

I am not even going to give credence to some of the ridiculous anti-semitic theories that are floating around this. The only thing I can say is that if this were some elaborate plot pulled off by the Obama administration to ban assault weapons then it failed miserably. Is there hard evidence to dispel some of these absurd theories? 

Link: $URL$ After this claim was made, right wing pundits started to report it as fact as well and further contributed to the claim. While proving this either way may be difficult, is at least plausible that any member of the executive branch could have manipulated these job reports in anyway? 

Ask yourself this: are this questions good? The word "belief" is problematic - as it doesn't have the same meaning for religious and opinion-based belief. So, what does a scientist mean when by "personal belief" or "personal disbelief", exactly? Are they talking about the concept of God (creator, ultimate cause) in general, or is it a deity with more specific characteristics? Is there doubt in disbelief? My point is, studies like this don't paint a representative picture. If the right questions were asked, the percentage would be much lower (now that's an unsupported claim - but different at least). If a scientist would provide evidence for God, and this evidence was confirmed, and most scientists started "believing" that there in fact is a God, this wouldn't classify them as theists - as their "belief" would actually be an opinion based on factual evidence. And yes, they could be wrong. But science doesn't forbid you to be wrong - it only asks of you to admit it when you are presented with contradicting evidence. Religion, however, does - if you doubt, you're doomed. And that is just not compatible with science. Those few who have religious beliefs would never apply such reasoning to scientific research, and if they did, they would be laughed at, as that is not science, and they wouldn't be able to defend their claims. So such people have double standards. Another thing: creationists and the like are not scientists - not because of their claims, but because of invalid (even fabricated) evidence, and because of flawed logic they use to support them. I know many of you won't like this answer - but there you have it, and it's all yours to judge. OK. Maybe this answer is not quite adequate, but that's because the question, as posed, doesn't really make sense - at least not without first precisely defining terms like "belief", "atheist", and even "scientist". 

More a comment, than an answer: The claims made in "Die Akte Aluminium" were thoroughly debunked by German skeptics, e.g. in this post of the GWUP. Regarding your explicit questions: I am not sure which evidence you are expecting if you don't trust a renowned scientific institution like the Paul-Ehrlich-Institut. Especially when all of the studies are linked in the article you mentioned. The study mentioned where they feeded mice aluminium and sucralfate seems to be this one. They indeed find evidence, that aluminium in its pure form can encourage (not cause!) allergies. But, as the PEI describes, further research showed that this is only applicable for low antigen concentration and the results cannot be transferred directly from mice to humans. 

EDIT: I've been asked to expand on this, so here. However, note that my point was that such figures don't really answer your question - the question is fundamentally ill-posed. None who values the principles of modern scientific thought (form models based on available valid evidence) can honestly claim that is simultaneously religious in the same sense religious people are (who form models of reality based on invalid "evidence", essentially hearsay). It's what being a scientist is by definition. (science, scientist) The article I linked to shows some figures, for 1914, 1933, 1998: 

Considering the mass media hype surrounding the potential health benefits of red wine, and various press releases by pharmeceutical companies surrounding the supposed benefits, this study has never been published in a peer reviewed scientific journal, so claims made here cannot be taken seriously. In all, there may be some truth to this, as high dosages of resveratrol had positive effects in lab mice, but so far nobody can really say for sure. 

A few days ago, former GE CEO Jack Welch made a contreversial accusation/claim that the September 2012 jobs report was manipulated by the Obama administration in an attempt to portray the economy in a good light for the upcoming election. Here is the actual quote: 

In the second part of the study, they did the same experiment in Vancouver, where the asian stereotype is less prevalent with a total of 19 Asian-American female high school students. They state that 

Conclusion While there are some indications that the claim might be true, it is still unconclusive if and to what extent the specific claim about Asian females or even the underlying Stereotype threat effect exists. Since the numbers stated by Fry do not match any results from the studies, it is likely that he invented those numbers to underline his point. Also there does not seem to be direct evidence regarding the claim that Asian women are affected by a stereotype threat due to competition with European men. There is weak evidence that Asian women perform worse when confronted with the "female" stereotype, than when confronted with the "Asian" stereotype, but these results fail to consistently reproduce. So given its level of precision, the claim is almost certainly fabricated. Additionally, what studies there are suggest that any effect in that direction is weaker than the claim pretends, and certain difficulties in replication imply that there might be not much, if any, such effect at all. 

I think the answer is, Yes it certainly can. Is it likely? Electric toasters work much the same way as space heaters or hair dryers, in that they run a current through high electrical resistant wires to generate incredible amounts of heat. Most toasters tend to use Nichrome (alloy of 80% Nickel and 20% Chromium). Electrical resistivity at room temperature: . The Nichrome wire typically under this heat will react with air to be chemically stable meaning it forms an outer layer of Chromium Oxide which has incredibly high electrical resistance. If this isn't enough then in modern toasters these wires are coated with Mica which can provide enough resistance from the point of the coil to the knife where current will not ground through you. Source: $URL$ Knowing all of this it is safe to assume that simply touching the wire with a knife while current is flowing will probably be okay. While the voltage is about 100-115 it will hurt, but the current travelling through is high to generate heat and certainly high enough to risk injury or death (Source: $URL$ Jabbing at the coils can risk flaking away the protective Mica or Chromium Oxide to make such a thing dangerous. Furthermore jabbing inside a toaster and making contact with the wires connecting the coil can certainly electrocute you however these are typically tucked safely away where you couldn't reach it with a knife unless you disassembled the body. (Source: $URL$ The other electrical components if applicable are probably feeding a circuit board and shouldn't go above 5 volts typically. There is no danger from jabbing the circuit board if that happens to be exposed, unless of course if you were to touch the timer relay which could cause a great amount of current to flow through you. (Source: $URL$ So basically, if you are viciously jamming a knife into a toaster, thats plugged into an outlet that doesn't have polarity or proper circuit breaker protection, and you are barefoot, then yes you certainly run the risk of electrocution or death. EDIT: I forgot YET ANOTHER possibility of electrocution! If through the process of jamming an object into the device you inadvertently cause the toaster to short through the aluminum or steel internal casing, and the ground wire for the casing has been damaged OR the outlet is not grounded or not properly grounded... then YOU will become the ground! (Source: $URL$ 

Another replication study by Gibson et al. with a higher number of participants (n=164) found a significant effect after excluding 32 participants, which were not aware of at least one of the stereotypes. Before excluding those participants, the effect was not significant. See A Replication Attempt of Stereotype Susceptibility A third replication study with 139 participants by Moon and Roeder did not observe significant differences between the groups. See A Secondary Replication Attempt of Stereotype Susceptibility Publication bias and validity of the stereotype threat In the 2014 meta analysis Does stereotype threat influence performance of girls in stereotyped domains? A meta-analysis by Flore and Wicherts they confirmed the stereotype effect on girls in standardized math tests based on the available publications