If you're just trying to redirect example.net web site visitors to example.com , that's what you should do. Point example.net A DNS record to example.com's IP address. After that, you have a couple of options; -Create a new website on your host that accepts example.net visitors and redirect them using HTML/Javascript in your index page , or using your server's redirection capabilities. -On your single website, check to see if visitors' URL matches example.net and redirect them to example.com using Javascript in your index page. Pick one. 

Google for "mmc snap-in registry location" Open regedit and go to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\MMC\Snapins Install Hyper-V Management Tool and check the new snap-in's ID in this location If snap-in is already installed, just browse the keys and find related snap-in and its ID 

There's no PDC or BDC after Windows NT4 . Every DC can make changes in AD data. Latest change wins. So, yes, you can make the update on any DC and it will be replicated to all of them in the same domain. If you change the same attribute on 2 different DCs at the same time, latest change will overwrite. 

That's not a requirement. The article mentions it as a best practice because it's important to have the same patch level across all of your nodes to avoid incompatibilities and surprises. If your WSUS servers are synced, it shouldn't be a problem. 

Why don't you just check "Log on" tab of those services? I think it's any of them tho. Did you find any events in Security log when you searched for that username? 

You can use Activity Log from the new portal. It's under Management Services - Operation Logs in the old portal. 

You need to get a certificate that has all those names as subject names or a wildcard certificate. So, single certificate will be used for all of them. After that, you can configure each website with that certificate and SNI. 

Did you try downloading and using SSMS 2014 to see if you can connect? This problem used to come up when using different versions of SSIS and SSMS. 

nsupdate can't do that. The first parameter after "delete" is "name" of the record. You're trying to delete with "data" of the record. You can scan the zone file, find matching records, add them to a file with a format that nsupdate understands and feed it to nsupdate. 

These are the privileges. You already know what permissions are. If you think about it , there isn't a distinct line between them tho. "Allow log on locally" is a privilege , but, when you add a user there, you're just giving them permission to log on to that computer. Again, you can say that permissions are given on resources, but, "computer" is also a resource in my example above. Instead of trying to understand what they are called, you should learn the list of privileges from the web page I linked above. That is the whole list and that will help you solve your problems. 

If you're able to ping www.google.com , you're all set. Services and ports part is only for port forwarding from outside to inside. You should check your antivirus on the host. Easiest way is to disable it and try again. If it works, you can look for the specific setting. 

It basically resets your DNS setting to get the DNS server that your DHCP provides, and converts it to a static setting adding 8.8.8.8 in the end. "Wi-Fi" is my network connection's name. Yours might be "Local Area Connection", "Ethernet" or something like that. This might also work. 

You can block DHCP traffic on Windows 7 with its local Windows Firewall and add PXE options on your other DHCP server if it's possible. So, everyone gets IP address and PXE information from a single server. 

You can edit administrative template file and see what is changed if you enable any of the settings in that GPO section. It'll show you that it's using the ID of the snap-in and the value with a value of . 

Now you know your snap-in's ID, you need to use it in GPO. There are couple of ways to do that. You can edit the administrative template file () you used before and add a new policy section with Hyper-V snap-in's ID, or, you can use admx file to see what is modified in registry when you change that Group Policy setting and deploy correct settings with GP preferences. Instead, I just changed one of the settings using gpedit.msc , opened in notepad to see what it changed, opened regedit and added the new key with snap-in's ID and value. After testing to see if it worked, you can export it and deploy it using GP preferences. 

You can't do it the way you want. As long as Windows DNS server sees itself auhoritative for the zone, it won't ask anywhere else. And, your clients will not look for the missing records in Tux, even if you tell them to use it as secondary. If Tux support dynamic updates, you can use it as your primary DNS server for Active Directory as well. Like this You should've used a subdomain for your AD domain name. Consider it, if it's not too late. 

If you read "The [homes] section" on this page, it says that //server/myusername is cloned on the fly from //server/homes . So, you need to make homes not browseable, aka 

You're using SQL login, right? Not Windows authentication. SPN is used for Windows authentication (Kerberos) when both the client and server are members of the domain. I think there's another problem that prevents you from connecting to your SQL server. Might be routing issue,firewall, port configuration for SQL service or antivirus. Try disabling the Windows Firewall on SQL server and connecting again to see if it's related to firewall. Same goes for antivirus. For port configuration, you can verify it using SQL Server Configuration Manager and running command to see if port is . 

Thanks for the great responses. Since I will end up using the existing insfrastructure, I am going to answer my own question. :) I am not sure if this is a valid method but I gave points for all possible solutions. In short: I will be using SCCM for deploying Windows OS and packages. MDT for managing and testing images. When a client PXE boots, it will have two options: Install Windows/Install RHEL. After the authentication, the OS installation is automated. SCCM is used for post deployment operations and for linux I am going to test puppet/bcfg2. Thanks again. 

We are using SCCM to deploy Office 2010 and it has worked very well. Most of the customization is done using the 'setup.exe /admin'. We divide desktops, laptops and servers to different collections(similar to OU in AD) and then further division based on tiers of deployment like IT, Accounts, sales, Executives. If anyone is looking for Windows 7 deployment, then SCCM 2007/2012 is way to go. It has a little learning curve as some of things just don't work out of box and need to be worked over-and-over again. But the end result is worth the effort. I used this link as reference for packaging Office 2010 for SCCM. 

I went thru the same path recently where one of the top executives of my company wanted a home PC(not domain managed) to connect to office remotely and use his TWO computers(which has 3 monitors). Server side: We use Juniper's WebVPN and setup a user role to map the office PC to a local loopback address using secure applications manager. 

This is every SysAdmin's nightmare of things to do. Basically we want to control who has access to which hosts. As simple it may sound, the problem is to find a scalable and low maintenance(mgmt. overhead) solution. We use bcfg2 for Config Mgmt much like Cfengine & puppet. Some ways: 

Over the past several days I have been trying to get the shadow to work with samba but haven’t been successful. Can someone check below config and let me know if I am missing something? We are using Equallogic SAN and iSCSI LUNS to mount volumes. I can cleanly access samba shares on Windows 7 clients but just not shadow copy. I have referred the official how-to but couldn’t get it to work. I see these messages in the logs. Any help is deeply appreciated. 

I did similar project 2 years ago and I was in similar position not knowing where to start and how to tie the ends together. Step1: Figure out what you want to accomplish and write it down. Step2: See if the requirements are realistic and can be accomplished altogether. If not, what items are you willing to sacrifice. (This is where it takes a long time). step3: Choose a platform for LDAP. in your case, you already have an existing one. step4: Documenting & Testing. step5: The cut over plan is most critical as it doesn't matter if you accomplish all you wanted to but also to make sure there is a smooth transition. In my case, we had to do in a phased manner. From reading you comments above looks like you already have Openldap in production. Your requirements look like: a) Allowing users to use same password policy on AD. b) User accounts to propagate to LDAP automatically. Answer to a) You can setup a PAM pass-through module in LDAP to delegate password authentication to a DC via kerberos. In this way you will not have the headache of maintaining password in two places. I did on 389-DS LDAP, and the documentation link should be sufficient. When a user authenticates, the PAM module checks if user account exists in LDAP and if so, passes the passwd to PAM stack with krb5.so to authenticate. Check 389-DS documentation which should apply here too. Answer to b) I hit all the cylinders to figure out a way to use a ready solution but nothing came close. This is because you have to massage the schema for accounts and groups. So I with the help of a colleague wrote a script in perl to sync the users & groups from AD to LDAP. A snippe to f code is here. 

(the port number is the office extension and was available). Similarly for other PCs and users. Remote user side: The user working from home will log on to WebVPN and start the Java Application. Once started, he/she can open mstsc.exe /span (/multimon for windows 7) and connect to 127.0.10.11:8891. Windows XP users might have issue with spanning across multiple monitors, when you maximize a window it will stretch across all monitors. In that case, use SplitView. Recommendation: WebVPN is much better than RRAS or client-based solution. You can setup many applications to stream thru VPN without needing to install it locally. Manage Home PC over Internet:(If you have a situation like me) In order to manage the remote home PC over internet, we used a NetSupport with Gateway enabled feature. Configure Netsupport gateway on the DMZ server(preferably windows) and edit firewall rules to allow traffic over internet. On home PC setup the http communication to the public IP or DNS address. Then you can connect NetSuport console to the remote gateway and just connect to the PC over internet. It communicates over HTTPS. We looked at MS Intune for this, but it doesn't allow unattended RDP which we needed as the executive might just walk-in and say, please fix my home PC. :/