For the rear wheel you need a specific wheel hub that you can attach a disc to, assuming your frame supports disc brakes in the rear (check answer from @Kibbee). My advice is to just forget this. In the front however, since your bike already has discs, the change is really easy. You can buy really good price-for-money Shimanos for example, as you can see here. You will notice a big difference, and doing so implies just removing old lever and caliper and attach new ones. Super easy, and you don't even need to change the disc. The caliper might need a special adaptor. This depends on your fork and disc size, and I can't advice you without a picture, but Google "bike disc brake adapters" and you will find all the info you need. I think this shift for hydraulics will be worth it, as you will notice a big difference and they are really cheap. Happy braking! 

I faced the same dilemma a while back. Getting a big chain implies carrying way too much weight around. Even a small, good bike chain is pretty heavy and can easily be 1/3 the weight of your bike. The best way to protect your bike and be able to carry the locks around is to have a chain or a U-Lock, and with these you can easily secure your frame and a wheel, and then use a small cable like this to secure the other wheel. One wheel is less protected, but a substantial part is under a good lock and the weight is not too bad. From these I actually prefer a small chain to a u-lock because it is easier to lock the bike to a tree for example, but if your city is bike friendly a u-lock offers very good protection and is much more manageable. When buying locks keep in mind price usually means security. I recommend you check the independent tester of locks Sold Secure. They have a catalog with different locks they have rated. 

Rear derailleur adjustment can be a really pain in the neck. What is more likely happening is that you have to adjust the B screw: 

Bike radar did a pretty good article on this, which you can find here. My personal opinion is Carbon Drives/Shaft drive are quite fancy but pretty useless. They are more expensive, require specific frames which are usually quite expensive, and their try to solve a problem that simply does not exist. With a carbon/shaft you can only run a single gear hub (maybe with internal gears, but that's not the point). A normal bike chain lasts a few years in mountain/road riding and keep in mind rear derailleurs play a huge part diminishing a chain life. On a single speed bike the chain pretty much has no wear and just lasts and lasts. Regarding maintenance, if you live in a dry climate, the oil on the chain will last a few months, and if you constantly ride on the rain I don't believe you don't have 20 seconds per month to spray it with a good oil. Because that is all it needs. I do have a bunch of cheap (around $150) single speed bikes with chain that have been working perfectly for a few years with once a year maintenance. Please keep in mind this is an opinion assuming money is a conditional when searching for a new bike. i.e., I am saying that for practical purposes, when you justify them comparing features and price, chainless options are not worth it. In the same it is not "worth it" to have a Ferrari, even though I sure would love one in my garage. 

Regarding interchangeable components, it's hard to say without pictures, but it's likely this will be hard because a) old bike, old standards and b) even with the same standards road and mountain components are substantially different. Regarding old vs new, this question is hard to answer. If you take a look at similar answers in this Stack Overflow you will see big discussions regarding old vs new bikes. Some people say they have old bikes that use everyday reliably, and that's great. They also say performance is really nice, and that is great either. Other people love their old bikes. This is all great, as what is really important is that you have a bike and that you have fun in it. However, I have a different take, but given what's stated above please keep in mind this is (a little) a personal opinion, and that people will disagree for the reason above, some time rightfully, some times not really. I am also the owner of old and new bikes and deal with bikes daily because most of my groups of friends have bikes and we all use them daily. An old bike is an old bike. It's like an old car. I have a 15 years old Toyota that works reliably, absolutely nothing is wrong with that car. I love it. Does it perform as good as my parent's 3 year old one? No way. Does it require more maintenance? Yes it does. For two reasons: time takes an impact in every vehicle, everything has a life span; and technology evolves and changes in 15 years. It is the same thing with bikes: you can have an old bike that works well, and you can use it everyday, but a new bike is a new bike. Having a component that just left the factory is just better than using one that that has been used for the last 10 years. Worst case scenario, and your new bike even comes with guarantee, some of them of a few years. Not only it is more likely you will have problems with an old bike, on the short term that is something you will have to deal with it, instead of simply filling a guarantee claim and get a new one. Some people will now come and say that "mechanic principles didn't change that much in the last 15 or 20 years". That is true. A derailleur works the same way. And so do the brakes. But returning to the car example, an engine has the exact same 4-step gas-consuming principle as it had 20 years ago, and driving a new car is much, much better. It's faster, more powerful, revs easier and consumes a lot less fuel. And it is the same with bike components: new brakes have better materials, tweaked designs, servo technologies, and therefore they break much better. This is true for all bike components, as they didn't suffer a complete revolution but they sure have suffered years of evolution. So if you felt in love with old bike, want to go through the process of restoring it or buy it ready to ride, maintain it, and have fun riding it, that is great. Again, having fun doing it is what really matters, and if your friends are not Cipollini's I am sure you will be able to catch up with them. However, I would recommend just get something new. I have old and new bikes, but for long rides I always use the new ones. I love the old ones much more but really, being on a modern bike with modern components is just different. It is just better. You can get something pretty good close to the $1000 range, as you can see here. For example, I am not sure you can get find B'Twin bikes in the US, but one of the bikes on the list is a B'Twin Triban Black 5 that goes for around $700 and has five stars. Another thing you can try is to find shops around you that rent bikes. Rent one for one or two days, and get the feel of what riding a road bike is. It is very different from mountain biking, but I think you will love. I do, but again I love every kind of bike ride. 

More than existing, BMX off road racing is actually an Olympic sport. According to Olympic site on this sport: 

It is hard to give you the exact reasons why this is happening, but your derailleur body lost a good mechanic connection with the cage. Maybe the screw that holds them has just became loose, or maybe it has gone bad, or maybe your derailleur is just old. Hard to tell from the pictures. I don't want to be pessimistic, but repair will be hard, as manuals and parts are hard to find, and I suspect even if you successfully do it there will still be too much slack for this part to perform adequately. It sure doesn't hurt to try. The only link I can point you to is for an overhaul of a Shimano derailleur, here. These components aren't too different and this should give you a help. In the meanwhile, I would start putting some money on the side for a new one, the good news are that if you can't fix yours you can get something really cheap. If you ride a lot, it is better to invest in something a little bit better. Good luck! 

These links might also help you, here and here. Play with your ergonomics on the bike should make a big difference. If working with saddle/stem position does not help, or if even after finding your most comfortable position you're not still ok, I think you are on the market for a new saddle. 

Here you have a compatibility chart for Race Face cranksets. Chain rings are not as standardized as cassettes and hubs for example, but you usually have a fair choice of inter-compatible components across different brands. 

There is no problem in going for automotive grease in bearing (hubs, bottom bracket and headset). This is not the perfect lubricant, but you have a cheap bike, probably don't want to spend the $10 in grease, and truth is that a clean bottom bracket with a thick grease is better than what you currently have. Besides, these parts are not exposed so you really only need the grease to keep the bearings rolling smoothly and to protect them from some water that might infiltrate. It might be too thick and probably these parts will feel a bit tight, but it's minimum, you won't notice it, and this will not affect bearings life. For other parts of the bike, grease is not a good idea for the reasons you stated: it's super thick, and the disadvantage here is that a thick grease, or oil, catches a lot of debris and dust. So if you grease your chain and go for a bike, you will see it is covered by a lawyer of dust because your grease worked as a glue. For the chain, and for the the levers, calipers, derailleur, etc I think buying something more specific is better, and you can get something for $5 that will last for a while. With this stated, I usually use bike-specific lubes. For example, at rei you can get some bike grease for $5. It's really up to you, and it is much more expensive than the one you have, but it's only $5 and will last for a few services on your bike. 

Yes you can, but you need adaptors such as these. Edit: To the best of my knowledge, all Marzocchi v brake adaptors are the same, but you might want to ask the eBay vendor just to be on the safe side :) 

According to bike rumors, these two bikes have different Cr-Mo tubing, with one being a higher end material. You can find more information here 

I agree with most comments, your style of riding and your tire size make a big difference, and any bike should hold with proper care. However, if you are concerned with the road quality being extremely bad you can always buy a cyclocross bike, which have similar characteristics to a road or endurance bike but tougher frame/components. Also, you can perfectly go carbon, just make sure they were designed for your type of riding (there are carbon bike frames/components for extreme riding). 

Be careful, you can not use all types of lubricants on suspensions of rear shocks. The reason is that these are subject to high, fast friction and a lot of heat, so you need lubricants that are developed to handle these conditions. It doesn't make sense to advice you an anything in particular, just be careful to buy suspension-specific oil and grease. On a side note, if you are saying the shock used to be stuck in a compressed position, and have some rust in the upper-seals... none of those are good signals. Make sure your suspension is on good working order, or at least that it has enough structural integrity to be safe to use (take it to a shop if you're not sure). If you have some money on the side I would recommend buying a new one, even if it's a really cheap one (1 year guarantee is mandatory so at least you will have that :-) ). If you ride mainly on road buy a rigid fork (they are super cheap, used or new, for example) and forget maintenance for ever. Be safe and good luck.