In some other religions like Hinduism and Catholicism, the role of monks and the role of priests are clearly separated. However, in Buddhism, this is not clearly separated. It is clear what the monks should not practise. DN2 clearly lists a lot of "animal" arts that monks should not practice e.g. prediction, forecasting, dream interpretation, palmistry, geomancy, selecting auspicious dates, horoscopes etc. It is also clear that monks can ordain other monks, nuns, novice monks, novice nuns. Does the Vinaya allow or mandate monks to perform rituals and ceremonies like the following? If it does not, then why do they do it? 

Sure! It is allowed for lay people, as long as they observe the five precepts and virtue (sila), which includes Right Livelihood (samma ajivo). Please also see this answer. The Vanijja Sutta states: 

I quote from here is a short and blunt answer. This answer does not mean renounce your family but merely teaches a way to have less mental attachment to them. The problem is of one's mind, not of the world. 

How can you be a refuge unto yourself if your "self" doesn't exist at all? In this answer, Ven. Yuttadhammo wrote: 

I will not comment on whether your past actions were bad or not. But if you are concerned about your past actions, please see this advice from the Lonaphala Sutta: 

That's not true. As mentioned by chang zhao, the Buddha did learn from other teachers, as stated in the Ariyapariyesana Sutta, but it wasn't good enough. But luckily for us, the dhamma can be our teacher. 

Samadhi and samatha are related words. You practise samatha (serenity meditation) to achieve samadhi (concentration). The ATI glossary defines samadhi and vipassana as: 

Do you mean like these for the Sutta Pitaka? These pages list out the numbers and names of the suttas, and even provide a one-line description. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

TL;DR version: It's possible to protect oneself using the foundations of mindfulness (satipatthana), virtues (sila) and by not having bad intentions. I think the general idea is that through these, one would generate good karma that takes one away from falling to black magic. Long version: There's a discussion on protection through Satipatthana by Ven. Nyanaponika where he quotes SN 19: 

If we use 544 BCE as the year of the Buddha's parinirvana, then 1616 would be 1072 CE, which is still centuries after the authorship of the Manimekalai (if we assume that it was authored in the 6th century CE). Also interesting is this excerpt from the book by Monius (on pages 95 - 96): 

This answer is from the perspective of Theravada Buddhism. The Buddha is not The God or a god. He was a human being who sought to discover the solution to the suffering condition of sentient beings, and found it when he became enlightened at the age of 35. He taught the path to the end of suffering to people around him, who were willing to listen to him. He then passed away at the age of 80. His teachings were known as the Dhamma. After passing away, the Buddha was not reborn in any realm. It is impossible to reach him through prayers or rituals. Before he passed away, he told his disciple, Ananda (in DN16): 

The institution of the Dalai Lama, as an emanation of the Bodhisattva Avalokiteśvara, is officially recognized only by Tibetan Buddhism. The concept of tulku where teachers like the Dalai Lama, Panchen Lama and Karmapa, may intentionally reincarnate again and again as custodians of certain religious lineages, is only found in Tibetan Buddhism. It's not clear if other Vajrayana traditions also have tulkus. The Bodhisattva Avalokiteśvara is found prominently in many Mahayana sutras, and has the ability to incarnate as any kind of being, including human, to help and teach others. But the Mahayana sutras do not identify the Dalai Lama as an emanation of Avalokiteśvara. The Bodhisattva Avalokiteśvara, though present in temples in Theravada countries (probably due to Mahayana influence), is not found in the Pali Canon. 

So, the question is, would currency trading and other types of speculative trading be considered a form of gambling or a form of trading or a form of investment? If it is gambling, then it is not good. If it is trading (like trading of goods e.g. retail sales) or a kind of investment, then it is alright. So, which is it? This is open to interpretation, and is probably best analyzed by the experts at the Economics Stack Exchange. 

You don't have to join a physical Buddhist community or temple. Instead you can use online resources for learning and be part of virtual Buddhist communities on the Internet. You can also practice the Noble Eightfold Path on your own. A classic book for a beginner to read is "What the Buddha Taught" by Walpola Rahula, which can be downloaded here. The Basics of Buddhism podcast series by the Buddhist Society of Western Australia (BSWA) seems to be good. Ajahn Brahm, who features in some of these podcasts, is also a famous speaker on Youtube. Two good beginner articles to read are The Buddha and His Dhamma by Bhikkhu Bodhi and An Introduction to the Buddha, Dhamma, & Sangha by Thanissaro Bhikkhu. Tricycle's Buddhism for Beginners has some nice articles. If you want to feel close to a Buddhist community, watch the live and recorded videos of the BSWA on their Youtube Channel. During the live sessions, you can submit questions. Sometimes they have live events like the five precepts initiation ceremony on Wesak Day and the occasional monk ordination ceremony. You can learn the basics of Buddhist meditation as taught by Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu either using the booklet or the Youtube videos. You can join the online meditation courses also, where you could have interaction with other course participants. Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu has also written many great answers on this website, which would be helpful to a beginner. His YouTube channel also has many good videos for beginners. When you want to deep-dive into the teachings of the Buddha, use the accesstoinsight.org website's Self-guided Tour of the Buddha's Teachings. The book "In the Buddha's Words" by Bhikkhu Bodhi is also highly recommended. And of course, Buddhism SE, SuttaCentral and DhammaWheel are a few other online Buddhist communities you can participate in. 

So, intention is kamma. You can see in this question that buying frozen meat from the supermarket does not incur the kamma of killing, because there was no intention or action to kill. But does this mean that intention without acting upon the intention can result in kamma? According to the Yodhajiva Sutta: 

Firstly, if you keep wallowing in self-pity over your assumed past kamma, then this will not help you move forward. It's considered unwholesome. So, forget about it. Similar to the Buddha's Parable of the Poisoned Arrow, you should think about how you can get the arrow out and heal yourself, rather than examining the origins of the arrow. Secondly, it sounds like you are afflicted with one of The Five Hindrances called Sloth and Torpor. Here's some advice by Ajahn Brahm on this: 

I'm asking this question based on this comment and this question. It is well known that the goal of Buddhism is to end suffering. However, it is popularly mistaken (as seen in the cited comment and question) that Buddhists have to rush towards destroying their sense of self, skipping over the balanced wholistic practice of the Noble Eightfold Path. I think this is not correct. The ten fetters have the eradication of the identity-view or belief in a self (sakkāya-diṭṭhi) as a lower fetter, that has to be done in order to become a sotapanna or stream winner. However, a stream winner, has still not yet eradicated the fetters of sensual desire, ill will, material-existence-desire, immaterial-existence-desire, conceit and ignorance. I take it that total eradication of the sense of self happens with the eradication of the higher fetters, especially ignorance (avijja). After all, if the sense of self has been totally eradicated by the stream winner, it does not make sense that he could still have conceit, right? So, my question here is, if eradication of the lower fetter of identity-view or belief in a self (sakkāya-diṭṭhi) is not the complete eradication of a self, then what is it really? Is it an intellectual understanding of not-self? Or is it more? Is it an opinion? Is it a belief? Is it an experience? How is the eradication of the lower fetter of identity view different from total eradication of the sense of self? 

Based on the above, we can see that although superficially, Mahayana Buddhism seems to promote eternalism, but an in-depth analysis shows that all the grandiose literary extrapolations in Mahayana writings ultimately boil down to the simple concepts of the body of teachings (Dharmakāya), mind without defilements (luminous mind) and the potential for all sentient beings to become enlightened (Buddha nature). All these concepts do not have any eternal Self in them. 

What does mass donation of the Dhamma mean? How is that done? Does it include promotion of the Dhamma in public places or the Internet to vast audiences? According to Itivuttaka 100: 

In DN16, the Buddha also commented on the various conditions, if observed, would lead to the growth of the congregation of monks and not its decline. But these are too long to be quoted here. I'll quote only the first set here: 

If someone considers himself a Buddhist, we can assume that he accepts the Four Noble Truths and the Noble Eightfold Path. I guess this should apply to Secular Buddhists as well. If there is no such thing as rebirth (or continuation of the stream of consciousness or mind after death, in a new life), then there is no need to end suffering by ending craving (third noble truth), through following the Noble Eightfold Path (fourth noble truth). Instead, it's much easier to commit suicide, or simply wait for natural death. After all, if there is no rebirth, then at death, all suffering would end anyway, right? So, based on this, how do Secular Buddhists justify their acceptance of the Four Noble Truths and the Buddha's teachings in general, if they reject rebirth? How would the Four Noble Truths and Nibbana have any meaning or usefulness for them? Why would they choose to follow the Noble Eightfold Path, if death is a much simpler way to end suffering?