How much snow are we talking about? I’ve commuted through the winter on a cyclocross and had very little problems. The roads here (Austria) are usually cleared quite well, so I’ve never had deep snow. For black ice I used studded tires (Nokian Hakka W106) which — due to their narrowness (35mm) — also work quite well on slush. I’ve had the most difficulties with packed ruts which either prevent you from turning or break away on the borders (if the snow and ruts are still relatively new and not frozen over). For offroad usage with deep snow a fat bike is probably better. Riding a cyclocross on paths in conditions like this one (notice that the bike is standing without any support because the snow is so viscous) is very hard and exhausting. Make sure you have enough gears, riding with studded tires and/or through snow is hard. 

Maybe 25 000km with relatively thin road bike rims. If you are riding a lot and have expensive wheels it’s indeed something to take into consideration and an advantage of disk brakes. 

I know you don’t want to hear this, but at least for children there has been a trend in recent years to skip training wheels completly. It just leads to children trusting in them and never learning to balance. Where did you find strong enough training wheels for a grown adult anyways? Just like Daniel R Hicks in the comments I suspect the bicycle for being at least partly responsible. I’ve never ridden one of those cruiser bicycles myself but the seating position generally looks horrible. Can’t you borrow a more normal bicycle, adjust the saddle height (hiiiigh!) and ask someone to assist you i.e. keep you steady so you can reach speed? (it’s much easier to balance a moving bicycle) 

For 5 days with couch surfing and a good weather forecast in the summer you don’t need more than arm and leg warmers. Use your smartphone for navigation (using e.g. osmand). A spare tube, pump and the most basic tools never hurt either. Use a saddle bag or frame bags to carry a short and shirt so you have something to wear when you’re not sitting in the saddle. 

That’s not necessary and actually often a sign for a too low saddle. Saddle height is usually not limited by frame size, unless you have very short or long legs. Saddle height is quite easily determined, just gradually raise the saddle until it’s too high (i.e. you (automatically) start tilting your hips left and right because your feet can’t reach the pedals). Fore and aft position is much harder to find. 

There is not much to be aware of. The geometries range a bit between relaxed “training” geometries and more aggressive “racing” geometries. Get what fits you. Above 1000€ they are all solid quality with the main differences being weight and more or less aerodynamic wheels. If you plan on commuting, a randonneur or cyclocross bike where you can fit fenders, wider tires, a rack and hub dynamo might be a better, more versatile choice. If it’s flat, windy and mostly overland an aerodynamic time trial/triathlon bike might be an option. 

Of course a routing application can only do so much, but $URL$ is great and you can adjust the parameters (e.g. penalities for turning, elevation, primary streets, tracks etc.). 

How much clearance do you have on the front wheel? Doesn’t look like you can fit much more than 25mm width there. With your weight and luggage I’d go as wide as possible. Maybe 25mm in the front and 28mm in the back (if the brake has enough clearance). Of course it also depends on the quality of the roads. 

You only need tread on soft surfaces like mud, snow or gravel where the tire can sink into and interlock with the ground. Low tire pressure helps for the same reason, because the tire can cling to the ground and runs smoother. Unless you have really rough tarmac where some kind of interlocking can happen, a slick, high pressure 23mm tire will have as much grip as a 50mm mountainbike tire. 

I wouldn’t count on that. It just needs one sleepy, careless moment where you shift and shift and shift while being on the big chainring. I’ve tried too-short chains on a bike stand with manual pedaling and I was able to engage the gear but it does get stuck halfway through because the chain is just too short. When you are pedaling with your legs something is bound to break in such a case. That being said, I would (and did) still use it as a temporary solution. You just have to be careful on the big chainring. A minor effect is that a used chain will increase wear of the new cassette. There are people who use multiple chains and swap them every 1000km or so to wear down chains and cassettes evenly. Otherwise: Go ahead. 

Surest way: Measure the screw on the other shifter and get a replacement at any place which sells screws. Use screw glue if you already know the screw comes loose easily. 

I haven’t had a wheel lock in my hands for some years, so I’m not sure if this is really possible, but: How about mounting the wheel lock as far downwards as possible and using the shortest valves available? Would this allow the valve to move underneath the locking bar? 

First of all, make sure your saddle position is correct. With proper seating position and strong enough pedalling the stress on your hands and shoulder is greatly reduced. Otherwise professional cyclists wouldn’t be able to ride for dozens of hours per week. If saddle position alone doesn’t help you should be able to raise the bar with a different stem and more fork shaft spacers. If it’s impossible to solve your problem with the existing bicycle I’d suggest a recumbent. Cruisers and Citybikes are highly inefficient, heavy and have lots of aerodynamic drag. 

First of all, I haven’t done anything as extreme as you, only -18°C. The bike should be fine, maybe use less viscous chain oil and grease. I’ve ridden normal (though quite supple) Michelin Mud2 and Schwalbe Racing Ralph cyclocross tires in -10°C and didn’t notice any difference in their performance. In even colder weather I’ve only ridden studded Nokkian tires. There are special winter tires, e.g. the Conti Top Contact Winter 2 which might be a good idea in any case. Be aware that cables can freeze and molten snow can form ice on your rims. Regularly check that you are still able to brake, especially before approaching an intersection or the like. Battery powered lights might run into problems (or at least reduced battery run-time). Regarding clothing: Think about all the contact points between you and the bicycle: Saddle, pedals and handlebar (brakes, shifters). If you can comfortably sit in the saddle with your -40°C winter pants, don’t rub on the crank arms with your -40°C boots and can still shift and brake with your -40°C gloves everything should be fine. For your hands you could get Bar Mitts which allow you to wear thinner gloves. This assumes that your clothing is otherwise suitable for wind and strenuous activity in the cold weather. 

Can you ride your steepest incline at ~10km/h (6mph)? Apparently the Shimano Alfine 11 and 8 go down that far if you use the smallest allowed chainring/sprocket ratio of 1.9: $URL$ The downside is that your top speed is limited to ~55km/h. Apart from the weight an IGH should be great for mountains, especially since you don’t have to constantly change chainrings. 

It’s not only a matter of handlebar type. You can already try to get into a more aerodynamic position with your straight handlebar. A shorter straight handlebar can be quite aerodynamic. On a road bike the drops are mostly used for descents, normaly one uses the “hoods” or the tops which aren’t all that “aggressive” or overly aerodynamic. See also $URL$ for all the positions. The internal gear hub will be a problem for drop bars since there are no shifters available and you’d have to use one of the makeshift solutions. You could try adding time trial bar clips, but it can be hard to find a good position on a normal bicycle with them. Some pictures of your bicycle and seating position would help. You shouldn’t underestimate the impact of floppy clothing either.