Here's some background: I'm currently a junior developer at my company. I started as an intern and was promoted during a time in which the company lost two senior developers unexpectedly. When I was negotiating the position title and salary with my manager, I was offered 10,000 dollars less than I originally asked for, but that didn't bother me. I asked for a lot considering the fact that I had not received my bachelors degree yet (Computer Science). I also asked to be titled as just developer, but they tacked on "Junior" on in light of the aforementioned fact. However, I can objectively say that I am the most skilled developer at this company. I trained the only other developer (who is titled Senior) and I interview the candidates for the other open position. I am graduating this week, and it was initially laid out (informally) that I would have a performance review when I graduated and would receive a promotion. However, a new, more exciting role has opened up at this company that I would like to pursue. The manager of the new department stated to my manager (who was aware of my desire to move positions and was in support) that he wanted me to come on board. The issue is that my current department can't afford to loose me until we've brought someone else on staff and I've properly trained them. This brings us to some time earlier this week. (I honestly don't even remember what day. They all blend together because I've been getting little sleep due to exams). I walked in to work and before I'd had my morning coffee my manager pulled me into her office. She stated that the manager of the new department wanted me. She stated that they would offer me the salary I asked for initially (for my current role), but that I couldn't switch positions until November because they needed me here. I made a mistake and just blindly agreed. That was the end of the conversation. It was an informal agreement that she needed my confirmation on so she could bring the proposal to her boss. Here are my gripes: 

I'm not disputing your claim that you will likely find racism. It can exist in even the most tolerant of societies. However experience has shown me that there are at least two kinds of bigotry that can sometimes affect immigrants. The first may well be overt/covert skin/nationality based racism such skin colour or national history. @shauna's answer has some excellent points about this. The latter I find is that your experience/qualifications may not be accepted as 'good enough'. I doubt this may be the case in your situation, but it's worth bearing in mind. To counter this you should perhaps consider that being a member of professional societies and/or having professional qualifications that are respected in that country may well help. Also consider networking with pople from that country first - perhaps though international conferences and or internet fora where you can meet people in a strong business context first. For example I would consider starting with LinkedIn. In the end you have to work harder to prove yourself. And you may have to set the groundwork now by increasing your reputation within your working network while you are still in your original country. 

There is no point in getting well paid if you're going to be stressed out and unhappy. This is a large part of your waking hours that you'll be spending there. 

There may be company cultures where talking about personal issues is looked at as a sign of weakness, and if you work in a place like that you might want to keep quiet. However, based on personal experience, I would say that talking helps. My wife suffered from complications from surgery last year, was in a coma for two months and is now permanently disabled. Caring for her would be a full time job by itself, and I have to do it in addition to my day job. Also of course this affects me psychologically. I have been quite upfront with all of this with both my superiors and colleagues, since this rather affects my performance. And while I still have (obviously) to do the job I was hired for the company has been looking for ways to accommodate my situation, and my colleagues now at least understand why I'm constantly looking tired and show some understanding. Had I kept quiet that would not have happened. So I'd say mention it at least - at the worst nothing will come off it, but maybe somebody is willing and able to assist you with your situation (but remember that other people have a life, also, so don't take it as an excuse to talk constantly about your issue). 

If you can't get anything in writing (including proper emails). then you need to immediately move to step two and seek legal advice, even if it's just to determine if the work is likely to land you with negative consequences. 

In my experience this is just life and most people are reasonable because you have to deal with a family emergency. Just pop in ask for some emergency time off. Tell them that you really need to sort this as time is of the essence. Edit: Sorry I misunderstood. Since you're leaving earlier - I'd call him if I had his number, but if not then email him. I would say: 

Have routine for starting work - something like always starting at some defined time. I used to walk to the local shop and buy a newspaper. I made sure that I went out at lunchtimes and breaks and talked to people in the neighbourhood. I occasionally made a point of visiting local pubs/restaurants at the time other businesses kicked out so that I would meet people working locally. This sort of simulated "grabbing a few after work with the colleagues". 

Give them some financial stake in the outcome. I say financial as this is developing country and financial incentives are likely to be very welcome. The simplest way I feel would be to simply give people bonuses where proactive actions benefits the company. This balances chicken/egg of not paying more till you get results and not getting results until you pay more. Commit the company to paying non regular bonuses. Of course this system can be gamed like any other - so you have to manage it. 

Does anyone have any suggestions on how I should approach my manager about this. I need to do this as soon as possible, both for their sake and mine. It's really eating me inside to allow myself to be undervalued. I'm really just basically planning on meeting with her and stating the two bullet points above, but I'm afraid that It will seem like I'm going back on my word (I suppose I am) 

I am working on a project that requires that I have access to accounting information in order to put it in a database for use in an application that I am building. Some higher-ups in the finance department sent me an excel sheet that I asked for in order to do my job. The information in the excel sheet is the break down of salary budgets by department and it doesn't exist anywhere else. (That's why the application is being built). I needed the spreadsheet so I could both import the data into the database and analyze the structure of it so that a tool can be built to automatically extract/load the data going forward. Everyone is okay with this, but there is a caveat. One of my coworkers is technically working as a contractor. Evidently, this person's salary was separated from my department's overall budget and in the sheet I was provided, there are clear markings of exactly what this person is paid every week. I am not sure what to do at this point. My manager hasn't seen the spreadsheet as she doesn't need to (She already knows what my co-workers compensation is.) She knows that I know the department's budget for salary but she doesn't know that I know my coworkers specific compensation. I'm also not the only one who was sent the sheet. Two of my co workers have it as well. Presumably they saw this information, but no one has brought it up. Half of me feels like I should just ignore this and continue on with my job. The other half of me feels like it would be more wise of me to inform my manager that I am now privy to this information in case somehow this blows up in the future. E.G. someone decides to make a stink about it and then my manager gets blind sided because she wasn't aware of the situation. What should I do? If I tell my manager, what is the best way to frame this? 

There is a law in Germany, which somewhat unsurprisingly called the "Bundesurlaubsgesetz" (Federal Law on Vacation). Rather more suprisingly the law does not say you have to take vacation at all - you have to claim your vacation days within a given year, if you do not you forfeit your claims. There are very few exceptions, the one pertaining to your case is that vacation days can be moved to the next year if it is determined that your employer for some valid reason cannot do without you (i.e. contracts to fullfill that require full manpower). You can try to convince your boss that this is case, however at the end of the day it is his call, not yours. Employers usually loathe to permit this, because it affects the balance sheet (if that is the right word - they have to put money aside to account for the case that they might be unable to give you the missing vacation days, so that goes down on the side of the liabilities). However if you need to finish a project the benefits might outweigh the cost, so your boss might be okay with it (in fact moving vacation days isn't that rare in Germany). If you move vacations days to the next year you have to take them within the first three months of the year, else you forfeit your claims (as far as the law is concerned, the company might decide to handle this differently). Usual disclaimer, I am not a laywer, I just googled one on the internet (plus, some personal experience). 

Number number numbers + analysis + numbers! What I'm basically saying is that you need to present a business case to whoever makes the decision as why you need one. The easiest case is usually to determine how much more your work costs the company using the existing hardware and how much they'd save if you got different hardware. The costs are not just financial (though they will come down to this at the end), they could be things like impact to other people in terms of delays in getting things to them. Log each time something has gone wrong or taken too long. Did you have to log a support call. How much time did you waste? Did you have to get help from others. Every 12 x 5 minutes adds up to a wasted person hour. Every 5 of these adds up to a wasted day. I've done this for clients where server performance was inadequate, and for where I've need better hardware for specific tasks. Also it's not jsut about asking for "a new computer" - it's about telling them exactly what computer they need to get for you and why it benefits them to do it. 

Try and get a paper trail with the request. Determine if you think doing it is likely to be either illegal or not. If illegal you should immediately get legal advice. This may prove in valuable in the future. Make a decision as whether you're doing it or not and for what reasons. Face the consequences of doing it or not.