I have noticed that shouting (whatever words you use) is often taken personally by the drivers. It's probably the most effective and quickest to use in an emergency as described. I've seen several cyclists with a football whistle on a lanyard round the neck (mine is on my helmet strap) that can be held loosly between the teeth. 

In the UK, cycle paths aren't really set up for cyclists! They seem to be arranged by planners more interested in meeting targets for miles of cycleway. They are also aimed more at leisure cycling than for people who want to use their bike to go places. One of the problems that I find in the South East of England is that the cycle paths often take away the normal rights of way that apply to road users. In particular they share pavements so pedestrians are getting in the way and you have to give way when you cross side roads (as opposed to having right of way as a road user). 

I also use friction shifters, and recently put a 10 speed cassette onto my freehub - previously I had a seven. I put a 10 speed chain on as the chain walls are narrower. I have not yet changed the front chainrings, which are "eight speed". In your case put on a chain to match your cassette. Seven speed cassettes usually have a spacer on the wheel side when used on a larger freehub. It's always advisable to change the chain when you change the cassette anyway. 

Be prepared to fall, at least mentally prepared. There's 2 types of city cyclists, those who have fallen and those who are about to fall. There's no way for you to escape of this, you are doing it at some point, it doesn't mean it has to be a bad fall, but you are going to do it for sure (don't be scared about it, just be cautious). Do a test ride the weekend before your first commute. Plan ahead your route and then test it, go and ride all the way to your destination to check how long does it take you, how do you feel after the ride and also to check possible troubles on the way (detours, works on the road, etc). Is PRETTY IMPORTANT to try to use the same route always!! This improves your safety since after a while you will be able to spot the problematic parts of the road, where is common to find people crossing, where there are dogs that might chase you, which traffic lights are short, etc. Don't under estimate this, I think it is one of the most useful tips about city commuting using a bike. Check tire's pressure. The softer they are, the harder the ride is going to be. Check your brakes, no need to explain. 

Hub spacing - This is the distance from the inside of one dropout to the other. You can measure this by removing the wheels from the frame and sticking a ruler in the dropouts. To replace the axles, you will need to find QR axles and skewers to match your hub spacing. Otherwise, the QR may be too short or too long for the hub. With non-QR axles, an axle that is too long is not a problem (the nuts will still go on fine, and if you need to, you can cut the excess axle), but with a QR axle, you can't really trim the axle, because the QR skewer can't be trimmed. Typically, hub spacing on modern bikes is 100 mm (front) and between 120 and 130 mm (rear). Again, you should measure this yourself-- I'm just giving you an idea of what these numbers should be. Axle diameter - The QR axles you get should match the diameter of the existing axles so you can re-use the existing cups and locknuts (unless you were planning on replacing those, too). Common axle diameters are between 8 to 10 mm, or 5/16", or 3/8". Thread pitch - This is basically the angle of the threads on the axle. Like the diameter, this will need to match the existing axle if you want to re-use the cups. According to The Sheldon, thread pitch is measured in either threads per inch or millimeters per thread, with a 1 mm/thread pitch being equivalent to 25.4 TPI. Common thread pitches include 1 mm/thread, 26 TPI, and (rarely) 24 TPI. 

Buy a helmet. Despite you can find several discussions about what is the real effectiveness of a helmet, it's never bad to wear one. Buy lights, a white light for the front and red to put back. I would suggest at least two red lights, one to put in your bike's frame and one to attach to your helmet (or maybe your backpack or jacket). Buy gloves. This is not a must, but they will improve your comfort and also they will help when you fall. This will be is especially important if the weather is cold, in that case riding without gloves might be pretty unpleasant. Buy a windbreaker jacket, it will really help when it's cold. Don't go out with a ton of clothes because you are going to boil in there. It is best to go out with a shirt and a windbreaker jacket, and feel a little cold for 2-3 minutes until you warm up. If you can, buy a rack or some panniers. This is just optional, but you will really feel more comfortable if you ride carrying your things in a rack than in a backpack on your back. I would suggest you to ride the whole first week with just a backpack and then check if you want a rack or some panniers. 

A couple of years ago we had a new seat tube fitted to my wifes bike (a 20 year old Claud Butler Lady Dale) after it sheared where it joined the top tube - this was on a step through frame. Fortunately we live close enough to Roberts, one of the few frame builders in the UK, to be able to deliver it. I had to strip the frame for them and it cost about £150. They completely stripped the paint off the frame so we had it powder coated - approx £100. We did this as she really likes the bike and finds it comfortable for long rides. I don't think that we could get something similar for the price. If you want to get a new seat tube, you will probably have to send it away. None of the local bike shops would consider it - they make money selling new bikes after all. I think that only Mercian and Roberts offered a quote. Hopefully this has given you an idea of the costs and what is involved. If you like your bike as it is then it can be a viable option. I suspect that the longer seat post may be the cheaper alternative. 

Finally I would say "just go and do it". It doesn't matter if you can't do the whole hill in your first try, just do what you can and walk the rest. Maybe just half of a quarter is ok, then after a week you'll be adapted to your bike and you might be doing half of the hill and next week 3/4, and before you know it the thing is going to be just part of the road. Hope this helps. 

I've been commuting to work every day for the last 6 years. In your case I would go with these tips: Equipment 

I have to change the rims of my bike and I have to choose between 32 or 36 (or 48 or any other variation). I never thought about this until now and I feel it's kind of a dumb question, but I don't have a clue if this has any perceptible impact or not. So far, I understand that more spokes means a stronger wheel, but also more spokes means a little bit more weight. Despite that, a spoke weights almost nothing so I think that's not a practical difference to take into account. Is there anything else? I ride a single speed bike mainly for city commuting, so is there any practical difference between choosing 32/36 spokes (or another number)? Thanks a lot people! 

I don't have a kickstand on my "light" bike because I only ride it on roads (as opposed to trails) and I don't stop often, so it would be unnecessary. I don't have one on one other bike I own because it refuses to cooperate with a cheap kickstand I have laying around-- it's just my "beater" bike, so I never bothered to get a properly-fitted one. My third bike does have a kickstand, but I don't use it a whole lot for locking up. Usually if I'm using the kind of rack with vertical slots, as you described, the kickstand won't touch the ground anyway, so it's kind of pointless there. (If I swing the frame sideways a bit, the kickstand will touch the ground, but that blocks half the rack.) At other racks, I usually use the kickstand, but I don't think it's always necessary. I have on many an occasion done without the kickstand due to crowded racks, tight spots, etc., and never come back to a tipped bike. Whether the bike will stay upright depends on what kind of lock you use, how you use it, and what kind of rack(s) you have access to. If you only lock the frame, as moz mentioned, you might come back to find it tipped over, especially if you use a cable lock with a lot of slack. I would have to imagine a u-lock through the rear wheel and frame and around a solid object would be hard to tip over either accidentally by passerby or by forces of nature. A cable lock through both wheels and the frame will be reasonably tip-proof if there's not much slack left in the cable (which is already the point anyway if you use a cable lock). 

If you have managed to remove the bars then reassemble outside the bike and insert stem and wedge loosely assembled. If you have not managed to remove the stem then you need to invert the bike and get the wedge arranged and then insert the bolt through the top (that is now on the bottom). Sometimes you can use a long bolt from underneath - remove front wheel and mudguard as Mo suggests - to engage the threads and hold the wedge in place while you put the retaining bolt down as normal. 

When I made this change 15 years ago, as well as the new triple chain rings I needed to change the bottom bracket - cotterless square taper type - (which needed to be longer to correct the chain line), front derallieur (needs to be able to cope with extra travel and larger difference in chainring sizes) and rear derallieur (needs to be able to cope with larger total difference in teeth). You will also need to change your shifter to use the new range on the front. 

My only bike is a road bike which has 25mm tyres(Schwalbe Marathon at the back and Armadillo front). I expect that it would be fine on a tow path or most prepared tracks. I used mine a few weeks ago on a flat and rather muddy offroad track through the woods and fields. I was towing my son on a tag along. I got round, but I did have to get off and push through the really deep mud. The downside is that the narrow tyres sink further into the mud. The other issue that you may find a problem is that the mudguards will collect the mud more than a mountain bike. 

At red lights try to go all the way to the first car and stop a little after the car's nose or if you want just stop in front of it (if that is legal in your case). The point of this is to try to be visible for cars before they start running again, so they know you are there. You will be "safe" as long as you are visible for cars, don't ever forget that. If you find big cracks on the pavement (wide enough to be like the width of your tire), hoses, big sticks or anything like that, try to pass them going across and never along. Going along will make your tire go over the hose/stick/etc, like riding over them, which is a fall for sure. With cracks is kind of the same idea, if you tire falls into the crack you might fall when you try to get out of the crack by going to the side of it. If you don't feel confident enough with the traffic at some point just stop. Stop (not in the middle of the road of course), wait a little until you feel confident again and then start riding, don't over stress your nerves since we usually take bad decisions when that happens. If a dog chase you don't freak out, all you have to do is stop. Dogs usually lose their interest in you when you are stopped (I suppose they like just the chase). Also if you are going through a place you know there might be dogs, then go slow and dogs aren't going to bother in chasing you. 

I cycle to work about 5.5 miles every day. I bring trousers, shoes and shirt to change into, all fitted into one pannier. I carefully fold the trousers and shirt in a plastic bag and lay them flat against the back of the pannier and then put the shoes in to hold them in place. Lunch box fits on top. 

When I was a student, I used to re-lace and true wheels using the bike upside-down as the truing stand. When touring, I carry a few spare spokes, and true by eye. It's better than riding a loaded bike on a twisted wheel. 

As well as the good advice given by others, sometimes the valve leaks. This should show up on the water test. I have this problem on one of my wheels but not on the other. At the moment, I can get away with pumping up once or twice a week. 

On the flat and downhill, I just breathe normally. Going up steep hills, I find it helpfull to exhale in the cadence rythm, or even on each pedal stroke (twice cadence). By the time I get to this stage, the cadence has dropped so it is important to keep breathing regularly.