Ancient Israel was not a "caste" society, at least not in the sense that we know it in India. You appear to be referring to the fact that the priests were drawn from the Levites, one of 12 tribes of Israel. That appeared to have been a "convenience" thing, to formalize the fact that a disproportionate number of priests (and temple workers) came from that tribe. But that was exceptional; no other occupation was reserved for one tribe, and no other tribe "dominated" one occupation. And the Levites were not considered "better" than anyone else; if anything, they may have been consigned to that status for the tribes "past sins". So there wasn't a caste hierarchy built upon such specialization. 

The Burgundians were originally a Germanic tribe that settled the area that became known as Burgundy. Because it was so deeply in the heart of "French" territory, it adopted the French language and culture as soon as the Franks started pushing back the Saxons under King Charles Martel, and his grandson, Charlemagne. After the death of the latter, it represented the middle of the three "Frankish" kingdoms. Thereafter, it maintained ties to France, with their rulers typically being cousins or in-laws of French kings. The two countries' paths threatened to diverge during the 100 Years' war when Philip, the Duke of Burgundy married the heiress to Flanders, which had rebelled against France, and was allied with England. During the rest of the war, Burgundy's allegiances flipped back and forth, largely depending on who was winning. Even so, friction between Burgundy and France continued, especially when their respective kings died, and their heirs, Charles the Bold and Louis XI took over. In 1477, Charles the Bold rashly went to war against the Swiss over Alsace-Lorraine and lost his life, while the French continued to gobble up Burgundy proper, town by town. His daughter and heiress, Marie, married Maximilian I of Austria, and managed to carry the "Netherlands" (including modern day Belgium) into the Hapsburg empire, but Burgundy proper was lost to the French in the ensuing chaos. 

It has been said that Sinclair's "Jungle" was "aimed for the [American] public's heart and hit it in the stomach." That is to say that the main result was widespread calls for a reform of food processing practices, and the creation of the Food and Drug Administration to oversee this Sinclair was decidedly left of center, probably socialist, and his book may have contributed to the mid-Western based "Progressivism" of people like Robert LaFollete of Wisconsin. But the main impact of this work was not "political," but rather "regulatory." While regulation has a political component, it is the province of centrist "good government" types, rather than radicals on either side. Sinclair's book did only a little to wins socialist converts, but a lot to win reform of food processing, and contributed to the beginning of the environmental movement. (The book was published during the Presidency of Teddy Roosevelt, a leading, and early, environmentalist.) 

The pirates used the "same" ships as everyone else. Or at least similar types such as galleys. In those times, there was (practically) no such thing as "heavy" or dedicated military ships. (OK, a few large ships carried extra (wooden) "armor" or "rams.") This was before the existence of cannon, or other "missile" weapons for warships that set them apart from other ships. So what distinguished one navy from another was not the quality of ships but the quality of the "sailors," or "marines." (The Roman use of the corvus to pit its superior "marines" against the superior Carthaginian "sailors" demonstrates this principle.) Pirates, by definition, were better marines and sailors, (except against the professional navy), and that's what accounted for their success. Their ships could sail faster than merchant vessels unless they were also loaded with treasure, and because "incentivized" pirate crewmen rowed faster than crews composed partly of slaves. 

No. World War II drained Britain of what little financial strength it had, after World War I, the 1920s, and 1930s. Britain began World II with enough gold reserves to pay for about $10 billion in military equipment from the U.S. These reserves were gone by 1941, and Britain received over $30 billion of Lend Lease aid from the U.S. to fight World War II. At the end of the war, Britain received a $5 billion loan for "reconstruction." But much of that was spend on "Empire maintenance," and in any event, was not paid back in full until the early 21st century. By 1945, Britain was down to her "last" $5 billion of (borrowed) money. That was a drop in the bucket compared to war expenditures for World War II, and what would have been needed to hold onto India. To take one example of British capabilities, Britain contributed one "British Empire" division to the Korean War, of which only 1 brigade was from the UK. The rest came from Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and yes, India. These last troops would not have been available to Britain for use in India. 

Half Jews, with exactly two Jewish grandparents, could qualify as First Degree Mischlings (mixed bloods), rather than Jews. In order to do so, they had to AVOID doing the following: 

The argument for the northern expansion doctrine, was that Japan had beaten Russia in 1905, and perhaps could do so again, whereas Japan never had a history of beating the United States. Also, Germany was attacking the Soviet Union (and not the U.S.), meaning that even if Japan lost a fight against the Soviet Union, it might weaken the Soviets enough to allow the Germans to win. There were two arguments against the northern doctrine. The first was that Japan had lost recent "trial heats" to the Soviet Union in the late 1930s. The second was that the Japanese navy was much stronger relative to the U.S. navy (in 1941) than the Japanese army would be to the Russian army. Absent help from Germany, Japan would actually have a better chance against the United States. 

Most nobles of the Middle Ages felt that they owed allegiance to TWO kings: 1) the king of their country, and 2) God, their heavenly king, for whom the Pope was the "viceroy" (vice-king) for Christians. If anything, the Pope, as God's "representative" held greater sway over the nobles than the national king, because the Pope could quite literally tell the king (or the nobles themselves) to "go to Hell." And most Christian nobles believed that the Pope could send them there for all eternity, meaning that in a "forced choice," they would support the Pope over their king. When the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV got on the wrong side of the Pope in 1077 by trying to appoint bishops, the Pope excommunicated him. His "Electors" threatened to elect a new Emperor as a result. So Henry had to walk barefooted to the Pope's residence at Canossa and fast three days to get the Pope to remove the ex communication, so that he could maintain his political power. In theory, the Pope only had authority over temporal matters, but in practice, there was a certain amount of overlap with secular matters. For instance, there were questions about whether the king or church could collect certain taxes, and how the money could be spent. It was not until the time of Martin Luther, and the rise of Protestantism that people started to believe that the Pope did NOT have a monopoly on heavenly salvation, and therefore could be defied. But shortly afterward, during the time of Henry VIII, the Pope forebade his divorce from Catherine of Aragon on religious grounds, which had a bunch of political (secular) implications. Henry's response was to set up the Church of England and make himself a quasi Pope at the head of his own church. 

The ban is believable, if you consider it a ban on the man, rather than the book. It was lifted in 1991 when Seuss died. It was imposed in 1965 on the eve of the Cultural Revolution, when China sought to root out "outdated" views and influences. And it fits the pattern of China. Throughout Seuss' work, there is a mocking, anti-authoritarian tone. It is this, that troubles a country like China; the bit about "early Marxism" is just a code word for "the party line." So how did Seuss get on the wrong side of the Chinese? Articles like this one describe how. What would bother the Chinese is a story about how two children took out their grievances with their mother on a cat. Or how "Sam-I-am" was anything but a "yes man" in the Chinese mold.