I would say that the knee thing won't give you any real advantage and is more or less some imitation of the "coolness" of motorcycle racers. The second thing, where you push your bike down into the turn while keeping your body more upright has some advantages when used in the right situation. On a paved road -- as pointed out in your question -- it shouldn't make a difference. However, on loose or slippery ground pushing your bike down will give you more safety. Think of riding through a sharp turn where in the "standard configuration" (bike and rider lean into the turn by the same angle) you have to lean into the turn quite far. If your tires lose grip now, you will slip away and dump like a bag of rice as you have quite little possibilities to react. However, if you push the bike down and keep your body more upright it will be easier to get a foot on the ground when your bike slips away. Therefore you can in best case regain control and drive on or in a worse case let your bike go and try to catch yourself safely. 

James Wilson, who provides mountain bike specific strength training coaching, has made a blog post and video describing how to get a good foot placement on a flat pedal. He has already explained it well, so it's best just to quote him: 

I bought a pair of bicycle pedals that to my surprise had no notches on the pedal spindle to use when tightening them. I managed to screw them in by hand, but they are not quite tight since I can't use a spanner on them. So what would be the correct way to tighten them? Are there any special tools or similar that I'm supposed to use? The offending pedals can be seen below. The spindle is, as you can see, completely smooth. 

I have ordered components there several times and in most cases everything went fine. The last order had some flaws but as far as I could reconstruct that was more the parcel service's fault than theirs. I cannot tell anything about their bikes from own experience but the last time I was buying a bike (some 6 or so years ago) a lo of people seemed to recommend their Radon MTBs as being good bikes with quite good components. It looked as if one would get a lot of value for the money. 

I don't think that you will have a problem with the patch ballooning out as long as the tube is inflated while fully mounted with rim and tire. To my experience there just won't be any room to balloon to. If you fear that this will be a security risk, I would recommend a new inner tube when the old one has such a big hole. When you are on a ride and have no new tube at hand, even with a 2-3 mm slit a standard patch should be enough to get you home. 

I mostly used conventional sneakers for cycling and never wore bicycle shoes in my life. At this moment of my life I decided to level up a bit. I've built myself a road bike and now I'm looking into proper footwear. It's a whole new world for me and I'm completely lost. My first impression is that there are several types of pedals, cleats and shoes and you have to choose the right ones in order to fit them all together. I'd really appreciate a brief consultation on how to choose a proper footwear gear. Which pedals play good with which shoes and/or cleats and how to buy the right combination? Thanks guys! You're the best!! 

On outdoors.SX.com also someone presented a slightly different approach that translates different parameters (elevation gain, trail conditions etc.) into distance travelled, which could be another useful approach here. So my question is, is there some rule of thumb or a set of rules of thumb for cycling as well? 

As long as you use a ten speed chain it shouldn't matter which group you take it from. Normally the higher priced ones are bit lighter but the additional price often does by far not match the lower weight. Also the higher priced ones might last not that long due to the lighter material. Therefore if it's for a bike where you know that it will see some dirt and wear, better get some mid-priced stuff. It might last longer and if doesn't it won't drill as big a hole into your budget. 

I guess you have to have at least a couple of cassettes in your arsenal for different occasions. Can anyone please advise on how to choose a proper cassette depending on a trip. What can influence the decision process of choosing the right cassette for a trip? Road/weather conditions? Forecasted elevation gain (taken from the Strava for example)? Anything else? By "proper cassette" I mean the appropriate sprockets combination. There are a lot of different combinations from 11t to 32t. So you have cassettes like 11-23 or 13-28 or any other. Also I have to note that I'm new to road cycling so I don't have my own "style" of riding and this part of equation is totaly irrelevant for me. Thank you for sharing the experience! 

Some 15 years ago I've ridden my bike on my daily commute all summer and winter (down to -20° C, snow, rain, ice, snow slush, whatever you can imagine). It was parked at home as well as at work in an open bike shed where it was just protected from direct rain/snow. I did far less than you do to your bike. After riding in snow or snow slush I just lifted it and let it fall down from about 25 cm height several times to get the snow and ice drop off. Whenever the chain looked like it could need some lube, I gave it some lube but not regularly. This brought me through several winters without any major problems and even without necessarily having to change the chain after winter. From your description it looks like you treat your bike more like a dog or so than like a bike. I could even imagine, that rinsing the bike with water every day could be a bit counter-productive as you will waste lots of lubricant. 

I'm looking into going for tubular tyres and I'm new to this part of the world. As far as I understand there are two main options to mount the tyre: 1. Tube Glue which kind of a pain in the ass time-wise and requires some effort, but seems like a very solid solution to fix the tyre to the rim. 2. Tube Tape like the one from Velox, which seems like a very easy and fast way to mount the tyre but for me personally it doesn't seem rock solid. Can anyone with the experience of using both explain pros and cons of these methods. Thank you guys! You're the best!! 

I have to note at first that I'm new to road cycling. I cycled mostly as a commuter before. I'm looking into upgrading my wheelset. I read some very good threads here on choosing the right wheelset and I got more or less clear idea on how to choose the rim depth. But one thing still remains unclear to me: I understand that deeper the rim more aerodynamic advantage you get. But at the same time you can be blown off your path with a decent blow of a cross wind. What if I use 38mm (or less) deep rim for a steering (front) wheel and 60mm (or even more) for a rear wheel. Apparently I could preserve bike control abilities and gain additional aerodynamics. Looks like a perfect win win solution. But why wheel manufacturers never sell this kind of wheelsets then? Can you please explain what is good about this combinations and what is not? Have a good day! 

I am currently storing my bike in a repair stand where it hangs by the seatpost. I was wondering if this might not be ideal and that the prolonged hanging might put too much stress on the bike and that I should instead store it standing on the floor. Does this way of storing the bike pose any chance of damaging the bike compared to storing it standing? 

And from purely personal anecdotal experience: I have a friend that doesn't like spoke protectors and has been pretty vocal about it. Faith would have it that a maladjusted XTR derailleur wrecked his wheel and destroyed itself. A spoke protector would have prevented just that. 

As the title says, can a Shimano BL-M425 brake lever be used with a BR-M615 caliper? I have an old BR-M447 caliper that I want to replace, and I was wondering if it would be possible to exchange it for a BR-M615 while still keeping the old levers. 

The average cyclist won't notice the difference in weight and torsion stiffness. Also most bicycles that are not used for sports purposes will not live long enough that their BB will ever wear out that much that it has to be replaced, therefore also low wear is not of huge importance. So why are conventional BBs cheaper? It's the question of a closed cartridge (conventional BB) vs. a (some kind of) open (external BB) system. One huge advantage of the closed cartridge approach is that the manufacturer has less points where they have to meet exact dimensions: for a conventional everything is OK as long as the threading is right and the axle is square – especially the axle can handle some tolerance at the square cones where the cranks are mounted. The rest of the internals can be constructed more or less freely which makes work easy for the manufacturer. In the external case the axle is part of the crankset, but not necessarily from the same manufacturer. Nevertheless it must fit very exactly into the bearings of the BB. That means the lead-though for the axle as well as the axle itself have to be worked very exactly to fit together also among different manufacturers. Above that, if the BB consists of two halves (Shimano Hollowtech II) then the two halves have to align very well towards each other. In sum there are more production steps that require higher precision compared to a conventional cartridge BB which makes stuff more expensive. Another point is, that in the closed system approach the BB itself stays encapsulated if you remove the cranks. In the case of the external BB the BB is somewhat open after removing the cranks which requires to be more careful when doing maintenance work. That means it's either more time and effort for the mechanic that you have to pay or if you do it yourself there are more points where you should know what to better not touch or to keep clean.