Boredom Absolute power and absolute powerlessness are in their psychological effect indistinguishable. Power can only be measured comparatively, against a challenge. If there is no challenge, and each whim is instantly gratified, there is no struggle and no sense of achievment. Existential ennui, a form of absolute incurable boredom ensues. This engenders a sheer desperation that can result in voluntary surrender of power to one's lessers or even extreme and reckless risktaking, since "why not?" is a perfectly valid answer to such an entity. 

The year is 2026 and there's angry talk of repealing old free-trade deals as politicians claim jobs are being destroyed by foreign competition. That is, Chinese and Indian construction companies are going bankrupt in their thousands against invading low-cost companies from the United States. Due to unexpectedly enlightened, pro-business leadership, good old American grit and ingenuity, and a massive increase in H1B visas for foreign PhDs, companies that were merely startups 5 year prior are now trillion-dollar concerns and are revolutionizing the construction business with radically high-tech construction methods driving durability up, quality up, and prices way way down. The revolution is driven by a set of dual technological breakthroughs, respectively in industrial robotics, with autonomous heavy-duty mobile industrial plant assemblers replacing 95% of construction labor, and in materials science, with a relatively cheap and reliable way to build nonflamable high-strength long fibers in vast quantities, with a color range dialable from transparent through the entire rainbow. Pipes and even powerlines can be weaved in, as it were, during the automated construction process. The story is from the perspective of an American business-man on Indian origin in India, where he's dealing with the regulation Raj and hostile construction workers and companies. He's a salesman, not an engineer, but it would help the story to make him sound like he knows a bit about what he's talking about. Let's take a standard single-family home (let's say a tad below today's U.S. median, 2200 sq. ft space ~ 200 sq. meters). 

Second 1: The oceans on both the sun side and the dark side of the Earth instantly start to boil, reacting to the vacuum (absence of) pressure. 

Image from Science of Interstellar None of this is enough to kill you. However, to get the time dilation effects, you gotta be close to Gargantua, deep down its gravity well. So far down that the accretion disk would be outside Miller's orbit, and the black hole should take up half the horizon (unlike what is shown in the movie). That close to Gargantua, and with Gargantua having a giant accretion disk, the X-ray radiation from the magnetic field of the black hole sweeping that accretion disk would be tremendous. Of course, you can claim (like Nolan) that the accretion disk is really really anemic, and thus a lot colder than normal accretions disks would be... Edit: Come think of it the magnetic field of the black hole would itself be spectacularly high as well. It'd be like being inside an MRI machine. Moreoever, if the planet was formed in place, rather than captured, it's subject to the same 61000x time dilation from the start. For a 12 billion year-old black hole from our perspective, that would be, 200,000 years old. How did Earth look like when it was 200,000 years old? I'd wager it was pretty hot. Of course, you could always argue it was captured later on... Nonetheless, any incoming material (all that in-falling garbage of comets and asteroids) would be coming in at relativistic velocity, accelerated by the black hole. At those speeds, a comet-sized impactor wouldn't just kill off the dinosaurs, it would remelt the planet. So, in conclusion, rather than a waterworld, it would much more likely be a radiation swept molten rock horror. 

I have looked into the dark, and see 40 millenia of stagnation. From my deck of many cards, let's draw them one at a time and see what we get. The First Card: Strife The first plague to befell your people is here in the first card. It is a rider upon a horse. He is carrying a spear in his hand and has a bow draped across his back. Dressed in skins, he bears a dark countenance. Behind him we see a stylized burning city. Migratory riders have been the bane of urban civilizations for millenia, and nothing after the invention of the stirrup until the rise of fast-firing gunpowder weapons could push them back. Rising and falling in numbers on the steppes in line with drought-plenty long-term rain cycles, these wild and savage men of the deserts and steppes will ruin cities, drag off women and children into miserable slavery, and undo the work of many generations in one night. The Second Card: Plague A skeletal figure is playing a musical instrument, while three skeletons dressed in rags form a circle and perform a danse macabre. More bodies are depicted on the ground, with dark lumps growing on their bodies. Virulent outbreaks of plague can sometimes wipe out entire civilizations, such as many of the North American agrarian civs were utterly wiped out from history by the arrival of European disease. A set of plagues brought down the Roman empire, and a second, laid down the Eastern Roman Empire and the Sassanid, making them easy prey for fanatical desert tribes under a new prophet. With virulent vectors, disease outbreaks can sufficiently hamper urban agglomerations, enough to prevent the seeds of industrialization from germinating. Without cities, there is no demand. Without demand, there is no specialization of labor, no scientists, no industrialization. The Third Card: Famine The card depicts a very emaciated cow, its udder dry, its ribs strongly outlined by its skin. The land surrounding it is dead, with sparse vegetation and cracked earth. A punishing sun shines mercilessly above. Long term climatic shifts have brought down many major civilizations, including several major Egyptian dynasties, Mesopotamian empires, the entire Mayan civilization, put an end to Viking expansion and their precocious North American colonization drive. Harvests fail not simply one year, but dwindle and fall decade after decade, until urban life becomes unsustainable without punishing taxes. Aside from climatic shift, ecological degradation from unsustainable agricultural practices (primitive irrigation, excessive pasture use) can render a region useless for centuries while the land slowly (if ever) recovers. What is now the vast emptiness of the Lybian desert used to be called the breadbasket of the Roman Empire. The whole of Sahara used to be a pleasant savannah 10,000 years ago. No longer. The Fourth Card: The High Priestess A woman seated, wearing bright blue robes and an elaborate head-dress, with a holy symbol hanging from her neck. She has a scroll in one hand and behind her is a tree of life, with a snake slithering on a branch. The power of belief is never to be underestimated, both as a tool for social control and as a deep motivator of human action. Under the severe environmental stress induced by the permanent laying down (playing) of the first three cards, a society would seek solace in afterlife, and rely upon religious authority figures to impose what we would consider an impossibly oppressive and deeply conservative set of beliefs and practices. With people living on the edge of subsistence, deviation from the norm is death. The writ of tradition is sacred, and any deviation a threat to the entire community. Inquiring into the workings of nature is seen as foolish in light of cyclical perspective induced by millenia of stagnation, almost tempting divine retribution. The Fifth Card: The Merchant The fifth card depicts a merchant. His distinctive clothes set him apart, as does the conspicuous bag of gold strapped to his belt. He carries a bag on his back and a dog is nipping at his heels, as he looks furtively back along the road towards a town. A ship is shown sinking in the distance, upon a stormy sea. Trade, long-distance maritime trade and well as caravan-based intercontinental routes have been a vital link, ensuring that technology lost in one place (such as water mills in western Europe after the Roman empire) eventually made its way back, and that discoveries at one end of Eurasia eventually percollated across the continent. Formidable geographical barriers, anti-capitalist and anti-mercantile bias, regulations and expropriations, hostile tribes and pirate infested seas can prevent this long-term knowledge transfer path and prevent the slow accumulation of knowledge that would otherwise occur. The Sixth Card: The Wheel The wheel of fortune shows a carriage wheel. Three beasts are depicted upon the wheel, the top one wears a crown and wields a rod of command, on the left is a beggar facing down in ragged apparel, while the right is a golden-haired beast ascending. Many millenia of stagnation, and the vague memory and vast ruins of countless past ages of glory will probably be the strongest factor in making the middle ages permanent. This cyclical view of the world, whereby all that is great will come down is in sharp contrast with the linear ascending mindset of a peoples who have seen the wonders of an industrial revolution. By contrast, the inhabitants of this stagnating world will have memories of empire upon empire upon empire, foundering like so many waves upon the rocky shores of time. The weight of history and the ruined splendor of the past's might, with the pessimistic, golden-age-past ancestor worship this is sure to engender, will be the strongest inhibitor of a scientific and industrial revolution to come. I dare not draw another card. 

The thing to keep in mind is that you don't start back from the stone age. You have a population accustomed to obeying the law, organizing, trusting each other, with high levels of education and skill. A good read in a similar vein is Eric Flint's 1632, where a small West Virginian town is thrown back to, yes you guessed it, 1632. There is also a vibrant online community discussing how modern tech can be recreated from such a small base. I strongly recommend it in your case. 

"This is the last time you laugh at me, you wrinkly-faced DEAD man!" cried Havok at the bar-tender who refused him service, before heading home and getting working on his bio-mimetic nano-machine-fueled revenge. In retrospect, historians consider that Linus Gates' decision to release the source-code for the 3D biofabricator freely on the net was "Like, incredibly dumb, you know," and "LFMAO stupid" and "Epic Fail!" Regardless, in a few weeks Havok had a customized nanovirus, reading telomere length, killing anyone id-ed as over 21, and effectively stopping biological aging for anyone below that age. As historians put it, "Yeah, pretty wicked smart. LULZ." He used his position in a brand new iVRLens factory to sprinkle his deadly dust on the cover of the much-coveted product, just in time for the Christmas sales of 3 billion units. As all the 21+ adults died horribly on New Year's Eve, the complacent gen ZZ survivors were too high to notice anything happened for a few days. After thoroughly raiding liquor stores around the nation, nature took its course and the entitled brats started dying off in their millions, splitting into warring bands and descending into an adolescent violent fantasy world. The survivors initially looked to the active armed forces, such as the Marines, but lacking leadership, with an effective surviving strength below 40,000 spread across North America, and without their maintenance engineers and their extensive supply chains, the Marines were slowly on their way to becoming just another (better organized) gang, until thankfully they were recruited by Anonymous (see below). Eventually, order in the HKTFCONAFTA (Humbly Kow-Towing and Fully Chinese Owned North American Free Trade Area) was restored by the Fraternal Anonymous Coalition, comprising students from a loose alliance of US Technical and Military colleges, led by MIT, West Point and Caltech, who hacked into and took over the sun-powered EyeSky Defensive Drone Grid. After defeating and exterminating Mara Salvatrucha and other gangs, Anonymous went on to impose a ruthless technocracy that lasted for over 30 years (before the Singularity finally kicked in and Havok's next creation, the aptly named SuperEvilAI killed off all the survivors in the process of turning the planet into paperclips -- just kidding).