I don't have a lot of experience in this field, but yes, Parks Canada has designated back country camping locations in most of its parks. Crown land camping can be done in almost any province. Rules vary by province, here's Ontario for example. I know that in BC you can camp on most logging roads, sometimes for free, sometimes you pay at designated sites, but that it's managed by region so it's hard to get an all encompassing map in BC. 

Dimenhydrinate (popularly known as Gravol in Canada and as Dramamine, Driminate, Gravamin, Vomex, and Vertirosan in the USA) is an over-the-counter drug used to prevent nausea and motion sickness that's considered highly effective. Anecdotally, I was constantly throwing up on boats in South East Asia until I started taking gravol. 

If it's a large number of kids or if they aren't your own kids then yes, parents should work in shifts. You're responsible for them and you can't be certain of their behaviour. Otherwise, kids should follow the same discipline as at home, which is that you don't leave your room/tent after you go to bed, and that if you do have to get out to go pee or whatever that you stay within eyesight, or ask an adult to come with you. If you're really worried, give them all whistles and have them wear them around their necks. 

If you have no choice but to cross a snow/ice bridge then normal practice is to be roped in with two other people and to use a snow probe. If a 3m probe passes through without resistance then it's not safe to cross. Normally the 3rd will self belay the leader and second, who start about 10 feet back, with the second belaying the leader. Cross in a perpendicular manner, and distribute your weight as much as possible (skis, snowshoes). Whatever you do, don't stomp on the snow. 

One advantage teflon brings to the wilderness is how easy it is to clean. The heat on backpacker stoves can be hard to regulate, it's not uncommon for hot spots that get food stuck to the bottom of the pot or worse, burnt to the bottom (I'm looking at you pasta + sauce packets!). Teflon makes it less likely to get stuck, often needing only to be wiped off and then rinsed, it really shines when water and soap are in limited supply and you want to spend the least amount of time cleaning dishes. Having said that, if you really want to make dishes (and cooking) a breeze then go for the "add boiling water to packet" freeze-dried meals and you won't need teflon because all you'll ever do is boil water. As far as health goes, as long as the teflon surface is not scratched or flaking you don't need to worry about any health risks, so use plastic utensils and don't cut food in the pot. If you're going to nest teflon pots (like the popular MSR set) put washcloths between each pot to avoid further scratching. 

Source: I live in Banff National Park and have camped in just about every National Park from East to West. In fact, I had a BBQ in one last night, as you can see from the above photo. 

I keep a few wet naps (like you get to wipe your fingers at a chicken & ribs joint) mainly to wash my hands (do you know how hard it is to wash your hands in the bush?), and have used them to wipe some pretty serious scratched (they are also excellent fire starters). Hand sanitizer would be another option. 

I keep mine in a small freezer bag, which I replace each trip. I keep individual tablets in foil so they don't crumble as much. The foil also helps avoid touching them. If you're worried about the freezer bag wearing out you could double it up but I haven't found the need. 

Here's the technique that has worked best for any group that I've been in, whether for a 3 day trip or a 10 day trip, 4 people or 25 people: 

Ice skating is my favourite elusive shoulder season activity. Out here in Banff we'll often get the right conditions in late November for the ponds to freeze over without a snowfall, creating a crystal clear skating surface. 

I think you've covered all the factors except shape. The shape is either rectangular or tapered at the feet (aka mummy). Tapering means less weight and less space to heat with your body, but also a bit less freedom of movement. Rectangular sleeping bags can often be connected together, which is good if you're a couple and want to share body heat (amongst other things). A recent trend started by Nemo is offering sleeping bags with a bit of extra room in the knees so that you can shift easier while sleeping and change your underwear without having to get out of bed (more important than you think!). If you're looking for a sleeping bag for shoulder/winter seasons then also make sure that it has a hood/flap that goes around your head. This will allow more heat to be retained within the sleeping bag and keep your neck/head from being exposed. Many technical sleeping bags offer a tiny pocket near the top of the zipper which allows you to store a watch/phone/etc. for easy access. Finally, remember that you can add layering to a sleeping bag via liners on the inside (fleece, synthetic, silk or wool) or via a bivy/goretex sack on the outside (less common). 

You'll want insulate yourself from the ground. If you're on mountain there's a good chance you're on rock, and while it keeps heat from the sun well, once it gets cold it stays cold, and you'll feel it. I recommend a foam pad for the best cost/weight ratio. 

Rucksack liners don't require as much sturdiness as a dry bag since they go inside a rucksack/backpack, which gives it protection and structure. As such rucksack liners weigh less than dry bags and alone won't stand up to the same abuse but inside a backpack will perform optimally. 

There was a TV show called SAS Survival Secrets a few years back and one of the guys carried a regular condom in his emergency pack and showed how he could use it as an emergency hydration pack/bottle. I think he was able to put about 2L of water in it. 

One trick is to get an aluminium tube the same size of the exiting one, about 3 inches long and slide it down over the split. A bit of glue or tape to hold it in place and you're good to go. 

I've got a pair of custom moulded Scarpa Spirit 4 touring boots where the big toes are bit too tight (I've lost the nails after a day or two of touring more than once). What is the proper technique for punch out the toe liners without damaging the liner or overall functionality of the boot? 

Use white plastic garbage bags. Put the used diaper (folded) in the corner of the plastic garbage bag. Tie a knot so that the diaper is the only thing in the space. Repeat. I find I can knot about 5 diapers per white plastic trash bag doing this. 

I find this process tends to create positive one-upmanship as people show off their culinary prowess. It also lets teams that have done this before share simple recipes/tips for those that are doing this for the first time. Downsides The only downside to this method is that if you've never cooked for a large group before it can be a bit daunting. The first time I cooked for 25 people in the backcountry I tried the meal in advance with 4 people at home, measuring and portioning meticulously, and worked out the portions from there. Some tips for cooking for large groups 

My understanding that the only time inflating a pad by breath is bad is when it will be used in sub-zero conditions, as the moisture can freeze inside the mattress. 

Break group up in cooking teams For example, for 9 people I'd probably do 3 teams of 3. Each team is assigned one ore more meals. We usually assign breakfast and dinner. Its easier for people to manage their own lunch/snacks, mostly because people might split up or lag behind during and/or have different eating habits during the day. By keeping lunch light/simple it also helps avoid lunch becoming a 2 hour break on a busy day. For dinner, the meal must consist of: 

Add 1 quart of liquid chlorine bleach to 3 quarts of warm water. Add 1/3 cup of powdered laundry detergent. Mix thoroughly and place in a spray bottle. Spray the mixture onto the mildewed area. Let it sit until the black mildew turns white. Rinse and scrub with fresh water, then let it dry in the sun. 

Try a menstrual cup. The advantage being that you only need one (maybe having two is a good idea) and that it can be washed. 

I've got experience with this. The first trick is prevention: we would encourage our kid at any rest break to walk around bare-bottom and try to get them to go pee (there's tons of techniques, I'm a fan of making a hissing sound every time you go pee or take your kid to go pee, and having them regularly watch others go pee). We probably saved 1-2 diapers a day with that technique. The second trick is how you pack them away: 

A stove that handles multiple forms of fuel is well suited for this sort of travel. I think the go-to one is the MSR Dragonfly which works with white gas (aka naphtha), kerosene, unleaded auto fuel, diesel, and even jet fuel. Another advantage of this setup is you don't have to worry about finding compatible fuel canisters in a foreign country or buying new ones each time you fly, you just use one (or more) fuel bottles and empty it before your flights. There might be other brands that also do this besides MSR, I'm personally only familiar with the Dragonfly, I've had mine for 10 years and although it's as loud as a jet engine I've never had to do any maintenance on it but am grateful that they offer a service kit so that you don't have to go looking for new stove in Timbuktu. 

Having snow stick to the bottom of touring or telemark skis after removing skins is a common occurrence. You can mitigate it by bringing some glide wax with your or by using a liquid or spray. I keep a little a glide wax that looks like underarm deodorant in the bottom of my avy pack just for this purpose. 

I've been using Petzl Spiky Plus for four seasons. I like that they are mostly soft rubber and can easily be put in a small backpack pocket. They only have six microspikes per foot but they grip really well. Sadly two of the spikes came off when a friend borrowed them, I never did find out why but they still work quite well. 

I can't speak for Jasper National Park, although you'll want to check out this page on warnings and closures regularly, but for Banff National Park the two areas that are commonly restricted to group access are Moraine Lake/Larch Valley/Sentinel Pass/Mt. Temple/Paradise Valley area (groups of 4 minimum, from mid-July to early October) and the Minnewanka/Mt. Aylmer area from mid-July to mid-September. Again, Banff has their own page that lists restrictions and closures. 

Mountaineering refers to ascending a natural feature, although it doesn't necessarily imply summitting, nor must it be rock, as the same can be applied to the ascension of glaciers. Mountaineering has a subset of various skills which include climbing, skiing, hiking and scrambling. You can hike, ski, climb and boulder without mountaineering. 

Currently available collapsible poles are mostly too short for the long stroke necessary in cross-country skiing, and probably wouldn't stand up well to hours of double polling. 

Water coming out of the pressure relief valve means that your filter is clogged, it say so in the instruction manual. Have you followed the "prepare filter surface" instructions? Did you remember to rinse the cartridge and pump out the loose carbon? 

A pant or snow pant that stops wind, like the Patagonia Guide Pants or goretex shell pants would be good. I'd say the same for the top, and outer shell that cuts wind, with the fleece underneath, and then pop on the down jacket when you've stopped for breaks. You could probably get away with just the down jacket but I find for long hikes you're more likely to get hot or wet inside it, it really depends on the model and the weight of the down. When there's lots of wind I find it nice to have a hood. 

Elevation bars are great, but more important are the grips/spikes on the bottom, not just for icy snow, but for fallen wood/exposed roots which are especially slippery in the winter. That traction makes all the difference. Ideally the grips run parallel to the length of the snowshoe, usually to the outside, and an additional grip runs across the toe where it descends through the shoe. One additional note on elevation bars: you'll want a boot with a sole that's rigid (like a hiking/climbing boot) and not a softer soled boot like a mukluk, as there is no support between the hell resting on the elevation bar and the ball of your foot. You'll also ideally want to find an elevation bar that can be raised/lowered using a hiking/ski pole so that you don't have to kneel down to activate/disable them. Poles will help with stability, and make it a lot easier to get up when you have a pack and you've fallen in deep snow. 

A lot of it depends on the purpose of the knife, whether it will be primarily used for hunting, survival, or self-defence. What should you be looking for? Size, weight, but more importantly feel, how does it hold in your hand with an overhand grip (most common grip), and what about underhand grip (used mostly for picking at ice or stabbing). Will you be doing any sawing with the knife? If so then you need some form of serration on at least part of the blade. If you do go for a serrated blade then you'll also want a knife with a groove for your forefinger in the handle. You may also consider a hand guard so as to avoid scuffing your knuckles while sawing. Personally I like a blade that has a notch for cutting rope/wire. For a sheath, I'd recommend one that closes over the handle (either a velcro or button flap, or a loop that wraps around the handle (not as good, I've lost blades with those). Oh, and don't get a blade that's tactical (black), it'll just make it that much harder to find it when you drop it. 

The best answer is to consult with the manufacturer, expedition grade tents are usually bomber proof but I respect that you always want to be prepared for the worst. My strategy: 

In Banff you'll find Bow Summit is the go to beginner place. Parks has a great avalanche terrain map that shows you where to avoid, it's best to stay in the trees. Don't forget to check out the Parks Canada Avalanche Bulletin. Other good beginner spots include Boom Lake, which has a nice 3km tree switchback (real fun to come back down on) that opens up onto a lake where you can pick your lines, Parker's Ridge along the Bow Valley Parkway or Chester Lake in K Country (one of my favourites). As a beginner stick to where there are trees. Other options are the backside of Lake Louise, slack country at Sunshine (the Waawaa ridge, back of Burgeau, etc). Chic Scott's Summits & Icefields: Alpine Ski Tours in the Canadian Rockies is the go to reference book for ski touring, he's lived in Banff forever, has ski toured the continental divide end-to-end from the towns of Jasper to Banff on several occasions (16 days!), he really knows his stuff.