Chinese dictionaries have arranged characters according to radicals for several centuries, then sorting on next level according to number of strokes. Works when you're looking for the meaning or pronunciation of a character you just saw. Some dictionaries and encyclopedias also attempted sorting by "theme": animals, plants, metals, etc. Of course, works only if you know a word and are looking for how it's written. The canonical list of radicals is taken to be that used in the Kangxi dictionary, presumed to be one of the most complete dictionaries ever made on Chinese logograms: $URL$ For Japanese I can attest the problem is solved via kana: when searching the kanji for a word you know, they're ordered according to the sorting of kana (aiueo, ka ki ku...) . When you look instead for a character's meaning or its pronunciation, though, they also use the radical + number of strokes method. As a foreign learner, you're in for some surprises for some characters' official stroke steps are not what you could intuitively think of :) 

The case of main clause open interrogatives (Whoever would agree to that, Bob won't.) is quite interesting. As a pro-drop language, Thai seems to allow main clause open interrogatives to be used as subordinate closed interrogative clauses almost freely, if not always. This can roughly be categorized into two main groups, i.e., yes-no questions (which works quite like English whether when it's embedded in a subordinate clause), and wh-questions (which works quite like English wh-ever words in subordinate clauses). Here are a couple examples: 

Gloss: ชอบ-chop=like หรือ-rue=or ไม่-mai=not ชอบ-chop=like คุณ-khun-you ก็-ko=PARTICLE ต้อง-tong=must ทำ-tham=do wh-questions2: Thai: ใครอยากไป เจไม่อยาก Romanization: "khrai yak pai, je mai yak" Literal translation: Who wants (to) go, Jay (does) not want. Standard English: Whoever wants to go, Jay doesn't want to. Gloss: ใคร-khrai=who อยาก-yak=want ไป-pai=go เจ-je=Jay ไม่-mai=not อยาก-yak=want 

To provide a partial answer to your first question ("What should we tell our native Thai speaking students"), I believe that you should treat Thai as a syllable-timed language, because that will align with their prior education better. If your students have minimal exposure to English prosody, the concept of stress-timing will be invaluable for them and will help them to be on the right track. As for your second question (about using Praat to verify this phenomenon yourself), I personally found that another software, WaveSurfer, which is a small program and has a straightforward user-interface, is a perfect fit for my personal needs. You can find WaveSurfer at TMH KTH or at SourceForge. 

I was under the impression that all languages are considered isolates until it's demonstrated to a high degree of certainty that they're related to another language. Was I wrong on this? There've been various attempts at linking Korean to Japanese and Ainu, on one-hand, and to the Turkic-Mongolic languages on the other. Should the proponents of one of these efforts succeed, then Korean would stop being classified as an "isolate", which really means "not enough data to accurately say if it's related to something else or not". 

Common knowledge of writing in a society can and does have an effect on the language structure, and it's been noted: There's this Israeli linguist (I've forgotten his name) who says so-called Modern Hebrew isn't really a Semitic language... he argues in one of his books how Chinese writing has had a profound effect in the language, by altering the way new words are created and how borrowings are adapted. I vaguely remember Saussure mentioning in a sentence in one of his books "I've been told people in Paris now pronounce the 't' in 'sept' ". I found that really odd, for I had been taught uttering "set" was THE correct way to pronounce 7 in French. So clearly Parisians of his time were adopting an artificial pronunciation based on spelling, which then was declared the standard. 

Summary The source is modelling the airflow from the lungs and the vocal chords. The filter is modelling the effect the shape of the path the air travels through the mouth and nasal cavity, controlled by things like tongue shape and jaw height. This does not cover the effect of increasing the force of the air through the lungs (volume), closing the mouth (for stops), aspiration and other effects or for non-pulmonic consonants. 

The acoustic features are independent of the language used. Thus, phones that are common between German and English have the same features. Also, the features are typically based on their details from the IPA charts. The phones listed on that page are in X-SAMPA. For a discussion of the feature-based model, you can check out the Virtual Linguistics Campus videos: 

The feature codes I am using are Kirshenbaum's features, with the following extensions/modifications: 

For Japanese at least, both happened: sometimes the characters are used semantically, others phonetically - either according to their Chinese pronunciation (which can come from either a Northern or Southern, earlier or recent form of Chinese) or to the Japanese reading. For instance, one of the Chinese readings of the char. "origin/beginning/birth" is "hon". Now then, the Japanese word for "book" is also "hon" (don't know if its native or a Chinese/Korean borrowing). So instead of adopting the Chinese char. for "book", the Japanese use "birth/start" phonetically most of the times when they want to write "book". When char. for "now, immediately, contemporaneity" appears right before the char. for "sun/day", that specific case is a semantic usage: both together are meant to be read "kyô" (today). That for isolated chars. themselves. Japanese nowadays uses the chars. according to its own structure (SOV), in the very first examples of Japanese writing there's vascilation between trying to follow the S-V-O structure of Chinese or the native one. There's a lot of vacillation also regarding how to phonetically encode words in the vernacular. In A. C., Moorhouse's book "History of the alphabet" I read that something similar happened when Babylonians adopted cuneiform writing from the Summers, and then again when the Hittites adopted cuneiform from the Babylons. So, in a Hittite sample of writing, a set of chars. can be read in Hittite, in Babylon or in Sumerian, depending on context!!! 

I cannot answer this as a linguist. However, being a native Thai speaker, and being someone who educated himself about linguistics much enough to have some idea on stress-timed vs. syllable-timed (acoustic phonetics is one of my particular interests), I believe that I can provide some good information on Thai's prosody (specifically stress and rhythm). To summarize, in my opinion, Thai language is neither syllable-timed nor stressed-timed. A good metaphor for understanding this is a "rounded rectangle". A rounded rectangle is neither a rectangle nor a circle. Having said that, I do believe that Thai language is more syllable-timed than stressed-timed. 

Even though I'm not quite sure about the exact definition of "conditional protases" (or "antecedents"), especially in the first language of my own (Thai), I believe it's safe enough to make these points based on your examples: 

1ชอบหรือไม่ชอบ (lit.) Like or not like? is a question. It has basically the same meaning as ชอบหรือไม่/ชอบหรือเปล่า (lit.) Like or not?. After careful consideration (and much thought!), I believe that all alternatives could be used, but the duplication of the verb (e.g., Like or not like) seems to be more common in subordinate clauses that are equivalent to whether-clauses in English. On the other hand, the other alternative (i.e., Like or not) is more common in reported questions where we can use either if or whether in English (e.g., She asked if/whether I like it or not). 2The sense of "ever" is implied. To be explicit about this sense, we could use บ้าง ("bang"), e.g., Who wants to go บ้าง. ใครอยากไป(บ้าง) (lit.) Who wants to go (บ้าง)? is a question. When we have more than one wh-word, we use only a single บ้าง, e.g., ใครจะทำอะไรที่ไหนเมื่อไหร่กับใคร(บ้าง) ผมไม่ทราบ (lit.) Who(ever) do what(ever) where(ever) when(ever) with whom(ever), I don't know. 3All romanized transcriptions follow the Royal Thai General System of Transcription (RTGS). 

I once read there are a few other examples of sexual diglossia in the world, some other tribes in Africa and the Amazon, and they usually arise just like the Garifuna: when a bunch of men from one tribe/ethnic group pick up girls from a different one as wives, and for some reason neither group completely abandons their tongues. Some African tribes even added a 3rd language to the mix: the "warriors' language", used only by men in times of war to avoid an enemy's eavesdropper to understand a meeting on strategy or the discussions in mid-battle. 

The early versions of Nicaraguan Sign Language were more or less like that - these deaf-mute people would sign sentences like "I go house Pedro", "this road not good", "I want food now" and so on. As it evolved, newer speakers have added complexity onto it: agreement between verb and object, markers for time and mood, spatial references, and so on. 

As someone has already pointed out in the comments above, Thais pronounce every word in syllables, because that is what we were taught since the primary school (equivalent to Grade 1 in the US). This is also strengthened by our poems. There are many sub-types of classical Thai poems. Each and every one of these sub-types will have a set of specific rules for the rhymes and number of syllables in each verse. This can explain why no one would label someone who speak Thai in a very syllable-oriented manner as incorrect. He will be perfectly understandable; he just might sound a little too stiff and might sound unnatural. But that's all. This is quite similar to when a native English speaker speaks in monotone. No one would accuse him for speaking sub-standard English; he just sounds uninteresting. However, Thai natural speech (informal speech) can sound quite close to a stress-timed language, to the point that it might be mistaken as a true stress-timed language. It is also true that if you observe native Thai speakers carefully in their natural speech, they will group words into two or three or four or five or even more syllables, and each group will have one or more quasi-stressed syllables. (I use the term quasi-stressed because those stressed syllables are generally not very dominant.) And, having all that said is still a very simplification at best. There are no exact rules for stressing in Thai. However, without any explicit rules, Thai people can nonetheless speak approximately the same way somehow. One way to understand Thai's stressing system is to compare it to English's intonation system. It can vary very widely from one person to another, or one region to another. And, except for those obvious rules (such as, in English's intonation: end questions with rising tone, or end declarative sentences with low tone--which are not particularly true in real English speech), you can confidently say that there is no definite rule at all. 

This touches me on a personal level for I've tried hard my whole life to get rid of my accent, only to be told time and again I still have a strong Hispanic accent. I've learned a few interesting things on the road, though: 

A bit late, but may be useful. Several years ago, I read an interview in a celebrities' magazine to a Garifuna singer who was coming to Mexico. After the mandatory chat about his career, his success with his tour, last disc, etc. the interviewer complimented him about his near-perfect Spanish. To which he casually commented her "yeah, people always say we Garifuna are good for learning languages - I speak just as good English and French. I attribute it to the fact we're raised having to learn 2 languages". The reporter had never heard of the fact so pressed him to speak a bit more of it. I still recall some things of what he said, for that interview impacted me deeply: 

There are various aspects of disordered speech that cannot be expressed using IPA 2005. This is why, e.g. the ExtIPA chart was constructed. This covers things like: 

Another factor is whether it uses specialist words in a given domain (including archaic words), or meanings for the words. The more of these there are, and the more obscure outside the given field they are (e.g. electricity vs quantum chromodynamics), the more complex the sentence is to understand. The same goes for abbreviations, slang, accentisms ("Aye, tha' be t'one ah war lookin' fer."), or even pulling in words from other languages ("That is no bueno."). Another factor is whether the sentence uses non-standard word ordering, either for poetic effect or for something like Yoda speak ("Go, you must."). Another factor is if the sentence uses the incorrect form of a word (its vs it's) or the wrong homophone (their vs they're vs there) or the wrong word (e.g. via spell checkers or predictive texting for technical or uncommon terms). Another factor is mixing or using a different spelling (British English, American English, text/SMS, leet (e.g. l33t), archaic, ...) to what the reader is used to. 

I recall that in ancient Egyptian some hieroglyphs were used "markers" to resolve ambiguity or indicate a noun was a member of a special group, even though not meant to be pronounced. E.g. a beetle sign was placed after a group of signs denoting a bird's name to indicate such noun was meant to be read as a "flying entity" (i.e. really a bird's name) and not as a person's name. There were other characters used to emphasize a noun was a person's name, and names of gods and royalty were inscribed within special cartridges. Are these signs a kind of punctuation, or mere typographical conventions? Do they have a formal name? They do transmit information, furthermore, information that's not a merely a verbatim transcription of what the actual speech said but actually expands it. Similar to when some printed media add a small cross after a person's name to indicate they're dead. Emoticons play a similar role in modern electronic communications - they expand the written message, though in this way to compensate the loss of emotional information that in face-to-face communication is transmitted mostly via physical gestures, and to a lesser extent in verbal channels that are not written down: intonation, volume and pauses in the speech.