From my experience I tell you that you should ask. I've been in the same situation and being honest turned out pretty well. I told them I was interviewing at others companies at the same time , and that some of them already made an offer but they (company C) were my first choice , and that I would realy like to have an answer from them before accepting (or not) the offer from an other company. They told me they understood the problem , and scheduled an interview pretty fast. As long as you show them you're honest about them being your first choice , I don't see how this can give a bad impression. In the case they disagree , as suggested you should try your best to manage your timeline the closest possible way to what you want. You could ask A how much time you've got before giving your answer because you need some time to reflect and make your choice. Same goes for B if they make an offer. 

The point of a resume is to get your possible future employer to want to meet you. As long as it is in adequacy with the job offer then there's no reason it shouldn't be in your resume. Even more if you learned a lot and ended up working with a known company ! Be carefull though to keep your resume clear and readable , recruiters see a lot of resume and don't have much time to spend on it. You must adapt your experience to what the company wants. That's the important point. The breaks don't realy matter as long as it's not 2 years of break on 3 years of freelancing. To highlight it you can develop this part more than the others but be carefull , don't overload you resume. 

From what you say you realy want to keep this job , but I'm pretty sure it's too late for you. You won't keep it , unless you find a way to become exactly what your boss epxected you to be a month ago or so. The point here is the following : Even if it's a hard one , software developper is becoming a quite common job , and there's plenty of offers coming out each passing day. What you need to focus on is improving your programming skills. You need to learn some more , find some personnal or public open source projects to work on , to get used to develop , to think , etc.... It requires time , more for some of us than others , but in the end you can improve. And with hard work you will. This probably won't help you keep this job as it takes time to improve and you're running out of time in this company , but you may surprise yourself and find an even better job once you'll be a better developper. And maybe , working hard won't help you improving as a developper , but you may find hints , meet people , and find something you will like even more ! 

I take it that this is your first job out of school. It's a rough time and since you don't have any experience to draw on, it can be a little unnerving when someone takes advantage of your newness. If I were you, my first step would be to get some intel on this guy. Do you have any friends in the company yet? Do you feel good about your manager? I imagine this must be a fairly small company since the CEO is personally handling the hiring of someone at your level. This guy must have some sort of reputation by now. You should start asking people you trust "what's with [insert freak's name here]?" And tell them (in confidence) what he's been saying to you. If you don't have any friends at work, make some. In the meantime, you might want to ask him what he wants from you. From what I can tell in your post, there doesn't seem to be any point to these conversations other than you intimidate you. I would try to come across as casually bored by these conversations but start asking questions like "is there a point to this?" I had a coworker at my first 'real' job that would take it upon himself to put me down, one-up me, or minimize my achievements regularly. Years on, I think he was just threatened by me. I worked with him for maybe a year but it felt like a long time. My guess is that this is what you are dealing with. The best thing to do is be the adult and act confidently. 

The problem here is that the approach the customer is proposing is backwards and awkward. The IT team should be asking you for guidance on how to resolve the issue. You trying to navigate their internal IT department and find someone to do this is obnoxious for you and them. The person you are in touch with is confused about how things work. Instead of making it into a battle around what is and isn't your job, just guide them on how to get things done. "Please work with your IT team to contact me(/my team) with regards to this problem. I will provide them with the information they need to resolve this issue. Thanks." Once you get someone who knows something and can do something about it, things should go more smoothly. NOTE: It's of some concern that you have access to their servers if it's not your job to administrate them. If you don't administer these servers, you do not need access and therefore should not have it from a security perspective. 

Normally the contract termination agreement would be stated in the contract. For example mine states that I have to give 2 weeks prior to the contract termination and the same is true about the company I currently work for. If this clause is not specified in the contract or Statement Of Work you might want to consult a lawyer about the default requirements for such types of contract terminations but generally if there is no stipulation you can just say "Buh Bye!" at any moment and walk away. As far as "burning bridges". If you do just walk away you will be burning bridges with the company that you contracted with and possibly hurt the head hunter if you have gone through that. The other thing one has to consider is that depending on what area and industry you are in the word about your "walking off the job" could spread. 

As someone who had been in your shoes I can tell you that you have a big problem. You can probably take a look at: this book to get some of the reasons. So if you really want to get a person who actually can fill the shoes you should probably have the interview process involve: 

While one page resume is not as important of late but you still should put the most important things within the first 2 pages at the most. Reason for that is that the hiring manager who is a very busy person in general should be able to glance at your resume and decide whether or not he/she should proceed with further evaluation. From my dealings with some people it's helpful assume that the person on the receiving end has ADD. Secondly it is normally understood at least in the world of software development and IT in general that technologies used 5+ years ago may not be as relevant today so what you know now and what you can do now is more important, which may not be true for all industries but certainly true for some.