This should be a comment, But I can't comment yet since my points are less than 50 and below is as of my understanding. You are in a wrong view called 'Sakkaya Ditti' in Pali. You always think there is person, and he will attain Nirvana. But it is wrong. What lord Buddha praeches is neither 'Sakkaya Ditti' nor a 'Uchcheda Ditti'. He didn't preach there is a person. and He didn't preach there is not a person. There is only connections between continuously changing things. If we took a tower build by stones, actually there is nothing called 'tower' but set of stones. Like wise, if we consider a person, there is nothing but set of things. Lets say you are 40 years old now. What are the things you have in your body when you are 1 year old? Nothing right? But how you can be recognize now as same you in age 1? because of the connection between things changed. Nirvana is ending of having these set of things (person). That means, there will not be 'a person' when you attain Nirvana. I suggest you to read more about 'Pattichcha Samudpaada'. 

I never heard that Buddhism teach about parallel universes. Buddhism teaches only one Human world, which is exists here on earth. There are other worlds (loka dhathu) for gods (dewa) and others. And there are some worlds which are even thousand Buddhas tries at once, can't be reach. 'Aroopa thaala Brahmana' worlds are such worlds. Can not answer your second part as it assumes first part is true and it is not true as per my answer. 

As of my understanding, If you are practicing Buddhism, yes your goal should be ending the 'Sansara'. Buddhism describes Sansara is a very painful journey which we are roaming without knowing that. Therefore ending Sansara is a fair statement in that sense. I don't know any Sutta or speech which load Buddha preaches about anything else but ending Sansara and it's brutality. 

There are enough schools/interpretations of both that any answer would have to be highly qualified. Furthermore, there's a crossover that confuses things further. For instance, Zen is widely seen as a mixture of Buddhism and Taoism, so you may find great similarities between that branch of Buddhism and Taoism. An overview is that Buddhism seeks to transcend suffering while Taoism seeks unity with nature. However, consider this... 

Two reasons come to mind; one practical, the other metaphysical. Practical What you describe is no different from how we live our lives all the time. We want things but don't want to do the work for them. 

An alternative is to look at the big picture. If you are trying to introduce people to Buddhism, why mention rebirth? The Buddhist path is identical, whether or not one believes in rebirth. Further, many are attracted to Buddhism (or at least it's secularized variant popular in the west) precisely because of its less supernatural nature. Introducing rebirth therefore might cause them to abandon Buddhism. For many, if it's a choice between Buddhism and Science, then Science will win, no contest. 

My advice is to use your life to practice dharma; after all, dharma can be practiced in any circumstances and its fruits are available now. The challenges you face become fuel for practice. Your actions become the expression of practice. Life's annoyances and pains (such as dealing with others) are a chance to explore self and attachment. Your interactions are a chance to practice path elements such as mindfulness and especially right speech and compassion. One need not be a monk to practice and benefit from Dharma. Further, wanting to be a monk can be an attachment and thus a source of dukkha. Now, in addition to the usual challenges of the lay life, there's also the dukkha that comes from one more case of wanting things to be other than they are (e.g.: wanting to be a monk). Dukkha doesn't change because the cause is "spiritual". Also, monks have their own challenges. Not all monks are spiritual or care about the Dharma. Often, monks at the monastery are there for ulterior motives, and hence have no interest in dharma. Further, being a monk, it's all too easy to hide behind the orange robes and begging bowl; is one really practicing then? Sure one is isolated, but what challenges is one facing? Challenges are the fuel for practice. Just because you are not a monk doesn't mean you're living a worldly life. What makes your life worldly is how you live in the world. There are many worldly monks and many spiritual laypeople. Those who practice Dharma for a better rebirth as a monk (or anything else) are not fully practicing dharma because implicit in the practice is their clinging to monk-hood (or anything else) and a holding back, a belief that they really cannot reap the full fruits now. Such practice strikes me as half-hearted. Practice should be done with the intent of liberation in the circumstances one is in. If one practices whole-heartedly and the rebirth doctrine is true, one enjoys a better life now and a better rebirth will occur. If the rebirth doctrine is false, one still enjoys a better life now. 

As of my understanding if he did any wrong, it will come to him as bad Karma. And Good will come as good Karma. Lets say the officer here lied and protected his country. He will be punished for lies and will be blessed with the good work of protecting the country. Can anyone lie with a not lying intention? I think we can't. If we want to lie. Then we are lying and we know we are lying. Purposes may be good. But the real intention can't be good (In here, lying is wrong, but the purpose of lying is good). This is how I understand. 

There is this beautiful story, once Buddha preached to some of his disciples when they ask about Nirvana. They asked from Buddha, "Blessed one, please tell us what Nirvana looks like, feels like. So we can try to attain it." Buddha said nothing. They asked several times and Buddha continued his silence. When these disciples went out, he preaches others below story. 

According to Buddhism, to do a sin, you have to consciously do something using your body, speech or using sitha. In a dream you are not doing anything consciously. Therefore simply you can not sin in dreams. 

Karma is one of the main teaching in Buddhism. Basically what buddhism teach us is this. We are in a wrong understanding of me. Even thought we thinks there is something called me, the truth is there is no anything called me. (At least there is not a define constant thing) Because of this wrong understanging, we are doing 'things' which were not existed before and we become the owner of this 'things'. These 'things' have re-acts. e.x. Say we kill a moquito. This incident of 'killing that mosquito' was never before. We did it. Hence we are the owner of that incident. This killing incident has a negative power which will make us suffer. So we will suffer for that incident in future. The power of incident came from the strength of our own thoughts and from the act. (First we are thinking we want to kill this mosquito, then we think to kill it, then we do the act) This is simply what Karma is. For each and every thing we are doing, this law applies. Lord Buddha describes, this same law plus the miss understanding I mentioned above cause us to born over and over again. Each time as of the Karma we did for the rebirth. Main aim of buddhism is get the right understanding and stop these re-births. 

Well, you can apply a meditative mind to anything but in my experience, sitting meditation gives you the most opportunity to go deep. For instance, there's walking meditation, Tai Chi, Yoga (including its more dynamic variants), eating meditations, and yes, even driving meditation. Mindfulness can be applied to anything. 

I've seen many interpretations, so I'll just give you the one I find most tenable/helpful. Sunyata is the denial of any independent essence of a thing. Therefore, anatta is a type of sunyata, in which that independent essence is me. Another way of looking at sunyata (a consequence) is that everything is interdependent (hence the lack of independence). This focuses on the independence aspect of the self that's denied. 

Tranquility meditation is a method, and it has nothing to do with an object. Tranquility meditation can easily use the rising and falling of the abdomen as an object, just like insight meditation can easily use a concept as its object. Now I can see conceptualization itself being an issue, but again, that's nothing to do with tranquility or insight. 

This is Lucid Dreaming and (AFAIK) it isn't typical practice in most schools of Buddhism, nor should it be used as a gauge for how your meditation practice is going. With that said, there are some connections. 

Of course lying is sometimes called for. Morality is not about mindlessly following rules, but in seeing beyond our egoic concerns and doing what the situation calls for (Skillful Means). Mindlessly following rules is how cults and death camps get started. Moral guidelines have a place, and more often than not, they should be followed. However, there is no replacement for using our brains to study the situation and decide if these rules are applicable there. Buddhism is about overcoming suffering, with a special focus on the self as the axis upon which suffering revolves. So look at all Buddhist teachings through that lens. Don't ask what the Buddhist teachings tell you to do; rather, ask what lies behind that teaching. What is it about the self that lying perpetuates? Is it really lies per se, or is it that...