I remember some publications from the 1970ies dealing with the language of Dolphins. They were able to communicate via telefone lines without direct contact and their conversation was recorded. At the date of (popular science) publications, there was not much decoded, only self-identifaction, like hello, this is Dash (one of the Dolphins). What is the current understanding of the language of dolphins today? 

You may want to look at the ICE corpora that contain both spoken and written regional variants of English. Many of them are freely usable for noncommercial academic research. 

There are forces driving language evolution, and we see two of them at work here. The first driving force is Regularisation. The irregular pattern of latin (indicated by duodeviginti and undeviginti, showing a counting down from 20 instead of counting up from 10) wasn't able to resist this driving force and all quoted modern Romance languages use "counting up from 10", i.e. a more regular pattern. The second driving force is Sound Change. At some time and for some descendants of latin, the successors of sedecim and septemdecim became too similar in sound (something like *sedeci and *seddeci), therefore more distinctive forms for the two different numbers were needed. Different dialects/languages reacted differently to the pressure of theses two forces (evolution is unpredictable, after all). French and Italian made 16 and 17 maximally different (seize vs. dix-sept). Spanish and Portuguese chose a more regular, but still distinct enough pattern (dieciseis and diecisiete). Romanian is the odd Romance language out, where Sound Change didn't put up much pressure and the old latin forms of 16 and 17 are pretty well preserved (şaisprezece and şaptesprezece). Romanian was than able to develop a completely regular pattern up to 19 (nouăsprezece). ADDITION: In Romanian there is still something left to explain: Romanian has acquired an infix -spre- "to" not present in Latin or the other Romance languages. This exhibits a third driving force to language evolution, the influence of other languages. I daren't decide whether it is the consequence of a Dacian substrat or a Slavonic or Albanian adstrat. At least, Albanian numerals (gjashtëmbëdhjetë "16" with -bë- inserted) and Bulgarian numerals (шестна́десет (šestnádeset) "16" with -ná- inserted) show the same pattern of formation. 

The features mentioned in the last paragraph of the question belong to the domain of corpus linguistics and stylometry. For the categories mentioned in the first part of the question, Systemic Functional Linguistics offers a lot of categories for analysis, like register, tenor, field, or mode. Maybe you want to learn more about this by studying the works of M.A.K. Halliday and R. Hasan. 

There is a significant portion of root words derived from Germanic languages, e.g., drinki (to drink alcoholic beverages), trinki (to drink), hundo (dog), jaro (year), verŝajne (probably), bedaŭrinde (unfortunately). Some of the affixes are Germanic, e.g., -ino (feminine, from German -in as in Lehrerin) Compounding (as you already noted) is clearly Germanic (and specifically German). You may also want to ask this question on the Esperanto Stack Exchange to get more answers. 

This is to the now edited question: It maybe surprising for speakers of Standard Average European languages that so-called "particle comparatives" are rare among the languages of the world, most of the languages use other means to express comparison. For an introduction, see WALS, Chapter 121. Unfortunately, WALS does not provide data on positive/negative comparison. Note also, that German lacks a positive comparison operator in the strict sense, you just say Peter ist größer als Paul using the comparative form of the adjective in question. You can say (altho' this is a marked construction, the use of kleiner is more natural) Paul ist weniger groß als Peter with a negative comparison operator. Imitating English or French and saying *Peter ist mehr groß als Paul is ungrammatical for German. 

tun is a strong verb, as the past participle getan shows There is no -t ending in the third person singular past tense, compare er ging "he went" or sie lief "she ran". 

If you want to use only one of them, use ISO 639-3 if possible. It is an International Standard, well-maintained, frequently used and easily accessible. It is well received in the community and used, e.g. by OLAC: Open Language Archives Community and by the CLARIN Project. 

What is the language you transcribe? Assuming Standard (American or British) English, writer /ˈraɪtər/ and rider /ˈraɪdər/ are different and the transcription is correct. When you do a phonetic transcription of some dialect (or even a phonemic one after determining the phonemes of that dialect) you'll use the flap [ɾ] letter. 

First, the obvious fact: Any proto-language must precede its descendants by quite some amount of time, this gives a data point for the end of the proto-language. There are some (heavily debatted, but much used) internal linguistic methods that estimate time depths by the amount of language change. These methods are called glottochronology. In addition, external evidence is used: Does the reconstructed proto-language has a common word for some cultural artifact (domesticated animals, cultivated plants, invented or newly introduced things)? in the case, it must post-date the invention or introduction of that artefact. Tying a linguistic group to some archaelogical artifacts (e.g., some style of ceramics) is also often done, although the ceramics does not tell anything about the language of its makers. There are also attempts to align genetic markers of origin with languages and use the dates from genetic changes to estimate the age of a proto-language (but languages can be lerned by genetically unrelated people). Those methods all put together lead to some estimates that are more or less trusted in the community. There is always a rather large error margin on those estimates as well—you will see ranges covering a millennium or more for the proto-language's age. 

The first task is pretty standard (at least for well-resourced languages like English and probably Spanish, too). The second task is an area of active and on-going research, but knowing the term will help you to dig out references. 

There are many factors involving the rate of linguistic change. Daniel Nettle argues in his paper Is the rate of linguistic change constant that small speech communities have a higher rate of linguistic change than large ones (and for the purpose of the paper, 50 000 speakers is already large). Note that physical distance is not the only thing that separates speech communities from each other, and that there may be many small speech communities with very different languages in some small area (notorious such areas are the Caucasus mountains and New Guinea). Geographical features like mountain ridges are very efficient obstacles promoting linguistic diversification. Rivers separate their banks, but connect their ends, so the shape of a language areal is not approximately a circle (or hexagon).