Eye witness won't legally get them very far, though, and you are never required to let such visitors inside your house. Still, this is usually enough to manage to coerce most people caught escaping their license into paying up. I'm not familiar with the particulars of BBC, but I doubt kidnapping was ever a part of their profession. 

Now, AllergyEZ.com was registered in October 2010, and RevaiRx in Jan 2011. This seems to be a rebranding issue, however. If you look at Allergyeasy.com (of which allergyez.com and myallergyeasy.com are mirrors), the website actually dates back to 2003. If we look at this brand name instead, there is at least some coverage: 

Well, the facts are that the process of vaccination involves injecting you with an antigen very similar to the thing you are to gain immunization to, so that your immune system may familiarize with it in a controlled environment. Ideally, this similar antigen should be harmless, but so similar that your immunity towards the injected antigen will transfer to immunity to the actual disease. It is known that this is not entirely without side effects. It is indeed possible that you become ill from the very antigen you're injecting. This is not at all what the anti vax people are stressing up about, however. Probably because it's well documented that there's a significantly greater risk in not getting vaccinated. Now, the article you're referencing is problematic because it bundles together several completely different issues. For one part, it deals with the case of the H1N1 vaccine and the alleged links to narcolepsy which is an actual scientific debate regarding a brand new vaccine, and the claims are currently being investigated rigorously. There's one report going on in Finland from which we've only seen preliminary results (!) which seem to vindicate the connection, and there's another study in Sweden hopefully to be published within a few months. Until those studies are published, I wouldn't dare comment on the likelihood of a connection. If you're in the H1N1 high risk demography, at least Swedish government still recommends the vaccine. For these guys, this just confirms their assumption that all vaccines are dangerious and should be avoided. But the H1N1 story says nothing that will validate the links between the MMR vaccine and autism, for instance. This is an entirely different claim, it is about a vaccine that's been in long use, and it's been refuted countless times. The alleged autism claim is based solely on an Andrew Wakefield study that's been shown since long to be a complete scam. So there's no simple answer to the vaccine story, because it's not one story. These guys are cross-pollinating the news in a manner that doesn't make sense, to try and validate a long debunked theory. What can be said is that all of this is very tragic. The vaccine scare has given us an increase in pertussis morbidity, which is a disease we can avoid entirely. I know this'll come off as an argument from emotion here, but I really think it's a shame that people are still dying from pertussis, due to ignorance and fear mongering alone, when we have the very simple means to defeat it. 

Rationalist International has a good writeup on the story. In short, the tantrik claimed he could kill any person he wanted within three minutes, but did not manage to inflict any sort of damage during what went on for more than three hours. Rationalist International concludes: 

No, mitochondria are not cells, they are organelles and reside inside the cells. The statement is probably a simplification (or misunderstanding) derived from the observation that a lot of cancer cells get their energy from glucose: 

Note that this is an observational study (actually, tapping into the data of a cohort study on a completely different topic), and not an experiment. This is of course often the case with social studies, but I don't think there would've been ethical implications with arranging an experiment of this one. That way we could've been more certain about the conclusions. Right now, all we know is that there's a correlation. It might very well be that frequent meals and the low cholestorol both are the effects of a common - unknown - cause, rather than the latter causing the former. The evidence that does suggest that the study published in BMJ is actually a causal relationship, is that similar effects have been found in an experimental study on animals. It should be noted, that although the cited literature seems to be in favor of the conclusion, there may well be other health concerns related to frequent meals; particularly with regards to dental health. 

There's an article on cancer.org that sums up the current state of the DCA research pretty well. Clinical trials take a long time, and this is perhaps more true for medicine than it is for any other field. It is not surprising that preliminary indications reported in 2007, have not yet reached the market. From what I've been able to gather, research on the topic progresses as you'd expect (it does not seem inhibited by a lack of interest from the medical establishment), and it even seems promising. The article linked to above references a 2010 study, which I do not have access to, but see the discussion in the cancer.org article for more on that study. 

The ailments are different, and it is hard to compare different ills across the board. The relative harm is still being debated, but official Swedish government health recommendations currently cite the health implications of snus as less than those of smoking, while still pointing out that both are detrimental to your health (source in Swedish, again). 

Mitochondria are often colloquially referred to as the cell's "power plant". It oxidizes glucose to produce ATP. From this it follows that if you could stimulate the mitochondria further, it'd consume glucose at higher levels, thus effectively "starving" the cancer cells that also consume glucose, and as such inhibit cancerous growth. Note that the production of ATP from glucose is a key part of our metabolism. This is an end in itself, and I do not think it is reasonable to interpret the mitochondrial consumption of glucoses as an active adaption for fighting cancer. 

I realize you may not accept this 'shrimp' as a high order animal, but I think it is a useful example to sell in the idea of applying this zombiefying effect on one host, so as to be able to reach another. I wanted to sell in this idea, to see that this effect is not so uncommon, once you start to view the events in that light: Dogs, when affected with rabies, will be driven to bite other dogs (well, other animals, really). A bland interpretation would be that the virus irks the dogs, and they're getting really aggressive about that. But consider that this tendency to bite others is the primary means through which the virus spreads. Could we not then agree that there is a direct appreciable selective pressure for this virus to exert this effect? We know that this tendency is observed in rabies infected animals, and we can see that there is great evolutionary advantage to the rabies virus in it. I don't know what kind of scientific evidence you would need to be able to say that spreading the virus is the reason why the animals behave in this way, but I would certainly argue that that's the most plausible explanation. Moving on along that line; we know that humans produce snot as an outlet for foreign bodies to leave our own body. But given that we have this mechanism up and running, wouldn't there be a huge selective advantage for the common cold virus to cause us to sneeze while in this condition? At this end, it becomes a bit sketchy, but I'd say drawing the line is single-handedly a matter of interpretation.