It is not hard to see that many girls, having read Scouting for Boys, would prefer to follow their brothers into scouting, and this is exactly what happened at the first Scout Rally in 1909. It is, perhaps, sometimes hard to remember just how progressive Baden-Powell was being when he made the decision to include girls in the Scout movement in 1910. For context, it is worth remembering that the girls' equivalent of the Boy's Brigade, the Girls’ Association, wasn't formed until 2008! 

The second article is talking about data from the People of the British Isles DNA project. This study looked at both DNA from Y-chromosomes (passed only along the male line) and also mitochondrial-DNA which is only passed along the female line. This project does have some selection bias since it only analysed the DNA of people from rural areas of the UK, whose four grandparents were all born within 80km of each other. If we assume that a similar percentage of the female UK population is descended from "Italian Romans" as with the male (i.e. about 3.1%), then, by the Law of Total Probability, almost 97% of the population are not descended from "Italian Romans". Now, obviously this is based on supposition, rather than data (you'll have noted I used the word "assume" in regard to the percentage of the female population above!), but this accounts for the quote in the article: 

To give just one example from another theatre of the war, the Battle of Beersheba, in Ottoman Syria on 31 October 1917, included what has often been called the "last successful cavalry charge in history". The 4th Brigade of the Australian Light Horse charged Turkish positions in the town (supported by British artillery which successfully suppressed Turkish machine-gun positions). It seems appropriate to be answering this today, on the centenary of the charge of the Australian Light Horse, which was instrumental in the capture of the town of Beersheba. The capture of Beersheba broke the Gaza-Beersheba defensive line, and the Ottoman Seventh and Eighth Armies were forced into retreat. Gaza would fall a week later, and on 9 December 1917, British troops entered Jerusalem. 

So how should we judge him today? By objective, modern standards, we certainly wouldn't say he was a "good king". But perhaps we should rather consider him against other kings of his time: 

It's a "single pot lime kiln", adjacent to the beach, at Wallog. Coal and limestone would have been landed on the beach from small sailing vessels. The burnt lime would then be used to improve the local acidic soils. There are a number of these kilns in Ceredigion. This particular kiln dates to the early nineteenth century, and is described by Cadw as "a particularly fine example". More details, including links to further archive items relating to Wallog Lime Kiln, are available in the online database for the National Monuments Record of Wales, Coflein. (Thanks to Nathan Cooper for the link in the comments below). 

I know that this answer has just skimmed the surface of the subject. I hope that I've given enough information to answer your question, without getting too bogged down in the details. A complete answer would take a book (and several have been written on the subject!). If you're interested in gaining a better understanding of the theory behind archaeological residue analysis, and some of the practical considerations involved in obtaining suitable samples for analysis (particularly trying to avoid contamination of samples), the volume Theory and Practice of Archaeological Residue Analysis in the British Archaeological Reports International Series is a good place to start. As one of my tutors said, "It may not have all the answers, but it will provide enough background to ask the right questions ...". 

The pattern of 'barbarian' incursions that caused the fall of the Western Roman empire, and created the new 'Barbarian kingdoms' of the West is complicated (to put it mildly!). Broadly, however, many of these 'barbarian' invaders weren't looking to create a new empire. They actually wanted to be more Roman. They occupied an area within the Western empire and proceeded to adopt its language and customs. In return, these 'barbarians' provided the stability and defence that the government in Rome (or Constantinople) no longer could. Over time, the languages of these 'Barbarian kingdoms' diverged, giving rise to the variety we see in modern Romance languages. The pattern and structure of the new "Anglo-Saxon" kingdoms that arose in Britain was very different. It appears that the groups that arrived in Britain (traditionally, Angles, Saxons and Jutes, according to Bede), may have brought their settlement practices, lifestyle, and - crucially - their language, with them (the exact picture is far from clear as we have almost no written records for this key period). 

So why wasn't Philip also granted a title in Northern Ireland? The relationship between Great Britain and Ireland has always been complicated. Let's limit ourselves here to the first half of the twentieth century. From 1922, the southern part of the island of Ireland became independent of the United Kingdom. Northern Ireland exercised its option to remain within the UK, although a significant minority in Northern Ireland wanted to be reunited with the independent south. At that point, the Irish Free State in the south remained a dominion of the British Empire, which meant that its people remained British subjects. This remained the case until the Ireland Act of 1949, even though - in Irish law - Ireland had been virtually a republic since the end of the Second World War, and perhaps even earlier. Now, the marriage of Prince Philip to Princess Elizabeth was less than 18 months before the Ireland Act of 1949 came into effect. Granting Philip titles in Ireland at that time would have been insensitive at best. This presumably explains that particular omission. 

The UK Parliament website have some helpful resources about the 1605 Gunpowder Plot. The UK National Archives have also made images of some of the primary source documents in their collection available as classroom resources on their website. For more about the background to the Gunpowder Plot, and how the events unfolded, you might like to read The Gunpowder Plot: Terror And Faith In 1605 by Antonia Fraser. 

A number of people, including surviving members of the crew of the USS Liberty, have certainly claimed that the real reason for the attack has been covered up by both governments. There have also been a number of books published on the subject, including Remember the Liberty!: Almost Sunk by Treason on the High Seas, by Ernest Gallo, Ronald Kukal, Phillip Nelson, Phillip Tourney, & Raymond McGovern and The Liberty Incident by Judge A. Jay Cristol. However, as far as I am aware, to date nothing in the declassified records casts any serious doubt on the official story that the attack was a mistake, resulting from poor communication between units of the IDF and the mis-identification of the vessel. 

One piece of evidence that is missing from most of the modern claims that Churchill was responsible for the famine is the observation made by the War Cabinet report that the shortages in Bengal had been: 

It seems that the term was used on a number of pieces of legislation as late as the 1970's. In 2016, President Obama signed legislation into law which struck outdated racial terms such as “Oriental” and “Negro” from federal laws. As this article observes: 

The order of months in a year does not change, neither does the order of days in a month. January in a particular year is always before December in the same year. So, for your example, 25 January 500 BCE is earlier than 25 December 500 BCE. 

There is certainly a consensus that the proverb existed. It is mentioned by Catullus, and was used (to humorous effect) by Cicero in his first speech in a criminal case. The existence and extent of the ritual is more problematic. It is clear that the origins of the proverb had already been forgotten by the time of the late Roman Republic. A number of suggestions were made by Pompeius Festus in the late 2nd century AD, but the manuscript is fragmentary and he was writing even further from the events in time than Catullus and Cicero. As far as I am aware the lack of evidence means that modern historians are unlikely to ever come to a consensus about the origin of the ritual. 

In this case, 'ethnic-conflict' is presumably referring to ethnicity in the same way as it is defined in the Wikipedia article: 

Furthermore, in may cases, British withdrawal would leave a vacuum which could be exploited by the Soviet Union. This meant that a withdrawal was not only politically unthinkable for any government, it was also militarily unthinkable in the light of the developing Cold War. An excellent recent examination of this transitional post-war period is Britain and the Cold War: 1945 as Geopolitical Transition by Peter J. Taylor. 

I should preface this answer by noting that I am by no means an expert in early American coinage (I'd be far more comfortable discussing contemporary British coinage). However, with that caveat ... 

The population data that you quote in the question derived from a series of censuses taken in the thirteen colonies by the British government, and the early governments of the United States after the Revolutionary War. The population estimates based on data from censuses taken during the colonial period are, to say the least, generally accepted to be less reliable than we would like. There are a number of reasons for this, some of which are discussed in this paper on Population in the Colonial & Continental Periods. Some returns survive for the early period. Most, unfortunately, do not. A list of known surviving returns can be found on the FamilySearch Wiki. However, these censuses are the basis for the racial and ethnic demographics that you cite in the question, and they, together with their successors, the 1790 and 1800 United States Federal Census are the obvious primary source documents with which to answer your questions. 

You are correct that there are no extant sources that corroborate Plato's claim to have been present at Socrates' trial. However, we also have nothing that contradicts it. As others have already mentioned in the comments, our two main sources of information for Socrates' later life are Plato and Xenophon. Both were disciples of Socrates, although neither mentions the other. Other significant sources for details about the life of Socrates are Aristophanes and Aristotle (although Aristotle was not a contemporary of Socrates). In addition, we have some surviving fragmentary works by Aeschines, Antisthenes, Euclid of Megara, Phaedo of Elis and Timon of Phlius. Sadly, none of these explicitly state whether Plato was present at the trial or not. Of course, it is possible that there were further contemporary sources that do not survive, but in the absence of any evidence to the contrary I think most researchers accept that Plato was present at the trial. This is a particular aspect of the wider "Socratic Problem", and like many aspects of the historical Socrates corroborative evidence is hard to come by. 

A quick Google search found this article, which mentions the freedman C. Caecilius Isidorus (who would eventually own over 4,000 slaves himself). I'm sure a slightly longer search would find many more. 

So yes, it would indeed have required a constitutional amendment prior to the 1864 election for the President's term-of-office to be extended beyond four years. 

tl;dr No, he wasn't, although it might be argued that he might have done more, had he been blessed with the gift of 20/20 hindsight (like his modern critics). Indeed, as the historian Arthur Herman wrote: 

Cats in ancient Egypt were certainly revered, and there are suggestions that they may have been regarded as "demi-gods in their own right". In later periods, the cat came to be associated with the Goddess Baset, and it is because of this association that so many cats were mummified. Similar associations exist between other commonly mummified animals and a particular god or goddess from the ancient Egyptian pantheon, for example, the ibis (the god Thoth), baboon (also the god Thoth), and the bull (the god Apis). The jewellery associated with the mummified animals is associated with the mummification rituals (and so has parallels with similar jewellery found with human mummies), but I'm not aware of any evidence that cats were adorned with jewellery while still alive. In fact, ancient Egyptian language seems not to distinguish between wild cats and domesticated cats. All cats in ancient Egypt were known simply as "miu", if male, or "miut" if female (this is often translated in texts as "he or she who mews", but that is quite likely a modern gloss based on the phonetic similarity between the words "miu" and "mew"). The rare occasions where texts refer to cats by name are always in relation to royal pets. It is possible that cats kept as pets by royal princes would have been fitted with collars, or something similar, to reflect their status, but - as far as I know - there is no surviving evidence for this. 

You can read the original paper here: Older age becomes common late in human evolution. Note the author's first conclusion is that their results indicate: 

On a related note, the monograph also mentions an early version of "Murder, Inc." that had been uncovered by police in 1921: 

Sokemen held land in socage. It's worth noting that all free peasants in Hertfordshire were described in the Domesday Book as Sokemen. It may be that there were no freemen in Hertfordshire in 1085/86, or simply that the terms were being used differently there 

This is actually a very good question, but it is important to distinguish between the term "Professional Historian" and the question of professional standards in history. As others have already pointed out, a Professional Historian is simply one who is paid for working as an historian. The term does not, of itself, imply anything about the standard of that person's work. Professional standards, on the other hand, are all about the quality of the work carried out by historians, whether they are working as paid professionals or unpaid amateurs. To illustrate the point, David Irving has written a number of books and articles as a paid professional historian. However, his reputation as a reputable historian was discredited when he was shown to have deliberately misrepresented historical evidence in order to promote Holocaust denial. This was a gross breach of professional standards. A number of organisations have published guidance on professional standards for historians, and I suspect that this might be what you were looking for when you asked about 

Trotsky's "giant armoured personal train" was officially the 'train of the Predrevoyensoviet’ - the train of the Chairman of the Revolutionary Military Council. During the period of the civil war from 1918 to 1920, the train was the mobile home and base of operations for Leon Trotsky, in his role as War Commissar of the government of the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic. According to Rex Winsbury, writing in History Today, the train: 

Roosevelt replied to Churchill saying that while he had his “utmost sympathy”, his Joint Chiefs had said they were: 

(There are dozens of tourist shops that will provide the same service for you today in Cairo or Luxor. For a small fee, they will produce "your name in hieroglyphs" written on a sheet of papyrus as a nice memento of your holiday. Amusingly, my name ("Iain") is invariably rendered as: which actually bears no relation to how it is generally pronounced ("Ian"), or indeed, how it should be pronounced (something close to the Scandinavian "Jan"), but which does match the letters to hieroglyphs!). 

Yes, Philip broke both agreements. No, he didn't manage to conquer the Duchy (at least, not until after Richard's death). 

The original shows the head of the god Dionysus on the obverse, and a bunch of grapes on stalk with two leaves on the reverse. The inscription on the reverse was originally NAC ION (which is perhaps rather less-recognisable to tourists), and the difference in the quality of the images between the original coin and the modern souvenir is very noticeable. Your medallion is probably cast, rather than hammered, although I can't make out enough of the edge detail from your photograph to be certain. I've seen medallions like that sold online from time-to-time. They usually sell for a few pounds Sterling. 

As you observed in the question, Lincoln rejected the suggestion from his advisers that Article 2 of the Constitution should be amended. It has not been amended since Lincoln's time, so any future proposal to extend the President's term-of-office would also require a constitutional amendment. 

There is an overview of the history and development of the square. This includes a plan of the square and does list some famous residents. A history and list of occupiers of the properties on the west side of the square (house numbers 1 to 12) A history and list of occupiers of the properties on the north side of the square (house numbers 13 to 19) A history and list of occupiers of the properties on the east side of the square (house numbers 19A to 31) A history and list of occupiers of the properties on the south side of the square (house numbers 32 to 38)