In the following passage from the Communist Manifesto, Marx takes aim at some of his socialist rivals. He criticises 'feudal' and 'petty bourgeois' socialism... I think I understand what he is criticising there. But who are these 'German, or "True" socialists" he is attacking? What were their names? Sorry about the long quote, but as I didn't really understand it I wasn't sure what part to remove. 

*By Western Christendom I mean non-Orthodox, non pagan, non-schismatic, non-Muslim controlled societies. So everywhere from Lagos to Lapland. By divorce, I mean that the law recognises that two people used to be in a legally valid marriage, but are no longer married. So, eg Henry Tudor doesn't count, because his marriage to Catherine of Aragon was annulled, and therefore (retroactively) never legally valid in the first place. Or according to the Vatican's perspective at the time, he was legally married to her until she died, and was therefore a bigamist. Edit: Oh, and I know divorce existed in Roman times. I'm taking about Christan Europe after 1000 AD. 

Alfonso XIII was deposed as King of Spain in 1931. As we all know, the Spanish republic in turn was overthrown in 1939. I know there were Falangists who wanted something Hitler-y, and Carlists who supported a 'pure' Catholic monarchy and alternative succession. But did anyone suggest bringing the king back, since he was still alive?. Obviously Franco didn't want to share power with anyone, but that obviously wasn't going to be his public rationale for keeping Alfonso away. 

Has a person elected to the US Presidency ever held a government position in a nation besides the United States? I think any government-related role would be an interesting answer. I think the focus here is the role acts as a representative of the country, or to officially influence sovereign matters. I do not think the role must have been voted by the people of that nation. 

If I were in your shoes, I would pay for this even if your relatives cannot. I would travel to be with them for the start of this process, and when the conservationist arrives - so that my relatives understood that I share their values regarding this documentation of birthright. Advice I glean that you do not have much affection for the noble system nor the meaning of your family's title. I encourage you not to push on your relatives regarding matters that I have outlined are against their values, as this will only distance you from them and limit the positive impact that you can have on the preservation of this relic. Apologize to them for any insult, and affirm that you will help them with proper preservation, within their household, under them control. Convey to them how lack of a consultant conservationist could risk the condition of this document. It has survived 500 years — ensure that it can survive no less than 500 more. 

Edit: for the purpose of this question, a terrorist attack is an attempt to kill people for a political reason, by somebody other than the government. 

For the list, read Collapse by Jared Diamond. The short answer is that yes, premodern cultures definitely experienced man-made environmental disasters. Perhaps the number one cause of these was deforestation. For example, the Rapa Nui people of Easter Island cut down trees in order to build and manouevre the moai (which were huge stone statues with outsized heads). The moai were supposed to gain the Rapa Nui favour with the gods, to the end of obtaining good harvests, among other things. However, the deforestation led to soil erosion, which led to worse harvests. They responded by building more and bigger statues, which meant yet more deforestation. In some ways, modern technology makes us more exposed to the risk of man-made catastrophes. Imagine if the Rapa Nui had had chainsaws! You don't have to look very hard to find similar wanton destructiveness in modern times. However, the Rapa Nui's lack of scientific insight made them more vulnerable to anthropogenic environmental disasters than we are. There was no-one saying 'hey, maybe stop cutting down trees?' and they were unable to connect moai building and their bad harvests. Maybe we won't be wise enough to make analagous deductions, and maybe we will. 

First off all, these movements exist in France, too, just see how France ironed and blended smaller regions like Alsac or Occitania to a more uniform French nation. Such kind of national movement was already present during e.g. the French revolution, where the properly cohesive force was the national identity. What you forget, your examples about national states where state boundaries were significantly different from national boundaries and/or nations with no independence/own states (unlike in case of France). Slavs were never even close to have a unified, big empire, not small part because slavs do not speak the same language, and also national identity existed even from the start: just take a look at Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia... Panslav movements (much like Italy or Germany) was just a way to justify independence from the feudal structure at that time, justify an opposition or to justify the Russian influence. Not accident that Poland was generally less enthusiastic about panslav ideology. Italy or Germany was also just a concept, to gain political influence over an extended region when present feudal structures were unable to hold them. It is not only about languages. Just as France did not melt in every French speaking region, Germany did not include Austria, german-speaking Switzerland, Luxemburg, Netherlands (local German dialects are rather close to Dutch), in spite many of these regions are traditionally part of Holy Empire or the Habsburg Empire and culturally very close to Germany. Let me also point out that XIXth century Europe, especially Central and Eastern Europe, were not ethnically that clear as most people retrospectively think. Most ethnics were mixed all over the place: the previous centuries filling the villages with settlers due to larger population movements following the wars and plagues, and as well as towns. Most town population e.g around the Austria-Hungarian Monarchy were bi or trilingual. 

The ritual calendar(s) are quite detailed, with minor differences between cultures. The Maya were no special case in the following list, because the ritual calendar was more-or-less driven by the imperialism of the Aztec empire. Simply, the 'corners of the year' (solstices and equinoxes) were the major ritual times because the sacrifices governed the prosperous / abundant transition of the seasons. Omens were another large governor of sacrifices: 

I wrote a paper related this topic, for peer review. Basically, the general story (maybe "propaganda") of state ritual sacrifice was that those sacrificed were becoming god-like, and so were elevated to the holiest status achievable - perhaps (in a distant way) like suicide bombers today. The Aztecs saw that representing yourself as one of these Divine Powers was a 'holy' thing - but only those representing the 'big 4' divinities had the national stage, and even then the selection process was something of a random lot. No one charged toward it. Being chosen for one of the lesser Divine Powers was probably even less attractive, to the individual. Whether this was a way to 'clear out undesirables' is not yet clear. Certainly, it is known that these people (ixiptla) were drugged. The way that songs were written, and evolved over time, about these ixiptla, we can infer that people took this practices as vital, if not serious, part of the cycle of life. In my paper, I present evidence that the upper classes saw the sacrificial practice as a way to glean necessary insights about the future of the civilization. A mix of augury and science. 

There was probably no such person. He made the man up to make a general point, though similar people existed, and it's likely Orwell met them. I admire Orwell and agree with the political beliefs he expressed, about the Communists, and many other things. He was, however, a liar. His autobiographical work, Down and out in Paris and London, was at least half made up. When he returned to England, he resumed his lodgings and his writing career, but in his book he said that he was living as a tramp for several more months. He said that he was present in France for the execution of two anarchists on dubious grounds, but he was really on a boat travelling home from Burma. I learnt this from the Complete Works of George Orwell Volume 1, edited by Peter Davison. Later writers have mostly been generous towards Orwell. His lies were not told to make himself look good, or to besmirch his enemies, so he has that in mitigation. However, he was still lying, and it's likely that this was a lie too. 

Armenia and Azerbaijan fought a mutually bloody war between 1988 and 1994. The Azerbaijan government (specifically, its embassy in Latvia, of all places) said that the Armenians caused all the following damage. It seems likely to be exaggerated, but by how much? $URL$ 

There are other examples of inter-nation games in the Native American nations, though not as ancient as the Grecian games. Also, I have heard pro and con arguments on the idea that these sporting events were used to solve disputes and other 'inter-national' planning without deadly warfare. One example of such an inter-nation game is Pasuckuakohowog. It was like football, and involved thousands of players (e.g. many nations). Other games, like Chunkey, were played as far back as the 600's CE. 

It is right to understand that this book is a book of title. Internal Affairs First, your assertions that this belongs in a museum are very-evidently part of your friction with those relatives regarding documentation or movement of the book. Many families treat these relics with intense protection, and would consider any outside personnel purely as consultants in the preservation of their family's relics. To such a mindset, transferring such document to another person, even as a service, is maybe what we can call a 'secular form of sacrilege'. If you are uncomfortable with that or cannot grok it, you will not be able to ally with you relatives in any significant way on this matter. In some societies, noble title grants a birthright to land, political interaction, or other affairs. I do know know Spain's noble system well enough to say more. For people that value their family's history with this kind of 'hallowed' conscience, the suggestion that such a relic be appraised for monetary value is just plain insulting. One could ask the question "You would peddle your birthright for a meal?" Preservation I cannot say yes/no if relinquishing this documentation of title to a museum would forfeit your family's title within the royal system of Spain. Preservation of this relic is absolutely critical. If you family has no money to preserve the document, and they have no care for their noble rights, then turning the document over to a museum is a [small] gift to the nation of Spain, as it preserves the history. Preserving History is, itself, an 'act of noble stature'. But preserving the document within the family is the more respectable thing to do. You are correct that a preservationist should come in to inspect the relic and evaluate: 

From comment to answer: The starch and protein (e.g. gluten) content and composition of each grain types are different, even between different wheat types. For example, most wheat types of middle ages in Europe did not contain enough gluten and were not suitable to prepare bread! Wheat was often eaten cooked as polente or with water similar way as outmeal, instead of bread, depending on region and the type of wheat there. Even nowadays bread-flour (hard flour)is made from a given, high protein content wheat, while other wheat types used for other meals (e.g. durum for pasta). 

Maybe it is a classic case of mixing up causation and correlation. First if all, correlation vs causation. It make sense that climate correlate (and limits) the geography of an empire. Romans had a certain diet and technology for agriculture, certain technology for building houses etc that was optimal to Mediterranean climate. They couldn't grow wheat and your vegetables in the north, because the soil is different, it also frozen in the winter, the climate is colder etc. Just like for grape, all the same arguments are true for basic food. You cannot build houses optimal for winter, because you use to build houses to protect yourself from hot summer. Many small nuances that makes a successful civilization far less capable when goes to far north. From that perspective, the wine-line is just the approximate border where the climate is "close enough" to the Italian one. Second, mixing up cause and result. For example: Coca-cola and pizza was much more wide spread on the western side of Iron Curtain than on the eastern side. Does it mean American influence is limited by the pizza supply? Making wine is at least a cultural phenomena as making beer. You can argue that there is wine in these territories, because Romans introduced there and it became popular. Other drinks, esp beer was already known and popular in many areas. Maybe they just stayed popular, if no one were pushing it enough, and nobody experimented enough with some super cold-resistant grape. From technology point of view, it is much more easy to make beer or whisky in UK (even in France). 

Matters of language are probably best handled elsewhere, so I'll try to answer the question that I think is answer-able here: 

Because of the complex inter-linking of planetary calendar phases (sun, moon, venus, mars, saturn, mercury), certain calendrical intersections were times for sacrifices. Places where the count reset itself (such as the 2012 long-count incrementation) were also times for awareness. Since many of these intersections are dictated by solar cycles, the seasons sacrifices would have had special meaning at these epagomenal times. 

Carbohydrates were the basis for nutrition stores (silos), which were not possible with meats and fruits/vegetables due to availability. Such storage allows longer forays (time spent doing an activity rather than gathering/preparing food); which probably enabled more scouting/exploration, conquest, design / 'science'. People today do not need to eat so much grain / carbs. Our nutrition only expanded since agriculture. So we cannot say that we had better nutrition back then. I suppose you could try to argue that, per capita, nutrition was better. This argument would require proving that fewer meats, fruits and vegetables exist per-capita today than in pre-agricultural times. If you cannot show that, then the situation is purely that we have more options for nutrition today (and possibly worse choices) 

Not all sacrifices were human, and other events called for blood (cutting) or animal sacrifice. Such non-human-death sacrifices were often evoked by personal omen-istic experiences like