These settlers live on a planet, which surface temperature and pressure are compatible with human life. However humans cannot breath its atmosphere. The gas in the atmosphere is not necessarily toxic or extremely dangerous (skin exposure is ok), but it will eventually kill a person (or maybe the atmosphere simply lacks oxygen). So my people will need a "mask" to wander around. I want it to be as small and simple as possible, and would prefer if it leaves the mouth "free". I was actually thinking of some kind of nose respirator, but I guess it would make their voice funny. How can I deliver breathable air to people with the minimum amount of hardware around their face? 

Is there a reliable and, at least, relatively safe way to keep a person unconscious for a period of at least a year(more would be better)? It doesn't really matter whether the individual is comatose or just "sleeping". I just need a way to keep a person unconscious for a year or more without causing any substantial physical damage to them. I'm not an expert so I don't know if using anesthetics for a long time is dangerous or how to avoid other issues like bedsore and stuff. 

We can most certainly build such a structure. We build all kind of structures underground and within mountains. check out these idiots! And take the virtual tour of their temple. We build tunnels for trains and cars through mountains, and Cern itself is a 27 Km long tunnel hundreds of meters below ground. To be fair these are examples of very advanced engineering, not medieval level tech, though it's worth noting that the Damanurian temple was built by amateurs EDIT: Ok so Erebor is really REALLY big, It's a lot of material to move! So either you need more people or a lot of time. Maybe the fortress it's the result of centuries of work, but it's probably possible at least from a technical point of view 

They are relatively rare in fiction but there are a few interesting examples, in fact I even remember reading about one in real life. I would like mine to be small and light (say less than 0.9 kg and less than 2 cm in diameter). Death must be assured if the conditions are not met. So, can we build it with current tech? EXTRA POINTS: it would be great if there was room for extra stuffs, say a microphone, GPS or other things... Recharge is also an issue, can they last indefinitely if powered by body motion like clocks? 

yes you can have something like that. they are called superseasons We have them on Pluto. Also here. It's basically what you describe; you have seasons within seasons, like a "cold winter" and a "hot summer" etc. Both tilt and distance affect seasons on Pluto. I think it's going to be hard for you to have something like that for a planet in the goldilock zone; its orbit would have to be extremely elliptical (something unusual for an inner planet). But maybe you can have the same effect with a different solution. Change your planet into a moon! If your planet is a gas giant moon its axial tilt can cause the "miniseasons" that last maybe 1 month, and then either the distance from the star or the seasons (determined by the axial tilt) of the gas giant can be the "superseasons" 

I'm designing an esoteric symbol to use in a story. I have zero experience with this but can use drawing/CAD softwares. Where can I find some resources on how to design a symbol? I guess a good list of existing ones with references to meanings, associated concepts and cultures would also help. I'm talking about a symbol specifically, not a logo or trademark etc. 

I would say almost any animal. smaller animals are "less susceptible" to gravity changes since being smaller they have a lower volume/surface ratio, so with a 0.72 g they would barely notice. water dwelling animals would also barely notice since they live inside water where buoyancy almost negate their weight. bigger animals would indeed notice and with time they would be subject to some changes. However an adult elephant that weights 7000 Kg on Earth would be about 5000 Kg on Terra; not a very big difference. They are going to be ok. 

All answers missing very crucial point: there is a fundamental difference in approach to building exoatmospheric vessels compared to endoatmospheric. Spaceships need to have reinforced hulls to prevent EX-plosion, while air- and sea- borne vessels are reinforced to prevent IM-plosion. One atmosphere of atmospheric pressure seems like not much, but in space it's actually a tremendous force just on it's own. Those two goals can be jointly pursued in construction, but that means excess mass. Space shuttle is not big because why? There is also a world of difference in power requirements to move spaceship in space and to move it up (and down) gravity well. I know mass is mass, but for the purposes of the question it's suffice to say there is a difference. So that means high power requirements, which also means size of the PGU (Power Generating Unit), which cuts into capacity of a spaceship's hull, as is extra reinforcements and quite possibly some aerodynamic requirements. Space combat vessel needs to be armored in some way. If you elect atmospheric braking it means that outer layer - i.e. armor - is exposed to extreme conditions not unlike combat (depending on weapons used in warfare, of course), thus weakening it enormously. Armor in spaceships has dual-purpose: prevent/absorb combat damage and shield from all sorts of radiation encountered in space. Current space tech relies on E-M shield of Earth to work in space, but spacegoing vessels have to have this sort of protection. Weakening that every time you enter atmosphere sort of defeats the purpose. Thus we get to a bottom line: I recommend dropping the idea unless you give your civ enormous power source(s) (or other techs like force fields reinforcing hull or reactionless drive of some sort) to accommodate for all the requirements of the concept. 

What would be the best way to send energy that is generated outside the Earth's atmosphere, possibly in the asteroid belt (nevermind the means), so that it can be used on the surface of the planet? Let's say solar power generation. With enough mirrors you can get really high output. The energy thus "gathered" can be "transmitted" down to Earth's surface, but it will be, in essence, a laser beam (i know, it will be concentrated sunlight, but I mean effect, not the naming details), that will be dangerous to anything in it's path, including the atmosphere. Assuming level tech of today but include current experiments in all stages of advance, what would be the best - that means safest, cheapest and most efficient - way to supply energy to the grid on the Earth's surface? Additionally: what would be the upper limit of the power levels to be transmitted? To clarify after some very good comments: 

D.E.W. is any tacticians wet dream. I believe they will be developed parallel with advanced projectile weapons, but I think absent some technological breakthroughs in high power projectiles area it will be laser weapons at first. Why: 

No one plauge kills all 95% of the population at the same time... It takes a while for the plague to be recognized, then to spread and finally burn out. You assume "rapidly spreading", which is very vague, but even so it may take months to get there.. So if you want to do it fast, go for "bio attack", with as many "Patients Zero" in as many international transportation hubs as possible. But it will still take weeks. Then there's the question of which season - warm months will increase both decomposition and removal of bodies by pests. Civilization does not break suddenly, too. Initially there will be services to take care of the bodies - NYC has approx 0.002% death rate daily... It's quite possible to increase it by order of magnitude before healthcare/sanitation is overwhelmed after few weeks. So that's 0.5-1% right there taken care from start, more depending on various factors. It's quite a lot, actually. Then society collapses, mass panic, evacuation jammed roads etc. In big cities rats, flying rats and other bugs take care of quite a lot of bodies rather fast. WOn't help survivors there - they will suffer secondary effect of that in all forms, i.e. rapidly spreading flesh-eating bacteria, all kinds of worms and insects feeding and reproducing at phenomenal rate. Most of the survivors will be in rural and/or remote areas. So not much bodies to start with. Distance from cities will also prevent diseases to spread there. I'd say you have to work some more on initial conditions of your Apocalypse... 

You would require more energy to process the C0₂ into oxygen than you would gain by then performing the reverse during aerobic respiration. Plants get this energy from sunlight. Humans only harness energy from aerobic respiration. Additionally the martian atmosphere is only 0.6% the pressure of Earth's. This sounds pretty impossible to me. 

With a long enough and strong enough rope, and enough animals, certainly you could pull any load. I think the real challenge would be getting a wagon made of stone that will not break. To simplify things I'm going to assume that modern structural concrete is similar to a best case scenario for something carved out of solid stone, because they have similar properties and it's harder to find data about the structural strength of stone. It is brittle and handles compression forces well, but not other forces. Concrete's breaking length, the maximum length of a vertical column of the material suspended from the top, is about 1/25th that of oak. Structural engineering has since antiquity used quite a lot of structural features, like arches, to distribute forces in a way that stone in structures primarily endure large compression forces. This might be harder to achieve in a wagon, and at the very least might merit some redesigning. Additionally it's brittleness would be less able to handle the shocks of a moving vehicle without fracturing. $URL$ Some redesigning ideas: 

Imagine you are dragging a giant rubber tractor tire across the ground by reeling it in with a steel cable at a rate of 2 to 5 centimeters per year. It wouldn't really be a continuous movement. When the tension in the cable got stronger than the static friction of the tire against the ground it would scoot a tiny distance, maybe a few millimeters, across the ground and rest again. That's essentially what an earthquake is scaled down. Now imagine an angry ant pounds on the cable with it's tiny fists. That's what your conventional explosives are doing. The forces involved in a tectonic plate moving are enormous even when compared with nuclear weapons. The best you can do is trigger that tire to move again just a little bit earlier. In doing so you may actually be lessening the severity of the earthquake by releasing that tension earlier before it builds up even more. There's not much information on the possibility of triggering earthquakes with conventional explosives, but luckily nuclear munitions are often measured in their equivalent TNT tonnage, and people have worried about the potential to trigger earthquakes with nuclear testing in the past. "The elastic strains induced in the epicentral region by the passage of the seismic wavefield generated by the largest of the nuclear tests, the May 11 Indian test with an estimated yield of 40 kilotons, is about 100 times smaller than the strains induced by the Earth's semi-diurnal (12 hour) tides that are produced by the gravitational fields of the Moon and the Sun." - $URL$ Note the nuclear tests are not conducted at the fault line, but relatively distant. 

I don't believe you would really have to do anything. Imagine sending a book on modern computer engineering back in time a hundred years. I would guess they would be able to develop semiconductors sooner and maybe, just maybe, iterate a bit faster than Moore's law, but you wouldn't see the internet appear mere years after the knowledge in that book was disseminated. You always need infrastructure. You need the tools to make better tools to make still better tools. 

If the black hole is stationary the net change to your speed is 0. That is to say, once you are as far away from the black hole as you started, you'll be moving at the same speed you started at. We use planets that are already travelling in the general direction we want to go. See Gravity_assist. During a close pass you could certainly pick up some extraordinary speed before shedding it as you move away from the center of gravity. EDIT: Loren Pechtel pointed out the Oberth Effect, which I don't believe is usually what is meant by a "gravity slingshot", but may certainly be relevant to the story idea. Note, this just means your have a greater exit speed from the gravity well than by using the same thrust in empty space. Your maximum speed will still occur around the closest point of your pass by the black hole. As for what happens when you get close, well first there's frequently a lot of matter in the accretion disk that is getting sucked in pretty fast. If you get close the gravity on the side of you that is closer to the black hole is actually greater than the gravity on the opposite side, resulting in a stretching force. This force is enough to tear anything apart before you even reach the event horizon. In other words it's never the event horizon that really kills you. See Spaghettification