If there are no deadlines, a two children policy will work and prevent both issues you mentioned. With about 2.3 children per mother needed for a stable population, you would have a steady decline. As shown by all of our developed countries, a low natural birthrate can also be achieved without strict limits, but a number of conditions need to be in place: 

In those 10 years you'd build steel scaffolding with rails over the intended site and next to, as well as a very long straight railway leading up to it. Each floor is designed by and produced by IKEA, assembled (as far as allowed by the aliens) on motorized railway carriages lined up on the railway with the remaining components lined up next to them. The same goes for the vertical support beams. On D-day at midnight: 

The earth's core is a blob of molten metal and stone, already compressed as far it could be under its own gravity. As far as we know, there are no hollows or bubbles inside the earth, because the total mass of the Earth matches with what we know of its composition and densities. 

Let's go with a popular celebrity option. "You" and your wife/girlfriend want children, but somehow can't have any. So you were working in secret to adopt some photogenic child from a politically and/or geologically unstable country. "You" now feel personally connected to that country and want to improve its lot, so your start supporting NGOs and set up a lobbying company for that. Buying into international organizations: yay! a natural disaster! This is preferably a follow-up to your defining moment: "you" feel connected to the people in (location of the disaster) and your conscience doesn't allow you to stand by and do nothing. So you rashly buy up whatever looks useful, send the people over there to help and... fail miserably. You will be shocked and disappointed that your idealistic intervention didn't achieve its goals. After some public soul-searching, you will start repeating to whomever will listen that it was due to not being properly prepared and not having enough local people with language skills and expertise. You vow to not wait for the next disaster and start laying the groundwork right now, establishing a network of education experts and schools. 

A social welfare/safety system has to be in place, so that people are not dependent on having (enough) children to care for them in old age. Living conditions (food and water especially), health care and security need to be good enough that almost all children survive to adulthood, so no spares are needed. Raising successful children has to be a costly investment. Outlawing of child labor and the increasing need for highly educated people have achieved this in developed countries, to the point where some couples feel they cannot even afford to raise one child (Hi Japan!). 

If your flat earth has a somewhat normal gravity, whether artificial or by having something like a super dense ring at the edge that balances the normal center-of-mass direction, the atmosphere would just be present on both sides of the disk and around the edges. There would likely be intense storms at the edge because of clashing jet streams, so to the inhabitants, the other side would be invisible. If the bottom side is also inhabited, an occasional unlucky explorer might mysteriously end up on the top side, thrown there by a storm. From your edit, I assume that the "gravity" of the Universe overpowers that of the earth itself, causing anything that is not at the "bottom" of the universe to fall down. That of course leaves the question of how much air is reaching the bottom or is already at the bottom, and what else is there. If the "bottom" is like an infinite flat plain that only receives some pockets of matter when a flat planet or gas cloud reaches the bottom, the air falling off the earth would spread out so thin it would not be noticeable, essentially lost forever. If on the other hand the amount of air having reached the bottom of the Universe is big enough to create measurable pressure, the air could be reclaimed in some way at the bottom of the flat earth. That might be true if the bottom receives new air and water in balance with the natural dispersion on the bottom. Of course, that would also mean the earth gets new air and water falling on top of it. A kind of stone with thin channels might absorb the water (and air dissolved in it) through capillary action, though I'm not sure it would work against this universal gravity. Or there are world trees growing roots down to the bottom, where they absorb water and air through osmotic pressure, after which they evaporate/expel the water and air from their leaves as part of their metabolism. Neither of them would seem to balance the loss of atmosphere from the sides if there's not some barrier there, though they would make up for some loss. Since you have already handwaved away some major physical laws, you could perhaps declare that air pressure isn't a thing in that universe. So the air is not pushing itself to the edges, it only falls off when it some bit of it is pushed over the edge. Finally, if the flat earth is artificial, it could have either some force field (solving all issues by handwaving again) or an air recycling system where the air falling off the sides is captured some way down along the the edge, filtered (to extract any intrepid explorers and their balloons) and transported to a mountain or otherwise in the middle of the disk's surface. This would result in a constant wind from the center of the disk to the edges, making any air travel one-way and very risky. The problem with reclaiming air in any way is "what is out there past the edge of the planet?", because no regular pump or suction device is going to compete with a vacuum out there. The closest I can imagine is a combination of strong ionizing radiation and shaped magnetic fields to force the now charged particles into openings in the side of the disk. 

If ABC doesn't have natural resources, strategic location is its best hope. Doesn't have to be the hub, but if the army controls the only mountain passes or the only oases between country X and Y, they could simply live off the toll they collect from caravans. If they didn't even get that, they would need to have some culturally important things to make a difference in the greater world. Maybe they train all the Elite troops or lordlings in the ancient arts. Maybe there is a religious site drawing many pilgrims. 

There is a pressing need to learn it or formal education is mandatory There is education / training available (whether at home, in a guild, etc) There is enough exposure to the language to practice and keep it current 

Groups of people will enforce their own local rules and punish offenders. Members of one group can learn the rules of another and interact in a stable and predictable way with members of that group. Those are the basic requirements for a society to exist in any way approaching "normal" to us. Without that basic social contract, the optimal strategy for any group will be to eliminate or enslave any other group they come into contact with (if they can) or suffer the same fate if they are weak at any point in the future. What you'll get is very much like the ancient tribal times: 

These scenarios will result in your lowest tech-level colonies, at any location you choose. Invention of FTL This is when all your colonies may get into contact, assuming they want to. There may also be another rush to claim solar systems now that it's feasible to fly there, check it out and go for the next one if it's not viable. The technology level of these ships and their colonies will be much, much higher than those of ships launched thousands of years ago, leading to your utopian future tech colonies... hopefully. 

In any case, things like mineral clay, plants (unripe fruits?), and select protein-rich parts of animals or other are likely foods. 

If your spaceships have the thrust and fuel capacity to reach orbit (with or without some help of a catapult), they could refuel in space and then use their thrust to slow down to a soft, powered landing. Theoretically, you could land the sci-fi way on a fixed landing pad, but water would be a lot more forgiving if you don't get your attitude or final velocity just right. If your ships are launched from a catapult without adding significant thrust of their own, they might as well land them on the big equatorial planet-encircling rail track you built to launch destroyer-sized ships into orbit. Just aim the ship there, have a big maglev train get into position underneath it and catch the ship in the same magnetic fields you use to launch it. 

Note that a tsunami definitely could wipe out a coastal civilization, but the remains would likely be discovered easily, because humans have followed coastlines while exploring since the first ones decided they "needed some space to think". 

Predictions You're not going to make food production for First World humans irrelevant in under two generations. Fortunately, you don't have to, as your main goal is an end to food scarcity. The two likely spearpoints are outlined in the weaknesses: Feed the starving and the animals. For feeding the starving, you can make good use of the NGO contacts you cultivated before. Have them perform thorough testing on your food, then use their credibility and network to distribute. For animal feed, there will be interest because of the lower cost, but fear of being associated with Frankenfood. The best way to fix this is to make deals with either farms or trading companies to multiply their real shipments and share the profit. This is untraceable and works for everyone. After some of the suspicion is lifted, cattle farms will start asking about getting the feed right at the farm. Both strategies have the same effect: They will lower food prices worldwide in 2-3 years. That includes initial testing, convincing the first countries and companies to try it and then ramping up production. Bad harvests and disasters may speed up this timeframe. Hopefully, there will be no collapse as farmers switch from the highest yields to high quality (organic) foods, lowering output and stabilizing prices. First world farms will still struggle with the permanently low prices and may be subsidized or close down. This will probably happen over at least 5-10 years as farmers relearn their business. General manufacturing The assumption here is that your machine can replicate complex components like circuitry and computer chips. A replicated smartphone may not boot, but it will after loading the software. If that's too delicate for the machine, you move one or two steps down the production chain. Strengths 

It might work, but you would face two problems compared to our current justice systems that would need to be addressed: 

Edit to address some comments: I'm trying to describe a stable scenario where the two countries coexist in the same location. 

I don't see how humans or any earth animal would develop such a language. It would be like developing a counting system using only the index fingers. The improvements are so obvious that development will take a different direction, combining more aspects into the communication. What I could see is creatures using literal AM radio to communicate. They are either all crystalline or have some crystal growths for receivers, as well as antennas. Let's take intelligent porcupines with mixed metal and crystalline needles as an example. By directly feeding electricity from their equivalent of a nervous system into the transmitter needles an receiving replies with the crystal needles, they can communicate with each other over long distances. If the creatures have limited mobility (maybe they're even just sentient crystal formations), this would make a lot of sense. Alternatively, conditions in their habitat might make vocal/visual communication very difficult. A permanent thick fog, dense sound-absorbing foliage and/or the predators mentioned in other answers might drive the creatures to communicate mostly by their own unique AM radio. 

The Up-Down-Left-Right brain This alien rests parts of their brain as well, ecept they are not identical halves, but specific functional areas. They do this in a daily cycle and while they can call on all functions when needed, this is prolong the rest time needed for the brain areas. The alien cycle has four phases always going in the same sequence: Down This is the rest time of the most activity related part, making the creature slow and lethargic. It functions as a time for reflection and emotional processing, often used for family bonding as well as physical healing. Right At this time, activity resumes at full speed, but the spontaneous/creative part of the brain rests, while the rational planning side runs at peak performance. This part of the cycle is used for planning the day's work or longer term strategies. It is the preferred time for business and administration activity. Up This is the rest phase for the introspective and regenerative part. The effect is a hyperactive phase where previously planned work is executed and problems can be solved in creative ways, but the aliens are distinctly less social and emphatic. Physical work, sports and fighting are done in this phase when possible. Left Riding the last of the frantic energy, the alien now focuses their attention on creative and emotional work, while the rational side rests. Art is created, music and theater performed and attended, problems are solved and ideas generated, but for obvious reasons, the custom is for them not to be executed until the next cycle, after vetting by the rational side. Turbo The aliens can pull the resting part out of its sleep cycle and go into a well-balanced state that allows superior intelligence and thinking, at the cost of lapsing into a catatonic state afterwards, as the delicate cycle has been disrupted and needs to recover. 

You mean the one buried under the ice caps of Antarctica? Given that we're still discovering the remains of ancient cities thanks to satellite photos, I'd say the answer to your first question is "fairly big". To try to narrow down the size a bit, I refer to this article about ancient cities in the Amazon. Many civilizations existed and have been identified in the Amazon floodplains, but the less fertile uplands where thought to be empty. Recently discovered remains hint at a population size of 60,000 people, rather than 0. It took us until this century to find (part of) a civilization of 60k people in a remote jungle-like location. I'd say that is a good starting point. You might get away with a greater size if the location is more remote or covered by plants/mud/ice/etc. The closer the site is to our current civilization (especially construction work and agriculture), the quicker it will be discovered, so that makes your possible population size much smaller. The options for city-wiping disasters are fairly limited, so let me try to list them: 

Keep prices equal for size-dependent goods and services Whichever way you try to balance wages, there is still the problem that some goods and services will be size-dependent (food/clothes/transport) and others won't (financial services, mental health, some entertainment). If larger people get higher wages, they'll enjoy a much better relative price for the size-independent services. So instead, write into law that any services offered must accommodate all sizes and offer equal pricing. Underwrite this with tax credits based on the actual production costs or a percentage sold for each size. i.e. a clothing company that serves 80% huge customers will get much more back than one that markets to the tiny population and sells 90% of units there. ... or go Communist! As an alternative, adopt communism. With all means of productions owned by local communities, they can divide their profits among the members as needed. 

As the name suggests, there could be no electronics without knowledge of electricity. So, look at the 19th century to see how the world would be. Sadly, even gas distribution networks would not exist without electricity to control them. You could have gas-powered pumps, but without control circuits, you're manually opening and closing valves, always one mistake away from disaster. Also, using fire to power a gas pump is going to violate ALL of the workplace safety rules.