Yes, the account will be locked out. As documented in the Advanced Replication Management documentation: 

The issue was resolved by Microsoft support, and we received the root cause analysis a week later. Apparently the day before, a new version of the API was released. Microsoft ended up rolling back the portal API, which solved the issue for us, and several other customers. So in our case, this was not a solve-able problem, the only recourse was to contact Microsoft. 

When using the login prompt. Which means I just type in and it forwards me to my company SSO page. In which I log in successfully. I get the following error: 

Why do you want to put one pair of huge disks in there, when you have a server running a database? If you want to look at performance, try putting your database on different disks than your OS / web application. Databases are often bottle-necked on I/O. In stead of purchasing 2x 2TB disks, you could buy 2x 320GB disks for the OS / web app, and 2x 128GB SSD for the database. And I don't think it needs much repeating but backups are important! Don't put them on the same disk as your database etc. 

There is currently no option to run a Core installation on Azure. For previous versions this meant that you had to uninstall the GUI features after configuring your VM. However, server 2016 unfortunately removed this feature. So for server 2016, it looks like you're stuck with the GUI version. You can always open a feedback ticket to azure. And request the addition of a core version. However this was done for the 2012 version and it did not garner enough attention to be considered. 

Your best bet is to install a clean template on a new azure VM, install everything you require and them sysprep it and add that to your VM Templates. Personal remarks: We personally have SQL Server installations pretty much every week as upgrades is a continuous process. And we've tried using sysprep, however we decided to leave out SQL Server from our images, as it added complexity for little gain. Our images have everything needed except for the SQL Server, and we install that afterwards. 

It works fine for smaller environments, but anything over medium size would do best to use direct attach or SAN-based storage. 

I don't know of any built in way to find out if a specific UserID exists. However, you can just match the content of the message to find your SiD, as it should be unique: 

I have a number of SQL Server Agent jobs running CmdExec statements. They are simple jobs that call simple batch files. They are run with a Run As: , that has permissions to run as a , with a relevant linked defined. However when I try to run the job I get the following error: 

This was actually a very silly issue. The steps you should be taking when adding a new rule to a security group: 

While you can create 2,147,483,393 unique entries in a domain, you probably won't create even a fraction of this in most environments. Regardless 2,147,483,393 is the only hard limitation you have in AD. When it comes to members in a group, there are soft limits which are simply recommendations based on stress tests done by Microsoft and practical use cases in companies around the world. The highest amount of users in a single group that Microsoft has reported is 500 million, so if you exceed this number you might want to call them and let them know you've officially won the rights to call yourself the active directory king. Regardless, you're unlikely to reach any real active directory limitation in a company where you currently have 5 domain administrators. 

They shouldn't be doing anything differently. You can check the header as explained in the previously linked documentation. 

While it is definitely supported to sysprep the newer versions of SQL Server. And it is also use-able with the procedure for sys-prepping an azure machine However! Microsoft does not support sysprepping active production systems! 

What you're seeing is the Google proxy address. Mobile users with a chrome browser (either Android or iOS) that have the bandwidth management features turned on will often be seen as using one of these addresses as the requester as described here. In essence the data you're serving is being requested by the Google Data Compression Proxy, and sent back to the end-user. 

Second issue: no process at the other end of the pipe. The error actually behind this is often obscured if you don't connect through TCP/IP. You could try enabling direct IP connections, or you could focus on the other errors, it's likely they're what's causing this one. 

What you're looking for isn't what Windows Clustering was designed for. Windows clustering is based on the notion of a shared SAN drive. However you can look into active/passive load balancing, with disk mirroring. ARR is a Microsoft solution for load balancing web applications. As for the mirroring, you could use RoboCopy. However keep in mind, there is a reason that you're coming across shared drives as a requisite for most clustering options. It is easier to set up than a mirror / load balancing solution, and most networks with availability concerns should be using SAN in stead of local drives anyways. 

There are some write-ups on the history and some decent information on the usage of the IUSR account and it's predecessor the IUSR_computername available. 

I switched to using en_windows_server_2008_r2_with_sp1_x64_dvd.iso and this version succeded in installing. Perhaps I made a mistake and used my old copy of en_windows_server_2008_r2_standard_enterprise_datacenter_and_web_with_sp1_debug_checked_build_x64_dvd after downloading a fresh ISO. Or something happened on both downloads... Regardless, the issue was with the ISO, and downloading a different one fixed it. 

You might be better served with replication instead of mirroring. High availability options That being said, there are a lot of good guides out there for setting up transactional replication, which is probably what you want to look into. SQL-Performance guide. Just as a quick note, SQL server 2008 mainstream support has ended, you might want to consider upgrading. support cycle 

It looks like something is wrong with your master database. Several of your system stored procedures appear to be missing (judging by the look of the ssms prompt) You may want to Restore your master database from backup. 

Eight hours later, the next backup and snapshot kicked in, and succeeded. However, the machine itself was completely unresponsive, and the SQL Server that was installed on it was throwing I/O errors. On the machine itself the following warning occurred every 30 seconds for the next 12 hours: