Interpreting your question to be about introspective analysis, this question seems be unanswerable -- the roots of our knowledge are pre-conscious. Infants have some kinds of knowledge, and yet, as far as we can tell, are not conscious of that knowledge in the manner that a more mature human can access. Similarly, there is no "I" there to ask why during the phases of sleep where we are not conscious. Thus trying to chase down the roots of knowledge lead back to these non-conscious forms of knowledge which are unable to be investigated via (dialectic) introspection. Maybe meditative techniques provide ways of accessing these pre-conscious forms of knowledge but the resulting insights are inexpressible in language, and psychology/neuroscience provides at least some objective descriptions of aspects of these forms of pre-conscious information processing, but that information is not experiential. However, neither of these approaches to understanding the roots of knowledge are philosophical. 

Reading Speed it's really really valuable to learn speed reading so you can read more philosophy. reading a lot (and rereading) does matter. if you can't read philosophy at 500 or more words per minute, it will be hard to do as much as those who can. it's also valuable to be able to read using both text and audio so you can read books while going for a walk or driving or at the gym, etc. you can listen to ebooks using text to speech software such as $URL$ (you aren't limited to audio books) the most effective speed reading approach is called Rapid Serial Visual Presentation. here's a free web version to see what it is (it takes a while to learn and get good with it, but you may be able to use it around your normal reading speed immediately. you can do higher speeds with 2 or 3 words at a time instead of just 1, and some people also find 3-4 words at a time is easier initially): $URL$ learning how to skim well, skip around to the important parts of books, look up relevant parts in the index, etc, is also extremely valuable. good skimming can save even more time than speed reading. both speed reading and skimming can have major downsides if done badly. you can lose a lot of comprehension of the material. but if done with enough skill and good judgement, they can work for most material, and you can occasionally slow down as needed. (as you get better at it, you can slow down less often for less kinds of material.) and reading faster allows more rereads. if you can do 2-3 fast reads instead of 1 slow read of a book, that's usually better. or do 1 slow read and 2-3 fast reads instead of 2 slow reads – that's pretty much always better. and getting good at speed reading can improve your minimum reading speed too. Rest Regarding rest, knowledge workers like programmers typically do about 10-20 hours a week of really serious hard work. They spend the rest of the time answering emails, doing meetings, checking reddit, etc. Most people can do more temporarily but would burn out if they kept it up. People also tire from other types of thinking such as playing chess or reading difficult philosophy. Getting tired normal. People also like excuses for not doing much. So be careful! Some people are exceptional. The philosopher Karl Popper had a reputation for working long hours all the time and not doing much else. Try to be honest about how much rest you really need. The more you really like your work, the more it should energize and inspire you! If that isn't happening, maybe something's wrong. 

I do not read these as appeals to authority; I read both of these as cases of testimonial evidence. B is implicitly claiming to have direct knowledge of the plot of the movie from having been present when it was made. Having been there he/she is in a position to report on what he/she saw. There are a variety of potential issues involved in testimony based beliefs (not the least of of which is the truthfulness of the claimant) but, in day to day life, many of our beliefs are based on what other people told us. 

you could even generalize "living things" to "things" and you'd still have the same pair of possibilities. For question 3 panpsychism seems compatible, the various creatures in evolutionary history had varying levels/qualities of consciousness, but all were, and are, conscious. 

government should protect everyone, not just the weak. it should treat everyone equally instead of define a privileged class (e.g. those deemed "weak" by some criterion). the point of government is to protect men from force and keep that defensive force organized and careful instead of just a bunch of chaotic vigilante justice. defense against force (e.g. robbery or enslavement) is an important value for everyone (strong or weak). a hard part is who pays for this defense, and how much from each person? ideally funding would be voluntary. currently that isn't figured out yet. 

What objective criteria can be used to judge philosophical refutations? Say for example that someone is writing a criticism of Karl Popper. What are ways to reject the criticism without getting into a detailed debate of the sort that this site doesn't allow? 

(too long for a comment) The logic in your second paragraph misses the point. Assume "I believe that ripe bananas are yellow". It is a properly basic belief that "I hold that 'I believe that ripe bananas are yellow'". Note the second level of indirection. The sensation of believing something just comes to oneself as a subjective experience. Since this "sensation of believing" is a subjective, internal experience, it is (or at least appears to be) on the same kind of footing as having as other internal, subjective experiences, e.g. perceptual ones. Whether or not there are bananas out there in the world that aren't yellow when ripe doesn't change the fact that, in my current mental state, it is true that "I believe that ripe bananas are yellow". 

the arguments against Objectivism are mostly from people who don't understand Objectivism. but an actual issue with Objectivism is induction. induction has logical problems as explained by Karl Popper and many others. Rand knew that she couldn't explain how induction worked and defend it in detail, but she still mistakenly assumed that it works somehow. 

there's mysticism here. a simulation of a human is a human. it's the same thing. human minds are software running in a classical computer. that's what you already are – a computer running software. the hardware details don't matter to the computations. no soul or organic molecules required. an intelligence software program has to do certain things. included on the list is create knowledge. the only known knowledge-creating process is evolution. knowledge can be created through replication with variation and selection. (in the case of ideas this would more normally be called brainstorming and critical thinking to eliminate errors). software that does this within various parameters, and does a few other things, would be a thinking person. that's all there is to it. stuff like emotions are emergent properties of software, they aren't tied to souls, hardware made of organic molecules instead of silicon, etc 

To a large extent this was inspired by Yannik's answer; but I hope that I elaborate on points differently enough to not be redundant. As far as I can tell, atheism (or secularism or materialism, considered separately) is a component of an over-arching worldview not the totality of the worldview itself. For example Secular Humanism is a worldview whose breadth and scope is comparable to most religions, and atheism, secularism and physicalism are just a components therein. I'm inclined to point out how this is similar to the mono/poly theistic division: there are worldviews with many gods, one god, no god but a host or more limited spiritual agents, no god and a rejection of all spiritualism. Worldviews in the first two categories are theistic, and what Westerners usually refer to as religions. Obviously, worldviews that fall in the third or fourth categories have the feature of being atheistic. To me saying "polytheism is a religion" doesn't fit right, I'd say "This particular religion is polytheistic." In this way of looking at things asserting "atheism is a religion" is a category error. Similar considerations hold for secularism and materialism: these are (or can be) components of any set of worldviews, but aren't themselves in the same category as religions. As mentioned in the first, summary, paragraph Secular Humanism is a world view, comparable to a religion, that does exhibit all of these features. 

no. individuals face problems like how to live their life and stay alive. this leads to various problems (like getting food and shelter) and solutions. this process of problem solving requires thinking. the thinking should be done in certain ways and not other ways, like it should be non-contradictory. overall what you say doesn't really have much to do with Objectivism's perspective. 

Socialism destroys wealth. That's bad for everyone. See $URL$ and $URL$ and $URL$ Objectivists want to produce wealth for themselves, not take it from richer people. Objectivism values productivity and opposes taking the unearned by force. Socialism is collectivist. Objectivist is individualist. 

the consequences of rejecting induction are being freed up to learn something better from Karl Popper. all your concerns come from basically taking a typical inductivist epistemology and then rejecting one central part (induction) and keeping the rest. what you need is a thoroughly non-inductivist epistemology which is built from the ground up to make sense without induction. that's what Popper offers. (so far there are no non-Popperians offering this). 

Basically the title question: How can I tell if a term is a rigid designator? So far all I have is that proper names are (or can be, since there is a difference between "being named Barack Obama" and "being Barack Obama") rigid designators. For other things, indicatives for example, I'm not sure. Is there some test, or set of tests I can apply to a term to decide if it designates rigidly? 

Items 1 and 2 are somewhat wishy-washy in that the principle of continuity applies when we don't perturb the system (basically by definition); and when we don't don't perturb the system, the physical observables satisfy the principle of continuity (basically by definition). One of the nice things about the theory of QM is that it formalizes this notion: if the operator representing the observable commutes with the QM propagator, then the expected value of that operator doesn't change. And since, at least in a Logical Positivist's ideal world, QM is a formal theory built up on the basis of empirical observations, this idea of continuity is empirically based.