This answer is probably a bit more memetic than some others, which may or may not be suitable for your world: One Nation Didn't Get Any Of Those German Rocket Scientists MAD burns down to ICBM delivery - you can stop bombers quite effectively (at least from reaching population centers) using nuclear tipped SAM/AAM - which are less complex than ICBMs due to the lower range and lower accuracy required. So, as long as any one side has less than around 100 (non-MIRV'd) missiles - then MAD isn't assured. Missile production facilities probably wouldn't recover from any "limited" nuclear strike. With that as our given assumptions, here's the scenario: Operation Paperclip is either a resounding failure or a resounding success - one side of the victorious blocks gains the largest part of the German rocketry know-how and thus gains a head start worth 10 years in rocketry (already the soviets had a slight lead with intercontinental rocketry in the real world). What would be a reasonable prerequisite for this to happen? The Soviets, arriving in Germany first, continue moving the front as far west-ward as they dare, to capture German assets of any kind. Or: The German rocket scientists fled en-masse to surrender to the Allies, hearing of the atrocities the Soviets committed during their approach. As the years move by, one nation continues to hold a significant technological advantage in rocketry, making the availability of a compatible warhead the limiting factor. Once this has been designed, a first-strike enabling ICBM force with little counter-force from the opposing side is available. This puts one side at a deciding advantage, and anticipating the MAD doctrine they strike first, eliminating enemy airfields in a first strike, and then defending only against the airborne alert bombers heading for their territory. To pick up your example of the Moscow criterion: Defending Moscow against incoming bombers should be very much possible, since they would all have to come via the arctic and would face interceptors with nuclear tipped anti air missiles. Some more technical notes: In the end a credible first strike is mostly based on missile accuracy - you need to be able to wipe out airfields with hardened bunkers and carrier groups, as well as strike deep underground command and control bunkers with multiple weapons. 500 meters of CEP will not get your very far, but is plenty to take out civilian/industrial targets. So a slight lead in rocketry and guidance as actually happened was not enough. You need <100m CEP intercontinental accuracy, before your enemy has meaningful intermediate range (~1000-3000km range) missiles. You could still strike Moscow with dozens of nuclear IRBMs from southern Germany or vice versa. This would put the USSR at a disadvantage, since they cannot strike the mainland US with IRBMs. They could hit London though - whether this was considered an acceptable loss for a US-led NATO, I don't know. 

The asker says in a comment that "there is so many layers of bureaucracy and indoctrination that the aliens themselves don't even know why they are invading Earth or any other planet, other than if they don't they will be executed for insubordination." This seems to me all that's needed for an answer. The commander continues the invasion because to do otherwise would entail filing the appropriate paperwork - and that would be a far more difficult and dangerous task than simply continuing to send more troops indefinitely. I actually quite like that as a basis for a story. It does what it needs to do, and has a darkly comic message about the futility of war. 

Humans who prefer to be completely alone are rare, but they exist. Perhaps with dragons it's the other way around: perhaps, very rarely, a dragon comes along who is outgoing and charismatic towards other dragons. With a sufficiently Machiavellian mindset, perhaps such an exceptional dragon could convince the other dragons to put aside their instinctive indifference to one another and unite as a single force. In order to do this it might be useful for this new dragon to have a scapegoat, an enemy for the dragons to unite against. Even if the human threat is not in reality all that credible or severe, the charismatic dragon might be able to drum up fear and resentment against them in order to achieve its aims. ("My fellow dragons, yet another of our number has been senselessly slain. How many more dragon lives must be lost before we put an end to the encroaching human menace once and for all," etc. etc.) Then the humans would suddenly find themselves under siege by a powerful force against which they are not really prepared to defend themselves - which might make for good drama if that's the sort of thing you're going for. 

This is implicit in the other answers, but it deserves to be made explicit: if you want a deeper ocean, a smaller planet will be better than a big one. The main thing limiting the depth of a liquid ocean is that when the pressure gets to around 1GPa, the pressure will cause the water to become ice, even at warm temperatures. This is a special forms of ice (actually one of several different special forms of ice) that is denser than water, so it sinks and forms the ocean floor. Probably most of the oceans on the icy moons in the Solar system, such as Europa, have exotic ices at the bottom. The pressure at a given depth is given by the density of water multiplied by the height of the water column, multiplied by the strength of the planet's gravity. Thus the higher gravity of a Jupiter-like planet would mean that exotic ices would start to form at a shallower depth of water than on an Earth-like planet, whereas on a planet smaller than Earth you could have deeper water before you reach the critical pressure. The relationship is linear, so a planet with half the gravity can have oceans twice as deep. 

So, unless your base is the size of an Imperial Death Star, you would do well to keep it under the surface of the moon. As an advance outpost, a base on Pluto or similar sized rim-planet would be pretty neat, but out there you wouldn't be able to rely on solar power as much (at least for day-to-day operations), as on the moon, so you'd need either another locally available power source, or ship fuel out there every so often. My assumptions are of course only valid, if the moon in question is similar to the Earth's moon, and generally considerd inhabitable, with significantly lower gravity than a reasonably nearby planet. In a solar system with inhabited moons around a gas giant, you would probably want to have your defensive perimeter outside the planet's gravity well. 

Camouflage: You can attempt to hide a base on the moon, because the moon is pretty big, and people expect it to be there. An orbital base is more difficult to hide. Armor: The surface of the moon is covered in craters, due to constant bombardment by rocks and ice travelling at up to orbital speeds. An underground moon base could be protected from this bombardment - and also from most weaponry (if they come with planet busters, your station doesn't matter anyway). This will also help with protecting a crew from radiation. Gravity: On the moon you don't need artificial gravity to stop everything from floating around. This is quite neat, when it's a manned station. On the other hand, lower gravity and lack of athmosphere means you can launch small craft quickly and easily - something a planetary base cannot provide. Mass of the moon: Your station will likely have a mass lower than the moon. Using an orbital space station to fire rail guns at an adversary, would change it's orbit. You would be limited to smaller, recoilless weaponry in most cases. The moon is a convenient emplacement for your heavy interplanetary artillery. Less collateral damage: Any shot that would miss an orbital defense station, could hit the nearby planet or be drawn into its gravity well, making for potentially devastating collateral damage, even from an unsuccessful attack on a military installation. The moon is more likely to provide a buffer for destroyed craft and malfunctioning/misaimed weaponry, where it wouldn't impact a planet's fragile ecosystem. 

I'm building a Dyson sphere - a real one, like Freeman Dyson originally proposed, made of swarms of solar collectors in independent orbits that fully surround the star, something like this: 

Sustainability If we're still going to be breathing and civilised in 500 years, but not make any great breakthroughs in power generation or similar, then we're going to have to make much better use of the resources we have. That means we'll have switched our power generation technology to renewable sources - extensive use of solar, geothermal, wind, etc. We probably would still have some nuclear fission plants too, as a backup to the renewables. That said, our current generating technologies are definitely not perfect, and are not particularly efficient (especially in transmission of power). So we'll see a LOT of power plants. Every roof will have solar panels, every hill will have wind turbines. We'll probably also be making much more extensive use of hydrogen fuel cells for mobile power. Cars running on fuel cells already exist, it's really just a matter of refining the technology and getting the infrastructure in place. Population Control Food production is getting troublesome already. Even with genetically modified crops we won't be able to sustain our explosive growth forever - that's going to mean controlling the population somehow. This could be as simple as a cultural taboo on large families, or as strict as forced sterilisation after a second birth - your call, really. Asteroid mining...maybe It's debatable whether this is really within our reach technologically at present or not. Certainly we are currently in a position to start planning space missions to capture and exploit asteroids - this is really a matter of refining our technology rather than requiring huge breakthroughs. Whether it would be economical or not depends largely on what you're mining for, and whether we can reduce the cost of spaceflight. If programs like Skylon are successful - which, again, is more about refining the tech that exists rather than needing a huge breakthrough - then spaceflight could become much cheaper in the near future. Environment Sooner or later, we're going to have to get a handle on climate change. Without new technologies to help us survive its effects, we may be forced to spend a lot of energy actively removing carbon from the atmosphere. That isn't too difficult to do - there are already proposals for technologies to do it - but it's inefficient and expensive. A good sized portion of our economy might be eaten up in trying to repair the environment. Social ...honestly, anything's possible. We could see a dawning new age of secular humanism and liberal democracy. We could all descend into religious barbarism. What looks likely at the moment in the US is the rise of an aristocratic elite to rule over poverty-stricken serfs; there's really no way to tell which forces are going to win this battle. 

Until they cease to get outside help: Sure, not everyone will survive, but I assume that some powerful people will be trapped, who have the ressources/allies to get outside help. If you have holes that big in the top, those can be used to air-drop supplies into the dome. Obviously, as the other answers have indicated, there will be quite a lot of death and destruction, but given the right resources (a boat might be incredibly helpful) you can probably weather the initial violence. Once order has restored, air-dropped supplies should keep you alive for a while, and you may even be able to reproduce. Being a nitpicker, the likely cause of death will be flooding, since your design allows for incoming water, but there's no drainage at the bottom. Eventually the sphere will fill with water up to the level of the holes, and survivors would again have to resort to boats or rafts. Since the sphere reaches several kilometers into the sky, there may also be an issue with people freezing or suffocating, depending on the altitude of the lowest holes. In that case no water or air would really circulatethrough those holes, so I suspect that the holes are only around 1000 - 2000m above ground. With six-inch-holes, you can even get newborns out, once the water level is high enough, allowing for your successors to leave the sphere. 

These walls are all designed to keep out humans, but will work just as well on large wildlife and zombies. They are all at the kind of scale you are looking at. Their construction has been usually under adverse circumstances. By most metrics, they did their job. They are expensive in manpower (constructing and manning) but mostly low-tech (mines, some lights, sensors), and reasonably low maintenance. Given these examples, I'd say walls are pretty well proven, and an efficient way at reducing the surface of potential attacks. 

The soul needs time to leave the dead body - it's not something that happens in the moment of death and is done with. Over the lifetime the soul has become attached to the body, and only the slow decomposition in a hallowed ground will ascertain that the soul rises whole and intact into the afterlife -- and maybe even beyond to rebirth! Burning the body would also destroy parts of the soul, tearing it apart and not allow it to experience the afterlife at all. A most cruel act, reserved only for the worst of criminals and enemies. Incidentally that very link between soul and body is how necromancy works: It reanimates the body, and the remaining bit of soul will take over the operation of the body. Once the Necromancer's spell is broken, and the artificial conservation of the body, which binds the soul, is no more, the soul will be able to reform in the afterlife, merely suffering a delay, where it is split in two. Although similar to the "ghost" suggestions above, I don't think it's necessary to have and might add unnecessary complexity to a world. After all, a soul's wellbeing should be of paramount importance to the ex-loved ones of the body in question. 

From a science point of view, yes, if life were discovered on Venus, there would be an immediate switch in priorities. Scientifically this would be huge. (And contrary to other answers, science rather than colonisation is the main reason for funding space missions in the current political climate.) It would be our first discovery of life anywhere away from Earth, so there would be a huge wave of media excitement and popular interest, and as a result, funding for space missions, especially Venus ones, would go up for a while. Scientists all over the world would be intensely excited to answer all sorts of questions about Venus life: did it arise independently of Earth life, or was life transported from one planet to another via meteorite impacts, which is thought to be possible? Does Venus life use the same amino acids and nucleic acids as Earth life, or is its chemistry completely different? How does life survive in the incredibly harsh environment on Venus, and how many places on the planet can it live? There is basically nobody in biology or planetary sciences who wouldn't immediately want to know all that. Then there's all the potential medical applications of a whole other biosphere full of biologically active molecules that are probably not found on Earth. So basically it's a no-brainer: there's no doubt that if this was discovered there would be at least one follow-up mission, perhaps several, designed specifically to study it. This would indeed quite likely involve cuts in funding for Mars missions, because that's just the way things work. These Venus missions would not be manned, due to Venus' thick corrosive atmosphere. This not only makes it extremely hard for even an unmanned spacecraft to last very long but also means that you can't blast off from Venus unless you manage to take something the size of a Saturn V with you and land it on the surface - that's currently quite some way beyond what humans are practically capable of. So these would be robotic missions with specifically designed experiments for studying Venusian biology. Perhaps people would consider a sample return mission - i.e. an unmanned spacecraft that picks up a sample and takes it back to Earth - though I would guess that would be unfeasible at our present stage of development. However, there is a big caveat to be mentioned. Life is thought to be very unlikely on Venus, due to the extremely high temperature and sulfuric acid rain - certainly no known Earth life can survive there. We can suspend disbelief and imagine that life finds a way to survive there anyway, but it also poses another problem: no probe sent to Venus in 2022 will include equipment to detect life, because nobody expects to find it there. Detecting life in non-Earth-like soil is hard - even the recent Mars probes don't carry equipment designed to do that, because it would be prohibitively expensive to do so. So the probe will not carry PCR equipment for detecting DNA; it will not carry an experiment to culture any bacteria it might happen to find, and it will not carry the microscope and special dyes that would be needed to attempt to observe cells directly. Even if the soil on Venus were teeming with as many bacteria on Earth, it would look as lifeless as Earth dirt to the rover's sensors. If you're really lucky a growing bacterial colony might be observed by the cameras, but it would just look like a small stain that changes slowly in size, and it would be impossible to be sure that that was actually life rather than just a chemical phenomenon. For these reasons, it's extremely unlikely that a near-future Venus rover would find life on Venus even if it were there - they only way I can think of it happening is if there is not just bacteria but actual complex multicellular life that can be directly and unmistakably observed by a camera.