Sector is a mathematical word meaning a portion of a circle bounded by two radii and an arc. This is the meaning used by the "X sector" signage in occupied Berlin, as the various Allied occupation zones approximate sectors about the city center: 

Later when supercarriers appeared and after the post-war drawdown, the USN reverted to the single-carrier carrier strike group which persists today. My question is: why did WWII-era carrier battle groups require multiple carriers? And why did the USN go back to single-carrier groups? Was it: 

Does anyone have more insight into this period of CPC history? I realise this is a highly-contentious period, so please stick to the facts and back up your answers with evidence. 

Most stage coach robberies were never solved. The Wild West was - to be redundant - a wild, lawless place, so this is no surprise. Many robberies were simply not pursued because lawmen weren't sufficiently funded, many had to use their own funds to round up a limited posse, or more often, simply posted a reward which is usually funded from a portion of the recovered treasure. Since it was very likely that you could get away with stage coach robbery, why up the ante by committing murder, when it doesn't increase your payday? Robbers were typically sentenced 5-15 years, whereas first-degree murder was a capital offense. Committing more serious crimes will simply attract more attention from the law and bounty hunters. 

Yes; the US lost appetite for the advancement of civil rights due to the high cost of Reconstruction. Soon after the Civil War, in 1866 the landmark Civil Rights Act was passed, affirming the civil rights of all US citizens. This occurred against the backdrop of sweeping wins by Republicans, many of whom were Radical Republicans who wanted to push for civil rights. Since they were democratically elected, you can argue that by proxy, the people of the US wanted civil rights. But Reconstruction did not progress as well as many hoped; the South was still economically devastated and suffering from endemic political violence a decade after the war, and the country lost appetite for the high costs. Reconstruction ended, leaving civil rights unenforced in the South for almost a century until the Civil Rights Movement. 

I was too slow to compose this answer before the question was edited, but hope it's useful anyway. This addresses why Bismarck may have said this quote. It's difficult to know Bismarck's intention given that we don't know if he said this at all, but I'd guess it's mostly to do with Bohemia's (and by extension, Czechoslovakia's) economic and industrial prowess. For the rest of this answer I'm conflating Bohemia with Czechoslovakia and examining pre-WWII situations, which I hope will not invalidate my central points. Bohemia was (is?) one of the most well-developed parts of Czechoslovakia after all. Nazi Germany selected Czechoslovakia as one of its first countries to invade with good reason (probably the first hostile invasion given that Austria was mostly willing). Although Czechoslovakia is not one of the Great Powers, it is not far down the list, and definitely punches above its weight: 

Just because a nation claims a cultural icon doesn't mean they necessarily invented it; the Statue of Liberty for example is made by the French, depicts a Roman goddess, and is mostly known for its links to immigration. Apple pie is, as you've noted, very old and well known in Europe centuries before USA existed. Apples were however very important to early European settlers, being mostly used for cider (see Johnny Appleseed). Thereafter apple pies became popular but it wasn't closely associated with the United States yet. Things started to change around the turn of the 20th century; in an editorial in The New York Times (May 3, 1902): 

The Qin Dynasty is remarkable in unifying China for the first time, but this accomplishment alone is not enough to explain the name. Two reasons: one, Qin Dynasty is far from the most remarkable even to Chinese people, who might refer to themselves as 漢人 (Han people) or even 唐人 (Tang people), and never as "Qin people". Second, when it comes to names foreigners generally don't give a damn what your domestic accomplishments are, they just use the first name they hear that sticks. See for example the names of Germany or the American "Indians". The real reason would be hard to prove, but I think there are two strong reasons why the name came from Qin: First contact with the Greco-Bactrians One of the earliest contacts between the West and China might have been during the reign of the Greco-Bactrian king Euthydemus I, who ruled between 230–200 BC. During his reign the kingdom continued its eastward expansion, and may have come in contact with the contemporaneous Qin dynasty (221 to 206 BC). Thus the Qin may have given its name in a tremendous luck of timing. Qin's position in the West But even if contact existed, albeit unrecorded, long before this, it's also very likely that Western observers would have encountered the Qin state, which later conquered China and became the Qin dynasty. At the start of the Warring States period (~450 BC), Qin was already a major state in the far West, and became dominant via aggressive westward expansion and opening up lucrative westward trade (its capital Xianyang is basically in the same area as Chang'an, the famous Silk Road city). Anyone wishing to trade with China during this time would basically pass through Qin. ] 

Manchukuo would have been fully self-sufficient, at least for small arms. Located within this puppet state was the Mukden Arsenal, which produced an eclectic mix of arms including rifles like the Arisaka 99, various machine guns, light and medium artillery, a majority of Japan's artillery shells, grenades, bayonets and speed-loaders. Manchukuo was also home to the behemoth Mantetsu or Southern Manchuria Railway Company, and Showa Steel Works, one of the largest in the world and by the end of the war Japan's largest by far. Apart from that, Korea could have produced her own small arms as well. Jinsen Arsenal in Incheon produced Arisaka 99s too. 

No. Loan sharks arose out of the developments of the finance sector and The West. Debtors prisons were eliminated prior to the Civil War, via the development of early bankruptcy laws. The Civil War triggered an expansion in the financial economy. It, and the resulting recessions and banking crises led to westward expansion of financial services. The lack of regulatory oversight and large demand for financial services encouraged many actors, such as businessmen, merchants, even clergymen, to offer high-interest loans. By the late 19th century loan sharking was an established cottage industry, the term "loan shark" also entered the popular vernacular, replacing the previous term usury. See: Loan Sharks: The Birth of Predatory Lending By Charles R. Geisst 

The Marian reforms of the late Roman Republic changed Rome's military into a standing, professional volunteer force and greatly enhanced its effectiveness, thereby ensuring Rome's dominance for centuries to come. However it also came with significant social consequences, being a major cause of the Republic's transition into the Empire. This is due to the inclusion of landless masses into the military; previously only those who owned at least so much land could be conscripted, and by the late Republic the military suffered from severe manpower shortages. My question is, what were the causes of those manpower shortages? Why were the eligibility requirements adequate for the early Republic and not during Marius's time? Marius's immediate motivation may have been that he was tasked to fight a war without men, but the problem was chronic - apparently the property limits were reduced from 11,000 to 3000 sesterces by Marius's time. 

I'm not familiar with the physics, but since the force is provided via direct manpower, wouldn't it be difficult to manage its accuracy, such as when the men pulling the ropes get tired? How did siege engineers manage accuracy for such a device? Were there any special techniques, or did they just try to get everyone to pull with the same force?