Assuming that bodyfat% remains low (6-15%), how does having a lot of muscle mass affect performance in sprinting-type events (50m-400m), middle distance runs (800m-5K) and endurance runs (10K-100K)? I have read quite some articles stating that strength training helps improve running performance, since more strength means that taking a step requires less %force output of your 1RM it is now possible to run longer and/or faster. It's also not true that strength training only works your type II muscle fibers (which aren't used that much in endurance runs). It actually strengthens your type I fibers aswell. I've also read that neuromuscular efficiency tends to reach near-maximal state fairly soon in a resistance program (beginner stage, around 140kg 1rm proper depth squat according to stronglifts.) In order to see further reasonable strength gains, it is said that you have to increase your muscle mass. Therefore, assuming that one is fairly proficient with the big compound lifts, the most important factor in strength differences should be muscle mass. So since muscle mass is very heavily related to strength, and strength gains improve running performance, does muscle mass really slow me down in running? 

Let's assume the athlete already has an optimal bodyfat% so they can't cut fat anymore Let's also assume that the neurological efficiency of the muscle mass is very high and the strength of the athlete's muscle is close to powerlifting records for that weight class. 

I've been trying to look up information on the internet and in real life for proper nutrition, but every article, ebook, personal trainers and enthusiasts seem to have completely different opinions on what constitutes a proper nutrition. A lot of the information around it is based around marketing which leaves me clueless as to where I can find the right information, and more importantly how do I know that the information is correct? One of the things I want to know is does a proper nutrition depend on what sport you do, and in particular how should my nutrition be for optimizing my badminton performance? Should this follow a similar nutrition scheme as for weight lifting? (I actually do multiple sports as well as weight lifting, but focus is mainly on badminton) 

Ever since I started getting into powerlifting at age 16, I've been weighing 100kg+ at 192cm. Lately I've burned a ton of fat by playing badminton and my bodyweight is now around 90kg with 7%bf. However I'm trying to get to around 80-85kg now since I notice most badminton pros my height weigh between 70-82. This means I have to cut some muscle mass. Which makes me wonder if anyone has some nice information or articles about how much muscle mass do you need relative to your height and bodytype in order to maximize strength to weight ratio? (assumptions) 

I wonder how training a particular muscle when not recovered fully affects long term performance gains. I know there is evidence that this does negatively affect short term performance, as well as increasing the risk of injury. Of course injury will set you back in the long term, but suppose you can avoid it. I know some athletes can train 30-40hours or more per week habitually (not just for a couple weeks in a row but longer periods), so I suppose it is possible it positively affects performance as long as you don't get injured? Is there any scientific research that indicates how training a particular muscle when not recovered fully affects long term performance gains? 

No reason to hate on CrossFit, guys. You just insult the questioner and make yourself look petty. That said, CrossFit is a GPP program. While there are many ways to do CrossFit and bias it towards strength (or other fitness goals), it is always going to be a program that limits the gain in any one area of fitness in order to make the individual more well-rounded. So, if you want to focus on strength, focus on strength. I would say you should do a strength program with accessory exercises that focus on strengthening your back and abs. And maybe, if you have time, do one metcon per week. The benefit is that focusing on strength (and mobility) will make you a better CrossFitter when you return to doing metcons full time. Also, adding muscle mass is a great first step in losing weight and changing your body composition. Also, don't just do the max on your lifts every time. I promise it would benefit you to start back at about 65% of your max and work technique and find any positions you might lack in mobility. Then patiently increase the weight each week on the big lifts by 5 or ten pounds in a 5x5 set scheme. 

Do you have access to a rower? Obviously you are exerting force through your feet on a rower but it is not an impact like running. If you do have access to one I recommend learning good technique and then giving it a few attempts (I can provide a link to a video tutorial if you're interested). EDIT : I should also add that it could be your running style. I know you said they hurt when doing things other than running, but one thing could be the source and then doing other activities results in pain because you're feet have not had time to heal. So, you may wish to examine your running style and seek making changes. I recommend looking up the Pose Technique by Dr Romanov to see if "re-learning" how to run well can help you. EDIT : So this is a great rowing technique tutorial for a beginner. There is a bit of background noise, I hope you don't mind that. Take things easy at first, and pay attention to each piece of the technique. If you have further questions, I am happy to answer or provide additional videos that go into more detail. Let us all know how you progress with your foot pain diagnosis and what you find that works for you. $URL$ 

When learning new exercises consider yourself a student. Take time to learn about each movement you wish to do, focusing both on good technique and common faults. Searching on youtube for any movement will bring up plenty of tutorial videos. Next, approach your workout time as a practice session. Focus on practicing the movements you are learning about. Perform stretching and warm-up exercises specific to what you are lifting that day and do not short yourself on warming up. Good videos on a movement will talk about common mobility restrictions that may limit you in performing the prescribed technique to perfection but also provide information on how you can change the movement to accommodate a restriction and how to focus on stretching and gaining mobility to remove that restriction over time. Be patient and focus on a volume of work over weeks and months rather than a single day. Slowly increase weight over time as your technique improves. 

I have a very simple question: Can you replace vegetables with fruits in your diet? As in, eat no vegetables instead eat lots of fruit? I dislike vegetables, my body literally rejects them for some reason, not to mention I have very few types of vegetables available in the country I live in, but instead we have fruit. Can you have a perfectly healthy diet with no vegetables but with fruits instead? 

I have a younger brother (I'm 17, he's 13) and for a while I had no idea just how unhealthy he eats. Before addressing the question I should probably tell you more about his health condition. He's generally very healthy, he's pretty skinny but not in an excessive way. The problem with his alimentation is the fact he doesn't eat vegetables at all. I know what you're thinking, but he's very picky with food, his diet consists of meat, fruits during summer and grains. I've never actually talked with him about this, but I've recently asked him why he doesn't eat vegetables, and he repplied telling me that he wishes he could eat them, but when he starts eating them he feels the urge to puke them. He's never actually eaten a salad or a vegetable besides pickles or carrots and potatoes, nor did he ever eat mushrooms. Basically it's like this. He eats: 

From his diet, vegetables are the #1 missing thing. He always says he feels the urge to vomit when he tries to eat vegetables, and I've actually seen him try to eat a salad last summer but then rejecting it, which makes me think he has will to do it, but something else could be the problem. Knowing how healthy and beneficial veggies are, I want to help him add vegetables to his diet, but I don't know what I can do about it. How can I help him start eating vegetables? 

I've been making myself a very basic exercise routing that consists of biking and push-ups, sometimes running. I know it's very little but keep in mind I'm trying to gain weight but gain arm strength and muscles. The question is pretty straightforward. How can I improvise some weights for lifting without purchasing expensive materials or going to the gym? Keep in mind that there's a reason I can't go to the gym or buying expensive materials, and I think the reason is pretty fair. I should also probably mention I can lift about 7-9 kilograms in one hand. 

I'll start this question with a small story so you all know how to answer this question right. When I was a kid I was extremely picky, I refused to eat alot of things for very vague reasons, such as meat and veggies. My whole metabolism revolved around junk food in general. I was always underweighted (Terribly underweighted) and I still am. In that time I was eating randomly, I mostly didn't eat breakfast, and the other meals I would eat at random times. Since last year I've taken serious attitude towards this and I've started by adding proper meals at proper times: Breakfast, lunch and dinner. I'm not as picky now, I eat lots more things despite there are things I still don't like. I am underweight, and from a previous question, I mentioned I'm 50 kgs at 1.85m. This whole recovery plan has worked out terribly slow for the last year, I've gained 2 kilos in the past 3 years, and as I gain a kilo I drop it the next day. I should mention I'm a student and my calory burn is extremely high. The real question here is how do I recover properly from such strong damage on the metabolism? I am eating like a normal person now, and I have all my meals set up properly now, however I am seeing little no to result. Every step forward comes with 2 steps back. Would it be possible for a faster recovery, or will I have to wait years just to get on the right track?