It is logical to fall in love with a person and not a painting, whatever feelings the latter might evoke. It would be illogical not to fall in love, given the opportunity, if the were reasons to pursue the relationship. So there is always logic involved, if only a little. Consider the flipside, does love, or fear only apply to certain human situations? I would say not. There is equally always something involved in any situation to be reassured by or to be careful about. Logic is based on the feeling of clarity, or what some have called consilience. It is just one of several emotional processes that are always active. 

Any function or relation symbol in any FOL is removable by expressing it as a predicate and adding a free variable for the output. If we are using f(x, y, z) we can instead express it as F(x, y, z, o), where F is a predicate equivalent to o = f(x, y, x) and o is a free variable (which will be bound to the output). So they are, in effect, present only as short-hand. Therefore, it does not matter what their semantics is -- whether we look at them as single-valued, whether they cover their domain, etc. We don't need to fuss with the distinction between the function sqrt(x) and the relation x * x = y unless we really want to, if they are meant to be logically equivalent. We can easily allow the square root to be a function that simply has no output for negative numbers and even have it return both roots for positive values. The function ultimately represents a reducible formula, and some formulas simply are true for no values in the domain. In that case, the free variable equivalent to the function's output can remain unbound, and no expressive power is lost. 

You are not alone here. Great traditions and great minds have accepted the irrelevance of whether our feeling of free will is genuine at some more basic level, and maintained its full importance in spite of this irrelevance. At one extreme Roman Catholicism has always been quite certain God knows the future in full detail and that he has gone to great lengths to ensure that we are free to choose grace or sin at any moment. The most common way out of this is to just not think about it too hard. Your reality is not divine reality, you need to deal with what is before you. But many great minds have been compelled to think it through. The "Course in Miracles" arguments about the complete irrelevance of time are just the latest in a long line of attempts to make the conflict between these two strains of dogma comprehensible. But the tension itself is in its own way beautiful. If free will is an illusion, it is a God-given challenge meant to be taken completely seriously. And if determinism is an illusion, it is a God-given source of comfort meant to be taken equally seriously. At the other extreme, people like Nietzsche (writing before quantum dynamics) found great force in the idea that free will is strictly limited, and that eventually, our entire system must converge on a grand loop, that repeats indefinitely. In such an approach, the natural interpretation of naive Newtonian physics, every decision, after some point, must be made in the way the loop predicts. But it does not matter whether this is the first iteration of said loop, or one of the repetitions. If a decision is not made well now, then it was never made well, and that is just as tragic whether we are really making it, or being forced to make it, and only imagining we have real freedom. Accepting the lack of freedom can only destroy the first iteration, and cannot improve the others, so it is never helpful. 

One traditional way of modeling adjectives ontologically is as sets of things that satisfy the property identified by the adjective. 'The beautiful' would be the collection of all things that are beautiful. Classical philosophers working in Greek or Latin tend to do this extensively because it is very natural in Classical languages to have weak boundaries around the parts of speech, much the way English sometimes does: e.g. 'running' is an adjective (running water), a noun (the running of the water past us) and a verb (the water is running). So it is easy for us to identify the activity of running, the state of being in the process of that activity, and the set of all things or people taking part in that process all as a single complex of ontological entities that we can treat as closely related nouns, or even as different perspectives on a single thing. The same notion applies to 'beautiful' or 'chaotic', though the verb form is absent, and it results in a less flexible category. To the extent that you stay away from the boundaries around your sets, so that vagueness and paradoxes of similarity do not undercut you, that model works well for simple logic. 

"God is dead" appears several times in The Gay Science, and again in Zarathustra. The first reference in TGS is: 

Before looking for the words for things outside logic, you still have to fill up the space inside logic. The standard contrast for 'heuristic' in mathematical contexts like operations research or optimization is 'formal'. A formal method is derived from first principles or axioms and designed to produce a given outcome, whereas a heuristic method searches for a solution among possibilities. For instance, the methods of geometry are not heuristic, they follow up the discoveries of heuristic methods more properly belonging to physics with a formalization of the observations into abstract mathematics. If you are looking for a word that contrasts with both of those, you may be looking for 'hermeneutic' (or more extremely, 'Hermetic'), which identifies the processes by which one tries to find human meaning in facts and to unify a logical or scientific fact with an intuition not derived from observation. One interesting way of looking at the interplay between finding patterns and assigning them meaning is captured by the distinction between 'logos' and 'mythos' in religious studies and in Jungian psychology. At one point in history, systematizations like neo-Platonism and works that focussed upon unfolding intuitions, like alchemical thinking based in the Hermetic tradition were seen as part of philosophy. To a large degree, they no longer are. We have relativized our ways of looking at the patterns of human intuition and consider them only in terms of cultural history or through the domain of . 

I would suggest that the right framing here is in terms of multiple dimensions of modal logic. I can assert that the dog in front of me is brown. I can be certain or uncertain of his brownness. But if it were controverted, even if I were quite certain, it would not affect me deeply. I hold this belief largely in an alethic mode, as knowledge. All that matters about it is its degree of certainty. I can also assert that he has a personality. I can again be certain or uncertain, but the answer holds more meaning. I talk to him. He knows that when I say 'OK', he has effectively made a request, and we are pursuing his agenda. But that is hardly proof. I am not altogether certain. Yet when that is controverted, it hurts -- I feel foolish. I do many things on the basis of his limited personhood that I would not otherwise do. I hold this belief in a doxastic mode, as an everyday belief. What matters primarily is the degree to which it informs my actions. Finally, I can assert that hurting him is to be avoided. Again this can have both of the other dimensions, I can be uncertain, and I may or may not consider this when acting. But when I don't, it hurts in a different way -- I feel less valuable as a person. I hold this belief in a deontic mode, as a moral belief. What matters primarily is the degree to which I bear it as a duty. To me, it seems that the assertion "There is no God" can clearly be held in each of these ways. The average person might actually hold it as an alethic assertion, like Montaigne, it might have no effect on their life, if it is their tradition, they go to Church anyway. The agnostic probably holds it as a doxastic assertion. They refuse to act as though there is a God, because it seems silly. I only consider those atheists who hold it as a deontic assertion, who feel driven for reasons of internal consistency to assert it with force. Something is a belief, for me, only if it can have all three of these dimensions. Mathematical and scientific facts are not beliefs, because they are held strictly as knowledge. You act on them, but you do not choose to. Random observations that have no effect are not beliefs because they lack influence over action. Totally abstract points of logic are not beliefs because they might guide your deductions, but they do not influence your real judgment of right and wrong. I believe my dog is brown, but it is not in this sense a belief. That he has a personality entails the fact that hurting him is wrong, so it becomes a belief. 

I think the argument remains valid, it is just staged in a way that assumes we would never get to this degree of mutual manipulation as a social process. I would go with your second option, and then go farther. Pornography is still a tease. It pretends to portray something realistic, but it has carefully chosen to present individuals who are not accessible to most people. It does not deliver sex, so it still only goes as far as presenting the possibility. Clearly, you can masturbate without it, so it is adding something to your experience only in allowing you to imagine what you cannot attain. If it did not create a need without satisfying it, since it lacks meaningful physical content it, it could not maintain its status as a commodity. One could say that even of prostitution and recreational pharmaceuticals. If the prostitute honestly satisfied the need for which they are sought, sex addiction would not be a real thing. One can only to a certain bizarre degree want an endless supply of food or even human company, but one can easily want an endless supply of sex or drugs. Examples like "rat-vanna" and the reasonable prevalence of successful marriage show that this is not an aspect of form, but of delivery. To a certain degree, these theories originate in a theoretical psychological correction to explain the failure of the labor theory of value. From this trans-Marxist point of view, only by being a partial satisfaction that ultimately fails, can any commodity have a value uncorrelated with its cost of production. Unlike things like food or housing or other real services, media and services of socially reconstructed needs lack a correlation between their perceived value and production cost or real measures of quality.