Almost certainly this was a bunker repurposed by the Soviets as a high level command center, the phone line put in as part of that. While it's not impossible that there was a direct phone line between the German and Soviet governments at some point early in the war (there were quite a few economic links between the countries of course, and German military training happening illegally in the USSR), they didn't exactly see eye to eye after the start of operation Barbarossa (and there was little love lost between them even before that) so I don't see Stalin and Hitler sitting down with a brandy and cigar in front of their respective fireplaces and having a nice little chat over the phone. 

Larger population means that even if the percentage of people with the necessary skills and interests is the same, the total number of people with those skills and interests is much greater. Combined with the ever increasing base of scientific data on which to build (as pointed out by Andy) this causes an increase in the potential for scientific progress (and progress in other fields like engineering to go along with it). Of course if you have a society that actively discourages interest in science and engineering that will cause a slowing of that progress, and we seem to be entering such an age. But that happens occasionally throughout history, and there's still the mechanism of greater numbers in place to make progress faster relative to those periods. 

So study the Mongols as they swept out of the steppes to form an empire stretching from current day Mongolia to the gates of Constantinopel and beyond and you find pretty much how the Manchu could do the same in China (with the added advantage to them that the Chinese had a far more formalised and inflexible form of warfare established over more than a thousand years and were thus less prepared to deal with a radically different enemy than were the Europeans that eventually stopped the scourge from the steppes. 

As such it wouldn't surprise me if some of them at least kept up contacts with local communist (and most of those were under Soviet control directly or indirectly) groups in the areas where they were stationed. 

No, even according to the report you link the Germans did NOT create DU rounds. It states explicitly, a few pages after the paragraphs you quote, that 

Last image looks like a messhall, the furniture would of course have been different in the period you're after, but the layout shows clearly. 

To expand on Jeff's answer, many of the journeys would take several weeks, moving from one transit camp to the next. Prisoners were given post cards with idyllic scenes to write to family and friends to indicate how well they were treated and extoll the virtues of their new homelands in the east. And indeed it was always possible (though risky) to try and write a note and let it slip through the wooden planks making up the side of the rail cars. But such notes would be unlikely to be found and sent on. Not just would the chances of them being found be small, censorship and plain old fear would prevent most people from trying to send them on if they did find them (and how to know where to send them? Or even have the means to if you did know?). A note slipped from a train in France or Germany on the way to Poland would have to travel through Vichy France and fascist Spain to Portugal before getting to Britain. While possible in theory, in practice it'd be highly unlikely to ever arrive unless the person initially finding it was involved in the secret networks set up by the OSS and other organisations to help downed allied pilots get to England (and many of those were caught and sent to POW camps). Far more likely is that someone after the war invented the story to have something interesting to tell. Not dissimilar to hundreds of thousands of Dutch and French (and no doubt others) suddenly having been part of armed resistance groups after the war, when during the war those groups numbered a mere few thousand in either country (of course more in France, as it's bigger, but in both cases a tiny percentage of the population). 

These are early model Stahlhelm (shape changed over time, see Yannis' comment) from WW1. Also, they carry large shovels, not the more modern collapsing trenching tools a WW2 soldier would have had. And they carry gasmask cannisters, something not carried in WW2 (except maybe in the very beginning). There was indeed no fighting in northern Germany during WW1, but there was the 1918 German revolution which started in Kiel when the Kriegsmarine refused orders to sail. The army was deployed there and there was heavy fighting with rebels. This revolution eventually resulted in the proclamation of the Weimar Republic and the end of the German empire. 

See the description of the hashing applied to Finland "countries in the Soviet political economic and strategic block". While nominally independent, Finland was economically subservient to the USSR because of their losing out in the wars between the countries which happened in parallel to WW2 (the Soviet invasion of Finland led to Finland aligning with Germany during WW2 without joining the Axis powers, they were to pay for that for a long time after). At the time, and for a long time yet, Finland would be highly influenced by the USSR on many fronts. While never technically in the Soviet block, they were a Soviet leaning unaligned country similar to India and (for a time) Indonesia. Their military had almost exclusively Soviet equipment, trade was mostly with the USSR, Soviet equipment filled Finish factories, Soviet cars their roads, etc. etc. Over the decades those ties loosened, and now they're more focused on the EU, but just after WW2 they were firmly under the Soviet economic and military umbrella. 

But theorising on that borders on alternative history fiction, which is well outside the scope of this site. 

Both may well be true. It also depends on your definition of "death camp". While some camps were designed and built from the outset as extermination camps, and these had very little in the way of other facilities except some barracks for the workers, most were designed and built as prison facilities, work camps, and temporary holding facilities for prisoners intended for transfer elsewhere. 

the main benefit was not getting the government arrested and replaced by others who were more likely to do as they were told by the USSR. 

The cold war started even before the end of WW2, in fact the distrust between the USSR and the western powers predates WW2 and can be traced back to the Russian civil war where the western powers favoured the whites rather than the eventually victorious reds. They were allies of necessity, not love, and even in the 1920s and '30s there was an active undercover war going on between intelligence agencies of the USSR and the west, espionage and counter espionage, which eventually culminated in the 1950s in the false accusations against McCarthy when he exposed a large part of the historical Soviet spy network in the US government for what it was to the great discomfort of many in high office. So no, economics did not cause the cold war. They no doubt played a part in some countries when deciding which side to favour (think some African dictator currying favour with both the US and USSR to see who would give him the most jet fighters and tanks to decide whether to allow one or the other basing rights). 

Of course either can and will use elements of the other to achieve short term goals towards its own ultimate goals, but only temporarilly and as needed (e.g. Arab countries would happily buy weapons from the USSR to attack their neighbours, especially Israel, and the USSR would happily supply those in their efforts to destabilise the region and create anti-western sentiment that'd eventually lead to the OPEC oil embargo against the western world). 

As Luke commented, there was a bombardment. It was however largely ineffective because the construction of the bunkers and forts meant they were pretty much impervious to aerial bombing and very hard to see and hit from the sea. With modern guided weapons it might have been different, but those were of course not available. There are several reasons for not having a bombardment lasting days prior to D-Day. Surprise is one, and a big reason. Another reason is weather. The operation had already been postponed for several days due to bad weather in the English Channel which made crossing in the landing craft impossible. As it, 4 June was only marginally acceptable and there were people suggesting the landings be postponed until the next month (when once again the moon would be dead, giving a night with no moonshine, which is why the days around 4 June had been chosen). As is, it was decided to go ahead anyway, despite the weather, as a delay of another month was deemed to increase the risk of the invasion plans leaking too much. So the ships and aircraft only had hours to bombard the landing beaches, both because of planning concerns and because of the need for surprise. Had they taken days, that would have been days for the Germans to relocate the forces stationed near Calais (where they were convinced the invasion would come), making the landing that much harder and quite likely impossible. 

I seriously doubt it. Japan was a traditional monarchy, philosophically and ideologically far closer to China than Germany. Of course both were mortal enemies and had been for centuries. 

So no, there is no direct telegraph cable between the US mainland (or indeed anywhere in the Americas) and Austrial and never was. 

Looking at China, we can see several "revolutions" (or attempts at them) by students. First of course and foremost the "Cultural Revolution" in which Mao's government used the student population brilliantly to execute their own plans, at the same time diverting the restlessness of that student body which could easily have ended up toppling them instead. Then there's the attempted revolution/uprising that led to the PLA sending tanks against protestors in Beijing in the 1980s, which was also largely driven by educated, disgruntled, people. Now of course the government just ships them off to the "free economic zones" where they're effectively exiled and can do no harm while they run companies that are for all purposes government owned, so once again makes good use of them while keeping them under control and away from places they can cause trouble. 

The Jews were targeted not because of their religion but on basis of racial characteristics. According to the science of the day, eugenics, this could be easily detected based on parentage and physical characteristics. Thus marriage and birth certificates were a major source of information, and where that wasn't conclusive (say immigrants), actual measurements of things like the slope of the forehead and the dimensions and shape of the nose were used (and in many cases pure speculation, just like in the past just accusing someone of being a witch made them a witch, nowadays the same process is responsible for putting many a person behind bars for being a pedophile who never touched a child). 

The Japanese, unlike the Germans, did not use locals to run the country. They replaced the entire system of government with their own, installed (supposedly, in effect chosen based on them not being Dutch) "natives" in junior roles. So there were no local police, clerks, etc. etc. who could be charged with collaborating with the enemy. They also rounded up and put in prison camps pretty much the entire local Dutch population, and any "native" who looked in the least like they were too chummy with the Dutch. After the Japanese surrender, the Dutch had more pressing matters on hand than rounding up possible collaborators, an armed insurrection by locals which had to be put down. Paradoxically they were assisted in this by Japanese forces which had just surrendered to them, especially those were employed to continue guarding the camps housing the Dutch civilian population which had reverted from prison camps to refugee camps. 

At least syphilis is thought to not have existed in Europe but having been introduced there by the returning discoverers from the voyages of Columbus. Many other diseases have found their way from one continent to another through similar means, think of the plague and HIV... Of course there are many diseases that can be transmitted through sexual contact, and many of them would not have been recognised as such at the time. Think Herpes, which has several vectors, only one of them being sexual intercourse. 

So it wasn't North Korea falling down after success but South Korea taking off and leaving the north behind. 

There are always challengers. Most never even make it to the primaries as they fail to get enough money together to fund a campaign that's almost doomed from the start. "No other candidate scores at all" means nothing. There would have been other candidates but their results would have been so low as to be statistically insignificant and not listed (less than 1% each for example), and there's always people whose votes are invalid and therefore not counted (but in the system are shown in the total that could have been cast). And of course people voting blank are counted as not voting for any candidate. 

That document goes much deeper into the role and its powers, which all seem civil in nature, mostly having to do with deciding on legal issues. 

Most likely though the whole thing is nothing but fantasy, at the time late in the war a radio link would be more likely, and earlier it'd have been telegraph, not telephone. 

If slavery is only profitable through the selling of slaves, there's no point in having slaves except as a social status symbol (which may be the case for some slaves in some societies, but not for the type of slavery you're talking about. That alone should show you that the argument is fundamentally flawed. No, slavery becomes profitable in a society where there is work that requires a lot of manpower (preferably largely unskilled labour) and there are relatively few free people available to do the work, either because the work is highly unpopular and people'd rather go hungry than do it, or because there simply aren't enough people at all. In the early USA this was certainly the case. The land was large and wide, the people were few, society was built to a large degree around agriculture and to some degree mining. As industrial cities started to grow, the demand for agricultural products increased, while the population moved towards the cities for the easier and better paying jobs available there, providing the conditions for slavery to become a viable means of staffing the ever larger farms in a still largely pre-mechanised society. The influx of Chinese labour you mention only started later, and together with an increased influx of other fortune seekers from other parts of the world eventually created the situation where slavery was no longer profitable, especially when combined with increased mechanisation options. Even without the civil war (which really wasn't about slavery at all, even though there were indeed many more slaves in the confederate states per citizen than there were in the union) slavery would likely not have lasted all that much longer in the US, it simply stopped to be a viable economic model as cheap, well educated (relatively) labour became more plentiful. 

Of course that doesn't mean they weren't there, but if they were there it would not be something the countries in question would want to be known so it's highly unlikely you're going to find official sources to corroborate any claims. More likely is that some international mercenary companies signed up with one combatant or the other (or even both) to provide specialty services and staff. That too would not be documented anywhere in public view. Those groups are rather secretive by nature (of course) and so are the parties hiring them. 

who says they didn't get tired? Of course they did, but so did their opponents. And who says they didn't get rotated? Most of those battles were not slugging matches with people bashing swords and shields (or lances) together for hours and hours on end. They were position games, each side's phalanxes marching across terrain trying to get an advantage, then eventually closing for an engagements. Often there would have been extended rest periods that way, chance for the formation to change too. Don't think of ancient battles being like the 24/7 fighting we have today, and even there each individual unit isn't in action constantly, they're pulled back to the rear after a few hours, there's lulls in the action as it moves to another corner of the field, etc. etc. And without the mechanised forces we have now, the pace was slower. On a field a few kilometers on a side, it could take hours to jostle for position before the actual fighting started (except maybe for some harassment by cavalry or archers dashing in and out at times). 

$URL$ is an old forum thread talking about the topic, and the idea that galley slaves were not the norm and why. $URL$ confirms that, and lists sources. $URL$ talks about a 16th (yes, that late) French galley rower, who apparently were chained to the oars pretty much all the time (unless needed for other duties). $URL$ is another source for the French galleys. Not technically slaves, these were convicts usually sent for a set period of time (though French "justice" was often such that people were sentenced to penalties almost certain to kill them before their time was up even for minor crimes). $URL$ talks about the miserable fate of the be many counts millions of Europeans who ended up as slaves in to the muslims in north Africa (and as far away as Arabia, though that's not explicitly mentioned. It answers your questions, though this happened a thousand years after the Roman empire you're referring to.