Afonso writes other othographically interesting things, like non poss' eu perdon gãar for modern Portuguese ganhar[ref], or non disse ssi nen non[ref]. There we see that Latin sic has for Afonso become ssi without the nasalization marking present in nen, the same word which would become modern Spanish ni, but there unnasalized. In other places, Afonso uses mi as a prepositional object, which modern Portuguese would spell as mim with final ‹im› to indicate nasalization, despite there never having been an historical dental consonant. Similarly, as words like mha, mia, mi came to be pronounced with nasalization, these were also reanalysed the way medieval ũa would. On page 147 of The Romance Languages [Harris&Vincent; OUP 1990], in the section on historical Portuguese morphology, they write: 

Nouns are still either masculine or feminine, but you can make them abstract / material nouns. So for example, if you had a red hair, it would be un pelu roxu, but if you were talking about red hair in general, it becomes pelo roxo. It’s a bit more complicated than this (for example, feminine nouns don’t change their endings), but that’s the basic idea. You can find vestiges of this in the Castilian ése / ésa / eso distinction, and in lo necesario. If you read Castilian, you should be able to piece your way through texts in Asturian that talk about this very interesting subject. One such is El llamáu neutru materia. 

In contrast, Afonso Xº wrote mia for the same word used in the same situation in his Cantigas de Santa Maria:[ref] 

May be this doesn't exactly answer the question, but pure dental consonants are cross-linguistically rare. Ladefoged and Maddieson discuss in detail how stops which are generally labeled dental, are actually denti-alveolar, with the bulk of the articulation at the alveolar ridge. They also state that for languages that distinguish different types of coronal stops, the actual difference in articulation is caused by tongue shape (laminal versus apical) as opposed to tongue position (dental versus alveolar). The answer by @user6726 notes the Australian aboriginal languages as having distinct dental consonants. Now, I don't know much about Australian languages, in general, but from this Wikipedia article, it seems they too use a laminal and apical distinction. I can, however, vouch for this fact --- as a native speaker --- about the Indo-Aryan languages which have a similar distinction. The so-called retroflexes actually involve curling the tongue back (retroflexing) only in careful and slow speech, or in artificially learned speech (for example, a lot of people learn this careful retroflexed articulation in school, and therefore may have retroflexes in English --- signature Indo-Pakistani accent --- but completely lack retroflexes in their first languages). At least for me, the "retroflexes" 〈ṭ, ṭh, ḍ, ḍh〉 are always apical alveolar (with zero affrication, so they sound quite different from English) and are post-alveolar only inter-vocalically, while "dental" 〈t〉 and 〈th〉 are laminal denti-alveolar and "dental" 〈d〉 and 〈dh〉 are actually laminal alveolar! My point of saying all this is to point out that "dental" is often a placeholder for laminal, and in this sense, I can't imagine a "dental" trill, because I find laminal trills impossible, even though an apical trill is easy to make (regardless of whether its dental or alveolar). The other interpretation of dental consonants may be inter-dental, like English 〈th〉, which are also cross-linguistically rare. The hyperlinked Wikipedia page and this page says it occurs in careful pronunciation for plosives in Australian languages. I can make an inter-dental trill, with the tip of my tongue sticking out and trilling against the sharp edge of the upper incisors, but this doesn't seem to be a very natural (for want of a better word) thing to do. Again (as the other answer mentions), Russian and Hungarian (and Rumanian, which I know very little about) have been claimed to have dental trills (for Russian it is the palatized r), but in both these languages the said trills (at least in my experience) are very often taps, and even then are denti-alveolar. 

I believe you have to idiomatically translate Romance articles preceding proper names into English demonstratives. Hence, ¿Dónde está la María? becomes something more like Now where is that Maria, anyway?, or some such loose translation with additional fluff to indicate the colloquial register. Notice how it now doesn’t seem odd to use a demonstrative instead of an article: that is, saying that Maria instead of the Maria. This may relate to the distant origin of la María in illa Maria from Latin, back from before demonstratives became articles. Latin certainly could use demonstatrive adjectives with proper names. For example, you could say ille Caesar, like here and here. When the demonstratives turned into articles, one didn’t stop doing this. 

So the participle is thought to concord to the object with avere, but not with essere, where it concords with the subject. And the concordance only applies when the object is seen before the participle. To go further, you’ll have to look at how the perfect tenses came to be formed in Romance, synthesized using auxiliary verbs. 

I think you’re looking at this backwards. The Portuguese word spelled sim did not come to be pronounced through some sort of assimilation of nasal consonant, the way occurred with Portuguese fim  and um , or even sem < Latin sine. Rather, the word came to be pronounced that way, and so came to spelled in a way that indicated its nasalization, and ‹im› is simply how one spells there. Although not all nasalization in Portuguese is explicitly marked in the orthography (for example, in muito ), with sim , it is. Similarly, Portuguese assim is written with an ‹im›. This developed from Latin ad sic, “with nasalization”.[ref] The history of Portuguese is complex and uneven, and did not settle down until much later than in languages such as neighboring Spanish did back in the 1500s. Nasalization and palatalizations were variously marked with an tilde, with an n or m, or with a following h — or with some combination of these:[ref] 

How people "feel" (regardless of their first language) can be quite subjective, and in a linguistic context even the word "feel" can have multiple interpretations. As such, a single English-speaker, picked at random, may associate with any of these geographical names a particular gender based on analogy with similar/familiar terms. For example, names of female individuals often (of course, not always) end in (orthographically ⟨a⟩), e.g., Andrea, Antonia, Erica etc., and this may cause some individuals to build a feminine association with names like California or America. [In North Carolina, where I live, I have often heard of people refer to the state as a 'she' or 'her'.] But this should not be taken to imply that such words have a particular gender, since English definitely lacks grammatical gender, except in pronouns, which the answer by @fdb addresses. Now, I don't identify as a native English-speaker, but I do speak English like a native, and more importantly, my first language is genderless (more so than English; we even lack gendered pronouns), and I can vouch for the fact that while I may sometimes refer to a geographical/political location as masculine or feminine, I certainly do not associate with these any notion of actually possessing any biologically female or male attributes, the way I would for human beings or even some animals – at least, not in the way a Russian- or German-speaker would. 

A lot. All Turkic languages (Turkish, Qazaq, Tatar, O'zbek, Sakha etc.), all Uralic languages (Finnish, Sami, Hungarian, Komi, Mari, Nenets etc.), a lot of Indo-Iranian langages (Persian, Sorani Kurdish, Bengali, Ossetic etc.), and many more. All the languages mentioned so far don't have grammatical gender, but even some languages with grammatical gender may fail to have gendered pronouns, for instance, Hindi-Urdu, and Kurmancî Kurdish in the absolutive case. 

In Asturian, there is such a thing as a different noun class than masculine / feminine. You can mark a noun with a different suffix to indicate that it is an abstract version of that noun. This is the so-called neutru de materia, used for non-countable mass nouns. This presents a five-fold paradigm morphologically: 

On page 143, the authors explain that ‹‑m› and ‹‑n› are modern orthographic indicators of nasality, which in earlier days used a tilde, or which were not indicated in the orthography at all. They warn that “in many cases (e.g. tã = ta(n)?) its interpretation is a matter of dispute between linguists and paleographers.” So analogous forms of writing nasalized vowels using a following ‹m› in the orthography influenced how nasal vowels would coming to be written as orthography became more regular. There was no historical nasal consonant left in mea > mha, mia > minha, but it got written that way, and this in turn came to influence the pronunciation. Similarly, the spellings of mim, sim, assim represent the comparatively recent orthographic invention/convention for writing a there, despite there never having been a nasal consonant present to assimilate. In some cases, there was; in some cases there was not; and in some cases, it is a matter of some dispute just what was actually going on there. 

In the earliest preserved texts of what would become Portuguese, you see the letter h used innovatively, as in sabha for sabia, or mha for what become modern minha, meu. For example, Dom Denis wrote in one of his Cantigas de Amor:[ref] 

Russian ⟨ы⟩ can be a little difficult to master, especially if one wishes for a native-like pronunciation. When stressed, the vowel in question is a : IPA . But, as with all "hard vowels" in Russian, it strongly velarizes any preceding consonant, which manifests as a noticeable glide after the consonant and before ⟨ы⟩. So, ты comes out phonetically as , where is the IPA symbol for the velar approximant – a ⟨w⟩ (as in water) without rounding the lips. This gives ⟨ы⟩ a diphthong-like quality distinct from in many other languages. One thing to note is that Russian speakers maintain the velar approximant before even when pronouncing ⟨ы⟩ in isolation (without any consonant before it to velarize), e.g., when reciting the alphabet. To make , try following the instructions in this video: $URL$ For an English speaker, one way may be to start with something like 'woo', and get rid of the lip-rounding. 

Lateral (egressive) consonants are made by obstructing the path of the airstream using some part of the tongue and directing it to escape the along the sides of the mouth. This gives lateral approximants like , , etc. their distinctive sound, different than the corresponding central approximants , etc. Of course, the same principle applies to lateral fricatives, affricates and taps, which find use in a lot of languages. However, I have never seen a mention of lateral plosives. To me, it seems that they should exist – at least in principle. In fact, I think I can make what seem to be lateral plosives and even ejectives! So, is there really some physiological reason that makes lateral plosives impossible (i.e., what I am producing are something else), or are they never mentioned because no (living, known, attested, well-documented) language uses them? Along the same lines, I have seen some stuff on laterally released (IPA ) plosives, such as the -ddle in middle . Is this what I am calling a lateral plosive?