If driving is all you can, driving is what you'll do. You don't have to summon the worms of Dune, but you need to have a reason why staying in one place does not work (Weird alien proscriptions? Some legal loophole ('No permanent structure shall...')? Something geological (the terminator of a very slow-revolving planet makes the local lanscape go boom)? Something celestial (Pityful atmo (perhaps mostly sand in VVLEO?), no magnetic field, and some harsh irradiators in the vicinity that burn everything they face)?). This builds the economic case to design everything mobile: quarters, industry, garages, hospitals, refineries, even warehouses.Your already established reasons against flying will prevent airships popping up as solutions, going orbital is discouraged by the necessity to return to ground for replenishing handwavium stores and the associated risk in crossing the atmosphere. So the only viable path is going mobile, and the only way to conserve energy is going mobile in as few vehicles as possible. the energetic overhead of airconditioning (make the desert cold, not hot, otherwise that relation will be reversed. Poisonous atmosphere is a bonus), radiation-proofing, and generally xyz-ing everything that favours mass over surface will automaticall lead to huge crawlers. Now if you absolutely HAVE to have military conflict on a scale that includes attacks that could endanger whole vehicles structurally (instead of just limited raiding, or boarding-attemps), you'll have to go the way of the carrier group: huge vehicles with rather small scale weaponry and some incredibly costly cargo (be it industry or attack-craft) accompanied by smaller, faster, energetically more costly vehicles with more punch. Everyone will just engage in short range attacks and mine-laying because your aerial interdiction (winds? aliens with plane-allergies?) may be extended to make artillery shelling unreliable (bad aerial reconnaissance-possiblities already go a long way to making artillery short range). A word on numbers: Mass goes by the cube of size, while the area (both atmospheric surface and touched surface) goes by the square of size. Ground pressure on a tank can average up to around 100kPa for the heavier ones, which is easy to remember, because that is one atmosphere of pressure. If you want to keep your lawn, you should not exceed 10kPa, if you just want the ground to bear you, everything from 100kPa (loose sand) to 800kPa (dense clay-y gravel) may apply. So in a sandy desert, we should not much exceed the current heavyweight tanks? I'm not convinced - for very large surfaces, the admissible ground-pressure may well be much higher, because the material simply has nowhere to go - The Schwerbelastungskörper was a Nazi test of how much the ground would actually bear: They weighed down 100m² with 12kt of concrete (so 1200kPa)- not much sinking was observed. You might need speial treads to actually achieve full coverage of huge areas, but why not go with pressurized mats or some other area-spreading technique? Clunky steel treads don't fare well with sharp edges of unyielding material. Also google Schreitwerk for a very cool alternative to treads... Bucket wheel excavators weigh in the 10kt range and have a motor in the 15MW range (Abrams: 0.06kt, 1MW, so talk about scaling...) - they also have extensive booms and overhang, so the actual tread-to-mass-ratio is probably much smaller than in tanks. Sure, to generate 1MW you need about 100grams of fuel per second, but that weird landcrawlers haunting alien deserts would need some kind of handwavium was clear from the get-go, i think. I say take a good look at bucket excavators, scale up, armor (if you absolutely can't stop yourself) and let 'em rip! 

Trivial task, 2 days max. Know your height, or any other size-measure? Take whatever is there (clay, wood, ...) and start churning out rods, a hairs breadth different. Hundreds, all in the eyeballed ballpark of 1m. Then hug them, or wait for nightfall. Thermal expansion will guarantee one of those to be the exact meter you need. Task did not specify you had to point to a specific rod at specific time... 

Call it infinite Inertia. It's just as magic as the mass thing but does not carry as much baggage that would have to be handwaved. But infinite Inertia is just another way of saying 'immovable', so... On a different note: i do not know any immovable rods featuring outside of D&D, and those are limited to about 4t of weight. 

Depends on what you consider winning (your question mentions control of Europe, but by that standard nobody won, and 'control of [geographical region]' is a pretty poor standard - imagine the Nazi nuclear program going well until it doesn't, spreading radioactive dust in Northern Europe and the Mediterranean, making it a wasteland for the next 500years. The western Allies (sans Britain, that now only sports five sheep, having 8 heads among them) go: 'yeah, keep that shit') - and what you consider to be the Soviets. I'm keeping your vagueness (hah!) and answer thusly: While the US build their nuclear arsenal, the Soviets don't - without a nuclear shield they don't bother with the tank-tsunami at the borders of Europe either. They exploit that moral highground and instead pour their industrial potential into the civilian uses of nuclear energy. The strains of the Manhattan project, and the following nuclear program on the US were greater than usually acknowledged - the strains on the USSR are sometimes credited with her downfall. Now those strains only pertain to the US. Europe does not quiver from the threat of Soviet nuclear bombs, and Soviet tanks, and instead worries about the hypercapitalist US swinging their dick around with nukes in their pockets. To even out the increasingly monopolar power structure, the EU is created earlier, and far reaching treaties are made with the USSR and the US. More nations loose less than they did in reality, including the USSR, thereby making her the 'winner'. 

While i also love hangliders (they were covered in another answer - they never got the action film love they deserved, the Escape from New York sequel has laughably unrealistic models where they could have gone with the real deal - google hang gliders made from bamboo) i would like to add an heretofore unmentioned way of aero-braking: gyrocopters! Hang gliders work by having an airspeed over the foil (and usually also a commensurate ground speed, if the wind is slow) and then, shortly before impact, heightening the angle of attack (nose up), thereby burning speed and gaining lift - if ideally executed, you swoop in hard, and touch down light as a feather. The problem here being the groundspeed in the moments before - you need long stretches of land to execute that maneuver safely. gyrocopters also have airspeed over a foil, but in this case, the foil rotates , so the airspeed does not come with groundspeed. You can go straight down (don't need to, though!) 

They could be a two-step reflector akin to a mirror telescope: the huge swarm flies below, reflecting and focussing the sunlight upwards, and a small swarm flies above, reflecting and further focussing the light through a small hole in the lower swarm. They could circle all the while, which would also fit the inclination needed for the focussing 

There's even a reason for them to change color before an attack! TOF, time of flight distance measuring, relies on sending out light, and measuring when it bounces back. Smaller wavelength means more precise measurements. For civil situations, the robots use near-VIS UV, so they can spot hairs and dust. The eyes glow faintly blue. When the going gets tough, the robots switch to near-VIS IR, because they now mostly care about center mass calculations and fog penetration (blood fog may occur suddenly...). Their eyes now glow faintly red. The 3d map TOF generates has to be fusioned with pictures in various wavelengths, so the robots also need a nomal camera - presupposing near future tech that camera need not have active illumination to be superior, though. 

Very unlikely, to outright impossible. Preramble: The retina of the eyes actually is part of your central nervous system, so this is not about 'just' interdicting the central-nervous system (CNS) /peripheral-nervous system PNS switchover (which in itself is not like a plug-in situation) Sometime in the future, we will be able to cut a small peripheral nerve (say part of one finger) and both fake the incoming information and use the outgoing information in a way that will approach the natural usage of this sense/motor pathway. This would lead to better prosthetics. We can also 'listen' in on a nerve-fibre without cutting it, and decode the signal, so we might be able to steer something without levers, just by having it listen in on nervous impulses directed to some muscle groups. Anesthesising those msucles would mean we do not even move all the while. Completely hijacking a nerve fibre without cutting it or otherwise physically interacting with it is, and will always be impossible, though. The fibres are far to small and tightly packed to achieve the kind of electrical field strength neccessary by remote means. TMS (Transcranial magnetic stimulation) currently can scramble signals in one "tight" spot of about one inch diameter - this still is several orders of magnitude too many cells to achieve anything but the most general effects. MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging aka the Tube) can, in very specific setups, sample down to a cubic millimetre (that's reading, not writing) - which also is several orders of magnitude too many cells. Both of those methods only take care of the electrical side of nerve interaction - this will only do for peripheral nerves - centrally there is alot of chemistry involved, too. No remote sampling will give you the current concentration of transmitters and hormones present at specific synapses on specific neurons (remember: the neurons are not key here, it is their connections, the synapses, that do the magic - and there are sometimes hundreds of those to every neuron. To sum up: This level of VR-immersion would require contact to every nerve-fibre involved - Handwavium-Nanobots are a must, or you remove the brain from the cranium - both techniques would not achieve full immersion either as a lot of dependencies are (not exactly hardwired, but let's say firmware-d) to the senses - see several psychiatric cases where people no longer believed that their arm actually belonged to them - sense of self is a very precarious thing, and not remotely well understood (on that note: it's so badly understood right now, that you might as well handwave a particular brain area (posterior parietal would be a good place to start) that governed self-image and make it both easy to manipulate and easy to reset - then you could exclude the real sensory input/output, and include some synthetic i/o. Thereby the whole technical impossibility of realistically shaping nervous i/o would vanish because whatever was presented would 'feel' natural - the aspect of making sense of that i/o would still remain, though. Imagine feeling a sormth in your flavjet (entirely normal) but (inexplicably to you) having no idea where and what that is, how to respond and --oops, you died. The brain is very pliable, though: Supposing the input/output was loosely resembling the way it works in usual humans, it might be possible to raise a child (or its brain) from foetal stages onwards in a synthetic environment, thereby giving the brain enough time to grow into understanding and reliably interacting with that i/o.