While this article's link appears to be broken, the claim appears to be from a USDA healthy eating promotional pamphlet, "Summer Food, Summer Moves: Operator's Activity Guide" [PDF] (p.11): 

tl;dr- This answer is primarily an attempt to establish the context of the quote to determine its meaning. No conclusive sources were found, however: 

"Compendium of Chemical Hazards: Kerosene (Fuel Oil)", UK Health Protection Agency (HPA) (2006) is an old-but-detailed source of data. Its key points: 

Disconnect between journal article and the blog post on it The sketchy claim investigated in this question is: 

And though Australia hadn't seen a case since 1938, the World Health Organization (WHO) claims that smallpox was still raging worldwide in 1950, not being seriously pushed back by vaccination efforts until about 1967 before being declared eliminated in 1980: 

Finally, after finding a few fake values that they like, they then just pick those values as-if they were real. 

Comments While there seems to be a general consensus that tight-fitting hats and hair styles can cause hair loss, there's more skepticism about loose-fitting hats and hairstyles. This uncertainty seems to appear in a lot of cause-and-effect relationships where we're not sure if a little bit of a cause still leads to a little bit of effect. My impression from the literature is that they're not particularly concerned because, even if wearing a hat a bit can effect a slight bit of hair loss, that's probably not something people really need to worry about. Overall, it seems that wearing one's hair with tight strains can cause hair loss, whether the strain's due to head wear or how the hair's styled. Whether or not gentle hair strain can cause a little bit of hair loss isn't known. 

Preamble - The Donald dodged the question. A "deal" does not equate to starting a business. But in the analysis below I'll err on the side of giving him the benefit of the doubt. If anyone has better data on bankrupcy rates in the US and the number of businesses The Donald owns I'd be interested in seeing them. The Answer - Some data is presented here around the number of Chapter 11 bankrupcy filings in the US over time. In particular there is a nice graph given for Trump-ly sized public companies (assets > $280M) filing for bankrupcy that I've reproduced below. One can see that there is a baseline of ~20 Chapter 11 filings for these companies per year, peaking at ~100 filings at the front end of recessions (dot-com and the banking bubbles), averaging out at something like 40 per year (~800 filings over a 20 year period). 

Maybe they used fancy stats that I wasn't trained in. Maybe the data isn't normally distributed (which then begs the question of why they included +- values as if the data was normally distributed...). Or maybe, like with a lot of scientific papers, the statistics are garbage and the peer-review process fails to address bad stats. 

Of course, these equations are vastly too simplistic such that the results'll often be absurd. Still, the authors want the results to seem reasonable, so they do a steady-state analysis to try to get the equations to predict stability. 

This source makes it sound like vaccination was deployed strategically to high-risk demographics, e.g. travelers and those near outbreaks, though it seems to claim that most of the population wasn't vaccinated. 

Study's results However, it was unclear what actually happened to these newborns later in life; did the assigned gender stick after given the corresponding genitals and socialization? 

come from 2008-11-04, at which point Google indexes three sources: 1; 2; 3. This PDF from 2008-11-19 also has the quote on page 27. The strange thing about all of these sources is that none of them is primarily English-speaking. This is unusual for the early internet, especially as a source for an alleged English quote allegedly from an English source. However, Source (1) has Spanish variant linked on it: 

So, from that first line, the authors claim that these compounds in green tea have "potential health benefits"; they don't actually make the claim that they do have health benefits. Possible health benefits explored in separate paper Separately, in "Epidemiological Evidence Linking Tea Consumption to Human Health: A Review" (2012) by Quan Vuong (and him only, as opposed to with a group of others as in the prior paper): 

The best thing to do is to go to the original paper, which isn't too hard to find. There are also other studies cited in the FDA listing for this work which seem to corroborate the finding that exercise plus increased protein intake plus significant caloric reduction of diet will increase muscle mass while reducing fat. But all of these are small studies (6 to 38 participants total). But when I read these papers I'm suspicious. Looking at the results commentary in the study referred to by CBC: 

According to US Census results from 2013, there were something like 5.7 million firms in the US. There are about 9,300 firms that could be considered Trump-ly (my arbitrary definition being a company of 1000+ employees). Assuming this is representative of the number of Trump-ly firms that existed each year since 1994, we have a Chapter 11 filing rate of 40/9,300 = ~0.4% per year. The Donald cited over 500 businesses he is an executive with as part of his candidacy filings. Let's use this as an assumption of the average number of businesses that he has started that exist at any one time. At 500 businesses per year, a failure rate of 0.4% per year means that you could expect two (2) of his businesses to file for Chapter 11. So based on these assumptions he is batting well above the average. 

The Washington Post has published editorials in support of online taxes. The most direct editorial that I can find is from 2012-07-15: 

This stress on "in principle" seems to reflect that the authors didn't want to actually claim that they believed this to be a threat. Additionally, the journal stresses that they were reporting a model without even attempting to estimate the values for the parameters: 

tl;dr- Yes, this type of aircraft carrier can and does go for decades before refueling, able to circle the globe many times over that period. While not literally "unlimited", it's a decently close approximation for Wikipedia to show in a quick-facts table. This aircraft carrier first refueled 25 years after being launched According to the US Navy's website (via Archive.org) for Nimitz-class carriers: 

tl;dr- No, the claim about high IQ's appears to be based on an early definition of IQ that's no longer used. It's misleading to use this outdated definition of IQ as the claim would be very different (and far more impressive) if it were based on the current definition. Their claim So, using Google Translate on their webpage (as it's in Japanese): 

Such a program, with or without psychological help, is not offered to Sweden’s own national forces upon their return from duty. There are about 500 soldiers from Sweden serving with NATO, fighting the Taliban in Afghanistan. This disparity in benefits between returning jihadis and returning Swedish soldiers is the subject of controversy. 

What is the definition used by the Council of Europe (CoE), in determining whether a child is a victim of sexual violence? Is "child victim of sexual violence" synonymous with criminal sexual abuse of children, i.e. is consensual sexual activity between two 16 year old's counted as a form of sexual violence and abuse if the legal age of adulthood is 18? Is the prevalence of such abuse stationary over time, especially as demographics in Europe have changed? Specifically, the most recent study referenced by the CoE website was published in 2010 and others dated back to 2003. 

The reason one feels physical addiction is because one is physically addicted to a substance, which is not a "toxin". For coffee drinkers, the substance is caffeine, which occurs naturally in coffee beans. For heroin addicts, the substance is the opium derivative that occurs naturally in opium poppies (or is synthesized chemically to resemble opium, but close enough). For cigarette smokers, the substance is nicotine which occurs naturally in tobacco leaves. When denied the substance that one is addicted to, one may feel some amount of physical withdrawal. There's nothing that a regular smoker needs to do, e.g. using a sauna, to rid the body of nicotine. Stop smoking cigarettes, and the nicotine is quickly metabolized out of your body. That's when you experience some physical discomfort, such as crankiness, maybe shakiness and increased appetite. You'll feel cravings for nicotine, which will eventually go away if you don't smoke cigarettes. Using a sauna doesn't make the process of withdrawing quicker: