One potential advantage is that they know that if they can get one or more away goals and keep the score level or only down by one they can advance either with a scoreless draw and park the bus or by only scoring one goal and then parking the bus. Another advantage would be that if the tie went to extra time the 3o minutes of extra time would be played at their ground, and therefore they would have an extra 30 minutes at home. 

The tiebreakers for the World Baseball classic in a three way tie are as follows. These steps would determine the first place team which would automatically advance to the next round and then the 2nd and 3rd place team would play a one game playoff to determine the 2nd team to advance. The tiebreakers are, 1.) Fewest runs allowed per inning of defense in head-to-head games 2.)Fewest earned runs allowed per inning of defense in head-to-head games 3.)Highest batting average in head-to-head games 4.)Drawing of lots 

By having the stone in the house and the guard in the corner and not in the center it is more likely that the team with the hammer will be able to score 2 or more points and therefore will not attempt blanking the end. That in turn makes the game more exciting for fans. 

Why do the home nations get 50% of the sets in IFAB, the rule making body for association football? Canada does not get 50% of the seats in meetings to change rules in ice hockey, and the United States do not get 50% of the seats in meetings to change the rules in baseball, so why are rule changes in association football decided 50% by the home nations and 50% by FIFA. 

There is nothing altruistic about any of the professional golf tours. Success - either winning tournaments, money earned, or world rankings - qualifies players for entry into tournaments. Other players gain entry either by sponsor's exemptions or by qualifying in Monday qualifying rounds. This is probably how someone like Tom Watson gains entry into a regular PGA Tour event. The Senior tours limit entry only by age. Players must still qualify by the criteria set up by each tour. The PGA Tour has no age limits for entry. Simply put, if you are good enough, you get to play. Players with past success like Tom Watson are granted entry either by sponsor's exemptions or by some other qualifying means. For example, US Open winners are granted a 10 year exemption into tournaments on the PGA Tours. If a younger player wants in, he has to play his way in. It's as simple as that. It's the ultimate survival of the "fittest". In this case fitness is judged by how well you play tournament golf. Other tournaments, like the Masters, grant entry based on several different criteria. They make places for amateurs, players with success on other tours besides the USA PGA Tour, and all past winners are granted entry. Regardless of the criteria, however, all these players have played their way in. When Tom Watson was young, no one granted him entry into any tournament because he needed the experience. He had to earn it first. 

The simplest way to put this would be, Two 'Legged' tackles are not illegal... However two 'Footed' tackles are a bookable offence... Studs up is a very harmful tackle the legs can touch if contact is made with the ball first. However if a player is brought down with a two footed tackle its bookable regardless of whether he got the ball or not as it is careless and dangerous. 

I have recently been trying to land "Late Shuvs" and "Late Kickflips". Now to achieve these tricks you need to have ollied befor you initiate the trick. I get the Ollie fine for the Shuv and kicking the board to make the 180 rotation is fine but the part I'm struggle with is landing on top of it, it always spins away or behind me. what am I doing wrong? Also for the late flip how do I even flip the board when its in the air? when I kick it, it instantly point s towards the floor. (and causes really bad injuries I must add...) 

I have been riding a longboard from time to time and I find that afterwards I often get cramp in my right thigh (my front foot on the deck) I think this is due to misplacement of my body of some kind... is their a way that I can prevent this? maybe by the way I distribute my weight on the leg or something like that? 

With the shooter having full control of the situation a more experienced shooter/ penalty taker would be able to trick a less experienced keeper far easier than a experienced keeper. whereas a more experienced keeper may still be tricked fairly easy by a lower experienced taker as luck plays a very big part in the keepers game in this situation. The fact that it is a free kick that other opposing players cannot intercept it puts the shooter in a very advantageous position and a penalty to the keeper and the opposing team as the name suggests. this means that the keeper is always going to be handicapped in this situation. 

Stepping back away from the line of a good putt is only one of several body habits common among golfers. In the case of backing away, I suspect it's derived from the professionals acknowledgement of the crowd after a made putt. Golfers I think don't want to walk down the line of their putts. You can also see golfers holding their finish position for a long time as long as a travelling putt looks like it has a chance to go in. This actually has a biomechanical basis in integrating the good putt with the feel of the recent stroke. Another habit is the club twirl after a particularly good feeling swing. I never saw anyone do this before Tiger Woods, but now it's a common sight. No one twirls their club after a poor swing. But if someone does the characteristic stiff-arm-club-twirl-walk-after-the-shot routine, you can be sure it's going to be a good one. How about the habit of not looking at the ball after a good tee shot? If a player studies the ball flight closely, it's probably flirting with trouble. But if he immediately reaches down for his tee, it's right down the middle. On the other hand, a good approach iron will elicit full admiration from a player, as though to get all the good feelings out of a good swing. Why the difference? Another give away is to look immediately at the ground after a poor swing. As if to blame something on the ground for your poor swing mechanics. Again, it's a unique golf-ism. Body english and talking to your ball are other well known golf-specific mannerisms. As if you could telepathically influence the balls flight by twisting and turning your body or telling your ball to "hurry" or "sit" is going to do anything. I'm sure there are others but I'll end with a story from my playing days. One of our foursome hit a short wedge thin into a tucked pin and immediately started yelling at the ball to "sit! sit! sit!". Just by coincidence there happened to be a stray dog trotting along nearby. The dog immediately sat down and looked at the guy doing the yelling. We were rolling on the ground laughing, and we still get a chuckle from that decades later!