Is It Safe? I wouldn't consider it safe for the above reasoning. Because your friend might instinctively fight for control, the force exerted on you will be greater than just his physical weight alone. This might cause you to lose balance of him and presto......you both crash. Likely Questions To Consider 

Of course, you might be able to structure your training so it has little impact on your other exercises; however, I don't think this is avoidable. Just be realistic about your expectations and make adjustments as needed. Good luck! 

Yoga or Pilates: These exercises place less stress on joints and are effective exercises. Try them and see if you enjoy them. Tai Chi: This isn't primarily an exercise; however, its movements do not place much stress on joints and seriously, it's just fun to do. If in doubt, google the benefits of Tai Chi. Some tidbits 

Biking: If you have access to a stationary bike or you have an actual bike, this is a good exercise for you. There isn't a lot of stress on the joints and you can go at your own pace (although going fast is recommended). If you have access to a Spin class also, I would recommend it as you would have a lot of fun while shedding pounds. 

At your current height and weight, you're not fat (healthy weight, ideal weight based on height, and BMI calculation). As a result, I highly doubt that dieting would help you achieve your goal. 

For Bicep (and Abs) Development Chinup is superior to lat pulldown. Besides, since there are numerous exercises for bicep development, it's kinda hard to find someone performing lat pulldown for bicep development. In Summary I would recommend performing pullups (chinups for the lats and abs) till fatigue and then performing pulldowns for conditioning. 

There's little danger in performing cardio at any adult age as long as the safety standards are followed. Every exercise you perform has a proper way of it being executed; do it that way and you would not have any exercise-related injury. Since the doctor already told you there's nothing wrong with you, you have no reason to fear. The paranoia in you is just the fat talking trash because it knows that once you start this journey, you are gonna turn into a lean, mean powerhouse. Because you are young and healthy, I would not advise you to start with walking (that's for those with joint problems or old people). Start with light jogging to test the waters and see what you are capable of. If that's too much, reduce it to power-walking. If that's too much, you should get a coach since you are too lazy to do it by yourself Once you've tested the waters and you're beginning to like it, start lifting weights; there are many programs online to help you. Add cardio to your routines as well. Alternating your exercise days between cardio and strength training has been shown to be most effective for weight loss (specifically fat burning) programs. Equally, stay in touch with people who exercise; if you don't have any around you, you can join online communities; they'll be able to motivate you and hold you accountable. Lastly, see the whole weight loss/exercising as a new experience, an adventure that you are interested in exploring. That'll keep the motivation up and the weight down. Hope I stayed on course with the answer and it helps. 

Do that and you'll see a transformation in your physique and energy levels. Since you work in an IT office, if yours is similar to mine, avoid these as much as possible. 

Subjects participating in the room temperature condition were able to perform significantly more bench press reps to failure than when they participated in the cold condition. So, cold water caused a slight performance hit, according to the study. Also, given that Olympic swimmers/divers shower in warm water before their races in order to prepare their muscles, I consider the study to be accurate. That being said, I would still choose cold water over room temperature while exercising. 

To reach X reps, you don't need to perform multiple sets; you only need a single set of incrementing Y Performing multiple sets will only condition your body against fatigue and will increase your endurance. But if you must perform multiple sets (which I recommend), reduce the number of sets to a maximum of 3. This will allow you to focus on increasing your reps without worrying about completing all the sets. However, if you must complete 5 sets, don't worry too much about the unequal number of sets; just ensure that on each set, you perform same or higher reps than your previous session. 

No, Your Calorie Burn Rate Will Be Different Why The Heck Not? First, the human body's ability to adapt: Calorie burned at the beginning of an exercise program is usually higher than those burned after performing the program for a while (assuming the same exercises and intensity are used). This is because the body was not accustomed to the process and had to work harder to perform the exercises; thus, you struggle with the exercises at the beginning. As you progress in the program, your body becomes acquainted with the process and becomes better at handling the same tasks (and load). As a result, you no longer struggle (or not as much) with the exercises as previously. The number of calories you burn at the same intensity reduces (even if your body weight remains the same). Second, backpack is an external load acting on the body. The body handles external and internal loads differently. Because the increase in internal load (weight gain) is gradual, the body adapts to the increment. On the other hand, an external load is drastic in changes. The body will initially struggle with this new load and will progressively adapt. Without external signs (such as breaking a chair after sitting on it, fat deposits popping up everywhere, loose skin, etc), people wouldn't realize they're packing on weight; on the other hand, you'll easily notice if a 20-lb item was dropped on you. Similar process when the weights are dropped. 

LWhitson2, It's mainly a marketing gimmick. You don't need different clothing for different exercises. I'd say that a lot of people exercise using the same clothings. However, if you're engaged in competitive sports or performance-based activities, that's when the type of clothing might make a difference. The fabric, texture, and feel of the clothing might help/hinder the appropriate movement for the specific sports. Also, notice that your footwear might depend on the specific exercise being done. Running shoes are different from biking shoes, which might be different from weightlifting shoes. In general, any clothing that's light and stretchy should be alright for most exercises. 

Whatever you do, ensure you don't go 2 days without performing some form of intense exercises; otherwise, you're going to stop without realizing it. If possible, find a workout buddy too.; the encouragement (or challenge) helps. 

Even if such a research exists, you should discard it because it's likely based on inaccurate data. While exercises can counteract the negative effects of diet on the short term, it cannot do so on the long run. This is because 

I'm certain there are still lots of causes and solutions I might have missed; however, it's more important to start somewhere soonest than trying to obtain all the possible answers before starting. 

So, use a good belt, start with low weights and progressively increase it, and use proper form and you should be safe. 

The standard measurement for fitness is 60 - 90 seconds. If you can consistently perform plank (with good form) for this duration without breaking a sweat, it's time to increase the pressure. If you can really perform 120 seconds without breaking a sweat, it's time to bring out the big guns: