What is even more telling, is that the papers were only reporting as either endorsing, expressing on opinion, or rejecting AGW. They did not choose to report the level of endorsement which the peer-reviewed studies were classified. So, from this study it is impossible to know what percentage of study abstracts/respondent authors endorse the position the humans are the primary cause of recent global warming. There have been other studies that put that figure around 54% (+/-4%). Which interestingly enough, matches the public's perception on the matter. 

How basically complete is the fence? Did they actually go above and beyond what was requested by the Republicans? 

Adam Carolla, from the popular radio show Loveline, and in the Guiness Records for the most downloaded podcast of all time made the following claim (1 min mark): 

No Treasury Direct shows that the Public Debt has increased every year (tables 2010-2000 and 1999-1990). 

Senator John Cornyn is incorrect that this was an Executive Order, which has a very specific meaning. Congress may have (debatable) granted the Secretary of Homeland Security prosecutorial discretion to delay the deportation of children who have come to the USA illegally. His numbers and country of origin are accurate though. The vast majority are from Mexico, and the hundreds of thousands that have been granted deferred action may be encouraging the influx of thousands of illegal alien children. 

These are extreme views. There is no scientific consensus for runaway climate change or that climate change will cause the human population to fall to 1 billion by 2100 (the United Nations recently projected 11 billion $URL$ Nor is the map particularly credible - the range of temperatures between currently habitable zones within that red area is already much wider than 5 degrees (think of the Tibetan plateau for example). And despite the crude line through Paris (the east coasts of North America and Asia are generally cooler than the west coasts of Europe and North America at the same latitude, for reasons associated with wind and the Earth's rotation), something more complicated has been drawn in the southern hemisphere, with an incredible treatment of northern Australia (currently largely hot desert) 

this seems unlikely. There are very few examples of flutterby in literature and even fewer claims as to its original use. The earliest I could do was a 1867 book by American journalist Marcus M. "Brick" Pomeroy called Nonsense, which contains the lines 

Silver has been known to have antimicrobial properties for since at least Hippocrates (300 BC) used it for dressing wounds. It is still seen as significant anti-bacterial agent as well as having antifungal and antiviral effects. Medical usage is typically with microparticles or as silver salts. I don't know how much impact a solid spoon would have. 

Using data from the (National Violence Against Women Survey) own Relative Standard Error chart, you will note that this gives an RSE of >30%, which means that Gottshall ignored the NVAWS recommendations about making statistical comparisons regarding subsets with such high RSE. In the politico article (linked above as the Update: secondary ref), Jonathan Gottschall even admits: 

NO WAY anyone knows. Although their are biological reasons like those noted in other answers, reliable estimates are not available to make a determination one way or the other. What was the Question? Todd Akin's comments were taken out of context. Here is the full text of what Todd Akin said about rape, and the (video link). 

I still prefer my more humorous answer, but with the idea that it is better to keep it simple, I have added this answer as well. We will see which one people prefer. The Surgeon Generals key claim revolves around the fact that 69 chemicals in second-hand smoke are carcinogens, so there is no risk free exposure level. From the EPA's Toxicology Assesment: 

So this is a warning against all those predicting the future without the aid of God, whether they use mathematics or not, and in particular warning against those who make accurate predictions. 

I immediately thought soot from the yellow flames and dry snow. It is people, many of whom are unfamiliar with snow, misunderstanding what is happening. There is a good description from Chris West at Metabunk where he sets out three points: 

Another point made by UNCTAD is that many of the positive effects of such investment can be achieved through other means such as free trade and contract farming. 

This is the chart from the Office for National Statistics Dikran Marsupial may have been trying to upload: 

This does not prove there was not an earlier form, but flutterby looks like a easy and pretty, and perhaps even frequent, spoonerism of butterfly which never really entered the English language. 

This is part of Book 11, Chapter 12 of the Confessions of St Augustine. Augustine said he would not say this, but said that somebody else had. In one translation: 

I guess Kilpatrick wasn't cautious, since he uses a similar figure in the white paper (rape was 0.27%) that the NVAWS cautions about (page 14, Exhibit 14 & 15): 

While the program is targeted at children who arrived in the USA illegally, it can delay the deportation of adults as old as 31. 

No, there is no credible risk of cancer or other adverse effects from oral consumption of BPA. The studies that claim BPA might pose a danger have methodological issues. STATS.org of George Mason University notes: 

It appears that Brigitte Gabriel was speaking of jihadist, that are fighting a war to defend or spread their Muslim beliefs. With that definition, we can look at some of the polls by the Pew Research Center regarding support for suicide bombing. They have been performing this poll of Muslims in various countries since 2002, with some variation of the question below. 

At the NAACP, Attorney General Eric Holder said Tuesday he opposes a new photo ID requirement in Texas elections because: 

Lead naturally occurs in the soil and water. EPA limits Lead to 15 ppb (parts per billion). If your drinking water does not exceed that level, it is of no concern. 

Assuming there was no response bias (optimistic but difficult to reject) and that the population of both adults and children are approximately 50:50 male:female (reasonable), then that would suggest that, weighted by victims, roughly 57% of cases were male-on-female, 23% male-on-male, 16% female-on-male, and 4% female-on-female. Those numbers do not look implausible to me, though other studies would undoubtedly produce different proportions. The next stage is harder. Two further assumptions are needed, neither of which I think are obviously reasonable: the first is that different types of abusers have the same average number of victims; the second is whether it is meaningful to describe those who abuse children as being heterosexual or homosexual, as it may depend on whether you see sexual abuse as being related to sexual attraction or not. If you are prepared to make both those assumptions, then you could draw the conclusion that most child sexual abuse is by male heterosexuals, followed by male homosexuals, but when taking account of their prevalence in the population, a disproportional number of cases come from male homosexuals. Women are less likely to commit child sexual abuse (though they appear more in other non-sexual cases of child abuse and neglect). There have also been cultural changes, which in the UK date to the early to mid 1980s, where campaigns for gay rights switched emphasis away from seeking abolition of legal ages of consent to seeking equality of ages of consent. This was early in the rise of HIV/AIDS when it became clear that sexual liberation could have unexpected negative consequences, and also when other social liberals made it clear that what appeared to be a fetish for youth on the gay scene was not acceptable social behaviour in wider society. Even by the 1990s there were vestiges of this remaining as seen in the response to a Stonewall concert. 

Fill in the blank however you want, water, bananas, BBQ smoke, Chinese grills, or anything else. Living is full of risk, the only away to avoid all risk is to cease to exist. The Surgeon General's warning about there being no risk-free level of secondhand smoke exposure is misleading, and ignores hundreds of years of toxicology that show that all poisons have some minor exposure level that is not harmful. If brief exposure to secondhand smoke has you running scared, don't forget about thirdhand smoke. 

(Note: FBI statistics do not differentiate between accusers who lie, make an honest mistake. Neither does it preclude that a rape didn't take place, only that the person accused was innocent.) False accusations will clearly affect any estimates of legitimate rapes, which will in turn affect any study based upon unsubstantiated claims of rape by the "victim." Todd Akin clarified what he meant when he said "legitimate rape," but lets explore some other possible explanations for what is legally a rape, instead of resorting to believing that Todd Akin must have meant women who weren't asking for it, didn't fight hard enough, or were the victims of war crimes. These cases might not cause a biological response in the victim, because the aren't forcible rape. 

According to the Beelogics website, Monsanto bought Beelogics in 2011 Beelogics holds various patents and patent applications related to bees. For example US patent 8,097,712 covers claims for: 

To show flutterby is the origin of butterfly, it would need to precede it in time. With the OED pointing to Old English versions of butterfly, and Shakespeare using it several times, perhaps best known in King Lear Act 5 Scene 3 

One of the slashdot comments points to a NASA article originally from 1997 which tells you not to hold your breath and then says in summary, 

You are not going to be able show such things, as there are many other reasons why forest area goes up or down apart from paper production. If you want figures on changes in forestry in different countries, you could try FAO Statistics, such as this which suggests forested area has risen in Europe and North & Central America but fallen in other continents since 1990, and fallen worldwide. You can find a forestry products database here including recovered paper and fibre pulp. Some of these statistics have been repackaged for individual countries here. But what you will not be able to find is what would have happened without recycling. Basic economics suggests non-commercial recycling of paper will probably reduce the price of paper below what it would otherwise be (so boosting demand), while discouraging the planting/replanting of forests for future paper production. Whether the net effect on forest area is positive or negative is unclear. For example Finland is a significant paper producer with a tradition of replanting, but its forest area declined from 2000 to 2010 after having risen in the previous decade. 

That 15%-25% range seems reasonable Without an exact definition, it is difficult to say. From the same article though, Saba Ahmed asks: 

The Village Voice performed two months of investigative research and found weak evidence to back that claim: 

Of the countries that were polled, which represent half of all Muslims worldwide, 15.66% of those Muslims admitted to pollsters that it is justified to use suicide bombs against civilians to defend Islam. These "radial Islamist" would account for 8.176% of all jihadists worldwide. The low figure of the range seems reasonable, but the chart above is missing some notable countries with large Muslim populations Nigeria (4.7%) and India (10.9%). Pew hasn't polled India to my knowledge, but Nigeria has and the results were wildly different for radical Islamists (8% 2013 and 34% 2010). 

Even when opponents can find plaintiffs for their cases, when they lose the case, the plaintiff turns around and gets a VoterID the next day. 

It does depend. In the USA, the Federal Trade Commission says that you can limit your liability for fraudulent electronic transactions that are reported within 60 days.