TL;DR Your only real solution here is magic - which you seem to be fine with, so there you go! Create a magical disease that's capable of converting 90% of a host's body mass into itself before the host actually keels over. There's your material source. Give it the properties you want, and you're set. Longer-Winded Explanation Part the First - Things You Can't In Any Way Make a Giant Out Of Viruses, prions, and toxins. These are all things that have been classified as "diseases", but they're ridiculously small, lack any sort of mechanical structure that could be used to support anything else, and cannot "live" in any meaningful sense on their own. Just a non-starter. So, what does that leave us with? Part the Second - Things You Can't Realistically Make a Giant Out Of Fungi, amoebae, and bacteria. Capable of living (broadly) without a host for at least short periods of time. Possessed of actual structures, such that one could reasonably pile one atop another. What is not in their resumé, however, is supporting enormous weight. In fact, barring magic, building anything a mile high in normal earth gravity is incredibly tricky. Bacterial cell walls - even latticeworks constructed of tougher fungi - don't come close to the tensile and compressive strength of high-carbon steel, carbon fiber, and reinforced concrete. No real-life organic creature a mile high could support its own weight, regardless of its component parts. Also barring magic, you are labouring under a popular misconception - bigger does not equal stronger. Past a certain point, non-magical organic means of movement are insufficient to handle the requirements of the body, and life cannot be maintained. Part of the reason that birds have hollow bones is that dinosaurs had them first - when you're getting big, organically, you need all the cheating means of reducing your weight you can get. There's a reason that the largest animal which has ever lived, and all of the runners-up to the title, have been ocean-going. Salt water makes a great external support! On top of that, bacteria, even controlled by an immortal sentience, don't have the kind of specialization that allows multi-celled creatures to get as large as we do. The reason that we can have neurons, for example, tucked in safely behind bone and layers of protective tissue, is because we have a circulatory system whose sole purpose is delivering oxygen and nutrients to those neurons. Building an ersatz circulatory system out of staphylococcus wouldn't work either, because our blood cells (and plasma, and whatnot) are specialized to do that task, and bacteria is not. So even on a human scale, a figure made out of bacteria would die from the inside out. Part The Third - Therefore, Magic You've got deities, you've got a sentient super-possessing-amoeba-thing. So you can throw realism aside, and just create an incredibly infectious super-bacteria that can propel itself through air unaided, can use its resilient structure to duplicate internal organs in a host, thus keeping them running for long enough to convert most of their biomass into itself, and which can link up with others of its kind to form a structure harder than diamond. Et voila. Edited addendum: I should note that you'd need to kill a lot of people to get the requisite biomass. Assuming a roughly human-shaped figure, and assuming approximate human density (this may be a false assumption, particularly if you want to try and weave around the structural support problems listed above), there's the following back-of-the envelope calculation: 

As illustrated in the excellent animation accompanying the article, a lower orbit would necessitate more satellites, to ensure that at least four were visible at any point on earth, but a similar constellation of satellites would still work. 

Other fields, from city planning (evolutionary models process faster when a million road distributions can be modelled simultaneously) to astronomy (want to sort out the readings of the James Webb telescope? Easy!) could benefit from the application of quantum computation to their parallelizable tasks. As a slight caution, however, the necessary evils of a practical quantum computer: The Collapse of the Economy I mean, it wouldn't be quite that dire, but the cryptography underpinning pretty much all electronic monetary transactions is super vulnerable to quantum computing. We'd find ways around it eventually, of course, but the "breakthrough" of a practical quantum computer would mean that its possessor could break into any private electronic communication on the planet. And not even governments depend as heavily on those communications staying private as much as banks do. 

Overall, I think the likelihood that a Singularity-inspired AI would arise from a quantum computer is no greater than from a normal digital computer. Parallelism doesn't account for consciousness, or AI researchers would already be seeing some of it - current parallel processing is pretty impressive. But the ability to solve immensely difficult and time-consuming mathematical exploration problems nearly instantaneously would have enormous benefits and detriments to humankind. 

You can't Anon already answered this, to a degree, but it's worse than they stated, largely because of the stresses involved in your description. It isn't just blood pooling that's the problem - the actual tissues would suffer damage. 100Gs is the approximate acceleration experienced by your brain when you smash your head at 40km/h into a wall. In a momentary experience, it can cause a concussion, and definitely does damage. A sustained 100G force applied to an unmodified brain inside a skull, whether or not the skull is reinforced to survive the pressure, will crush it into salsa. In fact, while I don't know the outer bounds, I strongly suspect that no biological brain, as we currently understand them, could survive 100Gs sustained for any reasonable length of time. But it's not just the brain - your eyes would be crushed, too. As would literally all your internals, especially the extra-sensitive gamete factories - testicles and ovaries. By the time you removed/reinforced all of those (even notwithstanding the brain restriction), what you're talking about isn't going to resemble a human to any real degree. And even that wouldn't be sufficient. Bear in mind that in something like a car crash, a person experiences 100Gs. Even assuming a really-well-padded acceleration couch, sustained 100G forces are going to crush bones. 300-1000Gs will start crushing structural supports, so it's hard to imagine any biological matter not being turned into a fine marmalade. The best answer is Catgut's - you don't need accelerations like these. 

Edit Pretty much everything I wrote here was based off a popular misconception about the operation of quantum computers. I hold to my closing statement re: quantum computers having an effect on the probability of strong AI emerging, but see Lemma's comments for clarification. I will be leaving it present to preserve those comments, but please disregard my answer for anything but Crichton-esque pseudo-science.