**No There are limits. ** One of the simplest is the larger you get the stronger the limbs need to be, no matter what you make them from there is a point when they cannot support their own weight. Other limits include the square cube law and gas/nutrient distribution, circulatory fluid column height limits, neural connection lag, heat dissipation, ect. No they cannot just be scaled up Additionally animal anatomy changes in noticable and predictable ways as they increase in size, this is especially well studied in dinosaurs, they cannot simply be scaled up. The square cube law lies at the heart of most of these changes and will hold true no matter what you make the organisms out of. 

Rote memorization is a sign of a bad teacher most of the time, especially when teaching a skill and not just information. You are trying to teach a skill. You might look at more modern teaching methods. Your problem does not seem all that different than teaching any complex skill. Art might be a good place to start, very subjective, but it can still be taught. Things like differential learning and problem based learning should apply well. For example I cannot tell you exactly how to to write a good essay there are just too many variables, but I do know what a good one looks like, and I can help you identify and solve problems, I can warn you about common pitfalls,I can do demonstrations, I can even present you with problems you will have to overcome in your own way. Human brains share many commonalities so teaching a skill will still have commonalities that can be taught. 

Well you need a lot more water, you need a much hotter oceans to keep it cycling, to the point it is boiling, there will also be less sun for plant life. Rivers will be massive, erosion will be way faster so you need either faster mountain building or end up with a flatter planetary surface. the very early earth was actually a lot like this, basically the water boiled off the surface condensed and fell back to be boiled off again. Weather life can actually evolve under these conditions is... unclear. 

There is no such thing a perfect life, fulfillment comes is plethora of varieties, utopia to one is hell to another. A world without crime is a world without freedom or independent thought, a lot of people would be happy to risk death to have their own ideas and opinions. If people are nigh immortal then overpopulation will be a huge issue, it is unavoidable, that alone will drove many people offworld, just for the breathing room. A world without challenge is worse than death to many people, overcoming challenges is part of being human. Your society has taken that away, its stagnant and bland, it is baby food mush in a world where jalapeno peppers and steak exist. People will flee that for the same reason people go bungee jumping or rock climbing or decide to homestead in the middle of the wilderness, or even just go camping. Then of course you have plain curiosity, many people will want to explore and learn, the same people that today take submarines ot the bottom of the ocean or climb mountains to examine the rocks and life. To explore and learn is pretty common drive. As AlexP pointed out some many will want to go simply because it is there. 

several species have three forms with two different male forms, one built around combat and large with other built around sneaking and is small. This is sometimes referred to as trimorphism. Often in these cases the individuals carry all the relevant genes for both forms and conditions in development or childhood trigger one or the other suite of genes. Then you have caste system in insects which can have several forms performing specific roles. Multiple morphologies in biology is not that uncommon, Galapagos finch beaks are good example, it is just that if they are not attached to sex somehow they tend to form distinct species over time. 

From the disease itself, unlikely.But with genetic engineering yes. There are mammals that had bone armor, the giant ground sloths(as well as other Xenarthra) had subcutaneous bone armor(osteoderms). Sloth armor is often referred to as biological chainmail. Armadillo and glyptodon take it even further creating a much more rigid bone armor, gaining additional production at the cost of flexibility. 

well without an atmosphere is different than without an magnetosphere. provided it changed slowly enough life including human might be able to handle the loss of the magnetosphere, lack of an atmosphere would no be something we could evolve to handle, eukaryotes are too reliant on oxygen. 

Troodons or Hypsilophodon Troodon are already bipedal, warm-blooded, partially scaled, have grasping forearms, and there are plenty in the right size range. They were the most intelligent dinosaurs (not including birds), and large brains and large forward facing eyes. You will probably need an excuse for them to not be covered in feathers (or at least protofeathers) but it's not too difficult, modern birds still have scales after all, so so would they. All you need is a evolutionary pressure to revert. As a bonus you can have proto-feathers retained on the head or other places for a hair like effect. Ornithopods only have the most primitive from of feathers and are mostly covered in scales. 

if all the mainland coast for many miles is high cliff, they would just need patrolling to keep people on the island. just make sure no one who makes it to the mainland lives long enough to makes it back to the island. the big thing is it may not need to be perfect, just nearly impossible for a few generations, once they believe there is no way off the island they will keep themselves on the island, you don't need to make impossible just too difficult to seem possible. 

For low pressure and cold a fictional biotic Mars would be a good choice. Even with an oxygen atmosphere it would have lower pressure and be colder. On earth tundra plateau would be good. But really almost any oxygen environment will work, it depends more on the animal you build around it. There are several different oxygen carrier in the same environment on earth becasue they all work good enough. The other anatomy of the organism has WAY more impact than the oxygen carrier. Things like circulatory system, hox genes, support structures are far more important. 

In the real world the most energetic dark ecosystems run of chemosynthesis from hydrothermal vents, the chemical conversions vary but many involve oxidation. hydrogen sulfide, hydrogen gas, ferrous iron and ammonia are the most common reactants Interestingly these is a weird dual reaction used by Green Sulfur bacteria that actually uses both hydrothermal chemicals AND light but needs such weak light that is it not sunlight it is using but the weak radioactive glow from the vents, and do produce oxygen albeit very small amounts. This is still technically photosynthesis but since it does not need sunlight I thought it might still work for your scenario. 

This is useless as a weapon. Can it be built using modern technology, probably, the problem is it will be fragile and useless as weapons. As a sword it is useless at best suicidal at worst. Joints in a weapon are bad especially a rigid weapon like a sword. Even more so if these joints need to mechanically rigid in any directions(as opposed to a simple chain), which this does if you want to keep the only sharp edge pointed at your target. As a sword this thing is not a sword it is a sharp spring club under perfect conditions. it is pile of spraplel under most real conditions as the joints are subject to a great deal of shear strength and making them stronger just increases the stress becasue they get heavier much faster than they get stronger. joints like this will quickly fatigue until they fail, and a weapon that breaks while you are using it is worse than useless. Mechanical joints in rigid weapon are a problem waiting to happen. Think of it this way even professionally made swords, made of a single solid piece of metal (thus as strong as you can make them) bend and can even break in combat, joints result in the same force being applied to a much smaller piece of metal, expecting it to withstand this force is unreasonable. You can't even rely on low impact blade techniques (like the japanese created to compensate for brittle swords) since these rely on a long smooth rigid cutting edge this cutting edge is weak and has gaps which will snag. As a whip it is a clumsy fragile chain whip. Keeping the edge aligned is largely impossible, the only way to do so would increase the number of parts immensely which just creates more places it can fail. So you are only hitting the enemy with the edge accidentally. So really it is a flail, an unweighted flail. A segmented weapon would be comparable to a chain whip or flail both of which rely on a mass at the end to generate force, since there is no leverage, a whip sword does not have this, the whole thing can't weight more than 3-4 lbs(assuming two hands) so it is more like striking with a loose light chain by itself (albeit one with some sharp edges), which is not an effective weapon. And again it has to be full of mechanical parts to retract so there are a lot of failure points. Urami are strong enough to use becasue they are one solid piece with a continuous cutting edge (so it can't get stuck), and even then they are very unwieldy and not very effective as weapons. 

Whatever the person who first describes them (likely the one that creates them) wants, there are very few rules about naming a new species. If you are the first to scientifically describe a new species you get to name it. The only rules are you can't use a name that already exists, and later you can't name it after yourself (Carnegie! {shakes fist}) and you can't use something vulgar. If he wants to name it Pan aves, Homo angelus, or Cheedle popackski he can. Even if someone later argues for changing the Genus name the species name will stick. We have organsms named after famous people, ictional places and characters, and even just becasue they sound cool. We have Stygimoloch spinifer which means "horned devil dragon from the river of death". In this case with humans being the original organsms they were created from putting them in Homo is almost certain prejudice be damned, remember in the early days there was an attempt to label the several extant human races as separate species but few argued they were not part of Homo. given the setting the last two options are far more likely, if they have no other avian characteristics besides feathers ending up inside homo is possible but if they can't interbreed the last is more likely. keep in mind there were as many as five living Homo species in early works, based on continent of origin, so even the location of the crow people will matter. Often they were ranked by stereotypical characteristics so they would likely end up at the bottom of the barrel in Homo. 

The city is is a city of potters and glazers and they make a lot of money off their bright hard orange and yellow pottery and green glass. So much so that one of the merchants gets greedy and decides to stockpile the raw material for the glaze creating a grand wearhouse to store the gray lumpy rock called pitchblende used in making it, hoping to corner the market. To save space he starks having the rock pummeled into powder and stuffed in sacks before filling the silo. Sure the slaves working with the rock and filling the silo keep getting sick but who cares about slaves. Then one day the a bad storm sets the wooden roof on fire and the building burns collapsing the roof and floors of the warehouse, forming one giant rain soaked mess of powdered pitchblende. Then there is a blinding white flash and the city and its inhabitants are gone leaving a large glassy crater in its place. Depending on the technology 4000 years later they will have no idea the poor mechant just built the world's first nuclear bomb without realizing it. Many early cities were quite small. Sadly this will not work in real life, so it depends on hard you want your science fiction. Although as Someone Else pointed out a radioactive fire could kill everyone in the town, then let erosion do the rest. 

It has already happened in dinosaurs, titanosaurs are the second group of sauropods to evolve ridiculous size. but for sauropods, they don't need chewing teeth because they have gastroliths to do the chewing for them, which is why they could evolve the long hoover necks to reach into trees. maximizing intake because processing food is handled on the crop, so you won't have the long necks with chewing. if you want to know what big dryosaurs look like look at hadrosaurs like Parasaurolophus, because that's basically what they are. they whole group are dedicated chewers so no super long necks sorry.