The printing press (as mentioned in a previous, very good, answere) allowed knowledge to be spread far and fast. People were able to learn from other's mistakes. For example the Aztecs sent their Emperor to meet Cortes and his soldiers because they believed he was unbeatable - any Western European soldier would have known that would result in his capture or death but even the most senior Aztecs did not because the Western Europeans knew from written history that between aggressive enemies who did not respect each other's Gods (even if they themselves could not read, that is how the knowledge was stored) that type of strategy would not work. Updated in response to comment (sorry, I cannot post comments to reply for some reason): The reason it was the European section of Euroasia who benefitted most from the above is a combinations of reasons: 

Freeing members of society up to research and develop like this with the incentives of the arms (and everything else) race allowed an exponential development advantage over other nations. For example over taking the Chinese once they had stopped their research was simply a matter of time. The social conventions used in war were different in several ways. 

Although I am sure that there are probably slight exceptions to each rule and various subtleties and combinations as there always is when applying broad stroke justifications to real life. Overall it takes one of the above to significantly reduce a countries potential to be a world power. If any of the climate, geography, culture etc factors are unsupporting then progress is hamstrung. Europe had the fewest of these issues and hence were able to race ahead, progress is exponential and the occasional breakthrough will provide massive boosts. For example: China was the world leader but they developed social/theocratic issues when the Emperor shut down scientific research and closed the borders due to his insecurity (perhaps he knew that eventually academic and scientific research would begin to question if he really was a God). For more info have a read of the following books: Guns, germs and steel Why the West has Won. 

Obviously, the Whiskey class submarine was not acquired to serve in a combat role alongside the Romeo class submarines. What is meany by "battery charging hulk"? Is there a need for additional charging capacity in some circumstances? Is the vessel able to move under its own power? Are the electrical systems of the two classes compatible? Are they any vessels produced explicitly as battery charging vessels? 

After World War II, plenty of radar aimed guns were developed for the purpose of targeting the guns of anti-aircraft vehicles. Why hasn't this same technology been applied to tanks? A 900 MHz radar unit would operate on a wavelength of 33.3 cm. This seems like it would be more than accurate enough to aim the main tank of a gun. I would also think that a tank would be an excellent target with lots of strong radar returns. Some tanks have rounded turrets, but there is usually something flat with hard edges that should show up on radar. The output would need to be fed into a gun computer to calculate an aiming solution, but those have been around for quite some time. 

From The Encyclopedia of the Arab-Israeli Conflict [4 volumes]: A Political, Social, and Military History 1st Edition by Spencer C. Tucker. ISBN 978-1851098415 From page 961: 

My understanding is that the USS Nautilus, the first nuclear submarine is now a museum. This boat was a real nuclear vessel, so it should have all the hazards associated with a decommissioned nuclear propulsion system. Why was this allowed, whenever ships like the USS Enterprise (CVN-65) are not permitted to become museums? The ostensible reason for the Enterprise is that it is too dangerous due to the ships nuclear reactors. I would think the same would apply to the Nautilus. 

This is a very simplified example but hopefully it will help: Assume that there are 10 nobles and 100 workers. Each noble has 10 fields and uses at least 1 worker per field. Nobles have financial commitments and a standard of living which they wish to maintain. They pay the workers 1 pound a week to work on the fields and each field is equally profitable. Workers cannot easily move around as nobles elsewhere are paying roughly the same and already have manpower so the wage is fairly static. The good and sundries that workers can by is within their price range as there is no point charging more as they will not be able to buy it. Lets assume that your calculation about the ratio of deaths is equal and each class loses 50% of its members. There are now 5 nobles, 50 workers (25 of which have no nobleman to work for)- each noble still has 10 fields which requires at least 1 worker per field. Now each noble now only has 5 workers and therefore has 5 empty fields and will therefore make less money but they still have their commitments and standard of living which they wish to maintain. PANIC!!!! There are various workers which no longer have anywhere to work but still need to feed their families. Nobleman #1 is called Alfred has the idea that he can pay these people to come and work for him. Nobleman #2 is called Bill and has the same idea. Alfred offers them 1 pound to work on his field, Bill offers them 2 pounds. The rest of Alfred's and Bill's workers realise that they have power - they are a scarce resource so they contact noblemen 3,4,5 (Charles, Dave and Edward) and ask how much they would offer. Edward realises the value of having more than 1 worker per field now that they can buy them on the free market and begin buying up the finite labour source as an investment as he had the backing capital to do it, unlike poor Alfred. Eventually Alfred manages to persuade 6 workers to work for him at the extortionate price of 6 pounds per week. Hence he was paying 10 pounds a week for 10 fields worth, he is now paying 36 pounds a week for 6 fields worth. This is awful and he cannot afford to buy that new set of armour. He tells everyone who will listen how greedy and lazy the workers are. The workers who work for Alfred now have 6 times the buying power they had before so they go to the market/tavern/whatever and buy everything in site. The next week the owners of the market have felt the effect of the increase in cost of workers and have to charge more for the goods to make a profit hence everything becomes more expensive. If the market owners think they can get away with it they also tag some extra on the increase to make some extra money. Suddenly Alfred's workers are not that rich in real terms and demand a pay rise or they will leave and work for Edward who is desperately offering massive amounts of money to anyone who will work for him. However, everytime they get a pay rise to buy more things the cost of making things goes up (as their wages are part of the cost) and an inflation spiral begins. Due to the massive increase in prices at the market and the cost of labour the noblemen find that they are not able to make as much profit as before and struggle to afford to pay the worker enough to keep them let alone maintain their standard of living. Hence they are far worse off. Workers are better off but the inflated costs of good is crippling some people who cannot get the high wages for whatever reason. 

Short Answer: No, the colonists were not referring to a specific document. The colonists were referring to the fact that they believed it was beyond the powers of Parliament to tax them because the colonists did not have representation in Parliament. Long Answer: The American colonists were not referring to a specific document like the Magna Carta, or any other document for that matter. It is important to remember that at this time the colonists still thought of themselves as part of the British empire. As such, the colonists were referring to the British concept of a constitution, unwritten as pointed out by Semaphore, where the Parliament had specific powers, and the people had certain rights. There are, however, historical documents like the Magna Carta that make up the British constitution. The colonists would have been quite familiar with the British "constitution." As Bernard Bailyn put it, what was within the constitution was an "arrangement of governmental institutions, laws, and customs together with the principles and goals that animated them." (66-71). Bailyn quotes John Adams, who wrote a constitution of government is "a frame, a scheme, a system, a combination of powers for a certain end, namely, the good of the whole community." (68). Pauline Meir states in American Scripture: Making the Declaration of Independence that "Americans took particular pride in being governed under Britain's unwritten constitution, which they considered the most perfect form of government ever invented." (29). The issue in the case of the Stamp Act and the Townshend Acts, was one of taxation without representation. The colonies did not have representatives in the Parliament. Up to the time of the Stamp Act the American colonies had been largely left alone by Parliament, meaning they had not been subject to internal taxes and left to govern their affairs largely on their own. This period was known as salutary neglect. When the Stamp Act was passed it was the first major internal tax on the colonies, and as Walter Issacson points out Benjamin Franklin believed it "unwise, perhaps even unconstitutional, for Parliament to levy an internal tax on people who had no representation in that assembly." (222). Whether or not this was a correct interpretation is besides the point. The point is that the consensus in the colonies eventually became that the Parliament lacked the power to levy such taxes, because of the representation issue. As a commenter on the question noted in referring to a Constitutional History of the American Revolution: The Authority to Tax, the colonists believed that such powers could only be executed by their local officials, not by Parliament itself. (Reid 9-11). In a way, the colonists concept of what was or wasn't constitutional is not that different from our present day idea of what is or isn't constitutional. Namely, is what the government doing within the powers possessed by the government, ie constitutional? References 

The final fate of the USS Oriskany (CV-34) is that it was scuttled as an artificial reef in the Gulf of Mexico. It's a fairly famous dive site. There are photos of the ship as it sank taken by the United States Navy. What I don't understand is there appears to be a small boat strapped down to the deck of the USS Oriskany. Furthermore there is a box in that boat that is also strapped down. What is the purpose of this boat? What is the box in the boat? 

The B-17 was used for a significant portion of the Allied campaign during WWII. My understanding is the earliest bombs in aviation consisted of just throwing stuff out of the open cockpit of planes. Later this progressed to some doors in the fuselage through which bombs simply fell out when opened. The B-17 appears to have a more complex bomb bay system, with doors and with the bombs mechanically retained somehow. Did Allied crews ever experience difficulty getting the bombs to release? How did they deal with this (landing with bombs seems dangerous)? Does any data exist for what percentage of missions encountered problems with the bomb release mechanisms? 

According to Wikipedia, the Semi-Automatic Ground Environment system could automatically update the autopilot of the F-106 and the guidance system of the CIM-10 Bomarc. Presumably this would send either a destination or a vector to the asset in flight, allowing it to intercept a target that had changed course after the asset had taken off. How was this upload of data to the in flight asset performed? Were there any provisions to prevent a malicious enemy from sending messages that steered the asset off course? It was most likely a radio frequency system, so I am specifically asking for details of the radio unit and the nature of the communications. For example, the designation of the ground based transmitter and the airborne receiver. Wikipedia link: $URL$ 

I know that some African nations participated in the slave trade by providing captured enemies as slaves to Europeans, but what are some of the reasons they did? Was it simply a new economic opportunity that they took advantage of and sought to use to gain advantage against their rivals? I'm looking for a nice synthesis of the issue and some decent sourcing to other materials, or book recommendations. 

The Mayans viewed their gods as both benevolent, and malevolent. As Sir John Eric Sidney Thompson stated in his book Maya History and Religion the Mayan gods were largely indifferent except for a desire for recognition in the way of frequent offerings. This is confirmed somewhat by the Popol Vuh which is mostly concerned with how the gods made man. This article argues that the Mayan gods were not akin to most Western conceptions of "gods," and the Mayan gods were just a part of the natural order of the universe, and as such they were not terribly active. Pre-Colombian sources are somewhat sparse, but there is no glaring evidence to suggest that the Mayan gods were not indifferent gods that could be good and evil. 

Encyclopedia Britannica says May 26th As you noted the BBC says May 27th The History Channel says May 26th Admiral Tennant, then Captain Tennant, arrived at Dunkirk on May 26th according to the BBC And, the Worcester News says that Admiral Tennant arrived on May 26th English Heritage has an interactive timeline saying the order was given May 26th, but the evacuation started on May 27th I cannot find anything that says Tennant arrived on May 22nd. Looks like the order was given May 26th, but the boats started moving May 27th. 

I suppose we have to exclude the Confederate Navy entirely, otherwise this question would be far too easy to answer. At least in recent times, such an act would be in violation of the US Code Title 10, Subtitle C, Part IV, Chapter 633, 7309. The President can apparently waive this however. Reference: $URL$ All of the boats acquired during the Spanish-American war that were from overseas were just purchased. None that I can find were actually built for the United States Navy. This point in US Navy history is probably the point at which the largest percentage of United States Navy boats were of foreign construction. About 125,000 tons were purchased. Reference: $URL$ The National Defense Reserve Fleet contains numerous foreign built vessels, but again none were ordered by the US Navy at any point in time. Since there is no clear answer here, I'll submit the SBX-1. SBX-1 was at one point a boat of the Missile Defense Agency, part of the Department of Defense. As of 2018 the MDA presently has an Air Force General as its head, but SBX-1 is an oceangoing vessel with a clear combat purpose. SBX-1 hull started life as a CS-50 oceangoing platform. It was purchased from the Norwegian firm Moss Maritime. To make it more interesting that hull actually comes from Sevmash, a Russian company who made it in Severodvinsk. Final fitment was done in US ports located in Texas and Hawaii. So it isn't a US Navy boat, but it was at one point part of the US military structure. It has no offensive capabilities either. 

What was the first army that had a radio operator in combat units? By radio operator I mean someone who carried radio frequency communication equipment into combat and used it for communications purposes.