Foot first, then the rest I assume that he can teleport in a lying position. He should present himself foot-first to the bullet. The bullet would enter from under its foot and travel toward the head. If he is lucky, it will stop below the knee and damages will be limited to one leg. If he is unlucky it will go further into the body. The advantage is that the bullet will go through a lot of bones, which are likely to oppose a lot of resistance: all the small bones of the foot, tibia, femur, hips, … up to the skull. It is the longest possible path in the body, so it is the path that will reduce the energy of the bullet the most, maybe even stopping a fairly high energy bullet. 

Use the tide Build your structure between sea level at high and low tide. Build it inland, far enough from the sea for the tomb raiders not to think of the sea. Build a tunnel between your structure and the sea shore. Make the path in your structure long and flat enough to make outrunning the tide impossible. At every high tide, any intruder will be drowned. The whole structure can be considered as the trap. Low tide 

Let’s assume that the city is well prepared and the guards well trained. It is possible that the events will occur like this: Alarm 

Total If we sum it all, we have nearly 12 minutes between the attack and the guards arriving at the door. Tricks A few tricks might make it quicker: 

So, when a colon family arrives to the new planet, some authority assign land to it. The family goes there and build a house. The next colon will be given another land, some kilometres away, and so on. Once all the usable land are given, it’s time to start colonizing the next planet. If you need to buy something, just go online and buy it. Some drone will make a delivery. If you want to sell something, just do the same. You can work online as well, for instance answering questions on Stack (they pay you now). If you need to socialize, well just do it online or take your glider to the bbq party of your neighbour, few kilometres away. Basically: Transportation and communication made villages obsolete (and cities too). People enjoy living in the countryside, clean air, little birds, no noisy neighbors. 

Absence of light is the trap You could design a trap where the sudden lack of light is the danger. For instance, imagine a path where you have to jump from one pillar to the next one. The pillars are big enough so that, if you can see where you step, there is no big risk of falling. However, the only light source is coming from one of these pillars, probably the one in the middle. When you step on it, your weight closes the light conduct (and you can’t reopen), and it’s all dark. You don’t know exactly how far are the next pillars. You can’t go back either, for the same reason. If you try and jump, you might get lucky for the next pillar, but not for the fifteen others after it. So eventually you are going to fall and die because it’s totally, 100%, dark now. You can’t even see your hand before it touches your face. If you decide to stay on the pillar, you'll die when you eventually fall asleep/dehydrate/lose balance because of total darkness. Sidenote 1 I know… light is not really the trigger of anything. But still, it's fine with your condition: 

It’s very easy, poor mermaids. Acidification Search for all the trapped carbon on earth and below oceans, mostly in the form of petrol. Pump it, refine it and give it to everyone so that they can burn it to get energy. By doing so, they will release industrial level of CO2 in the atmosphere, thus leading to an acidification of the oceans. If the mermaids could survive it per se, it’s likely that their coral and forest homes will die, bleached out. Their food will disappear. They will get sick, starve and reproduce less. Eventually they’ll die out. Trawling You could also encourage heavy fishing with destructive means such as bottom trawling to accelerate the phenomena. Bonus As a side bonus, your civilization will prosper happily, with a nearly free source of energy and food (as long as they have another planet to go to if something unplanned goes wrong with the aforementioned plan). 

I'm finally actually participating in the weekly topic challenges, instead of just helping run them. Let's say that there's a siege around a small series of fortifications that comprise the only defense of a small band of rebel soldiers (the technology level is about that of Europe circa 1100). The surrounding army can't seem to get in because the rebels have chosen to hide amidst old fortifications, like the ones at some places along Hadrian's Wall. They're old even at this point in time, but instead of some of the fortifications at present-day Hadrian's Wall, the fortifications are ten feet tall and about two feet deep. The soldiers have no weapons that they can use to get in. They can't go over the wall, because there's a two-foot deep ditch surrounding the wall that increases the effective height to about twelve feet. They have no rope, and only bows and arrows, swords and shields. There are no trees of other vegetation which could help them - in fact, no natural materials they could use at all. Yet they need to quickly squelch out the rebels (i.e. within a couple days, at which point they have to leave and fight elsewhere), who have enough provisions to survive for two weeks. Fortunately, the soldiers know that the surrounding countryside is filled with a certain kind of insect that can eat through stone. They spend all but one of their remaining days catching enough of these insects. They gather them in bags and then let them loose at the base of one of the sections, where the insects manage to carve a hole big enough for an armored man to get through. The rest is history.1 Could these insects exist? If so, would it be reasonable for a large swarm (e.g. 5,000 - the soldiers were busy) to eat a hole of this size in a period of 24 hours? The surrounding region looks a fair bit like Northeast England, as shown here: 

Be denser as a liquid than a solid. This is atypical of most substances, but water is an exception. This is why only the tops of ponds freeze over and the lower layers are frozen. Otherwise, nothing would survive in winter, because ice would form and sink down, letting more water freeze. Ice fishing would be much less interesting nonexistent. Be the next universal solvent. If you've taken high school biology, then you might have heard the phrase "water is the universal solvent" a couple times. Water is good because it can dissolve quite a lot of things. A related pure-chemistry-inspired property is that water plays a huge role in the reactions of acids and bases. Stay liquid at room temperature, and the moderate ranges of temperatures seen on Earth. If a substance is solid at 25 degrees Celsius, then we've got a problem (namely, the oceans). It must also be possible for this substance to be gaseous at some point, facilitating the water cycle. Be useable in both cellular respiration and photosynthesis. The reasons for this are pretty straightforward. These are clearly not the only forms of energy production used by organisms on Earth (e..g thermophiles use different mechanisms), but they're what you'll have to use if you want things to stay normal. 

I recently came across Could pulsars really act as "lighthouses" to help in interstellar travel?, asked a week ago. The author was trying to figure out if pulsars could be useful for interstellar FTL travel, because they could be used to find a craft's position; the answer was, of course, yes. I had some reservations, though. My main issue was that it seems, from an engineering standpoint, not very feasible. Here's my thought process: 

I'm actually going to consider how such a year would affect animals, because I have a feeling nobody else is planning on addressing it. This should be short and to the point, unlike some of my other answers. Many animals have a "mating season" - i.e. a period each year where they mate. This can manifest itself in brilliant displays of plumage, or head-butting confrontations between some males. For many species, the mating season only comes once a year, and so each female only gives birth to a small number of offspring. Now, if the year was longer, and there was still only one mating season per year, each female (and therefore each male) would produce only half as many offspring throughout their lives as they would otherwise. If the year was shorter, each female (and therefore each male) would produce twice as many offspring throughout their lives as they would otherwise. Thus, population growth could be affected by a change in the length of a year. Note: This assumes gestation period remains the same, which may not be the case.