I'm 6'4 250 lbs, and a current BJJ and kickboxing practitioner (though I compete very rarely). I have a couple favorite methods I use to stay in decent fighting shape: Two handed, lightweight (~35 lbs in our case) kettlebell swings. I really try to focus on driving the bell down, and using the hip action to pop the bell up. The explosiveness, especially in the hips, is fantastic for supplementing striking power. I've also recently fallen in love with the sledgehammer. A lot of folks hit a tire indoors, but I prefer hitting gravel piles, for what it's worth. I typically alternate both sides using a 12 lbs hammer. I usually design my workout in intervals based on the length of rounds I'm training for. For instance, if I'm training for 3 minute rounds, I'll do kb swings for a minute, sledge swings for a minute, then shadow box (usually working on a particular set of combinations for a minute). Rest however much time you're alloted in between rounds, and repeat the cycle the maximum number of rounds the fight might last. This will probably gas you pretty good. don't overdo it, especially the first few times. I train in class twice a week, lift heavy three times, do light aerobic work twice, and a high intensity anaerobic cardio workout like this max twice a week (and mobility and stretching whenever I can). That said, you'll probably have to feel it out for yourself. 

You can definitely work out twice a day, generally speaking. If you're talking about light-to-moderate aerobic sessions and split resistance training, you shouldn't have much to worry about. I'm assuming that you're not focused on any sport-specific performance training, or worried about fine tuning gains for an upcoming bodybuilding competition. If you're just a dude looking to get/stay fit, your main concern with two-a-days should be avoiding fatigue. Again, it doesn't sound like you're at risk with the type of programming you noted, but there are multiple ways to monitor your central nervous system (CNS) to make sure aren't taxing it too heavily: 

The cause of muscle cramping hasn't been definitively proven, however contemporary studies on the matter suggest the cause to be associated with fatigue and muscle tightness, in addition to the traditionally assumed dehydration/electrolyte depletion theory. Here's an abstract from a peer-reviewed 2009 study on the matter: Cause of exercise associated muscle cramps (EAMC)--altered neuromuscular control, dehydration or electrolyte depletion? I would totally agree with Tony Stark's comment regarding visiting a doctor (more specifically a sports medicine doc; preferably one who lifts), but in the meantime, get plenty of rest, stretch and mobilize the both the agonist and antagonist muscle groups that are bothering you, and experiment with electrolyte sources (e.g., a 2010 Bringham Young study showed that pickle juice can help with muscle cramping...haven't tried it myself, but...yeh, let me know how that goes). 

Mike Reinold is the sports Physical Therapist for this - check out "Solving the Patellofemoral Mystery" for a starting point. It leads you to seven heavy duty articles aimed at PTs in clinical practice. It might encourage you to seek out professional guidance as an informed client who can actively participate in his own recovery. Don't forget that in addition to things you should do, you need to know what NOT to do. To be honest, I've always diagnosed myself and ignored those disclaimers about "seeing a doctor before embarking on any exercise program" and have only been wrong once in 45 years. That resulted in rotator cuff surgery, but that was a complete success. I'm telling you this to show that bad things can happen if you self-diagnose, they usually don't, but they only have to happen once. Reinold says that a coach or PT can only "rule things in" - it takes a specialist with test and scan results to rule things out. I wish you all the best in whatever decision you make. 

Because body building isn't an exact science like bridge building (and even that has gone horribly wrong more than once), you're going to have to keep a food diary and a workout diary. The food diary tracks calories, protein, (and slip ups) and your weight. The workout diary tracks your strength and work capacity and aerobics. You can start with WebMD calculators for BMI and minimum calorie intake to maintain weight and a good workout program emphasizing big lifts. But these are only starting points. You need real data to determine what works - and remember that things will change as you go. 

Google "dumbbell rows." You brace yourself with one hand on your bench and row with the free hand. This is a pretty standard exercise. In your case you may want to be careful not to twist your body. Bent over barbell rows are another staple of "old school" body building/strength training. Again, lighter weight with stricter form may be the way to go. Check out "neutral spine" for these rows. You can support your head on something to keep a good bent over position. From this position you can also do reverse dumbbell flyes and for the rows you can pull the bar to your stomach or nipples to work different parts of your back. Check out $URL$ Barbells and dumbbells built some of the biggest backs in body building. Because of your injury you should probably focus on strict form - only the arms and scapula pull the weight, no body English. Feel free to ask for clarification or more links, Good luck and all the best. 

Though the cause of DOMS still isn't totally understood, most contemporary research suggests that the pain comes from nerve sensitivity caused by bradykinin during the muscle repair process. Having said that, if you're still sore, your body is probably still repairing--let it do its thing. I would hold off on jogging at the pace that's causing the soreness for a day or two until it subsides. If you're looking for a comparable exercise in the "off-days", consider walking uphill/incline at a slower pace. While the workout might be just as cardiovascularly intensive, work at an incline has been shown to cause less damage to your muscle fibers (when compared to downhill surface; $URL$ 

Both of these lifts train the brachialis and the brachioradialis (as well as the biceps brachii). Growing these commonly neglected muscles, and continuing to train the lateral, medial and long head of the triceps, will grow your arms' overall cirumference, and likely add the perception of increased "fatness". 

Unfortunately, you can't change the shape of your muscles (you're not going to be able to morph your peak to width ratio), but you can work on the illusion. If you're not already, consider adding reverse curls and hammer curls to your training program. 

In short, yes, your daily walks are aerobic activity (definitely not anaerobic...start farmer's walking that distance, and you'll really get some looks as you pass people). Just about any by-the-book doctor would applaud your efforts; you're doubling the American Heart Association's recommendation of 150 minutes/week of light-to-moderate aerobic activity. Is it enough to compliment your resistance training? Yes, in general terms. Your light-to-moderate hour/day walks are slowly improving--at least maintaining--your heart's ability to deliver fuel and remove waste from your muscles. That said, some anaerobic "cardio" every now in then (e.g., interval hill sprints) will improve your muscles' efficiency to use that fuel. If your aim is to be (or continue being) a generally healthy individual, keep doing what you're doing. That said, I'd recommend experimenting with some shorter-session, higher intensity training once or twice a week if you can fit it in your schedule; especially if you consider more specific, performance oriented goals in the future. 

Moderate exercise boosts your immune system, but you experience diminishing returns as you increase in intensity (one study here). The two biggest factors that can have negative effects on your immune system are inflammation (inflammation suppresses your immune cells), and overtraining syndrome (list of symptoms to monitor). David and Berin's answers are solid; get plenty of sleep, eat right (especially avoiding foods that cause an inflammatory response in your body), and allow yourself to recover. The only thing I would add, especially if your going hard during those two hours, is listen to your body before, during, and after training. Consider monitoring biomarkers like HR, HRV, CNS tap testing on a daily basis; push through discomfort, but don't push through pain; and on the days you're working out, if you're not feeling it, don't kill it. 

Rippetoe (of Starting Strength) has book of essays entitled Strong Enough? . Maybe you are for your current needs. I gave all the answers an up, they're all good. One thing I might add is that the plank is very easy to do kind of wrong. Has anyone put a yardstick on you to check your 'plankiness'? 

Sadly, we're not going to know much about the Phelp's generation for decades to come. There is good data for sumo wrestlers going back over 60 years, but it's clouded by the fact that smoking and drinking were pretty common even into the eighties. Of course, no professional/elite athlete is in it for their health. As for sumo wrestlers, the outlook is not good even for those who maintained 10-15% bodyfat while putting on a 100 pounds in four years. Their lifespan was shortened even if they carefully returned to normal size after retiring. Phelps and the others might be in danger because of the stress of a lifestyle that can burn off 10,000 calories. I think the diet of Olympic athletes can't be separated from the other extremes of their life so we need to be very careful about learning from them. I could have said that better but pole vaulting is coming on. 

Practical Programming for Strength Training by Rippetoe & Kilgore is written for strength and conditioning coaches including power lifting teams so it applies to athletes in strict training programs. In a section called "Going Backward: Detraining" he says that strength persists much longer than aerobic VO2 max...ability to generate force drops in a few weeks...drops at about 15% per year...returning after 2-6 months, the trainee should drop one level e.g. an intermediate lifter should restart with novice programs (he defines these terms strictly) until his strength returns to pre-layoff levels, which will occur faster than the time it took to become intermediate (this is true for size as well). He strongly cautions coaches/trainers to not "get greedy" in that even an athlete who's just turned intermediate has a neuromuscular system far more efficient than the untrained individual and though it's weakened it is still able to work the detrained muscles harder than they can handle. This is what Dave, FredrikD, and YYY have already said in their comments, I just wanted to put a reference in an answer for those who want to pursue these issues further. Interestingly for me at least, he then goes on to discuss the returning 'retired' lifter, someone who's taken a year or more off. Here he suggests restarting with novice level programs regardless of pre-layoff level. 

If your goal is simply to achieve the ability to do a bunch of push ups, you should attack it with volume (in other words, you gotta do a lot of push ups to do a lotta push ups). Spread out the load throughout the day. Here's how I would take it if my max rep range was 5: 

It really depends on your goals and programming. The answer could be yes or no. With my current routine, for example, I dead lift, front squat and bench press three times a week, however, I only complete 10 reps of each lift per session (broken up into 2-3 sets, rarely more than 85% 1 RM). Without getting into the fine details of my current program, I'm mainly targeting strength gains (borrowing from some of the core concepts of Dan John's "Easy Strength" musings). In the said routine, I could care less about hypertrophy. If you're targeting hypertrophy (muscle growth), completing a high volume of reps, and/or approaching near failure during sets, you could find yourself in an "overtrained" state pretty quickly (though, as Daniel implied, you'll probably get injured first). In that case, I'd strongly consider completing heavy, compound lifts (ie DL, Squats...) once a week, and work from there. It's hard to completely answer your question without some more details, but if you're really concerned with overtraining prevention, get yourself an HRV (heart rate variability) monitor, keep a log, and go big when your body tells you it's ok. Have fun! EDIT: I see you added that you're doing a 5x5 (sorry if I just missed it the first time around). You could do a 5x5 approach over four days if you wanted, and complete big lifts, like DLs and squats, twice a week. If you're employing this method, a key element to consider is how you progress the load in between sets. Take this guy's program for example (the second program of the two): $URL$ He builds 10-15% each set, until he's finally lifting near his 5 RM in the final set. He does his over 3 days, but you could easily spread it out over 4-5. 

Treat every daily session as push up practice, rather than a workout with pushups in it. What you're going for, especially in the early stages, is getting all the correct muscles to contract and inhibit in perfect harmony (while eventually strengthening the muscle fibers at play). At this point, it's closer to learning a new dance move than it is "exercising". Once you get to the 20-25 range (I know it's arbitrary, but 20-25 is a solid foundation to build on...at my age, it would be enough to meet the minimum Army PFT push up score), start playing with different push up variations. Honestly, just Google "push up variations", and experiment. Use these new variations to program a path to your goals; whether they be strength, muscular endurance, or hypertrophy (muscle growth). If you want to just keep on bumping up your max count (like...I don't know...100+) at this point, I recommend a program designed specifically for doing a lot of push ups. Stew Smith is a master in this domain. He has a lot of different programs to help US military ace their fitness tests, but here's a relevant free one: Stuck on Pushups? Try the Pushup Push Workout! I tried the above myself (along with pull ups), and had very solid results (went from 51 to 64 in two weeks). I wouldn't recommend this without a strong foundation, and he says to only do this once, maybe twice a year; he's serious...it's taxing, but it's a great plateau killer. Here's a write up on my results if you're interested: Over 20% Push Up and Pull Up Gains in 14 Days Using Stew Smith’s Program Be patient and consistent and the results will come.