Get a dumpy saddle you don't mind bending and install it in the seat post. Clamp the saddle in a bench top vice. Using the entire bike frame as a lever, turn the bike. Doing this you may be able to break the corrosion that is locking your seat post in place. 

Many of these answers are valid, but before you go through the trouble of heating your frame, using nasty chemicals, or anything else, there is a far simpler method that often does the trick. 

The hub you posted allows you to use standard track cogs, so you should easily be able to swap your 16T cog in and replace whatever it comes with. 

Personally, I prefer option 1 in the cities, because cars will have enough time to see you and slow down. You still have enough space to ride to the side in risky situations to increase the space between you and the car. 2 is more risky in cities because it kind of invites cars to pass you close. I usually to this on broad highways, because there most cars newer slow down to wait to pass you (at least in my experience). I do option 3 on narrow roads with oncoming traffic. These are usually side roads with few traffic anyway. I don't like to stop, but in the end I will get hurt if a car hits me. 

It should be easy to replace your wheel. The wheel is a 26" (this is a standard mountain bike size wheel), and you will also need to match it to the right cassette. from looking at your bike, its likely a 7 or 8 speed cassette. Your local bike shop should be able to tell what size cassette you need based on your rear deraileur, which wasn't stolen. With wheel, tire and cassette you are probably looking at a $100+ repair if you buy it all new. If there is a local bike co-op in your area that can help you with used parts and labor then you can probably do this for $30-50. 

Riding more in the middle of the your lane so the car behind you can't pass you unless there is more space or no oncoming traffic Riding very right (when right-side traffic, otherwise left) so cars can pass you without problems Stop and let the car pass 

If you are planning your tour for Europe, you can give komoot a try. It offers exactly that: Planning a route on PC, synchronizing it with your Android or iOS device, and letting your mobile device navigate you along your route - even with voice navigation. However, you have to pay for voice navigation and offline maps. You pay for each "region" where you want to enable these features. They full package costs €30. In my opinion, it is worth the money, but you have to decide for yourself. The first region (your home region) is free, so you can try it before buying. One advantage of komoot is that planning a route for your bicycle already takes bicycle paths, bike lanes and roads with few cars into account. It allows you even to select if you want to go by a racing bike, road bike or mountainbike, and picks the appropriate paths. 

If this doesn't work, go down the line of more extreme options like heat, chemicals, cutting and chiseling, etc... If its that bad though I would encourage you to go to your local bike shop. 

I recently picked up a Cannondale CAAD12 Disc and some TRP spyre disc calipers for it. Just lining up the mount holes on the spyres to the mount positions, the front disc mounts on the fork line up great. Hoever, the mount positions on the rear are closer together than the mount positions on the spyre caliper. The two spyre calipers are the same, but the disc mount positions on the rear of the CAAD12 frame are closer together. Is there an adapter or something I need to get? Or a completely new caliper? Will this affect what size rotors I can run? 

Calculating the average speed after a tour is easy. You know the start time, the end time, and the length of your route. Therefore, you can find out the average speed. Using "average over distance" approach: What if your track is so hilly that calculating every 10th of a mile is useless again? Then we would need to use every 100th of a mile. This will get more accurate, but will not be exact. You could use a unit like "speed per meter". You would have to track the average speed of every meter then, which will be extremely difficult (even with assistance of a bike computer/smartphone). Still, every meter is an average speed, so, mathematically seen, it is still not exact. You would need the speed of an infinite small part of a meter to get the exact speed, which is impossible. So, from my point of view, it is not done for two reasons: 

Sometimes it can be a tight fit installing a headset cup / race. Bike forums are full of people saying putting the cup in the freezer helps installation based on their anecdotal, uncontrolled experiments. Internet forums are also full of people saying it doesn't help at all, or you need to use dry ice or something else. Aside from everyone's personal anecdotes, or what someone on the internet said one time, is there any evidence that freezing headset cups makes them easier to install? Does freezing them really shrink them sufficiently to make a difference? 

Chris- first culprit is the barrel adjuster. New cables tend to strench. As a result, small adjustments need to be made to cable tension to keep shifting 100% dialed in. Doing this at home is fairly simple, and there are many great tutorials online about how to do this yourself, here is a link to a great video from art's cyclery. if you still have trouble dialing in your shidting the next most likely culprit is a slightly bent derailer hanger. This can actually be a quick and cheap fix at a bike shop, as they have a tool to bend it back into alignment (instead of totally replacing the hanger). In summary, try watching the video, and if you still have trouble try visiting a new shop! 

You won't be able to stop this completely. There will be always car drivers how try to pass you, no matter what. However, there are things you can do about this. Most car drivers usually let enough space between you and the car, if possible. So they will likely pass you closer when: 

I bought an older second-hand racing bike, which has tubular tires mounted. I went to a bike shop and wanted to buy a spare tubular tire, but they told me: 

Here on bicycles SE I often read questions about right sizing of a bike, how you should sit on a bike, what to do when some part of your body hurts etc. I also came across the answer