“It is the only peace, the only happiness: prevent sankhara from arising by eliminating tanha and excess greed, and thus stopping the arising of defilements, which is Nibbana“. This above mentioned contemplation is the most effective kammatthana when cultivating Ariya Jhana. But we can never achieve such jhanic states that is helpful in furthering the Noble Eightfold Path if there isn’t a sense of happiness within us. The sati sampajanna that one dwells in should be one of inner happiness and peace of mind. Sati is mindfulness. The Pali word for alertness is sampajañña. It doesn’t mean being choicelessly aware of the present, or comprehending the present. Sampajañña means being aware of what you’re doing in the movements of the body, the movements in the mind. This is why mindfulness and alertness should always be paired. Our happiness, our lack of happiness, depends on our actions. So that’s where we focus our attention. When you create a frame of reference here in the present moment, there are lots of things you can tune in to. You can choose the body in and of itself. You can choose feelings, mental states, mental qualities in and of themselves. Of all the sensory input that comes in at any one particular moment, you make a choice of what you’re going to pay attention to, what memories, what frame of reference you’re going to bring to that particular moment. And it’s an important mental skill to be able to shift your frame of reference as necessary. Being mindful means being very deliberate and clear about what you bring to whatever you’re doing: what you’re going to remember, what you’re not going to remember, what you’re going to recollect, what you’re going to let go, which things are useful to recollect right now. If you wanted to, you could sit and spend the whole hour thinking about facts that would make you totally miserable, but what does that accomplish? In walking the Path we are to think about things that are useful for the mind, so remember the things that are useful for the mind, that will help it develop. As for the other voices coming in and out of the mind, listen to the ones that are helpful and ignore the ones that are not. You can be selective. This way, mindfulness becomes a quality we can apply to everything we do. And instead of making us unable to function, it heightens our ability to function, because we understand the process that the mind goes through, and we are in a state of happiness within. Just because your teacher and almost all the books in the present day say as to how could one be happy when everything is suffering, you should not accept such a statement as true. For one to advice another on Dhamma, one has have at least come to the ‘Stream Entrant’ stage of the Path. This is like someone trying to teach another to ride a cycle, when he himself doesn’t know how to ride one. Sadly that is the state of affairs in the present day and age. You can sing, dance, and have an enjoyable time while being grounded in reality, in knowing the underlying nature of anything in this world. It is fully engaging in life with an understanding that we will not be able to maintain anything to our satisfaction over long times. Thus we can see suffering - there not being anything of true inherent value in mundane life activities – but still participate in the activities in a rather detached way. If one truly understands this fact, that itself leads to the Stream Entrant stage of Nibbana. 

What is meant by this Stanza is, “I pay homage to the Blessed One, the Exalted One, the fully Enlightened One” or “I pay homage to the fully Enlightened One who found the truth about the existence and became free of all defilements”. Both interpretations are important for someone starting out, without much knowledge of Dhamma. But the Buddha himself said that the best way to pay homage to him is to learn Dhamma and to follow the Path. That is the more deeper meaning of the Namaskaraya, “Namo tassa bhagavato arahato samma sambuddhassa”. I will not elaborate on the Three Refuges (Tisarana) and the five precepts (Panca Sila) as past Ops have already covered this. I would like to share this instead. Once The Buddha said, “Attä hi attano nätho, kö hi näthö paro siyä”, meaning, ”One indeed is one’s own refuge; how can others be a refuge to one?”. Each one has one’s own mind. And that is what is needed to be purified in order to attain a peaceful life now, a better life in the next, or even Nibbana. But it all starts with going for refuge in the Buddha Dhamma & the Sangha. It is good to recite Namaskaraya, Tisarana, and the precepts, to attain citta pasada or calmness and joy of mind. If one does it with understanding and resolve, it can bring benefits. The five precepts have deep meanings, and thus should not be taken lightly. Even if one does not live upto these 5 precepts, one needs to recite with the intention of doing one’s best to keep the precepts. 

“Paticca samuppada” (PS) explains how and under what conditions kamma vipaka produces results, but it never gets discussed in greater detail in this forum. But what is important to know is that Kamma is not deterministic, other than for anantariya kamma (killing of parents or an Arahant or harming a Buddha etc.). The law of Kamma is that one’s actions will have consequences-. A natural extension of the law of Kamma is the validity of the rebirth process. It is because the result of a kamma can bear fruits in this life or in future lives. All things in the world (sankata) operate on the basis of kamma vipaka and will also eventually go away (viparinäma). At Sotapanna stage (which is within reach of anyone of us in this forum if we can break away from set notions on dhamma that we are not prepared to question) all of the kamma seeds that make it possible to have births in the four lower planes, is made ineffective. We are yet to become stream entrants because we have wrongly interpreted the three characteristics of anicca, dukkha, anatta. To put a stop to the generation of negative kamma, it is important that we accept the true meaning of these three words, and through this to learn to see the true nature of this world (that it is anicca, dukkha, & anatta), not just intellectually but truly. Then we will never be born in the four lower planes. It happens when we start to comprehend that it is not possible to achieve and maintain anything to one’s satisfaction. Here it is important to note that we do not have to remove any attachments by force. When one comprehends Dhamma to the level to see not only the unfruitfulness but the dangers of our ‘normal way’ of going about things, we start becoming more and more detached from things. Then our attachment to sense pleasures lessen, by seeing that temporary enjoyment (assada) is bound to bring about negative consequences (adeenava). Kamma vipaka are the root causes for all that happen in this world, but their effects can be altered and be even stopped by this above mentioned way of seeing. If we do not have the humility to consider this other way of seeing things, we will continue to acquire kamma seeds (good or bad) that can lay dormant for a long time until conditions becomes right for it to germinate, in this never ending samsara. The only solution for this predicament is to come to Sotapanna stage. It can also be done by developing an insight called “Udayabbaya ñāna”. With Udayabbaya ñāna (udayavaya nana) one comprehends how suffering arises and how one can eliminate future suffering. When one gains the udayavaya nana, one can see the causes that need to be eliminated to overcome otherwise inevitable future suffering. So what is this udayavaya ? It is the arising and destruction of a sankata; Udayavaya describes how anything in this world (pancakkhanadha) arises due to causes. And whatever arises (udaya), it matures with time while changing in unexpected ways, and then inevitably gets destroyed (vaya). A living being arises due to causes, and when the underlying cause or the fuel is spent, the living being dies. But the process does not stop, because the being had acquired new causes (new kamma) during that life or in the previous lives. In PS, there are two types of Bhava. The first type can bring about “experiences” during the current life (kamma bhava) and those that become strong enough to power a whole new existence (uppatti bhava). The more one does acts suitable for a certain “bhava“, the vinnana for similar behavior grows, and it is easier for one to be “born” in a corresponding state; this is “pati+ichcha” leading to “sama+uppada”. This is what is meant by PS. Repeated ‘abhi’sankhara that one does, leads to strengthening the corresponding mindset or vinnana, and it propagates down the paticca samuppada series to make “kamma bhava“. “Kamma bhava” then gives rise to a “jati”. The laws of kammā are not just based on causes and effects, they depend on conditions. If suitable conditions do not materialize for long times, then that kamma beeja will lose its energy. A seed cannot germinate unless it is placed in the ground and water, sunlight, and nutrients are provided. Similarly the role of conditions in the laws of kamma are inherent in the PS systems. In PS, “avijja paccaya sankhara” does NOT mean “avijja causes sankhara”. Similarly “sankhara paccaya vinnana” does NOT mean “sankhara causes vinnana”. In order for causes to bring about corresponding effects, suitable conditions must be present. That is what “paccaya” means. When such suitable conditions are present, causes will bring about corresponding effects. Thus when some effect is brought about, it is called “paccuppanna“, i.e., born (“uppanna“) via suitable conditions (“paccaya“). In many cases, such critical conditions are not satisfied long after the causes were generated, so there is normally a time delay between causes and effects, i.e., between kamma and kamma vipaka.’ In the Patthäna Dhamma (book on “Conditional Relations” in Abhidhamma), the subject of Kamma is discussed in greater detail, if one needs to find out more. Pattana Dhamma describies that conditions are as important as root causes, which are lobha, dosa, and, moha (for akusala kamma), and alobha, adosa, and amoha (for kusala kamma). Further reading will tell you that Kamma vipaka do not take place via PS cycles, even though the seeds were generated with PS cycles. They appear when suitable conditions are available. What is most important for you and I, is to realize that unless one has at least attained the Sotapanna stage, one could act with avijja at the level of moha, and generate kamma (sankhara) that could generate kamma bhava corresponding to possible birth in the four lowest realms. Thus realizing the importance of comprehending the true meaning of anicca, dukkha, & anatta is a must, whether we like it or not.