Obviously this is not a reduction to infinite regress, it is a "slippery slope" fallacy. Theoretically the proponent of the original argument would fully accept eating an animal that had lived out a full life in relative natural comfort, but sees that animals are not farmed that way, and considers the way they are farmed to involve torture of some sort. Killing them too early, keeping them too constrained, etc. There are people who go that far with plants, for instance the Jain. Since the plants entire goal in life seems to be to grow up and spread seeds, thwarting that may constitute 'torture' of a plant. But they will still eat what falls naturally from a plant if it does not prevent the plant from reproducing. (They will eat the fruit, as long as they seeds get fertilized, and they will consume the vegetation of annual species, but they will not harvest it alive.) There is no one who has a notion of what it means to torture bacteria. So there is no parallelism here. 

Contrary to the basic notions of Classical thought, what logic you need really does depend on what you are doing. Classical logic uses the material conditional, your first option, because it is relatively safe to do so. It is part of a simplified model, and in that model, this way of accounting truth does not lead to contradictions we do not like. However, it does not correctly model deduction, and it is particularly unrealistic in modeling situations where deductions are made with limited information. If you use the axiom A => (B -> A) directly in real life, you are making no sense. The true fact that most elephants are not yellow is not a consequence, in any natural way, of the fact that some monkeys like sugar. But the former implies the latter in Classical logic, or in a computer circuit or a decision in Newtonian physics. It is an axiom of most logical systems. It summarizes the idea that we don't really know the exact deductive path from one true fact to another true fact, but we don't feel we need to. We trust fields like math and basic science, and even large chunks of philosophy, to a certain degree to be timeless and complete in a way that makes all true things equally true. In those contexts, which make up most contexts, the answer to (1) is that it is true except in bizarre circumstances. There are ways, see Curry's paradox, in which we can get weird results using these axioms. But we would notice those right off. We are safe using this logic in deductions about everyday things. In contexts like law, where judges do not know what decisions other judges are making at the same time, or have made in distant jurisdictions, this principle does not hold. There can ultimately be a contradiction between their decisions in the future. You cannot simply depend on the material conditional to tell you whether something is true. Otherwise, you could not lose now and win on appeal, unless the logic of the first case were found provably incorrect. But we see it happen -- decisions change, for good reason, that were, at the time they were made, right. There is just limited information that requires real arguments, using a more 'real' notion of implication, to flow together in a more literal way. So for instances like that, we need ways of reasoning that are less abstract than the ones in ordinary mathematics. The same problem occurs in fields of physics like quantum dynamics, and in reasoning about other people psychologically, where things can only be found consistent to a limited degree. Sometimes the simplified rules just don't cut it. So the answer to (2) is that you can really follow the threads of an argument as closely as you need to, when you need to. We spend the time to do it in these domains, and we are confident of the results. But if there were a short, constructive answer to (2), we would never have invented Classical logic to begin with. 

We know from babyhood that when things disappear behind other things they don't cease to exist. You can entertain a 6-month-old with this amazing fact, but by the time we are 1, 'peek' has become a comforting ritual social interaction and not a lesson in physics. So we are meant to know some things well beyond present experience. Memory is not present experience and expectations based on memory make up most of our existence. From the POV of many modern theorists of perception, present experience itself is even just a memory. According to models based on Libet's observations, we experience something not when we sense it, but when the memory of it has been put into a narrative, which is a measurable time after we are first able to react to it. The extreme form of this is the idea of the Boltzmann Brain, the idea that reality has just come into existence around us at some point fairly recently, but we don't remember that, because it came into existence with a full stock of memories. (Kind of like the Creationist argument that God just made reality 8000 years ago, but baked a lot of evidence of longer periods of time into it for some reason we don't understand.) I would argue that what truth really is is the feeling of consistent narratives, and that our current, ongoing experience is just one of these. (I am not sold on the notion that time is ultimately deeply important.) Then stories are what the world is made of, not experiences, and the experiences that deliver them to us are largely irrelevant. 

Dennett's entire motivation is distrust of the Cartesian Theater, which is basically equivalent to the ego having a clear central auditor in an ego theory of consciousness. Very few notions of ego do not have such an aspect, and those seem, to me, simply evasive, and religious in form. So I would say there is no way of retaining the ego as a central aspect of consciousness without wholly violating Dennett's work in both form and spirit. Besides that, the entire multiple-drafts theory is only meant to be a metaphor for how an ego might arise from a 'bundle' and be properly maintained without losing track of itself. It is not meant to model anything realistic, or even to truly be a theory of consciousness, but only to prove that a real theory of consciousness that allows for an apparent ego as a natural outcome is possible and not far from being attainable. As I see it, in any realistic theory, there is likely no equivalent of the 'draft' in the metaphor. Each 'editing' process would not have a broad enough sense of context for a snapshot at a given instance to constitute a collection of competing drafts. So Dennett has presented a motivation for a model, but not a direction toward one. To my mind, the consistency is entirely socially constructed. We impose the notion of a potential 'draft' -- a consistent whole account of ourselves, perhaps with subtle inconsistencies, but largely constituting a convincing story in competing forms -- from our linguistic experience that other humans expect stories to have a given quality. But that quality is not necessary for communication, it is necessary for social cohesion. We want a story to have a cohesive and coordinating effect on a group of listeners. Interpreters like Feyerabend, talking of 'paratactic aggregation', and Bruno Scnell discussing how Greeks keep changing the metaphors in which they express the internal focal points of independent thought in Homer, even after the content is fixed, have the right idea. Our lives are stories, not because that is a realistic way of capturing and individual human's experience, but because we are not alone. It is likely that the notion of story as a cultural nexus evolved first, and around it we built our model of individual experience. So, as science proposes broadly about other forms of perception, if we want to understand consciousness, we will be looking at illusions forced upon the data and re-constructed backward in time, and not at ongoing processes that actually maintain the consistency of our experience as we handle and store it. There is no draft, only competing revisions. The apparent 'drafts' arise because we are tied to specific stories by our having negotiated them with others. Or, more commonly by having personified our goals as others and negotiated between our own internal goals as if they were separate individuals. I don't think Dennett would defend himself against this kind of evaluation of his theory's "weaknesses". He does not offer it as a real theory, but a proof-of-concept that proves that the reality of the 'bundle' and the experience of the ego are not absolutely at odds, and nature would not require intractable quantities of computation to maintain them both and use them together fluidly. 

On the other hand, from another point of view, your example is not really about the LEM itself. It is really about 'modal' logic, where the whole universe is not yet determined as an object of reasoning. The fact is that it might rain tomorrow, or it might not, which throws you into a modal frame, and not a Classical one. 'Might' is traditionally called a 'mood' and creates 'modality' in the logic. It creates a slippery space between those things which I might or might not do, and those things I will or will not actually do. There is a general structure for modal reasoning, which keeps the other expectations of ordinary logic, including the LEM, while expanding the syntax to cover the undetermined cases. In a modal sense, we can know X ⋎ ¬X. But, where the diamond stands for 'might (if something)', these three: 

This reminds me of the TED talk about being wrong. It opens with the question "What does it feel like to be wrong?" And, of course, the answer is that it feels just like being right. It is only after you determine you are wrong, that you feel differently. I think for a lot of people, positive and negative emotions are labelled according to what happens after them, or how the person thinks of themselves. We can be anxious or excited when we have the rush of adrenaline, we can feel sorrow or joy when something touches us deeply, we can experience contentment or boredom when we can find no motivation to act in any way, we can be passionate or angry when our blood rises, we can laugh uncontrollably when terrified or when deeply amused. They feel very much the same, until we think about what we are feeling, and give them a meaning. According to some standard theories of emotion (James-Lange and its refinements through to Gross and Barrett) they really are exactly the same until labelled. Then they are classified, and these reactions become part of our character. In the future, the same emotion is then going to be positive or negative according to its past consequences. I think that only a few emotions are implicitly and completely positive or negative, and they are physical pain and pleasure and the strongly moral emotions of pride, belonging, guilt and shame. As the more ambivalent emotions get tied up with those, they become positive or negative in tone. Nietzsche does a really good job of carefully describing positive moods: cheerfulness, gaiety, joy, clarity, excitement, contentment, happiness, ecstasy, etc. consistently enough that we realize they come in so many flavors that are well and truly distinct. So the culture as a whole gives us the tools to see this. But most of us seem to have a refined palette of negative feelings and a few strong positive ones, and they label only one or two of those as happiness, and pursue mainly that one. (This is one way of looking at the classical alchemy of humors: your balance of humors harmonizes with certain emotional states, that chooses what you consider happiness, and that defines your character for life. It is true enough in practice that it seemed like the best force of nature on which to base medicine for centuries. The precursor of Jung's theory of functions is the other way.) To me this seems a waste. I think that we feel many flavors of happiness that go unlabeled, and pass as neutral or negative experiences, until we miss them, or we get a strong enough dose to find our addictions, or we finally see the good that comes of the different kinds of logic that the different emotions bias us toward. So yes, I think it is probably the norm to not know most of the forms of happiness you actually experience, at least for the kinds of feeling that do not fit into your own self-image or character.