The last word in your language will be essentially translatable as look-at-me. It is possible to simplify language. It may even be desirable at some points, because humans will trend towards complexity, and turn around and trend towards simplicity, (and not just in language) because the optimum point will be different for different people at different points, and people like change. If a government is catching a language during its slide towards simplicity, it might be able to nudge the trend quite a bit further along than it would naturally go. Of course, if the language is trending the other way (towards complexity), the government would be better off artificially "complexifying" the language, to make people want to trend towards simplicity, and then riding the simplifying train all the way down. Why would this happen? because the government would like to control what people think, and one way to do that is to control what people are taught, and what words they have to put these expressions into language. It wouldn't be quick, but starting with an overt push and "popular support" to simplify language (to "better communicate") can help, and probably get the language (or at least the official government sanctioned word-list) down to functional basics within a generation or two. Native speakers might test at knowing 20,00-35,000 words, but non-native speakers might test from 2,500-9,000 words - so a government can probably get vocabulary cut down too that much without losing the ability to communicate. Three generations will limit how much of the larger body of vocabulary is remembered - that is, after the third there will be very few people who know it was ever different, especially if education is tightly controlled. And how would this happen? First, by overtly getting rid of synonyms, variations, and shades of grey. Anything that can be grouped similarly, should be pared down to one word. Longer sentences and fragments should be encouraged, because it will take more less general words to match the information given by a single precise one. Education will help here, more subtly, instead of kids learning word lists to expand their vocabulary, kids would learn how to describe or talk about things using the same, increasingly reduced pool of words. Then, subtly by encouraging a relaxed attitude to grammar will probably also help, since formal language and grammar encourage precision, and also marking words for part of speech, number, and a host of other things that takes one word and makes it many. Fostering an attitude that the point is getting the meaning across and nothing more will help hide the reduced word usage, since only one word is now standing in for dozens. At this point, something else has started to happen. People will be groping for ways to articulate specifics and differences, since the language that would have once marked them out are gone. So, in come the gestures, from specific gestures to the hand-wavy "you know what I mean" gestures. Intonation and facial expression, not to mention body language, will come to mean more and more as people need to get information across with less and less formal vocabulary. People might make up words, but given your government is actively and overtly trying to discourage this, "because it is exclusive" or "because using words people don't know is unhelpful/rude/antisocial" - the words will probably not catch on. So what will happen instead is that the expressions, gestures, and body language will slowly take on a life of their own. The government will be overtly focusing on preventing the creation or use of words, and perhaps on limiting the existing sign languages (or preventing codified new ones) from being used as a bridge, but casual gestures and contextual meaning will probably slip by until it's too late to matter. The new language will not be codified, not with the government on watch against such "redefining", but will rather be quite intuitive. The government agents will be thinking of language as vocal, as textual, since that's what they can control. On the other hand, some word like "thingy" will be intuitively made to acquire dozens of meanings based on context, gestures, location, and there's no way to stop that, it has to be that way to let society function, or the word couldn't have been made to substitute for others in the first place. Your society will hit the point other answers have described, where you have one-word-per-concept... but the government will not be satisfied not after so much success, and will try to keep paring the language down (actively removing "dangerous" concepts and censoring away at everything else). At this point, it will only work if the body-language has developed enough to compensate for the lack. People need to communicate their problems, and how to fix them, they need to interact, bargain, gossip, complain. So, look-at-me. Look-at-me and gesture to a problem, look-at-me and toss over a solution. Here's the thingy I was talking about, there's the place where what you're holding goes (look-at-me gesture to it). Look-at-me, essentially becomes a placeholder, it only needs to inform its listener about intent-to-communicate... since otherwise looking in the wrong direction will stall out a conversation. Something to catch the ear, gain attention, that is the absolute minimum we would need from spoken language for safety and survival, if someone isn't looking, is too far away to touch, and needs to know. Command someone to look, until they know what someone is trying to say, until they find the problem, and can show a solution, until context can clue someone in on what's going on. Essentially, the government would alternate overt and subtle means (overtly simplifying and redefining, subtly encouraging relaxed simplifying and re-purposing) to pare down the language to the bare essentials, then take over overtly again to push past the one-word-per-concept barrier that a language won't drop below on its own. In the process of trying to control thoughts via vocabulary, it will have pretty much converted a low-context to a high-context culture, since the high context culture can get meaning across without words... so actually the government will have failed to prevent people understanding and communicating all kinds of ideas, they will have just switched from one medium of communication to another, with the possibility of making people more observant and detail-oriented, since they will have to notice and remember all the contextual details instead of having them spelled out. 

They wouldn't forget. They wouldn't have time to forget. A massive EMP attack would take out a lot of infrastructure, including lots of data. It would be a pretty big deal - especially once the secondary effects were counted, the side effects of whatever caused the EMP, or even if it happened on its own, the direct results of electronics failures, like the death toll in hospitals and loss of electronics on airplanes needed to fly or land (therefore crashes), and the financial repercussions would be terrible because of the loss of data. But, there are ways to harden electronics against EMPs (used by the military, so some of their systems should survive), there are backups and hard copies of data - not everything, but lots of things, including blueprints, books, and other sources of information and technology. And there are lots of people that remember, to cover some of the gaps that remain. The bigger question was how much was damaged by the accompanying war, and even more, how much was changed during that war - is there enough of a system left to survive on while everything got rebuilt, what system was it, were people setting up backups because they knew EMPs could be used, was hardening being distributed. People could manually be arranging transport of necessary supplies, trading physical objects and favors, keeping track of logistics so that once everything was up and running again, there would be records - they might have switched over to such systems at the threat of EMPs, before the actual event, or they might have been caught of guard. If the EMP is a singular event, the infrastructure would simply be rebuilt, and perhaps upgraded. It would take time and resources, but it would also be a priority. There would be time for a real loss of knowledge, I would suspect rebuilding would begin as soon as the attack ended. People already know how to make, repair, and troubleshoot the stuff in place, it would be straightforward to replace - the real trouble will be dealing with the rest of the event, like what caused the EMP (if it was accompanied by an explosion (nukes make EMPs)? was it a weapon for a war? what other things happened at the same time?). If the EMP is continuous, or repetitive, so that electronics keep getting disrupted and destroyed - it would take some time for technology to reach the same level again. And if the war damage was very bad, it might take some time for people to come together, and get enough surplus to be a buffer against immediate needs, and have the time to start rebuilding everything. Even so I doubt society would devolve to medieval levels of tech - we simply have too much knowledge, too many records, of every advance that's happened since then, and no reason not to use every improvement we could. Every mechanical and chemical process that has been discovered remains intact, for example, biological advances (selected varieties, hybrids or GMO that may breed true) will still be in place. There are textbooks, there are specialists, there are end-of-the-world survivalists with plans for what knowledge would be most immediately useful and plans for rebuilding... People wouldn't forget because the knowledge is valuable, and even when they are still looking for ways to fill their most basic needs, they will be trying to spend any spare effort will go to remembering, finding knowledge, and rebuilding - because they will all remember that that knowledge is how they can reach a state where they don't have to spend every energy on mere survival. They will be too busy actively looking for ways to put knowledge to use, to dare let it be forgotten. I expect it wouldn't actually take too long for people to start coming up with EMP hardened electronics again, even if they're simple and with manual backups for when they fail. Electronics would be simpler and sturdier, and once again restricted to major systems and urgent needs until the processes are worked out enough to make them cost-efficient for regular consumers again - sort of like how they were developed the first time, only with the double incentive of knowing what should be possible, and having a large market that knows what they want, quickly.