I've got some Sun Rhynolyte rims and one of the features is being welded and machined. What does it mean when said in relation to a rim? 

I'm trying to figure out if I can make a replacement part for an old pair of Marzocchi MX Pro 2003 forks. Its part of the rebound damping rod and is the metal bit in this photo on the top where the hex rod is sticking out. Does anyone have more info about this piece? 

I've been looking at expedition bikes and I've noticed on some bikes I've seen that they have a lot of headset spacers such as $URL$ and thorn cycles in particular. Why is that? 

Tubus logo is a great rear rack and I used it on my touring bike with magura louise disk brakes for around 13,000m. More information and my experience on my websites at Cycle touring across Europe Caucasus to India The alternative would be to go for a seatpost mount or one of the other options mentioned here. 

Most bike lights seem to be the bar / seatpost mounted variety. Is it worth also having a headlamp for riding? I go cycle touring, ride in the city and do mountain bike xc trail riding. I've got a budget enough to buy something decent. 

I wouldn't imagine it is normal for them to be over-tightened - what would be the point? However, its generally advised after buying a machine built bike / wheels to check that spokes / hubs haven't loosening after a breaking in period. This in in comparison with a hand built bike. 

Usually with old bikes like this - the drivetrain (chain, gears, cogs) can be rusted up. You can free these with WD40 to an extent. Inside the hubs may be corroded / rusted. If you can dismantle and regrease these it would help. The cables might be rusted inside- you can use WD40 again or replace them. Check for movement in the headset - check there isn't any knocking there- depending on how much use it has had it might need new bearing or at least a rebuild of the headset bearing. Check the tyres aren't perishing as the old ones tend to - you can see this by cracks in the surface which appear when you pinch the material. Check the spokes aren't loose. Hope that helps. You can also check for movement in the bottom bracket which may indicate needing a new one. 

Are you worried about the weight of the bike or the pressure of the straps? Riding the bike it has to support your weight and the weight of the bike. On the rack it only has to support the weight of the bike. The top tube is taking more force with you riding the bike than the bike hanging from the top tube. As for crushing the tube with a strap. A rubber or cloth strap is not going to crush a metal tube. Consider the seat post. You crank down on the metal seat collar with a more force than a strap and it does not damage the tube or seat post. I see the OP also posted a link OwnerManual It does recommend not using a hanger rack for aluminum Still seems like it would be safe to me I had a thought. First take off an panniers and any bulky items. Second take off the wheels. It is going to be light and catch less wind. Maybe even drop the seat all the way down. I had dogs and bikes (one carbon) the other day and that is what I did. 

So you "just don't like the general feel". Over the long haul soaking up a lot of the potholes, ruts and rough roads will not pay off. That comfort is sucking up power and adds weight to the bicycle. Have fun and you may flat out overpower some riders but it is not going to be a competitive bike. Gravel racers and bike manufactures have come to what is considered an optimal design and they all seem to be in pretty close agreement. It is near the end of CX season - you can often find some great deals on used CX. The line between CX and gravel is pretty narrow. Since CX is a 1 hour race they tend to be stiffer. But I own a very comfortable TI CX. Running larger tires at a lower pressure will absorb a bit (but maybe not optimal performance). Not all CX / Gravel take up to 40MM (and some take even larger). DK200 recommends 40mm+ tires. Even on your mtn bike you should not ride narrow tires. It is not the ruts and pots holes that wear you out but gravel size vibration. A good carbon fiber fork with a large soft tire deals with gravel sized anomalies in an optimal way. As for shoulders/neck discomfort drop bars have multiple positions to spread the fatigue. I just don't see how aero bars on a mtn bike are the way to go. At 200 miles you are into offroad endurance racing. Look into off-road endurance bikes like a CutThroat. That is a pretty brutal race. Over 1/2 the field is going to be out right animals - you would need to be a near world class mtn biker to be competitive on a full suspension bike. OP comments on new bike selection. We don't really do recommendations here but I suggest you break it down by what you want and translate that to specs. Need/want: 

I've got some panniers to fix. I've bought some impact adhesive and I am working out which material to buy for the patches - will PVC ok ? or polyurethane or something else? Has to be waterproof and strong and preferable available in yellow! 

I've emailed a couple of bike shops about Surly bikes - One in Oakham and one down in Richmond. The one in Oakham seems to be understocked and the other one is not responding. The one in Richmond doesn't have the bikes in the store in my size and I believe it is the biggest distributer in the UK. How can I know if the bike will fit if I can't test one out when the bike is niche and shops don't often stock my size (XL 58+) 

I need a tyre that is really durable, puncture resistance, folding, lightweight and good for rocky (sometimes loose) and dry terrain. I work as a guide in Georgia (Caucasus) and my tyres wear out too quickly. 

I am planning a cycle tour that will pass through some areas where I know there will be plenty of access to food and some areas that will be away from food for a day or two. I am going to Turkey, Georgia, cycling down through Azerbaijan, Armenia and Iran. I envisage that food will be easily available in Turkey, Georgia especially in towns but less so in remoter parts of Iran as my route will go through some of the lesser populated areas. Any advice appreciated. 

and I want to know if I can use v brakes with them. It looks like there is a thread to screw in some bosses, but I'm not 100% sure. 

I need some new sunglasses for cycling - what features will actually be helpful - I've seen ones with vents, polarized lens, rubberised frame, replaceable lens . I just need the best value model that looks good. 

Yes a new chain can skip in either an old chain ring or old cassette. The length between chain lengths needs to match. So the old chain matched up to the old ring. The new chain does not match up with the old chain ring. I suspect the middle chain ring looks worn. If so for sure time to replace it. What do I need to know to buy new chainrings for my crankset? 

Mainly I suggest you start with a seat tube based unit. Headset is a lot of fabrication. In a headset during test you could just let the unit rattle around (pack it with some something). 

On the front you can replace the fork with a disc fork. Then you need to buy 1/2 a brake set. It could get kind of expensive for what you get. Rear conversion but I still would not recommend it. 

You assume the whole leak is the valve. Rubber is not air tight. Most of the leak is through the rubber. Clearly can create a near airtight valve. And with enough rubber a near air tight tube. But it would be heavy. Just pump your tires once a week. I see the link said pump daily. OK, at least once a week. On my road bike I pump before every ride. 

Have you checked the torque on the cassette? If up and down are not symmetric that could be the problem. I was exactly the problem I had and took it to a shop where they knew me and were backed up. Guy put my bike on the stand and said your cassette is loose. Sure enough he was right. Torque the cassette to spec. Some cassettes have a higher torque than you might guess. That cable setup just does not look right to me. Why a long run like that of housing in a straight like? Pretty sure the housing is not correct. You use housing to bend - not in a straight line. Zoom in in this link $URL$ You have questioned my input twice and credibility once. I gave you a link to zoom in on. Does your bike look like this? NO it does not. You have a big gap where the housing goes in the cable stop. Something is clearly wrong. What do you think that slot is for? That slot is for cable not housing. 

I was told that handlebar-mounted child seats such as the Yepp Mini and the Bobike Mini are illegal in Germany. People say a lot of things about what is and what isn't legal while biking in Germany. Can anyone find me some kind of authoritative documentation on this? 

I am a happy Vanmoof owner for about two years here in Amsterdam. It's never occurred to me at all to be worried about the lights hitting a bike rack, or anything else. Even if they did, they're pretty solid and I would imagine you'd need to bang at them pretty hard to damage them. 

I'm tossing around the idea of building up a custom city bike, starting with something like a Surly cyclocross frame and a NuVinci rear hub (I have one on a bakfiets and love it), with the Yepp Easyfit rear rack on the back and some kind of basket on the front. Add mudguards and some kind of lighting system and I have a bike that's light and fast when I want it to be but still capable of doing the preschool or shopping run. 

I have a 2013 Vanmoof 5.1. I had it serviced recently by Vanmoof in Amsterdam and when I got it back, it was riding wonderfully—everything felt smooth and "free", like every little bit of power I was putting into the pedals was getting to the road. Two weeks later and it's kind of back to where it was before the service. There is a little creaking/ticking sound coming from the cranks every turn and it feels a little like I'm riding through treacle. Is anyone aware of a specific problem with Vanmoof bottom brackets, or could you suggest what it might be? 

I'm not "a cyclist", but I've been riding to work for 15 minutes or so each way almost every day for the last three years. I've recently moved and am now 30 minutes away and I find that length of ride to be a qualitative change. I have a Van Moof 5.1 retrofitted with an SRAM Automatix and although it's heavy, it's very practical and I'm not interested in getting a lighter bike or going for clipless pedals. But are there any other tips for increasing my efficiency and comfort on my daily commute? I've had to start wearing cycling shorts (because... ouch!) but is there any other equipment, technique or training that might be a quick win? 

If your frame feels large you can get a shorter stem, lower the seat, move the seat forward, get riser bars or 'trekking bars' rather than drop bars. You change the position of the bars up and down by moving the stem position on the fork steerer tube and altering the number / position of the spacers. However, saying that try a bike before you buy is better. And putting miles in will tell you what size you are. All people are different / bikes are different. Otherwise you can go for custom bike fitting. 

I have seen different lengths of hose for sale. I have a topeak mini track pump which is a combination of both the styles that you mention. I recommend it. It has been useful so far. In my experience pumps tend to wear out way to fast, and are often poorly designed for what you get for the money. 

You need to first give yourself a rest from the bike, do some other exercises instead - non impact -like walking / swimming. Everyone is different. One of my legs is slightly longer than the other / or I pedal in an unbalanced way so your set up might require some personal customisation. Have a think about your set up - seat height, position of cleats. If you do use cleats, consider switching to flats for a bit or trying out a pedal with more float. Check your fore-aft position of the saddle, that will affect pressure on your knees too. Consider paying more attention to your gait and rhythm when you pedal. 

I'm planning on going bike touring in S.East Asia. I've been planning which bike to get. Companies like Thorn offer custom made bikes (specially designed for adventure-style cycle touring), but they somewhat expensive and I have enough expertise to build something similar myself. I was thinking to use a mountain bike frame because they are designed to take more abuse than road bikes and I plan to ride on rough tracks. A mountain bike seems to offer much of the ruggedness offered by a custom made bike, but then not being a bike designer there must be some shortcoming using it to carry luggage and over long distances. 

In the method Pete suggests you don't pick a sprocket as you don't have a horizontal drop out. Go small up font and a middle in the back for chain alignment and pick the best chain length. From there you may need to go up or down one in the rear to get chain tension. Is not going to be perfect. But tension and alignment is more important than the exact gear you want. You can always take out another length so in doubt go longer. And you also lose your front derailleur. Another possible option if the cable has some length is to knot it around a bolt and bind it in one of the guides. There you have derailleur as a guide and you still have the front. I have done that ride. That is an excellent ride. OK now that Pete posted (+1) I don't agree with his answer. I go small upfront (or middle if 3) and the best alignment rear followed by best chain tension. 

8 miles each way is a reasonable commute. In the city a pure road bike is not as stable. You should test both flat and drop bars to see which is more comfortable for you. Drop are a little more efficient but that is not a long commute. For an uphill I think flat bars are fine. A full touring bike is probably more than you need unless you are looking to mount racks and also using it for longer rides. And you probably don't want rack or fenders loading it on and off bus and trains. Look for mid sized tires (like 32mm). A light bike is also nice for getting it on an off bus racks. The also have styles of bikes called urban or city. Even a mountain bike with street tires would work. Not a first choice but if you found a good deal used. A local bike store (LBS) will help you out with fit and selection. You can get some decent new bikes for $600. If you are on a budget then CL but be careful. I like a cyclocross bike fit with touring tires for commuting but maybe not the optimal for you.