it may depend on your job as well of course. If you have required safety footwear for your job, you may well be unable to do your job if you can't wear it because of your injury. In which case you should contact your (future) boss and ask what to do (most likely it won't matter much for the first few days which are often induction training, paperwork, and things like that but it may well become an issue). 

2nd: that's highly specific to specific locations and situations, in some places no, in others certainly not, in others again it would depend on your contract (I've never had a contract that stated my salary was secret and I wasn't allowed to disclose it myself but have heard of such things happening). 

If I had your email address I could send you links to porn sites from some anonymous yahoo or hotmail account and someone like you would blame you for having messages with links to porn sites on his computer. How'd you like that from happening? 

So even if your idea is brilliant, would work, you're up against that, a set in stone process that's worked for years or decades despite a constant flood of attempts of people just like you to change it. And worse, they no doubt have had highly paid, very expensive, consultancy firms do audits and write proposals on how to improve things, and they too all failed. It doesn't matter why they failed, but they failed, and that has created over the years an attitude of hostility towards anyone and anything that tries to change things. 

how to deal with it? Get over it. Such things happen. You may have put in more hours, you may think you're better qualified (and maybe you are) but others, those in control, obviously think different. 

Of course your company may well have policies about where to send notice, which may mean you only have to notify human resources for example (though in my experience you should always notify your direct superiors as well, they're the ones going to have to deal with not having you around after all). 

Consider this: you're the junior, the youngest kid in the team, yet you have some grand ideas about how to change things "to be more modern". That manager has encountered dozens like you before, and they all failed. He has no incentive whatsoever to listen to you, as he knows from decades of experience that every snot nosed junior programmer has a head full of book knowledge and grand ideas about how to "improve things" that he's found out to his chagrin himself over the years simply don't work, or if they work aren't worth the effort implementing. 

If you'd always arrived late and left late, he'd probably have reprimanded you for being late all the time, never noticing the hours you put in after he goes home himself. 

01/10/2016 is a saturday, so your contract starts on a saturday. Unless the company is open for business on saturdays, your actual work week is monday to friday and you're expected to show up on the 3rd. I've NEVER had a job where I didn't get a letter or email telling when and where to report on my first day, and what person to ask for at the reception desk to handle my induction in the company (access cards, desk and equipment assignment, things like that). If you've not had such a letter or email, contact the company and ASK. 

In my experience it's an extremely common question, asked usually to see if you're going to have unrealistic expectations. If you're currently making $10k a month, and the job you're applying for only pays $5k, there's going to be some eyebrows raised there and then. There might be a valid reason, but more frequently it means they've invited the wrong person, either someone who's way overqualified and will cut off negotiations at the last moment or someone who's desperate for any job at all and is going to quit the moment a better offer comes around. 

1st: possibly, but consider that if you don't disclose it the interviewer may think you've something to hide and decide to not do business with you. 

And of course, being years old, it's almost certainly no longer relevant. If it were still going on today rather than existing in some email archive the person holding the account may not even be aware of (here for example all email older than 3 months is archived, many people aren't even aware those messages still exist, they think messages older than 3 months are deleted so many print them out or save them to a document on some network drive if they're important). 

Don't let yourself fall into that trap, analyse the concerns of your users, see what can be done to address those concerns, realise that ALL user concerns have merit. And above all, don't blindly run after every bit of new technology. New isn't automatically (or rather automagically) better. 

Only times I've ever had job interviews that were NOT on site with the hiring company was when it was more convenient for both of us to meet somewhere else (e.g. I was on location in another city, and the people I was to meet had a meeting with a customer in that same city). There's no guarantee or even hint you'll be hired the moment you're invited for an interview at the company offices of the company you're applying with, no. It just means they don't think your resume is good enough they're interested in talking to you. And many companies will call up dozens, sometimes hundreds, of candidates, depending on the job, number of open positions, and size of the company. 

Had much the same problem with a manager (and I wasn't in line for a management position myself). I was always there at 7 (when the automated locks opened and the building was accessible to us), leaving usually around 4-4:30. One day he calls me into his office complaining I always went home early, accused me of not "pulling my weight". I got rather angry as he had no clue, he had no complaints about the work being done, ONLY about his misconception that I wasn't working enough hours. Which he had no way of knowing, himself only ever arriving after 11. I confronted him with that, he apologised, and never heard of it again. But it's common practice in companies for managers to arrive late and leave late, then expect their worker bees to already all be there when they arrive and still be there when the manager goes home. 

Many if not most companies use standard templates for job ads, just filling in their company name, the job title, and some skill requirements. Two companies with nearly the same job on offer can thus very easily end up with nearly identical job ads. And many online job sites actually force companies to model their job ads like that by just giving a number of fields on a webform for them to fill in and creating the full text automatically. They do the same with candidate resumes btw. 

Best you can do is roll with it, go with the flow, gain the trust and respect of the people who are your seniors and do know more than you, and maybe, just maybe, find ways to make tiny little incremental changes in the way things are done eventually. Just make your own personal workflow more efficient, in ways that don't interrupt the project team as a whole, but give people the impression that "hey, this new kid is a fast and efficient worker". Maybe people will look at how you do things and start trying it themselves. That's the best you can hope for, not barging into your boss's office with a head full of ideas and an attitude of "you're doing it all wrong and I'm going to tell you here and now how things should be done from now on" as that's only going to make you enemies. 

Always remember that change isn't always a good thing. Many people in IT (and elsewhere) see something new and instantly grasp on to it like it's the Holy Grail, impervious to criticism or self critique. The New is always Perfection, anything even a few days older is automatically Bad. 

I've dealt with this a few times. MOST of the time it IS your bug, and you can and should fix it. Even if it's not, most of the time you can and should be able to work around the problem by rewriting a small portion of your code. The very few times that seems impossible, someone else on the team might be able to do it (especially if you're one of the more junior members of the team). 

In the exceedingly rare case that 1) the problem is NOT caused by your code being faulty AND 2) you can provide verifiable evidence that this is the case AND 3) you can't rewrite your code to work around the problem, then it's time to inform your managers that what they want can't be done without switching toolsets, libraries, whatever is at fault and that that's going to be a major investment, maybe it's better to drop the requirement that exposed the problem until another solution can be found. 

If your direct superior isn't available, he'll have a chain of command you can go up. That would be his boss, or he has appointed someone to take over from him during his absense. 

So read your contract and company procedures, figure out who to notify and when, and then go and do that. Don't just assume that your notice period has started just because you want it to have started. 

If you can't live with that, can't bear to work under someone you consider your junior and inferior to you, find another job. 

Example of that (and this has nothing to do with technology) is a company that used to take phone orders and ship the goods before the signed order sheet was in their archives. They got "ISO certified" and now were no longer allowed to ship anything unless there was a signed order form in the books, and payment confirmation had been received, even from long term existing customers with a 100% on time payment history. This cost them so much business (many of those customers relied on their rapid service to get them critical components faster than the competition, even if they were a bit more expensive) they went bankrupt. All because of change for the sake of change that disrupted a core business process to the point the company was no longer competitive. 

Dress casual, comfortable, but smart and neutral. So feel free to wear jeans, but no faded old jeans with holes in them. Wear a t-shirt, but a black or blue one without big prints (and certainly no t-shirts with advertising for competing companies, yes, I've seen it). Rather than those nice neon green sneakers you love, wear the dark blue loafers that are just as comfortable.