Cumae was founded by Ionians from Euboea around 750. Cumae had a Temple to Apollo and Sibyline oracle that channeled Apollo. In Greece, Apollo and its oracle became active in the eighth century. It wasn't a pan-Hellenic god, however, until after the Lelantine War (c. 720-650) When was the Cumaean temple to Apollo created? Would it have been the religion of the founding Cumaeans, or did it come at a later date? I will throw something more into the question for fun. What happened to the temple to Apollo in Oscan Cumae c. 421-338? 

Hunnic cauldrons were the same style as the Xiongnu of the 1st century AD. People think that the Huns brought them from Mongolia, to Central Asia and Europe, where they are found. Westward migrations, driven by nomadic warfare or Chinese offensives, were the prevailing trend in Pre-Genghissid Steppe History. There were almost never west-east migrations. When they are not portrayed as some kind of malicious race, descriptions of the Huns suggest Turkic or East Asian origins. They are said to have had thin beards. There is a common description that the opening of the eyes were different "so as not to let light penetrate". It sounds like they are saying that they had very dark irises, small "whites", and maybe epicanthic folds. They were short, with long torsos. They had rounder heads and dark hair. One person says they had flat noses. A thorough, objective description of them is wanting. Grousett has an interesting proposal for the Western Huns. "From the year 35 B.C., we lose track of the western Xiongnu, It was then that Che-che, the dissident Chanyu, having carried with him some of the Hunnic tribes of Upper Mongolia to the steppes north of the Aral Sea and Lake Balkash, was overtaken and killed by a Chinese expeditionary force. The descendent of the tribes which he led into this region were to remain there for centuries; but as they lacked civilized neighbors to record their deeds and adventures, nothing is known of their history. Not until the 4th century AD do we hear of them again..." Christopher Beckwith, who does not connect the two people, says that "The Huns had taken up residence northeast of the Sea of Azov... by about 200 A.D." Here first hear about Huns, in 375 AD. They were to the east of Ermeneric's vast Ostrogothic kingdom. They invaded and ended the Ostrogothic Kingdom. The only reason I have seen proposed for this invasion, is that it was as a response to the threat of the new Ostrogothic kingdom on the Huns (Beckwith, 2009). Now they were a Turkic people ruling over a Gothic-Sarmation population. These are the Huns that the Romans dealt with. The Hunnic Empire broke up after Attila. Out of its core came Oguric tribes, the Kutrigurs and Utigurs. Ogur (or Oghuz) is the Turkic word for tribe, giving them their -gur name. the Kutrigurs became the Bulgars, and were Turkic. The first Bulgarian dynasty, the Dulo clan, claimed descent from Attila. Many Hunnic names were Iranian. Therefore we see a core Turkic and Iranian component of the Huns. This is the same as the Xiongnu, especially early Xiongnu. The steppe at the time was divided into Sarmatians, in the west, and Xiongnu in the east. This is was the situation at the end of the Iron Age transition for the steppe. I've never seen any mention of a Turkic empire between them, it just wasn't likely. The Xiongnu connection with the Huns isn't nearly as obscure as with the Hepthalites (Xionites). This is due to the obscurity of the latter. They migrated in a similar time frame to Bactria, and later India. Here I will also note a similarity between all these is the Xion- or Hun sound. Otto Maenchen-Heflen. The World of the Huns. pg 297-331. Rene Grousset. Empire of the Steppes Christopher Beckwith. Empires of the Silk Road. pg 94. 

Tamil-Brahmi and Sanskrit were both derived from the Brahmi Script of the Mauryas. Tamil Brahmi evolved into Vattelattu after 200 CE. Like Tamil-Brahmi, it was used to write the Tamil language. Around 500, the Pallavas developed a new script called Grantha, or Pallava script. This was derived from Tamil-Brahmi, but was used to write Sanskrit. It was also used for a Tamil-Sanskrit hybrid called Manipravalam. This was a complicated system, using Tamil for Tamil words, Grantha for Sanskrit words. The Pallavas spread the Grantha script across South India, replacing Vatteluttu. Around this time, loanwords from Sanskrit and also significant grammatical influences were introduced into the Tamil language. This was a major factor in the shift from Old Tamil to Middle Tamil languages by 800 A.D. The Cholas began to expand around 830. They warred with the Chalukyas and the Pallavas. The Cholas prevailed and experienced their high point in the 1100's. They favored Shivaism, which had a strong Tamil component. The golden age of Cholas was the high point of Tamil culture and literature. Cholas commissioned a series of epics and religious literature in the Tamil language. Still, these were written in a Grantha script. The Cholas persecuted Vishnavism, which used Sanskrit, leading to a decline in the presence of that religion. The Bhakti movement produced a lot of literature; the Vishnavas in Sanskrit, the Shivaites in Tamil. There was probably a decline in Sanskrit due to the religious orientation of the Cholas, but all writing forms incorporated Sanskrit to some extent. To the south, the Cheras and Pandyas had continued to use Vatteluttu, the wholly Tamil language. When the Cholas dominated them in the 11th century, they imposed the use of Grantha script. There is supposedly something called the Chola or Chola-Pallava script that the Cholas promoted as the defacto script in their empire. Its existence is doubted and I can't find any information about it. I think that Buddhists would have used the Pali script. 

I'd like to place the events into context with the preceding and later periods if they are related. Did it cause the Holy Roman Emperor to lose influence? Did it create the political situation that led to the Pataria movement? 

The Phoenicians barred the strait of Gibraltar from the Greeks. They controlled the Atlantic Sea trade with Western Iberia and Britain. Britain was especially important for tin. This situation was determined by a series of wars with the western Greek colonies around 600 B.C. The westernmost Greeks were the Phocians of Massalia (Marseilles), who were stopped from expanding westward. Massalia did colonize the northeastern coast of Iberia, though. They had a handful of cities which some have equated to the Delian League. In the 4th century, Pytheas of Massalia was the first Greek to take the Atlantic route to Britain and beyond. It wasn't usable, though, because of the Phoenicians. Alternately, the overland trade route to Aquitania was pursued. 

What are the details of this conflict? Was prince-bishop Aribert involved? Is it connected to relations with Germany, like Conrad's siege of Milan in 1039? Added 4/11: Semipaiscuba has provided a source, but it leaves me with questions. The events were the result of a revolt in 1035 that compelled Conrad to grant the "lesser nobles" the same status as the nobles. It appears that these lesser nobles kicked out the greater nobles in 1041. What I'm confused about is that it begins to describe mercantile and artisinal groups later on in the conflict. I think the explanation for this is on wikipedia, but I would like more information about their relationship, if both comprised the rebels. 

$URL$ The Medicis are said to originate in Mugello, north of Florence, where they were modestly wealthy land holders. A Medici was a Signori of Florence in 1301, though not of the same branch. The origins of the Medici bank can be traced to Viero de Cambo, a distant cousin of Giovanni. He became a successful banker during the turmoil following the Black Death. It's not a stretch to connect their beginnings with this disaster. Giovanni and his cousin Fransesco were trained in the banking house of Viero de Cambo before becoming partners in the firm. Giovanni became general manager of the Roman branch in 1385, which was incorporated as a partnership. His bank was well funded by the Holy See. Viero di Cambo continued in banking, but Giovanni's bank emerged as the most successful enterprise (probably because of his patronage of the Vatican). In 1397 he moved the bank to Florence. 1378, while the oligarchy was strained by a war with the Pope, Giovanni's cousin Salvestro di Medici was a part of the Ciompi worker's revolt. It placed him and a group of non-nobles in charge of Florence for 4 years. This was not necessarily connected to Giovanni, but it's an early political attempt by a Medici. In 1400, Giovanni Medici himself was implicated in a plot to open the gates to the Visconti. In two years, the leader of the anti-Medici party died of the plague, and the Visconti captured Florence and Pisa. The Visconti domain collapsed, but altered the politics of Northern Italy. It was at this time that the Medicis branched out over Italy, first starting a bank in Venice in 1402, then Naples. Also the Medicis opened up two wool proccessing plants (Florence's key industry). In 1414, the Avignon Papacy moved back to Rome. In 1298, the success of Florentine banking sent the Bonsignori family of Siena into bankruptcy. Florence surpassed Siena as the banking center of Italy. This shift was a factor in the later expansion of Medici banks throughout Italy. 

Prosopography is very detailed historical research. It develops the characters and relationships involved in the events. Therefore it covers specific topics. Louis Naimer is the best example. Ronald Syme is another good one: "By stressing prosopographical analysis, Syme rejected the force of ideas in politics, dismissing most such invocations of constitutional and political principle as nothing more than 'political catchwords.'" 

Dur Kurigalzu was a city during the Old Kassite period. It was named after King Kurigalzu, c. 1375 B.C., who made it the capitol of Babylon. Bricks on the ziggurat bear the inscription of Kurgalzu II, c. 1332 B.C. The remains of the ziggurat are about 52 meters tall. The surrounding platform was rebuilt in the 90's, and its a popular destination for people in Baghdad. I'm not sure if the OP was asking about Mesopotamia, but it is technically a part of the Near East. There was nothing in Europe close to this size until the Roman Empire. 

I was researching the Pataria movement in Milan that began around 1045. I found mention of a compromise of Milan in 1044. This got me interested in these earlier events. The only information that I can find is in this link: 

The Lelantine war (c. 720-650) involved most of Greece. According to Thucydides, the two sides agreed not to use projectiles but only swords. He said that it was for religious reasons. He wrote about the war 250 years after it had occurred, but his history is well regarded. 

The Archbishop of Mainz had extraordinary secular powers from the creation of the Holy Roman Empire, until the Diocese's decline in the 15th century. Mainz was the most important diocese, being called primas inter pares, first among equals of the German bishops. It also frequently held the title Primas Germanie, most important German bishop. As a prince, it collected taxes in its territory. It had a crucial role in the formation of the Holy Roman Empire. In order to understand its importance, it helps to go back to the end of East Francia and the creation of the Kingdom of Germany. The Kingdom of Germany became the core of the Holy Roman Empire, which included the Kingdoms of Italy, Burgundy, and Bohemia. Liutbert was archbishop of Mainz from 863-889. He was probably the first to be called Archchancellor. He oversaw the continued works on the Annals Fuldenses. He put down a rebellion of Moravians and Serbs in 871. He organized defenses against Viking raids into East Francia. Hatto I was bishop of Mainz from 891-913. He became acquainted with the king of East Frankia, Arnulf, who appointed him as Archbishop of Mainz. He became so close to the king as an adviser that he was called "the heart of the king". When Arnulf died in 899, Hatto became regent to his son, Louis the Blind. He remained influential throughout Louis' reign. Hatto became involved in the dispute between the Conradines and the Bambergs in the Duchy of Franconia. Henry Babenberg had been granted the Duchy of Franconia by Charles III (the Fat). Henry had been the Commander in Chief under Louis III and Charles III. Hatto supported the Conradines against the Babenbergs. In a battle in 906, Conrad the Elder was killed, as was two of the three Babenberg sons. Louis III then intervened; notably, his mother was a Conradine, and the last Babenberg was captured. Hatto ignored a promise of safe conduct, captured and executed the last Babenberg. Conrad became duke of Franconia. Hatto was prominent in securing Conrad as King after the death of Louis the Child. Hatto supported Conrad against the Saxon, Henry the Fowler. The Saxons saw Conrad as an extension of Hatto's interests. Conrad was the first non Carolingian King, and the first to not be elected by the nobles. This marks the end of East Francia and the beginning of the Kingdom of Germany. The archbishop Frederick plotted to asassinate Otto I. It's not suprising, then, that the next one, Wiliam, was Otto's son. Willigis was archbishop from 975-1011. After the death of the Byzantine queen Theophanu, he adopted Otto III and served as regent, along with Adelaide of Italy. Aribo, (1021-31) developed Thuringia by minting coins at Erfurt. Siegfried II (1200-1230) obtained the right to crown the King of Bohemia. This was retained by the archbishops of Mainz until 1343. This later date was the highpoint of the Diocese. A war over the position of Archbishop from 1461-63 devastated the city and Diocese, which lost a lot of funds and territory. This marked the decline of the Diocese. These are highlights of when it exercised great influence. More often than not, these early archbishops were an antagonist to the Crown. They frequently backed other stem (tribal) duchies in rebellion. You have listed the formalities that the Archchancellor retained in the later period, but it was past its prime. Its continued importance would be as a Church representative, not as a powerful prince of its own territory. To clarify, the Archbishop of Mainz was only the Archancellor of Germany. The Archbishop of Cologne was the Archancellor of Italy. 

My research ended with the Mongols. The subsequent period on the steppe was one of decline and marginalization. This may be a generalization but it was the trend. If I had to connect the standoff to a specific event, it was probably the conquest of Crimea by the Ottomans in 1475. After this point, the Ottomans were able to extend their influence into this region. A major event on the Russian side was the annexation of Novgorod to the Muscovy in 1478. The Russians gained an important port in the Baltic Sea, while the Horde had lost its access to the Black Sea. The fall of Constantinople was also a major factor in the fragmentation of the Turks. Constantinople had an intimate relationship with the Pontic Steppe, for protection and commerce, ever since its commercial treaty with the Gokturks in 568. Crimea broke off of the Golden Horde after civil wars from 1420-1449, during which the rebel Khan was supported by Lithuania. This led to the creation of the Crimean Khanate. It included most of the Peninsula, but in the middle was a rump state of the Byzantine Empire, known as the Principality of Theodoro. The Ottomans conquered Crimea in 1475. This ended Theodoro. They took the Khan in Crimea back to Constantinople for three years. In 1478 he was returned and agreed to rule as a vassal. The vassalship was more of an alliance until 1524, after which all Khans were appointed by the Ottomans. The Crimean Khanate was an Ottoman vassal continuously until 1774. The Ottomans initially paid the Khanate for services and troops. Crimea was an important region in which two regional powers, first Lithuania, then the Ottomans, had intervened to undermine the Horde. With their support, the Crimean Khanate finally defeated the Horde in 1502. Here is a picture of Poland and Lithuania after the union in 1401. The Crimean Khanate is to the southeast. 

I saw a video which summarized this, but now I can't find anything close to it. I believe that Philip made some type of agreement with Richard Lionheart before they went on the Crusades. Phillip came back early and broke the agreement, by invading Normandy? Then he was able to conquer the Duchy. I am looking for an overview which includes the agreement between them, and what Philip did to claim Normandy. Added: The point of the video was that it was an effect of the Crusade, which had a decisive turn in Western History. Capetians gained the upper hand against Angevins on the continent, creating what would become France.