I would be in favor of waiting until you move. There is the possible problem of needing service work under warranty and the nearest dealer being some distance away. You must also factor in the shipping cost along with the expense of disassembly and reassembly if you can't do it yourself. There is also no better way to start a good relationship with your local shop than by buying two bikes. The other advantage is being able to check out the terrain and see what type of bike you need. 

When your bike was overhauled they likely replaced the shifter cables. The cables will stretch over time. The result is the derailleurs don't shift as accurately as they should. It is a fairly simple process to readjust them. There are many on line tutorials that will show you how to do this yourself. If you don't feel comfortable doing it yourself your local shop can help you. 

Reading the link and interpetting it in the strictest sense I would say no. My reasoning is that the law states "a reflector" that is clearly visible. It does not say a reflective material that is clearly visible. My other thought is that since reflective tape is cheaper and easier to install, if bike manufacturers could get away with reflective tape they would have used it. 

It looks like cosmoline which is a waxy rust preventative. It can be difficult to remove from finished parts without damage to the paint. If you can, scrape some of the heavy stuff off with something like a plastic knife. Then I would try something like WD-40. If it doesn't soften it right away soak a rag and wrap it around the fork tips over night. You can see if a hair dryer will soften it without hurting the paint 

A modern saddle has a single rail on each side that starts at the nose and runs to the rear of the saddle. A single or double bolt clamp attach the saddle to the seatpost. The Brooks web site show some profile images of their saddles. The images show two rails on each side of the saddle. They merge together at the nose of the saddle. They are reputed to be the most comfortable of the Brooks line. Be aware that the images show a double clamp to attach the saddle to the seatpost. This will require an old style seat clamp (Brooks part# BYB 105) and seatpost. 

As long as the bike and you are properly prepared for the trip you should be fine.People have been riding for 100km rides long before they made lightweight, multigear,Hi-Tech bikes.The only difference beteen doing it on a commuter is it might take you longer,you might tire more easily,and you might not be as comfortable as you would on a performance road bike.If your bike fits you well and you are comfortable with your fitness level just take your time and enjoy the trip. 

While a conventional nipple wrench turns the nipple by the exposed flat surfaces that protrude from the rim, a nipple driver turns the nipple from the inside of the wheel.To replace a single spoke you can use a spoke wrench or a driver. Some people find it easier starting the nipple onto the spoke with a driver than with a wrench. If you were truing a wheel the wrench is easier as the tire and tube need not be removed. If you remove the tire, tube and the rim strip you will see the head of the nipple. If you are building a wheel it is more efficient to use the driver to start each nipple on to the spoke. To replace a single spoke you can use a spoke wrench or a driver. 

The S7 does not get very high marks on any review sites I've found.It seems that it wasn't designed to be shifted under load,you must stop pedaling or at least reduce the load.If you don't the internals get burrs and nicks and it doesn't work right. $URL$ has a good selection of hubs none are inexpensive.The price does not include building your wheel.You may not be able to use your old spokes if you change hubs.If the bike is not that old you might try complaining to Sram customer service.If it several years old another option is to have the internals repaired and not shifting while pedaling after that. 

If you have never ridden this long, pace yourself. It is better to finish in 5 hours than to do 1/2 the ride in 2hours but be tired to finish. Break it up into three 25km rides. Ride 25 km and stop, walk a bit, eat something and rehydrate. This type of ride is a charity event not meant to be a race. Also be aware that the crowds are likely to be full of riders not accustomed to riding in large groups. Ride defensively don't assume someone won't stop in the middle of a pack with 30 riders behind them. Most of all have fun and make friends. 

You have done your homework correctly. You need a square drive bottom bracket with a shaft length as close to 125mm as you can get to fit a 68mm frame. I have taken out quite a few of the plastic cup units with no issues, but I prefer the metal one. But that is just personal choice. Take a look at the area of the chain stay (the tube from the rear axle to the bottom bracket) for crank clearance. Some frames run the big ring very close and bringing the crank closer may cause an issue. You can use a shim behind the crank- side cup to move it out to the same location as original. It is doubtful you will notice the difference if the nondrive side is a mm closer to the centerline. you will likely have to fine adjust the front derailleur when your done. 

Take a look at your rims to see if you have any contaminates on the brake surface. Wipe the rim with some rubbing alcohol and see if there is any improvement. Brake pads are made of different material with different properties. Some are very hard and have long life, others are softer and stop better but at the expense of durability. 

I have heard of tubes failing in situations like yours. If you inflate the tires to the maximum rated pressure on the sidewall of the tire, the pressure can rise over that when warmed by the sun or the friction and heat from the road. The occassions I have seen this are with high pressure road tires. Since you don't have a pressure gauge there is the chance that you over inflated the tube. As you state everything is sandwiched between the tire except at the point the valve goes through the rim. Verify there are no sharp edges near the valve hole and inflate it to the correct pressure. 

I can think of three things to cause your problem. The tire is to large for the frame, the chain is too short. Can you post a side view photo of the rear axle with the wheel installed on the bike? The third option is that you didn't slide the axle far enough back. The additional photo will help narrow the option. 

If you cannot comfortably straddle the bike with your feet on the ground it is too big. The bike you have appears to have a nearly horizontal toptube. As others have said try to return it or at least exchange it for a model that feels comfortable. A model with a slightly sloped top tube may give you a better fit. Don't make your decision based on the stated frame size. Test ride the bike (or several) before making your final choice. 

I am looking for some verification of thought process. I have come across a nearly new lower level Diamonmdback 27.5" hardtail MTB. The issue is the front 100mm fork is broken. Doing some online searching for a replacement fork has OEM budget forks (SuntourXCT) for roughly half of the bikes original cost. I can however purchase a 29er fork(Rockshox xc32) with some deep discounts for less than the Suntour. I realize the longer dropout to crown length of the 29er (19 1/4" vs 17 1/4" for a 27.5) will alter the handling. If I got an 80mm 29er fork, that difference would be cut in half. My thinking is that the 1" difference in length would be similar to the difference of the fork length when set to "soft" dampening versus "firm" dampening while static. 

With the tires removed the wheels should be the same height when stood next to each other.In the picture it is dfficult to tell because of the lean.If you are installing tires of different styles or manufacturers one may be more difficult than the other to mount but still be the correct size.Take the tire that would mount and see if it will fit on the other wheel.If they don't fit you may have a Dutch wheel which were 28"It has a bead seat diameter of 642mm also called 700,700a or 700b not to be confused with the modern standard 700c.this site$URL$ auseful page on wheel sizing. 

In recent years more specialty shops that deal in carbon frame repair have become more available. Many are shops that do custom frame builds. A Google search may get some leads that are local thus savings on shipping. In the Northeast U.S. I have used HotTubes.com to check a frame. I was reluctant to go to my local bike shop due to the limited number of frames they see per year. In addition to the fact that they couldn't do any repairs if they were needed. As @jm2 has stated nothing is foolproof. However the replacement cost of the frame and the risk involved of riding with a damaged frame would make spending a couple hundred dollars for an inspection or repair a viable investment. 

The stem cap torque specification is for safety and bearing tolerance. The cap provides a preload on the headset bearing. This preset is the point where there is minimal movement between the steerer tube and the headtube. At the same time the bearing is loose enough to allow free turning of the fork. This is why the top cap is adjusted prior to the bolts that clamp the stem to the steerer. If the preload is too light the bearing will move resulting in premature failure and possible frame damage. Too much preload will also cause early failure by overloading the bearing. The stem to steerer clamp bolts require an amount of torque sufficient to prevent movement but not so tight that the bolts are stretched to the point of being damaged. Since most stems are aluminum it is easy to overtighten the steel bolts to the point that the internal aluminum threads can damaged. 

From what can tell from the photos it looks like the inner race is seized to the crank axle. When you removed the non drive side bearing did the ball bearings fall out? You can try to carefully cut the race off with a Dremel with a cut off wheel. You must be very careful not to go too deep and hit the crank axle. I would cut 9/10th of the way through. Then hit the slot with a chisel and see if it will split the race. If you aren't really comfortable doing this ask your LBS to do it for you. A mistake will be costly. 

I have noticed that presta tube valve stems come in various lengths. I always assumed the longer valve stems were to allow the use of deeper aero wheels. Why is it that many wheels in print ads seem to have what I would consider an excessive amount of stem exposed? Is there an advantage or disadvantage to usng a stem that is just long enough? 

Most quality cable housings now have a plastic lining. This allows the cable to slide freely and prevents binding and rust formation. If you use stainless steel cables they don't rust. My local shop has plain steel cables for $2.99 or stainless for $4.99. I am a big fan of Jagwire cable sets. The mountain sets include a small plastic sleeve for the exposed sections of cable. The housing ends are sealed by a small rubber section that extends into the above mentioned plastic sleeve. There is no way for any grit to enter easily. I change the cables only when there is evidence of fraying or breakage. I have had the same housings for 3 years and they seem to work like the day I put them on. 

I have run into two situations similar to yours and used two different methods. In both cases I removed the right side and gently tapped out the bearing and shaft. The first time I used a small 3/8" wide chisel. I caught the chisel tip on the remnants of the spline and gently tapped until it moved. I sprayed the area with ammonia. (Reference questions about aluminum seatposts) I then tapped the cup in the opposite direction. After an hour or so I was able to make progress by alternating clockwise and counter clockwise, going further each rotation. The second time this didn't work and I resulted to using a large pipe nipple extractor. A regular EZ out set would need to be over an inch in diameter. They are not that common. I was able to borrow one as they run about $30. At that price you'd better off checking with your LBS. 

If you search cantilever brake parts you should find what you need. They are sometimes referred to as threadless post brake pads. 

One of the concerns with stickers and paint to a lesser degree is that it may mask or hide damage to the shell. Manufacturers reccomend inspection prior to every use and damage prior to or after application of a sticker could be hidden. 

A few things I have done that seem to help. Swap your grips to something with an ergo design. This type has a paddle like shape. The larger width spreads the weight to a larger contact area. Another advantage is these grips tend to have a larger diameter. The larger size makes it easier to grip. Check your fork settings. Unless you are currently bottoming the fork out, set it to a softer setting. This will let the shock do it job of absorbing vibration. 

Most on line retailers Chainreaction cycles, BlueSky cycles, Excel Sports carry them. Your LBS should also be able to get them if they don't stock them. They may be called derailleur pulleys or jockey wheels. You want to measure the wheel width and tooth count if you are using something other than an exact replacement from Shimano. The top and bottom wheels are generally not interchangeable so make sure you order the correct ones if they are available as separate pieces. 

For what it's worth I picked up a NORTHWOODS SAFARI on Craigslist about 2 months ago. Mine is also a 3x6. It has a sticker from "Scotts Cyclery" of Willimantic,Conn. The sticker is not the typical square type that is on the seattube. This one runs along both seat stays. A clue that it may have been a low end bike is that it says "quality bicycle" on the headtube badge and was made in Indonesia. I would do a little preemptive maintenance. Most lowend bikes I have worked on seem to have little if any grease in the bottom bracket, headset or wheel bearings. Just use it and enjoy it. 

I am assuming that the cable has come out of the fixed non moving part of the brake lever but is still attached to the actual moving part of the lever. You can try to remove the wheel and close the brake caliper by hand. This may require a third hand or a wire tie to hold it closed. This will generate enough slack in the cable to reinstall it in the lever. Many vintage levers use a small ferrule on the cable end (possibly factory crimped) and a second larger ferrule to retain the cable end in the fixed part of the brake lever. 

In my opinion it is only a usable value data point to compare against the same previous data point. An unfit person will burn more calories at a given level of exercise (based on heart rate and other factors) than a fit person. An unfit person will have a less efficient heart and circulatory system. A calorie usage point can't be made without calculating the level of exertion. 

If you look at the bottom of the plastic adjusting knob you will notice small bumps. Your frame lacks the corresponding bumps that would normally act as a detent to hold the knob in position. In practice you remove the cotter pin make the adjustment and reinstall the cotter as close to frame as possible. 

It is a freewheel. You will need the appropriate freewheel tool. The tool typically won't fit without removing the axle. You may also need the correct cone wrenches. This makes it a good time to service the wheels bearings as well. You may want to consult your LBS and compare the cost of having it done versus purchasing the tools you may only use once. 

It appears to be a standard square drive sealed cartridge type bottom bracket. It looks as if it came apart. Normally the bearings are not removed from the shaft but are removed and replaced as an assembly. If you measure the width of the frame where the bearings were removed you should measure 67mm or 73mm. Measure the length of the square driveshaft. The length will vary depending on the bike type, drive train etc. The other option is English or Italian thread. Most likely it is English but you can't tell from the photos. The options are to look on-line for a bottom bracket that matches your measurements or bring all the pieces to your LBS (local bike shop) and have them measure and match to something in your price range.