Pamada is a condition of a happily misbehaving child or a drunken person enjoying oneself too much. A type of silly joyful carelessness that assumes no concern or responsibility for results of one's actions. There are many translations of this word - laxity, sloppiness, but the one I find particularly insightful is "indulging". Appamada then is a sober, grownup, calculated attitude to things. A grownup may relax a little, but never loses sight of what results will the actions bring. Hence the usual translation, heedfulness, or my preferrence - "sobriety". One metaphor Buddhism uses a lot is that of intoxication. The three basic intoxicants of desire/obsession, negativity, and confusion/delusion cause the state of pamada, when one acts without proper regard for the consequences. The practice of Appamada is certainly related to mindfulness, remaining aware and remembering the teaching at all times, but here the emphasis is on karma, or action and its expected result. Not only the physical action of course, but mental activity as well, including upadana, or fueling certain thoughts by giving them attention. We can either indulge in harmful thoughts uncontrollably, further fueling our intoxication, or be deliberate about our thinking, which leads to cessation of suffering. This last application of appamada can't be emphasized enough. Appamada means always staying in planned, deliberate, results-oriented frame of reference, as opposed to merely acting out one's emotions and impulses. Every time before we think or say or do something, we ask ourselves, what will this achieve? So that's one aspect, always being deliberate, and the other aspect is not letting oneself get intoxicated. We get intoxicated every time we get aroused by the scent of an external source of joy, or by a particularly inspiring form of negativity. We get excited off balance by the thought of either reward or righteous anger. If we let ourselves get emotionally intoxicated all the time, we practically never spend time being emotionally sober, which makes us mentally weak. Instead, staying sober and collected requires a certain kind of strength and will power. In a way, you always keep your spine straight, your feet on the ground, your eyes open, your mouth shut. That's appamada, sobriety. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains my means of trade and exchange] 

Not to assist with fools but associate with the wise, this is the first and highest blessing and protection torward liberation and freedom of suffering, for this world, the next and beyound. Kalyāṇamittādivaggo: Good companionship and others 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Many details and how to adjust metta proper, incl. the story behind the Metta-Sutta, you find at the link, generously, compassionated, consciously given by Ven. Nyanadasana, who's Dhammic roots are maybe not that far away the place of you personal challenge. If the heart is put right (e.g. right view), if all duties are done, even the biggest monsters will not be able to disturbe you, knowing there are no faults present in me, done all my tasks. And so you metta for them and all others will be honest, pure and for all perceivable. Prerequisite, preparation for Meditation is always Generosity fist, then and incl. firm virtue practice. See some practical advices here in this answer as well. Best wishes and the effort to train patient and metta, devotion, as a firm and unshakeable foundation. Fear (of unskill kind) falls for one having entered the stream. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

I have a question. is the 'magical'/spiritual world another dimension of mind and thus an illusion to leave through meditation whether it is obviously part of life and not one men's mind time? in my experience, I'm very happy and easily, but still straggle with 'the magical/spiritual world (sorry I don't use scholars words, or being careful enough) starts to be clearer and nice. I start to like it after many years. but I still got the feeling - although its my daily reality, and I need to deal with it in the best way I can and learn it - that it might be also a level of illusion, that I have to get out of. I still like the simple life. its easier and lovely enough... so I'm between - 1. maybe that is my ego denying the real truth... should I focus on something special, or just go on with this nice tour. 2. I admit, a lot of that is west of time for me when it comes to others differences: like again and again. ok there is no me, but we know that already, and your angry still, and I'm tiered, or at that point I don't know what to do.... the good side is the 'little monks' (nick name) with them its at home and happy, joy, not u me, and good perspective, wisdom... but because of the duality, pleasant not pleasant... it always like maybe I should stop talking at all - like treat all of that like mind, time - yes not only mine, but still the same, and just let it flow in silence, meditate. is that the answer? it sounds like a good answer. is it to lie, to insist emptiness is the truth, or sort of miss understanding the world. thank you <3 

It's kinda funny to see how we westerners stereotypically misunderstand Dharma as postulating some kind of globally applicable set of absolute unconditional prescriptions. Is this not taking it to the extreme? :) Buddha's teaching should not be taken out of context and unwittingly extrapolated. Did Buddha say lay people should "not marry and do not have any children"? No, he said they should avoid sexual misconduct. Did Buddha say all lay people should become monks? No, in fact he suggested that monks should not work and are instead to live in dependence on lay community (begging, accepting donations). Did Buddha teach "self-sacrifice"? No, he taught middle-way: by looking after ourselves we look after others, by looking after others we look after ourselves. Did Buddha teach radical ascetic rejection of everything? No, what he taught was letting go of obsessions, preconceptions, biases, overgeneralizations, irrational expectations; he taught not to assign too much importance to petty stuff that does not deserve it; he taught to be analytical; he taught to be practical and flexible and wise. Buddha said, tanha (thirst, craving) is the source of dukkha (troubled mind, emotional suffering). This means, whenever you crave for things to be different than they are, right now, you suffer. This does not mean you should not participate in life, this means if we fully accept what we have, and work with it, instead of wishing it were otherwise, we will not generate emotional suffering. Is this not the most rational doctrine ever? 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

There is no distinction of the elements but simply in the distinction of "in training" or "on the path". Just if the magga (path) is reached one is on the lane of transcentent toward phala (fruit), the next, and so on... till finally destruction of effluents. It's a great missunderstanding that the first right view and the secound are different. At first it is "just" imitated trained, to strengthen the other factors as well, then it might become a matter of discerment rather then Saddha. If understanding that it might be understood why even an Arahat does not abound to teach "simply" the first kind since the secound is a "product". Imitating the second, an attainment, does not lead to much of benefit. It's like being a donkey running after behind cows. (Note that monk here should be understood as one not an outsider, e.g. an Noble One) And what is then heightened virture? (To continue toward {next} fruit, next path, with possible fast success?) 

why cant you just combine them? accept ur dids simply. at the end it's just titles. so u'll be/was a unique Muslim, the one that came from Buddhism. after all, a good man, muslim or what ever, wouldn't ask u to stop meditating on god, to be a vegi, to do ur best. these r all possibilities, choices. it can be hard to accept other manners, and find yourself there. but it can be easy or hard be respectable. at the end it just a change of names, its the same. go with a good spirit, u got the opportunity to learn about another religion. what the shame in that? visiting israel, the dalai lama once said to the druze spiritual leaders/cadis 'I also was a druze'... 

if ur a budhist use your tools. there's nothing wrong. u can go back gently. all this suffering is just a wave in your mind. watch it, let it go. the feelings r temporarily. they r there, look at them, smile at them, create a distance...walk back to the silent place in ur heart, home. I can relate. I am a jew by birth, I believe in many things. I can imagine converting for someone I love. giving that. my heart will remain the same. the truth is the same. in any language. its naked. maybe u'll get to a different conclusion. someone here referred me to the Metta Sutta: Good Will (accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/kn/snp/snp.1.08.than.html). I think it can help. welcome back, be well. 

Best and proper way is to approach and ask personal, after having spend a good time next him and have observed his virtues, Nyom Lowbrown. It's in dependency of assossiation with admirable friends, that one gaines right view. Of course the condition to meet such is a matter of upanissayapaccayena (strong condition causes) and not possible to buy and demand. So keep always in mind: Better to Give than to Consume. Having not the right attitude and behaviour, one, like many and most, would just meet poor business in Dhamma and Juwel-thieves of many kinds. People who are really into Dhamma have neither dates nor calenders, but always open doors for those seeing them and having the condition to enter. For those always right in front and near. Someone demand, consume... no way to meet, enter and learn, or being haunted by spirits when enter without a clean and honest mind. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It's maybe good to distinguish between a "monk not sticking with his rules" or a "monk - 'living by theft'" and a recluse/brahman of other traditions. If serious to understand more, feel free to read extended answer and to ask: [Q&A] What can (should) be done about fake monks?