Another issue would be the Hydrogen Sulphide gas (H2S) that is common around volcanic events. For one thing, H2S is an explosive gas. No lights in the castle after dark. No cooking fires, although you've got plenty of lava to cook your food for you. Another thing is that H2S smells bad. It's often referred to as 'rotten egg gas'. You can start to smell it at less than 1 part per million (ppm). That's only a minor problem though. It is also a toxic gas. The 'Short Term Exposure Limit' for H2S is 15 ppm. The smell would cease to bother you after about 100 ppm, as it basically kills your olfactory nerves, permanently ruining your sense of smell. At about 300 ppm, you are pretty much on your way to death, if not dead already. H2S is heavier than air, so it would settle in the lowest parts of the castle. Dungeons and areas enclosed by the wall, rooms on lower floors etc. Nasty stuff. I don't think I'd want to live in that castle. 

The book would have to be written in a language that the recipient could understand. Not just the words, but the concepts. It would need a primer, an explanation of the concepts starting with "This is a copper wire, and this is how you connect it to another copper wire." You wouldn't necessarily have to explain how or why it all works (maybe later in the book), just a dumb diagram with plenty of visual instructions. Concepts such as magnetism would have to be worked around for the motor/generator, but that is easy enough. The lightbulb would be more difficult than the motor (electric motor and electric generator are essentially the same thing). I would guess that an alchemist or a priest would be the best person to hand the book to in medieval times in Europe. The alchemist would be used to working with different minerals and metals, and priests were often the most educated. A blacksmith would be able to help. The moslem world was flourishing during those times, and they had a highly advanced grasp of mathematics and science at that time. During the renaissance, your one-stop-shop would have been Leonardo Da Vinci, the original 'renaissance man'. Jack of all trades, and master of them as well. I think that if the book were written the right way, it would be possible for someone in those times to put it all together. If WW2 prisoners of war could build functioning radios out of bits of junk found around the camps, and people 2,000 years ago could make a battery (although the usefulness of the Baghdad battery is disputed), then it would be possible to build some simple electrical devices. As to who would make the best usage for humanity, I couldn't say. After the Roman Empire, Europe was in chaos. Splintered kingdoms who were pretty much all in it for themselves. But I think Leonardo would be your best bet. UPDATE: Thomas Edison's carbon coated bamboo filament lightbulb might work. He already did the hard work inventing it. Not sure how available bamboo was in medieval Europe (assuming you're thinking about Europe). But you could do the research in your current timeline before sending it back to the past. There must be an alternative available to your intended audience. The vacuum inside the bulb could be more or less achieved. A metal box sealed with wax, and emptied of air by a bank of bellows with non return valves. Might be tough to get a complete vacuum, but you'd get a fair way. Maybe oxen turning a geared wheel linked to a cam shaft to keep the bellows going? Have the bulbs and filaments all set up inside the box. Set leather gloves into the side of the box to work on the bulbs inside. Leather would probably leak air into the box, but keep those oxen moving. Promise them a bonus if they make budget. Using the gloves (they'd need to be tight but supple gloves to counter the ballooning that would happen from the negative pressure inside the box, maybe banded with wire), assemble the bulbs. All you'd need to do is attach the glass bulbs onto the bases with the filaments already attached. One problem would be to attach the bulbs and bases together. With the electricity you are already producing, it might be possible to have a soldering iron inside the box. Otherwise some kind of glue, maybe made from boiled sinew, potato starch, whatever. Edison got around 1200 hours of life out of his bamboo filament bulbs. 

If you have to be precise down to the nanometer, probably not. The meter, as we know it, is defined as "the length of the path traveled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299 792 458 of a second." The meter was first defined as one ten-millionth the length of the prime meridian, a distance you are unlikely to be able to calculate without some advanced technology. An alternate method that might be more plausible, though still unlikely, would be to construct a pendulum with a half-period of one second. The distance that the pendulum swings is approximately one meter. Beyond that, there is really no sure way to tell a meter without having some kind of meter-related measurement. If close enough counts, and if you have the right materials, you might be able to use a sapling. If you know how much a certain kind of tree will grow in 365 days, you can figure out how long it would take to grow one meter, then cut the tree. Similarly, you could look up/remember how long one or another bone is in an average however-old human and base your ruler on that. It still won't be perfect, but it will be close. And really, who is going to call you on it? 

My first thought would be that everyone else went away. Perhaps we live in a relatively bad area of the universe and all the life forms that could do so left. Think about what humans are doing. We want to get to Mars, because that's the next "great leap for mankind," but after that, are we really going to stay in our little corner of the galaxy, poking around on every little planet out there as our home world deteriorates? Absolutely not! We'll be on the first ship out, once we have a ship to take us. Our technological boom is powered by the destruction of our planet, to the point that we might never be able to save it, so once a viable escape option becomes a realistic and nearly certain option, the odds are good that we'll damn what's left of the planet to finish our ship and then be off to the best planet we can reach. That probably won't be the nearest one, or the occupied one. It will be far away and it will have the kinds of elements we deem desirable in a home-world. It seems to me that most intelligent (the use of 'intelligent' to describe species that wreck their planets may be a stretch, but you know what I mean) species would probably do the same thing we humans are doing, and as you said, technology advances so quickly that once the first breakthrough in this technology is made, the rapid expedition of life from a planet is not far behind. This creates a natural separation of those-with-awesome-tech from those-without-awesome-tech, and if we assume that our planet (or whatever planet you may be writing from) is in a district of space that no one wants to live in once they know there's an alternative, it's quite reasonable to assume that the only life-forms we would have contact with in our pre-overpowering-technology stage would be other species in pre-overpowering-technology stage. It's not because that's the only age of life there is, it's just that that's the only age of life that hasn't left yet. Along this same vein, you could work in that some life-forms built up to near-overpowering-tech levels, then crashed their societies, either through destruction of resources or overpopulation or what-have-you, and now are either primitive once more, barren wasteland planets, or maybe some kind of steam-punk blend of futuristic lost technology in a less-advanced society. You could also make some kind of historical event that allowed for the evolution of life at a specific time. Like, maybe there was some kind of massive super-nova/black-hole/worm-hole/antimatter something-or-other that created a wave of magnetism or some such that allowed for the evolution of life from the elements. This wave would travel out, and as it passed over a certain area in space, it would spark life on every 1 in 100 star systems. Because life started at about the same time in the same neighborhoods of space, the life on those planets would be about the same age. As you went farther from your home-world, you'd find life that increasingly differed in age from your own species. 

For a science fiction novel I'm currently writing... The spacecraft in question is based in the asteroid belt and is not designed to approach a planet. The ship has an offensive/defensive capability and would need to be able to manoeuvre effectively in combat. The timeframe is within the next two hundred years. Additionally, it would need to be able to refuel easily within the asteroid belt. With this in mind, I aim to equip the ship with magnetoplasmadynamic ion drives. My understanding is that they can operate using a hydrogen or ammonia fuel, which should be easily replenishable in the asteroid belt, and would be powered by a nuclear power source. But an MPD ion drive does not produce much acceleration. My question: What kind of drive might I use to provide rapid acceleration (in combination with an MPD drive) for combat situations, or to evade an enemy? Ideally using hydrogen as a fuel (or something else obtainable in the asteroid belt without needing much refinement) and powered by electricity. I know that chemical engines would be able to produce the acceleration, but use lots of fuel. If I need to use them, I will. But an alternative would be very welcome. I don't have much of a background in science, but would like to accurately portray the drive system of the ship (in broad brush strokes at least). By all means, comments on MPD drives are welcome too. 

Can't answer for FAA, only the Australian system through CASA. But the US and Australia are both ICAO members, and so pretty similar. Air Law would be a requirement. Not knowing the law will not work as an excuse when the dragon gets Airforce One diverted due to an airspace incursion. Meteorology would only really apply because if the dragon decided to fly into a hurricane, the FAA would be liable to litigation due to not exercising proper duty of care. By making the dragon pass a meteorology exam, they would have satisfied that duty of care, and the rest is up to the dragon. Human Performance and Limitations: What can I say? they'd have to reword that. Aerodynamics: The dragon would probably get away without it, although might need to explain wake turbulence and proper separation behind departing aircraft (if airport takeoffs and landings applied). Aircraft Systems: Probably a medical examination by a designated aviation medical examiner would be good enough. Navigation: A must have. Your dragon needs to know where it is going, especially without using navaids or GPS. Limited to VFR, so must stay under 10,000 feet (I'm assuming that the dragon does not carry supplemental oxygen on board to fly above 10,000 feet. Oxygen + fire breath = bad news). All in all, it's not so much about the dragon's ability to fly, it's more about the dragon's ability to fly in crowded airspace where it could get messy if/when the dragon flew into the path of a 747/C172/F-22/skydiver/sailplane. Ground operation of fire breath: Along the lines of Australian Civil Aviation Orders CAO 20.9 (See part 6). 

The best way for this to happen would be for a rebel organization to have formed at the implementation of the caste system. One cell, probably in the capitol where we assume the caste system was first and most harshly implemented, gradually spread into the surrounding countryside, each new cell keeping in contact with its mother-cell, which kept in contact with its mother-cell, all the way back to the capitol. This idea is based on the assumption that pre-caste-ian society was at least tolerably equal for the two emerging castes. When the system is first implemented, many people will be reluctant to accept it. People, as a whole, are slow to change their ideas, so especially in isolated areas far from the capitol, the upper caste will probably be slow to really squash the lower caste. This gives you a chance to get a rebel network set up before the lower caste actually begins to rebel. The capitol is the perfect place for the start of the network as the caste system is no-doubt strictly enforced from the beginning, meaning that the rebellious lower-casters actually have a reason to begin forming a rebel network. As the caste enforcement spreads out, the rebellious attitude will follow it, probably on the backs of the capitol cell's preachers/recruiters. By the time the caste is harsh throughout the nation, the rebel network will be in place, providing a perfect framework for an organized rebellion. This also means that you can focus on one cell, or on the rebellion as a whole, depending on the size of the group you want your characters to be in. As the caste system becomes harsher, the lower caste will inevitably get fed up, but unless there was already some sort of network in place, they would simply form multiple, fractured rebellions. 

The first problem is what all of these people already know. Presumably, they know that the apocalypse is coming. Given that a dome/habitat has been made, they also have some idea of what kind of apocalypse it will be. That's either really good or really bad. If it's the kind of apocalypse that starts at breakfast and is over by brunch, it's all good. If it's the kind that starts at Christmas and ends at no-one-even-knows-what-that-is-anymore-because-it-was-so-amazingly-long-ago, that's bad. See, the trouble with these people is that they all love someone. It's really easy to tell them all that they can bring one person, but they will never get past what it will do to the ones they leave behind. With that in mind, the goal should be to minimize the discomfort associated with leaving one's loved ones to die horrible deaths. First off, control information. Whatever these people don't absolutely need to know, don't tell them. Sugar-coat it. "Yes, the comet will hit in a blaze of fantastic glory and everything outside of this cool dome thing will be instantly vaporized." That's the line you want. Make it okay for the relatives that get left behind. No pain, no suffering, they won't even know it. Secondly, everyone wants to spend time with their loved ones, so allow them their freedom until, say, three days before the big bad is about to go down. Make sure the dome is up and running well before then, but don't require the specials to be there until basically the last minute. Until then, send them home. Send them home with cash. Lots and lots of cash. Basically, give these people the absolute best last days with their families. Make it idyllic, and impress upon them the fact that, if they truly love these people, they shouldn't tell them what's coming. Just hug them, kiss them, tell them you love them, and then promise you'll be back in a few days. In short, give everyone the goodbye they wanted. Of course, every special gets to bring exactly one other person with them. Really, these specials can't be the only people in the dome or there's really no reason to have the dome, so if each of them gets a plus one, not really a big problem. Except Mrs. Norman. For whatever reason, Mr. Norman absolutely is not allowed because he has some something or other that would endanger the colony. Mrs. Norman has to come, otherwise it would look bad, but she can't bring her husband. Also, these secondary specials do not get to know that the apocalypse is coming or you'll have the same problem with them. These secondaries only get to know that they are going somewhere with their lovers/best friends for a few days. Also, just a thought here, but make sure your Twitter stars can actually talk to people. I mean, I don't know who these people are, but there is that not-baseless stereotype about amazing online personalities that simply cannot deal with actual in-the-flesh-people. If the point of bringing them into the dome is to entertain the inhabitants, make sure they will actually be able to once the internet goes down. I know this creates a secondary population of seemingly useless people, but really, we don't fully understand what makes a person's genes worth keeping. It's possible that hidden in the genetic folds of "dat ass" is coding for incredibly IQ, or massive strength, or some other unexpressed trait. Every person holds the possibility of a beneficial mutation or genetic twitch, and just as you shouldn't breed two natural-bob-tail Australian shepherds, you shouldn't breed only the humans humans decided should be bred. We simply don't know enough, so even if you wanted to optimize the gene pool, you should include a few wild cards, and you might as well kill two birds with one stone. If nothing else, they can be taught useful skills. If absolutely nothing else, they'll breath carbon dioxide for your plants. For general vetting purposes, these same rules apply. Figure out exactly what you need, find the best people for the job, tell them as little as possible while conveying what they need to know, allow them to bring ONE person if they so choose, and give them the best good-bye period you can. As for what you'll want, picture a scaled down United States. You'll need a governing body, enforced by a police structure of some kind. You'll need food workers from growing to processing to cooking. You'll need sewers and weavers and builders and herdsmen and blacksmiths. The important consideration is how big the dome is. However many people it can support at maximum, figure on half that population, then half of that population is your specials. The secondaries will all be apprenticed to an appropriate occupation. If you end up with people who refuse to cooperate, kick them out into the post-apocalyptic wasteland. Moreover, let them know that if they get the boot, their loved one does as well. 

Given that a laser beam is made up of coherent light waves running in parallel in the same direction, and that space is not a complete vacuum (dust, radiation, electromagnetic forces etc.), what kind of effective range could a laser weapon have in space? And what form would a laser take, once technology has progressed to the point where a laser is reliably weaponisable? Power requirements and wavelength? Additionally, what form of defense could a spacecraft use against lasers? A mirrored hull? A thick ice shield? I'm assuming an initial contact distance of several hundred kilometers (call it 150 miles if you like), closing as the two combatants approach each other. Is this a realistic expectation? The environment in question is in the asteroid belt and the ship is powered by a nuclear power source. 

An example, at least in terms of the mechanics involved, is the moon. Tidal locking explains this. If you looked at Earth as a star instead of a planet, the moon would always have one side heated, and the other side cooled, as it has one side facing and the other side facing away at all times during its orbit. A night and a day side, with a temperature gradient from one to the other. For an Earth-like planet orbiting a Sol-like sun, the nature of the day/night hemispheres of the planet would depend on how far away it was from the sun. The closer it is to the sun, the larger the heated day side would be, and through atmospheric convection forces, the hotter the night side would be too. At a Goldilocks distance away from the sun (not too hot, not too cold, just right), you'd end up with a band around the planet as a tangent to the orbit, separating the two hemispheres. The temperature within this band could be suitable for life. The hemisphere closer to the sun would be too hot, cooling as it approaches the band. The hemisphere away from the sun would be too cold. So you'd have a permanent day side which is within the temperature gradient suitable for life, and part of a night side which is also suitable for life. Hugh Howey in one of his Molly Fyde books (The Bern Saga series) has a scenario much like this. Half of the world is scorched, the other half frozen. With habitation in a narrow band. Actually, from memory the world in the story had two suns. But the principle would work with only one sun. 

Seems quite reasonable. I would recommend a few changes/additions, both in keeping with tradition and to improve the model. Firstly, on coat color. I agree that the human hair and the horse hair should match, but skin tone really doesn't need to. My cat has black hair and white skin, so if she were bald from the ribs up, she'd be mismatched too, but its perfectly normal. Most animals don't have stripes or spots on their skin, despite have striped or spotted coats, so a centaur might have brown hair and white skin, or even white hair and black skin, although it would probably be more visually pleasing to keep the two colors similar. Additionally, I would think that the human's hair would extend farther down his spine, like the mane of a horse. Maybe not all the way to the second shoulders, but at least down past the first shoulders. Secondly on internal organs- Digestion: As mentioned in some of the comments, a centaur really can't survive on human-sized organs, so I recommend horse guts in the horse part. Big lungs, big heart, big stomach, but only one stomach. If a centaur is really a mix of human and horse, it should have a human-esque stomach, capable of processing meat. Classical centaurs are archers, presumably not shooting at grass and berries, so give them big, horse-sized human stomachs. This also solves the problem of low-nutrition grass. If centaurs were only eating berries and leaves, they would be too busy grazing to get anything done, like teaching Achilles and Jason to fight. Side note, if Chiron had spent a little less time foraging and a little more time teaching, Achilles might have known to wear boots into battle instead of sandals. Heart: Definitely a big horse heart in the horse chest, but I think a smaller, back-up heart should be in the human chest. Most mythological creatures are pretty hard to kill, so it makes sense that if you spear the centaur's horse-heart, a secondary, emergency heart could take over. Of course, this heart couldn't keep the centaur up and active, but it might be enough to keep him alive for a while in a comma-like state. It would eventually give out, but if he got a horse-heart transplant or something, he might pull through. With that in mind, a second, smaller set of lungs should be in the human half as well. If nothing else, it would increase the oxygen uptake and blood flow of the centaur. Brains: Of course, centaurs are assumed to have human intelligence, suggesting a human brain, but brains do a lot more than just support consciousness. People say humans only use 10% of our brains, which only accounts for conscious use. 100% of the brain is used, just not for thinking. A lot of it is devoted to little things like telling the heart to beat, the stomach to churn, and the lungs to fill. Not to mention processing nerve signals, handling balance, and regulating temperature. A mouse and a rabbit have similar conscious brains, but a rabbit still needs more gray matter because the rabbit has more body to manage. A horse is less intellectual than a man, but the horse still needs a bigger noggin because the horse is much bigger, so I advise a secondary brain at the juncture of human and horse. The lower brain should handle basic functions, the higher brain should handle consciousness and personality. Another way to do this might be to extend the brain down the spine, eliminating the troublesome second brain. Some animals already have brain extending down their brain stems (that's why, if you do it right, you can cut the head off a chicken and he'll still run around) so it's not an impossible idea.