and someone commented that my power readings were a bit "optimistic" I asked why and he basically thought that if I'm getting 600W I should be doing a lot more than 30 MPH. He says he can cruise at 30 MPH at only 250W! In the end he seemed satisfied that the difference is that he weighs 74KG, I am a bit over 100KG. On another video someone commented that he would fly on a carbon bike with a nice groupset. It seems to me that weight of bike / rider and groupset is going to make very little difference cruising on a flat with no gear shifts. Am I suddenly going to end up cruising at 40MPH at 600W when I loose 10KG? 

(this isn't a discussion on the attractiveness of large cyclists and likelihood of sexual congress...) In my cycling career I have varied between 22 stone and 15 stone. At 6'2" the leanest I have ever been is still over 20% body fat. I am not sure I've ever bonked... My normal cycling day is an 18 mile ride into work before I have eaten or drunk anything. I have a yogurt granola thing for breakfast and salad for lunch. Some fig rolls mid afternoon then cycle 18 miles home. I have done 80 mile training rides and really not eaten anything much. I do sometimes feel tired and a bit weak but I thought that bonking was worse than that. I assume that as I carry quite large energy reserves around with me that I don't bonk. 

Proper size is definitely important--it's not a good deal, no matter what the price, if it doesn't fit you. In my experience, top tube length is the one that's most important to get right. There's a bit of latitude for adjusting the reach to the bars by changing stem length but this will change the handling dynamics so you don't really have more than a couple cm of adjustment. Adjusting the reach by moving your seat forward or back isn't really an option. The seat positioning should be largely determined in relation to the pedals. If the seat's not positioned properly with respect to the pedals, I feel like I'm constantly sliding forward or backward as I ride. In your case--compare the FP2 geometry specs to your current bike, or take a ride on a bike with similar geometry. You can also try an online fit calculator, competitivecyclist.com for example, to give you an idea of what size you should be looking at. In the end, there's no substitute for actually riding the bike in question, though some fit problems only become apparent after an hour or more on the bike. Looking at the FP2 geometry, the top tube seems long-ish for the nominal size, and the sizing chart seems to run a little big. As an example, I'm 5'8" tall and generally prefer about a 54-55 cm top tube. Therefore, I'd probably be most comfortable on a 53 cm FP2 even though I'm 2" taller than the max recommended height on the sizing chart you linked. This is all, of course, specific to my preferred riding position and body geometry but suggests that the 55 cm frame might not be out of the question for a six-footer. Make sure you're comfortable on the bike (or one of similar geometry) before plunking down the cash, though. Peter White Cycles has a pretty comprehensive article on bike fit that I learned a lot from--it's more qualitative in its approach but gives a good understanding of things to take into account. In short--maybe, but it depends on your preferred riding position and body geometry. 

This is very doable! I'm midway though building my fourth and fifth wheels for my own bikes from scratch with no more than an upside down bike, the internet and a spoke key (or screwdriver to begin with). There are a number of different lacing patterns to choose from depending on your own preference and possibly the length of spoke available to you. There are also a number of websites which will tell you what length the spokes will need to be, though in this case you can just measure the existing ones. Definitely don't by cheap spokes (unless they are good quality spokes for a great price). My third wheel lasted less than one day because two spokes snapped within 20 miles. It could be that this was down to a poor build but my first two wheels are still good after 500 miles with no adjustment required (using ACI plain guage spokes). Once you start getting towards tension (you can pretty much feel how tight they should be from a built wheel) focus primarily on any vertical movement before lateral as this is much more difficult to correct when at full tension. Put the wheel under tension before assuming its completed. When I think I'm true I squeeze the spokes together with my hands, and check true again. Then I attach the wheel to a bike and walk it around whilst applying some pressure to either the seat or handlebars depending on the wheel and check true again. THEN I go for a ride around a car park and, you guessed it! Check true again! Its not a hugely difficult task to complete, but a very difficult one to perfect. 

I think the tires would be durable enough (my winter commute in nearby Kitchener, ON is about 20 km/day and my Marathon winters hold up pretty well) but they're definitely going to feel more sluggish than a road tire. If you're normally running them with enough air pressure to keep the studs clear of the pavement, I think that kind of defeats the purpose of them (and that much pressure makes the ride a little harsh for my liking as well). Carbide studs will last as long as the carcass of the tire holds together, and there's always a chance of running into an icy patch somewhere, even if 99.5% of your route is bare and dry. 

Not true--the pad/rim contact force should be more or less independent of the brake design (assuming the pad/rim friction coefficients are about the same, as they will be if the pads are of similar material). V-brakes tend to require more cable pull to actuate than other types, which does make them incompatible with road brake levers. No problem with the wheels, though. 

Road tires with no obvious defects can definitely lose 10 PSI per day--there just isn't a whole lot of air volume so the tiniest leak through the tube or the valve will drop the pressure in a hurry. Moral of the story: check the air pressure every time you take out the road bike. 

I've got a couple of the previous generation Filzer computers (DB4zl, wired, no cadence) and have had to replace a wiring harness. They don't take kindly to abuse. The computers themselves seem to hold up pretty well. Wireless can be prone to interference, particularly from high-power LED headlights--buck regulators can emit a lot of stray RF. I prefer to stick with wires. 

You can completely change the front setup (shifter, cables, crankset and/or derailleur) completely independently of the cassette and rear derailleur/shifter with no problem. If it's a used bike it may be worth checking the chain/cassette are not worn in case the do need to be changed (but would be unrelated to the fact that the front setup was changed) Update - As per comment from @batman, if the size of the crankset has changed the length of the chain may need to be updated also 

The cable could have broken, leaving the derailleur sitting on the smallest cog on the upper limit. I had this a few weeks ago, the cable had broken within the shifter so was not immediately visible. If when shifting you feel little or no resistance when trying to change to a lower gear this will be a good indicator that this is the problem. 

I replaced my brake pads about a week ago and today I noticed that, when turning (or generally under lateral force), the rim touches one of the brake pads (depending on which way I'm turning. I hadn't noticed it before but today was the first wet day so maybe the sound was louder because of this. I don't notice myself slowing down at all, but don't really want to be unnecessarily wearing down my brakes. The brakes aren't super close when released, maybe 2-3mm on each side. I would expect a certain amount of flex in the wheel, but as I built the wheel myself I just wanted to check that this wasn't a problem with my build (though its already done 1000 miles probably so it cant be too bad!) There would be room to widen the brakes slightly if this is all that might be required. When stationary and holding the wheel and applying lateral force manually I can make the rim touch either brake pad without a great deal of effort. Any input appreciated Thanks! 

You should be able to look up the frame geometry (useful for comparing to an online fit tool) on the manufacturer's web site if the bike is new enough. Many times there will also be an approximate frame size-height sizing chart available online as well. I've tried the online fit calculator that GuyZee recommends and it seems to work well for me, for what that's worth. 

The only way that interrupter levers could make much of a difference is if the installation requires extra housing (which would compress under braking, increasing the lever travel for a given braking pressure). If you're not bottoming out the levers, though, that's not the source of your problem (and from the picture I don't see why the interrupters would require additional housing anyway). I think Daniel R Hicks is correct here--your lever/caliper setup likely isn't giving you enough mechanical advantage. You're squeezing the levers as hard as you can, but you're just not getting enough pad/rim force for decent stopping power. You notice this mostly in wet weather because there's less pad/rim friction when they're wet. Finger positioning on the levers is one thing that can make a difference--keep them as far away from the pivots as you can. On my drop-bar commuter bike, for example, I need to ride in the drops during wet weather because I just don't get enough mechanical advantage with my hands on the hoods. You might also see better braking performance if you switch to softer brake pads, or rain-specific pads like Kool-Stop Salmon or similar, though I've read that the Salmons tend to chew up rims pretty quickly when it's dry.