First Todd needs to stop signing things without paying attention to what they say. Then he needs to follow what he has contractually agreed to. This will keep him out of trouble in the future. Next. Todd couldy be in trouble if Company A chooses to pursue it whether they have a good legal case or not. (And vindictive copmaines often will) It is likely the corporation can afford better representation than Todd can. He will likely need a lawyer and time to deal with the suit. At the very least, he needs to find a good labor lawyer if he receives any official documents on this at all from Company A Further Company B may get angry if they are sued for this and let both Todd and his friend go as part of a settlement to avoid a court case even one they might be likely to win. All this depends of course on Company A and whether they choose to pursue this further. In my experience though, the companies that take the time to put this in their hiring documents tend to at least try to enforce them knowing many people will settle up rather than go to court and risk losing big. After all part of it is that trying to enforce it when violated will probably prevent some of their current employees from doing so because they know they will be facing a simlar action if they do. My advice at this point would be for Todd to seek out recommendations for a local labor lawyer in case he needs to lawyer up. And for Todd to be much more wary of doing such things in the future. 

If you don't mention this before you accept the offer, the likelihood is that the time may not be approved as you do not have enough earned vaction time. If you have already started the new job, it is already too late. Further, be prepared to take this a leave without pay even if you mentioned it up front. However, in your salary negotiations you should mention it and negotiate for the leave to be with pay. YOu may or may not get that and then you have to decide, but most companies will be accommodating for plans they knew about before they hired you. 

Some corporate cultures are like this. They see no need to waste time pretending they haven't decided already who they are going to promote. In these companies, the only time they advertise a job is when they don't intend to fill it from within. The trick in this kind of culture is to have ongoing and frequent discussions with your boss (and possibly with any boss you would like to work for) about where you want to go in your career. You need to make them aware that you want to be promoted (not everyone does) and, just as important, you need to find out from them what you need to do to make you be the next person they choose. Busy or not, you need to send your boss a meeting request and talk about your career goals. You can express that you were disappointed not be selected and would like some advice on what you need to do in order to be considered the next time. What you don't do is express any disagreement with the choice. You also should have a one on one with the new tech lead and express congratulations to her and ask her what she needs you to do both to support her and to get on the management track as well. (No need to mention that you thought you were on it.) Then whole heartedly support her, work on whatever they told you that you need to do to get chosen the next time, and show the company your maturity. At this point the worst thing you can do if you want to stay in the organization is to show resentment of her promotion. If you decide you can't or don't want to support her, that is fine, but it means moving on as soon as possible if you want to be in a management track. 

You have an unrealistic view of office politics. You do need to play the game to some extent, you don't need to be duplicitous or use doublespeak. But making sure people know your achievements, making sure people want to cooperate with you are all good things and they are all office politics. You need to expand your view of office politics, no one can afford to ignore them. If you aren't playing, people will find you easy to defeat. They will find it easy to give you less than you deserve. They will find it easy to get rid of you. You ignore politics at your own peril and many a person has found themselves fired because they thought the game was beneath them. For instance in the case above, you might be making it harder to do something organizationally that you don't know about because you are helping out an organizational opponent. Perhaps your boss has more critical things he wants you to work on as well which is part of why he doesn't want you doing such things. And maybe the person is trying to get you assigned to him or to do something else to undermine your boss. You never help people who are trying to undermine your boss. Perhaps someone thinks you are not necessary because you have time for all this extra unapproved work. Your boss may be trying to protect you. That said, you don't have to be nasty to refuse the work. Nor do you have to be a snake to play office politics. All work above the first level of supervision is political. If you aren't helping your boss succeed, then you are harming him and he is the one who decides on your performance. Think about that. 

What I would do is option 3. I would prepare for being escorted out that day and prepare a written transition document of where everything stands. I would make sure all code was checked in to a branch at least. (This doesn't apply to any non-programmers reading this.) I would clean up anything I wanted on my computer (such as if I had personal pictures I mean, not stealing work related information which you should not do.) I would pack up my personal stuff. I would gather any current necessary emails or documents in a file and make sure that the the location of the file was accessible to my supervisor and include it in my transition document. I would be prepared financially to not get that two weeks pay (even if you have a good legal case to get paid (local laws vary), you might have to use legal means to get it and thus not get it immediately.) Then I would write a formal letter resigning as of a date two weeks from now. I would take that resignation letter and my transition document to my boss and resign like a professional. You do this no matter how badly you think they will treat you and no matter how eager you are to leave. If they choose to put the project at risk by not letting you do a transition, then that is their problem, by checking in your code and preparing a transition document, you have done all you can in that case. 

Different companies have different needs and have made different choices. Some companies allow everyone to choose what tools they use, many do not. Sometimes this is as a result of growth (smaller companies are less likely to be standardized) and sometimes it is as a result of something bad happening when someone used a different tool and then others couldn't adequately support it, so they standardized everything. This is often found after the first person has left and chaos has resulted. If a company has gone so far as to make a standard, they are going to expect you to learn to live with it. As a new employee, if the first thing you do is go in and try to get them to make an exception for you, then you are likely to be labeled a troublemaker or someone who is a special snowflake, difficult to work with person. This is never in your best interests. It is very hard to undo a bad early impression. It is better to adapt to the new tool even if it temporarily slows you down. In the future if using a particular tool is important to you, then only accept jobs that use that tool or allow the freedom to choose what you want. Even then you may have to adapt later if things change at that company. 

Who is paying you for the time? Go with Option B. Personal devlopment outside the parameters of your job (or a potential job for your own employer) should only be done at work if there is literaly nothing you can do to benefit the organization. They are paying the bill, you should be providing a benefit to them. 

OK first 9-7 are not outrageous hours that's only 1 hour a day more than I work on a 40 hour schedule. Believe me I have seen (and worked) much worse that that. Now if you are working every evening after you get home, then you are getting burnt out and need to take few nights off. (And if you are doing so is it because you are required to or because you don't have anything else to do?) If you haven't contacted friends and family when you have time off, then that is your own fault. There is always time to do what you want to do. But you have to choose what you really want to do. It seems to me your problem is that you are homesick and you have made no effort at all to learn the native language (After 6 months there you should be semi-fluent!) or make friends. Except for the language, you will need to learn how to make new friends at any job. Start joining in at lunch even if you don't speak fluently. The only way to get fluent is to speak. I personally would not quit the internship, I would use the rest of time to start to learn to be more social and to get out and see part of the counrtry. Are there other interns? See if some of them will go out with you on weekends and ask them help you with improving your French. If your internship is part of a college program and you quit, you will fail the internship and possibly not graduate on time. I would seriously consider if this is a good thing to do. Potential employers won't be impressed either and since you are in Europe, that international experience is quite a good thing for your resume starting out. By quitting because you can't handle being in a different culture, you could limit your employment prospects to stricly local companies. And no employer is impressed by someone who fails to complete an internship - you will be competing against those who did complete theirs. Much of what you think is outside your control is entirely in your control. Call your friends/family for half an hour each night. Start trying to speak French with your co-workers at lunch and laugh at yourself when you make a mistake. Get together with your co-workers on weekends or meet up with others who have the same interests as you. Learn to be self-sufficient. Learn to persist even when the going is tough (probably the single most valuable work skill is persistence!). The worst thing you can do is give up and go home. You will set a life pattern of running awy when ever things are hard. If you have to get a calendar and mark off the days, you are already half way there, you did 6 months, you can do six months more. 

It depends a lot on the context of the meeting. An ordinary meeting with people you know reasonably well who all work for your company, well then just give your excuse and leave. However, if the meeting is on a clearly high priority subject, if it was difficult to find a time when all could attend or if anyone outside your company or a senior manager in your company is in attendance, then stay. 

Nothing is less expensive and easier to do than a potluck lunch. If you want to do formal team building exercises there are books and books of those. Buy a couple and have a commitee pick a few they like. Give out silly prizes like rubber duckies or fake Olymic medals. One of the best ones we ever did was have each team decorate a part of the office for a holiday (we choose Halloween) and then have someone outside the company judge them (we used someone who works in the same building but not for our company). You could give each team a budget for decorating supplies (We had a blast at the Halloween store).