First of all, nobody takes these body charts seriously. They are intended for bodybuilders in contest shape, so they do not apply to many people. Without a visual, it's hard to say for sure, but I bet you tend to carry more weight in your lower body. I say this mostly because of the measurements for your waist and calves. That being said, I think your thighs are not too big, but too fat. These measurements are only good comparisons if you're very lean. Also, most people don't carry much fat in their forearms. Your forearms are significantly smaller than this charts ideal, even more than your biceps. That indicates that you carry much less muscle than what this chart references. Shoulder development is limited by your trap strength, and your trap size is reflected in the neck measurement. According to the old military height and weight requirements, if you were over the suggested weight for your class, they would measure your neck. If the neck measurement was big enough, it indicated that you carried more muscle mass than the average man, and so your additional weight could be waived. I don't think you should strive to have the same measurements as this chart, but the same proportions as the chart. You should be the same percentage smaller then each measurement. 

Ideally your waist circumference should measure half your height or less. Your waist to hip ratio should fall between .9 to 1.0 for men and .8 to .85 for women. Waist circumference can be used as and indicator of obesisty with measurements determined as follows: 

The article covers steroids, designer steroids and other performance enhancers. If you are considering taking any, check out the article. 

Exercise Intensity The UT Southwestern study found that different levels of exercise intensity are effective for different people: 

Good question. You are right to be addressing bone density now. @Dave has a good answer so I will just add that a weight vest is a good way to improve bone density especially of the spine. Assumming that you are healthy and have a healthy calcium and vitamin D intake, your bone's density and strength responds to applied stress. So as Dave says, resistance exercises (bodyweight, weight lifting or resistance bands) and weight bearing with impact (running, jumping, plyometrics etc) stress the bone and cause it to lay down new bone in the area stressed. The National Osteoporosis Foundation has a nice pdf about preventing osteoporosis (thinning of the bones) that includes the daily amount of calcium/vitamin D you need and foods rich in calcium such as low fat yogurt and sardines. It also addresses risks for getting osteoporosis such as family history, hormones, smoking, alcohol intake, diseases and medicines that may contribute to loss of bone density. 

In general, I don't think that whether you're hungry or not is relevant at all. Just because you're hungry doesn't mean that you don't have sufficient glycogen stores for a run. If you are hungry, the hunger will probably subside once you start running as exercise causes you to have an increase in insulin. Any increase in insulin is followed by a low, at which point you'll feel the hunger return. This may be after you're run, or if you're exercising for a longer period, it could be before your workout is over. Cardio for weight loss is often suggested to be done first thing in the morning on an empty stomach, that way you will start burning stored glycogen immediately, and if you're eating a low carb diet, possibly go directly to burning fat for energy. Again, whether you're hungry or not is still irrelevant. If you just ate, you will burn sugar in the bloodstream first when you run. Depending on your metabolism, and how long since your last meal, you might not even digest that last meal yet because blood will be pulled to the extremities during your run, and away from the stomach in order to supply oxygen to the muscles working during exercise. 

The one health benefit that the GF and GFJ did show over the water preload was the improvement in HDL. 

Since your exercise goals are to improve mental alertness, reaction time and fight depression, skipping rope may have some advantages over jogging and running, because navigating the rope gives you added mental focus, body awareness and coordination. As mentioned in my comment, you do not need to choose one over the other. To the contrary alternating one day of running with one day of skipping rope will give you the advantages of cross training. Or you could combine a workout of jogging, with intervals of skipping rope. (Generally, you can’t continuously skip rope as long as you would be able to jog or run because it can be more intense as an exercise.) One of the most important exercise criteria for depression is that it is something you and your body enjoys doing regularly. Cross training keeps you from getting bored with your exercise program and is more stimulating mentally. It also reduces the chance of overuse injuries. I have included video links to a beginning jump roping video and a more advanced one as you progress, as well as a video for leg strengthening to prevent injuries. So my suggestion is to try both jogging and skipping rope. Either one and/or both can help you with your goals. See what you like about each and how your body and mind respond. Trying out each exercise will give you your best answer. 

Yes, you can mix BCAAs and Creatine together. No, there is no benefit of taking them separately. Also, like CanESER said, Creatine (monohydrate, at least) doesn't have any flavor, so it definitely doesn't matter. 

There are a lot of factors this depends on. For example: For me, I'm trying to build muscle and gain weight. I'm eating in a caloric surplus. I'm only 19 years old; my metabolism is crazy. I workout 6 times a week for around 9-12 hours a week. I don't want to burn any fat or calories than I already am... So I never do cardio. Depends on how fast and much weight you want to lose, but if your main goal is to lose weight and burn fat while maintaining muscle, and you're doing solid work with the weights on your Push and Pull days, you can absolutely do cardio on your off days. Especially if you want to lose weight faster. Also, it depends on you personally and how your body responds, but I would never do that much cardio while trying to build muscle because cardio not only burns fat, but it will hinder your maintenance and gaining of muscle mass, too. So if you're leaning more towards building muscle rather than burning fat, I would limit my cardio and just make sure I have a good diet plan for myself and eat cleanly. It's really all about balance, knowing your goals, and understanding what works for you. Sometimes you have to just give things a try, asses the results, and adjust accordingly. 

My first thought would be that you are holding your breath. Since you say that is not the case, it would be best to check with your doctor because as you point out you may have an increase in blood pressure that causes symptoms when doing push ups. So, it would be best to check it out. You could also try making the push up a little easier and see if you still get the symptoms. For instance, stop short of the floor by a couple of inches to see if that lessens the strain. Hope that helps and good Luck. 

Begin by stabilizing your wrists in a neutral position with isometrics for the wrist flexors, extensors, medial and lateral deviators, pronators and supinators ( ie. resist the wrist moving 1) up, 2) down, 3) to the thumb side, 4) to the little finger side, and resist rotating the forearm by turning the palm 5) down and 6) up, without losing the neutral position of the wrist). Then do the same six exercises but allow movement through a comfortable range using a resistance band and/or dumbell. See this article for photos. You can use these exercises to warm up before trying bodyweight exercises. As you mentioned, you need to take care with the tendons and small joints of the wrist. Here is a wrist stretching video that will help with your flexibility. These exercises will make your wrist more stable in neutral, stronger throughout your range and more flexible which hopefully will help to eliminate your pain. 

I'm surprised to see that there is such a debate concerning types of fats. I don't think there are really different opinion camps on this. The following is not nuance. It is just the same information that you'd get if you asked any personal trainer or bodybuilder this question. Saturated fats are from pigs, cows, and egg yolks. Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. They are a very stable molecules that do not react very readily in the body, and are more difficult to access for energy, so they are more likely to be stored for later use. These can be stored where ever your body stores fat and can also be stored along artery walls, and can cause heart disease. These types of fats should be limited. Fats in red meat and pork products should be limited, but that does not mean it's necessary to eliminate all red meat and pork products rather limit the fat content by choosing lean cuts of these meats. Also remember that dairy products that are not fat free contain a considerable amount of saturated fats. Primarily cheese, even white cheeses contain a lot of saturated fat and should be minimized. Although some people eat cheese as a protein source, I do not believe it should be considered as such. The amount of calories from fat in cheese is well over half even in a low fat cheese. Egg yolks have notable amounts of cholesterol in addition to saturated fat. Cholesterol has been credited with increasing levels of testosterone, so it may be worth taking in a moderate amount for this purpose. Unsaturated fats are from fish and plant sources. They are called essential fatty acids because your body does not make them on its own, so you have to take them in through your diet. Unsaturated fats have fewer hydrogem molecules than saturated fats, so they will contain one or more double bonds which makes them a polarized molecule thus more reactive in the body. This means your body can break it down more readily to use it for energy. Polyunsaturated fats are unsaturated fats that have 2 or more double bonds. In addition, unsaturated fats can combine with saturated fats and pull away a hydrogen atom converting it to an unsaturated fat. In this manner unsaturated fats can help you both burn stored fat and break down fatty acids in the blood stream for a healthier cardiovascular system. I suggest taking in unsaturated fats at least once or twice a day. The best sources are nuts and plant oils including peanuts, almonds, cashews, sunflower seeds, olive oil, sunflower oil, safflower oil, flax oil, etc. You'd be hard pressed to eliminate saturated fats completely from your diet because most unsaturated fats have some amount of saturated fats in addition and vise versa. You just have to read labels and consider how much you are getting of one compared to the other. I should also include a note about trans fats which are a chemically created form of saturated fats. Trans fats should not just be limited but avoided completely. They have been proven to not only increase bad cholesterol, but to decrease good cholesterol. Trans fats can be found in icings, cooking lard like crisco, and many processed foods because they also act as a preservative. 

Given your history with previous strains and present joint problems, it is worth planning a gradual re-entry into exercise. Otherwise if you overdo, you'll hurt and have to take time off. This q/a may give you some good information about the different aspects to consider in getting back in shape. Injury prevention includes proper warm-up, strengthening to stabilize, flexibility and gradual cool down. Walking is a good way to start. Nordic Walking Poles can give you a better workout while helping to add some support to your knees. Water exercise is excellent, but without easy pool access this could only be an adjucnt exercise. Bodyweight exercises as suggested are good to increase your strength and can be done at home. Cycling is low impact and often good to lubricate "dry" joints. However, you may want to try a stationary cycle at low resistance to see how knees like it. Hope this helps get you started. Good luck. 

Taking preworkout consistently for 3 years is way too long. Taking preworkout consistently for 3 months is way too long. You've probably developed a complete tolerance for any sensible amount of caffeine now and will never achieve any stimulation from it. Safe to say after 3 years your body has adapted. You have to cycle off stimulants to (attempt to) reset your tolerance. If I was in your situation, I'd take at least a couple months off any stimulants (besides coffee if you're a drinker) and see how you respond after that. And if a few months go by and when you take it you don't feel any benefits, stay off it for another while. 

So instead of doing cardio, just do more weights. After all, there are tons of studies and articles on why building muscle is actually a better way to burn fat and lose weight than cardio. One reason being having more muscle speeds up your metabolism. Another being when you train with weights consistently, your muscles becomes more insulin-sensitive, and you body will more eagerly transform and store the majority of the carbs you consume as glycogen in your muscles for fuel, rather than store it as fat. That's not to say don't do any cardio, but instead use it as a supplement to your weight training rather than it being your main activity. After all, cardio does have valuable benefits for overall cardiovascular health, so even an hour a week of direct cardio with 5-6 days of weight training would be solid. 

Medical Checkup The best way to convince your health insurance provider that you are in great shape is to show them the results of your physical exam showing that you pass with flying colors. Your medical doctor would be the one to determine whether or not you are healthy. BMI is a screening tool - NOT a diagnostic tool. 

Screening Tool: BMI is primarily a screening tool. It can be done quickly and easily with a simple a tape measure and a scale. The measurements are run thru a formula that gives you a number to determine where your measurements fall between an underweight to overweight chart. @Informaficker had given you a formula and chart. Here is another formula: BMI = (Weight in Pounds/( Height in inches )x (Height in inches) )x 703 And a link to the CDC's BMI calculator and their BMI calculator for Teens. Validity: Although it is a good screening tool, it cannot actually determine how healthy you are. Muscular people for example, may show up as being overweight due to their heavier muscle mass. Older, overweight people may show up as normal due to muscle wasting. Other Measurements In addition to your BMI, a waist and hip measurement will add more information to your health assessment. And there are other ways to calculate your body fat percentage more directly.