So, to simplify it (perhaps too much) RotoR claims that it is more efficient and better for your knees etc. to minimize the tooth size at the dead spot and maximize the tooth size where you generate the most power and are the most efficient. Having installed a set and seen the power file from a MTB powertap I can vouch for the fact that it appears to 'smooth' the application of torque while mountain biking. The thought behind this is that by smoothing out your application of torque you will be able to ascend technical climbs ... better. That is one coaches take on the Q-rings and why he sees benefit. So, that all said. Have a gander at Sheldon Browns take on the issue of Biopace. Essentially, to try and summarize his thoughts, Biopace is striving to achieve the exact things that RotoR is trying just by going about it in what appears to be the completely opposite way. In fact, he even mentions the application of Biopace to mountain biking and how it evens out the application of power to the cranks. IMO it is all very confusing. RotoR does trot out some scientific studies and I can attest to a difference in torque application on the mountain bike. In my experience, what is universal with RotoR and O-Symmetric is that the shifting is ABSOLUTELY terrible. Add mud to the mix (MTB) and it goes from terrible to non-existant so whatever perceived benefit there is ... I think you might lose with poor shifting performance. What is helpful from Sheldon's take is that it seems Biopace failed more due to clumsy marketing and poor communication than it did from being a poor design. Lastly, I don't think any of them are 'GOOD' or 'BAD'. They are different and might work very well in some applications and poorly in others (Ie. RotoR and mud). But the Biopace choice is pretty much a moot point because ... you can't buy them new anyways. 

I'll be blunt. If you want to go faster and you are interested in road cycling, buy a different bike. No matter what you do to the bike you have, which is an excellent hybrid, it will never be a road bike. It will always be a nice hybrid. The #1 issue you need to deal with when road cycling is fit and a flat bar hybrid will rarely give you the proper fit you need to increase your speed and maintain your comfort over the long term. If you are looking for something more durable than a pure road bike then I would recommend perhaps looking at a cyclocross bike which will fit most of your needs. I would only caution against the 'cross bike if high intensity group rides are going to be a part of your future. 

I am going to assume we are dealing w/ a JIS style square taper bottom bracket for this issue. At least, I am going to address it as such. If it is a cartridge style BB you really have no choice in repairing the less than perfect feel so either accept the roughness and look at a new one next season or switch her out when you feel. If it is a loose ball and you are partial to it (ex: ti spindle) the roughness is a sign that you should get on servicing it asap. The roughness can come from contamination of the grease and result in the spindle race pitting and the cup races pitting as well. Once these are pitted you will most likely never get it back to that silky smooth feeling you so desire. In reality, chances are it is a cartridge JIS BB. Domsterr is spot on with the 'lateral' play issue. To add to the recommendation of spinning the cranks I would add the following: 

So you can get razor sharp tan lines. Pesky hair can result in migrating shorts which leads to blurring of the tan line. And really ... if you are going to look foolish, you might as well just jump RIGHT in. 

You should consider your goals, short and long term, prior to acquiring a frame. Are you planning on racing? And if so is it stage racing, crit racing etc.. Or perhaps you are looking at building from 1 or 2 hour rides to centuries etc.. You really want to make sure that you know what you are planning on doing (again, short and long term) so that you can choose a suitable geometry and frame material for your activities. You should know the exact dimensions you are going to need to get the perfect fit. Road cycling is all about having a great fit and it doesn't matter if you bike is the lightest or most expensive ... if it doesn't fit then it isn't good for you. This can trickle on down to the components as well (set back seatpost, stem length and so on). So, in my mind, those are the two most important things to consider and typically I would go about it by planning out my goals and then choosing the geometry to meet those goals. Once you have the geometry (head tube angle, seat tube angle, wheelbase etc...) chosen based on goals you can fill in the rest based on getting the fit dialed. Really, from there, it is just a matter of how much you do or don't want to spend. Haha. 

$URL$ Hopefully that links you to the XTR Race crankset. Double and available in 180mm. Then new XT Dyna-sys cranksets, in triple, will also be available in 180mm. 

In my world how often you clean really depends on how convenient it is for you to clean your bike and how much you enjoy a clean bike. For myself I have a fairly convenient set up so I clean my bike(s), in parts, almost every time I ride. For example: I go on a ride ('cross ride perhaps) and I come back with a moderately dirty frame and drive train. Knowing it is fall and that if I do a top to bottom job it will only be dirty again tomorrow I simply hang the bike in the stand, turn the hose on it (low pressure working top to bottom, front to back) and remove the majority of the mud etc. Grab a rag, wipe down the chain and re-lubricate. Done. If I ride the same bike the next day, after the hosing I might clean the rims and brake pads or fix the bar tape etc. etc. Each day sees something small being tackled resulting in my actual tune ups taking 10-15 minutes tops. For my setup that constitutes 3-5 minutes of my life and typically gets done after every ride which gets some sort of road grime on the bike. I like to operate on the 'clean before anything goes wrong' principle. When you are cleaning your bike you are also inspecting it for wear and tear. But really, how often do you have to? It all depends on your preference in terms of how you like the bike to operate and how often you ride it (them). 

As wdy mentioned, it is quality over quantity especially in your case. $URL$ $URL$ Imo increasing your mitochondrial and capillary density are two important items for any type of endurance cycling. As you can see from that chart that puts your most beneficial training zones as 4 & 5. As well you want to increase glycogen storage so riding at tempo (zone 3) is incredibly beneficial. For the zone 4ish rides I like to do sweet spot riding or LT intervals $URL$ $URL$ Zone 4/5 you can do criss cross intervals where you go above LT and then drop below LT over a period of 8-15 minutes. For your tempo ride you can simply warm up for 5 minutes and go. Ride at tempo for the entirety of your 20 miler and for different effect you can ride at 5 rpm below your standard (or above) or alternate back and forth every 5 minutes. Zones 3/4/5 can greatly help you in achieving your distance goals w/out necessarily being able to ride that distance regularly. As well if you can fit quick core workouts in in the morning that will greatly help your comfort and performance, as was mentioned above. 

You could try slicing, with a dremel or similar instrument, a 'notch' into the bolt that would allow a flat edge to fit in. Soak the bolt/area with a penetrating lubricant (PB Blaster or some such) or ammonia, let it sit and do its work for a few minutes (some folks recommend 24 hrs), and then attempt to 'tighten it through' the eyelet. You could also try to heat it w/ a propane torch for 30 seconds or so and then try again to tighten the bolt through eyelet. 

To be anecdotal Mark Cavendish has been known to be distinctly suspicious of stretching because he believes that the tightness of his muscles assists in his ability to sprint. Not at all based on science or anything besides the 'what I am doing is working, so why change it?' mentality. But who are we to argue that? The results speak for themselves! The debate is on going in terms of the benefits of stretching and performance. I believe that it has been rather settled that cold stretching, prior to exercise, is at most detrimental to performance and at least pointless. A proper warm up where you cycle (literally I guess) through your various 'systems' is a generally accepted practice. See: protour cyclists before a time trial warming up on trainers, cyclocross racers prior to the race warming up on trainers (especially when we get to december/january/february racing) and so on and so forth. A warmup that I find useful: pedal easy for 5 mins w/ power at 60% or lower of LT, 3 x 1 min fast pedals (focusing on technique, low power and high cadence) w/ 1 min recovery btw each, ride at an easy endurance pace for 5 minutes and then finish w/ a 5 minute 'blowout' (5 mins starting below LT, meeting LT at 1 min. point and then riding at VO2 max for last 30 seconds). Then you can get into the hard work. I typically do that type of warm up prior to threshold intervals etc... In terms of stretching after exercise, it has worked for me. A quick scan through training manuals and literature seems to agree that post exercise stretching is of benefit BUT there is also a body of literature that points out that it has never been scientifically PROVEN that stretching post exercise is of benefit. For example: $URL$ My suggestion is that you do what works for you and that you are guided in your stretching by someone who is qualified to give you a stretching and strengthening program. I have often participated in pilates and yoga and find great benefits from a mixture of core strengthening exercises combined w/ lower body stretching. Grab a few books that can be trusted and do as much research as possible. Enroll in some studio based pilates/yoga courses that are run by certified instructors and see how you feel. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ At worst you will begin to know your body better and get a feel for when you are straining or pushing beyond what your body can handle. In my experience a cyclist with a good amount of 'body awareness' is less prone to injury than those who just hop on the bike and hammer away. Hope that helped a bit ... 

There are a few terms bandied about that have significance. Watts, Lumens and Candlepower (Candela). In my experience lumens has the most significance in that it typically reveals, generally speaking, how bright the light is going to be. What it doesn't refer to is what type of beam pattern it will have, how bright it will be at the centre as compared to the edge and so on and so forth. So, to get to the question at hand. What should you look for? Personally I set a 300 Lumen minimum for trail riding at night. Yes, some could argue you could go lower but I like to go semi-fast and find that is the barrier (for myself ... terrible eyesight I guess). For in city use I have a nice little minewt mini usb (niterider) which has a claimed 110+ lumens and I find it absolutely fantastic for in city use (and rail trail, slow speed trail riding). It also works great as a back up/secondary/get to trail/oh crap my main light died light. Bulb type is up for debate but the general trend was Halogen (old) to HID (newer) to LED (newest). LED seems to be taking the lead with some larger companies (such as Niteride and Light & Motion) offering mostly LED systems. LED systems create less heat, are less finicky and you can change your own bulbs so ... I'm partial to LED. To summarize that section. 300+ watts (my recommendation) and LED for trail riding. Brands? I have had great luck w/ Light & Motion (have a SECA 700 on the way) and Nite Rider. In Canada I have had some warranty issues w/ Nite Rider but ... that was a while ago so I'll let bygones be bygones. Plus, I love the Minewt I mentioned above. Ayup are quite nice as well I hear. And there are much much more. Models? Well like I said I have a Seca 700 on the way and the aforementioned Minewt that I love. If you are into spending the dough, Niterider has a line of lights that you can customize the beam pattern and brightness from your computer. I don't have experience with that, it seems awfully expensive and complicated but ... at the same time ... awesome. Of note, MTBR has a neat Lights Shoot out review that shows actual trail beam comparison. It's from 2009 but I thought it was really cool. hope this helps. Sorry for the on and on nature of the reply.