Hypothesis 1: (i) involves sentential co-ordination This hypothesis entails that (i) involves co-ordination at the IP-level. This leaves open a couple of different possibilities for analysing the subject gap in the second conjunct: Hypothesis 1.1: (i) involves obligatory control of PRO If (i) involves control, we know that it must be obligatory control, since the subject of the second conjunct has to refer to John. There are two separate arguments against this. The first, as you make clear in your question, is that PRO must be in an ungoverned position, but a finite subject is governed by I. The second is that obligatorily controlled PRO must be c-commanded by its controller, which isn't the case here. Here's the tree: 

Seeing this question reminded me of a section in Peter Matthews book 'Syntax' (1981) (it's meant to be a textbook, but it's more like a monograph really). In Chapter 4, p84-93, there's an explicit comparison and evaluation of dependency grammars vs. constituency grammars. Matthews shows that for any d-grammar, there is a ps-grammar which will generate the same set of sentences, and vice versa - that is to say that d-grammars and ps-grammars are weakly equivalent. Matthews goes on to discuss a different and more interesting way in which the two can be compared: Can an analysis in one framework be shown, in each instance, to be isomorphic to an analysis in the opposing framework? In other words, can we say everything using d-grammar that we can using a ps-grammar, and vice versa? If the answer is yes, then the two are strongly equivalent (Chomsky '63, formal properties of grammar). As far as i understand it, strongly equivalent grammars are essentially notational variants. In comparing d-grammars and ps-grammars, we shouldn't necessarily pay too much heed to the variable simplicity of the notation - we can only use this as an argument if it's already been established that the two are strongly equivalent. Matthews pretty convincingly shows that there is no mechanical procedure from which d-trees can be derived from ps-trees, and no mechanical procedure from which ps-trees can be derived from d-trees across the board. There are things of descriptive value that can be said in d-grammars that can't be said in ps-grammars, and vice versa, and therefore they aren't strongly equivalent. You could entertain the idea of combining the two representations (which is something like what we have in, e.g. modern minimalism), although this is something that Matthews ultimately rejects in favour of his own d-grammar, for interesting and unrelated reasons. Dick Hudson is a proponent of 'word grammar', a modern theory in the d-grammar school, and he has some powerful arguments in his various papers (available here: $URL$ that a d-grammar is to be preferred to a ps-grammar. Given that ps-grammars and d-grammars aren't mere notational variants, it seems to me that one or the other will ultimately turn out to be a more accurate abstraction over speakers' mental representations. Ultimately, that's still an open question. 

Relative clauses are generally taken in generative syntax to involve wh-movement. Since there is no overt wh-word in a that-relative, this is modelled by positing a null relative operator. Evidence that relative clauses involve wh-movement comes from facts like the following: (i) Relative clauses can be formed using wh-words, as in (1): (1) A book which i bought. (ii) Relativisation seems to obey the same constraints as wh-movement, e.g. It can cross a finite clause boundary, as indicated by (2): (2) A book that Vera said Op_i that John had bought t_i. (iii) Relativisation is blocked by the presence of a syntactic island. Sensitivity to islandhood is generally taken as being diagnostic of, or even definitional of wh-movement. This can be illustrated by the fact that (2) is ungrammatical, where movement out of a syntactic island - Specifically, a complex subject: (3) *A book Op_i that a copy of t_i was stolen Example (4) Shows that wh-movement out of a complex subject leads to ungrammaticality: (4) *Which book was a copy of t_i stolen? (iv) There are languages in which an overt realisation of a wh-word alongside that in a relative clause is grammatical, e.g. in Middle English: (5) thy freend which that thou has lorn (cmctmeli.m3, 218.C1.31) 'your friend that you have lost' (Retrieved from: $URL$ 

Because A applies the [-sonorant], it should affect both stops and fricatives. If we apply A first, it will destroy the environment that triggers B, so A bleeds B, therefore the order AB is a bleeding relationship, and the order BA is a counter-bleeding relationship. BA does not count as a feeding relationship, because A would have applied even if B had not applied, so although B does, in a sense, create the environment for A to apply to, B's application is not necessary to create the environment that A applies to. A final note: In practice, since B is triggered by a set of environments that are a proper subset of the set of environments that trigger A, B will block application of A to stops due to the elsewhere principle. If this wasn't the case, then we wouldn't have any evidence for the existence of B in the first place! Reference: Amalia Arvaniti's lecture slides for ACTL 2013. 

It's easy to see that as a consequence of these rewrite rules, we can build PS-trees with an in principle infinite number of recursively embedded CPs, since S is one of the outputs of CP, NP is one of the outputs of S, and CP is one of the outputs of NP, so by transitivity, CP can contain CP. Now let's consider your example involving a string of attributive adjectives. Under standard assumptions, adjectives are adjoined to the Noun Phrase - this captures the fact that an NP modified by any number of adjectives still behaves as an NP externally. Consider the following simple example + PS-tree: 

Note that the sentence is ambiguous - the most salient reading is the one where the adverbial very much scopes over the most deeply embedded VP surprised her teachers. This is the reading i've represented above by adjoining the adverbial to the most deeply embedded VP. Other readings could be captured by adjoining very much to higher level VPs. Note: The tree diagram was built using phpSyntaxTree. 

Just to declare myself, i was taught linguistics in a formalist department, which has no doubt coloured my suggestions. For suggestions focused more on functionalist linguistics, see @Taneko's answer. 

Note that specificational copular clauses and their predicational counter-parts are truth-conditionally equivalent. The difference is generally considered to be driven by information-structural considerations, such as topic and focus (see Line Mikkelsen's dissertation on the topic). One common assumption is that predicational and specificational copular clauses have the same underlying D-structure, as follows (using X'-notation): 

Cook and teach are show very different behaviour. It's not even obvious to me that they belong to the same aspectual class. I don't see any reason why there should be a linguistic term to describe the conceit of 'activities accomplished by other activities'. As far as i can tell, there's no evidence to suggest that the distinction has any relevance to natural language semantics. EDIT: Forgot to give the full citation for Levin. Here it is: Levin, B., (1993), English Verb Classes and Alternations: A Preliminary Investigation 

I've given what i deem to be a reasonably standard phrase-structure tree for a that-relative clause, consistent with the principles of X-bar theory below (taking Jackendoff, 1977 as a concrete reference). I'm assuming the DP hypothesis here (i.e. that 'a book...' is headed by a determiner rather than by the noun), but it's easy to re-cast this in terms on an NP if that displeases you. 

Definite descriptions such as "The City of Rome" are the subject of a 2013 paper by Michael Rieppel in Linguistics and Philosophy: 'The Double Life of the Mayor of Oakland'. Rieppel analyses descriptions conforming to the general schema: the + N + of + Proper Name, and draws a distinction between possessive descriptions on the one hand, as in (1), and identifying descriptions on the other, as in (2): (1) The mayor of Oakland. (2) The city of Oakland. To answer your question then, one term used to pick out the class of definite descriptions you have identified is identifying definite descriptions. Rieppel describes the semantics of identifying descriptions as follows: the city of Oakland denotes the very same thing denoted by the proper name following of, and simply adds the information that it is a city. Rieppel goes on to provide several diagnostics showing that possessive descriptions can behave as semantic predicates, whereas identifying descriptions never do. Consider, for example, the fact that a possessive description can be coordinated with expressions that are uncontroversially predicative (3), whereas identifying descriptions cannot (4): (3) She is ambitious, driven, and the mayor of Oakland. (4) *It is lively, energetic, and the city of Oakland. Rieppel points out that there is cross-linguistic variation in whether or not a prepositional linker such as of is present. In German, for example, identifying descriptions do not occur with a preposition: (5) Der philosoph Frege The philosopher Frege (6) Der Stadt Oakland The city Oakland An interesting restriction on this construction is that the expression following of cannot just be any expression that denotes an individual, it has to be a proper name. Consider, for example, the contrast between (2) (repeated as (7)) and (8-10): (7) The city of Oakland. (8) *The city of that city. (9) *The city of Agadir's sister city. (10) *The city of the sister city of Agadir. Even thought (8-10) all involve an expression that denotes an individual following of, they are nonetheless unacceptable. Rieppel develops an account of the semantics of identifying descriptions which arguably can derive these facts.