Your friend's bike will have the same size wheel on the front and back. If the rear wheel is 700c then the front wheel will be that size. The imperial equivalent of 700c would be 28 inches. Finally, I'd suggest going to Decathlon or use their website and buying a replacement wheel with a dynamo. The price difference is minimal (less than a set of lights would cost). 

Exercise is fuelled by a combination of carbohydrate and fat. In theory, if you exercise while your body is deprived of carbohydrate it will become better at utilising fat for energy. I know some running coaches advocate this approach for marathon training: 

The Canine Aggression FAQs from the RSPCA has some useful general advice about aggressive dogs. If you encounter an aggressive dog while cycling it recommends the following: 

You should refer to the manual for the helmet for cleaning instructions. Usually it will say to use mild soap and water. A helmet will not be damaged by water, but don't use heat to dry it afterwards as this can destroy your helmet. Also, if the padding is removable then you might be able to get replacement pads. 

A bit late now, but for the future it's worth knowing that it's possible to order a replacement key for most locks. You'll need the serial number which is usually on the key or might be separately in the packaging (it's not written on the lock itself for obvious reasons), so you need to make a note of that somewhere and keep it in a safe place. 

The NDS bottom bracket cup isn't installed correctly in your photo; you have a 2-3mm gap between it and the frame when there should be no gap at all. If that's as far as it gets with the spec torque (40Nm usually) then remove it and check the threads on both the shell and cup for anything which would stop it going in all the way and clean anything you find off. 

Plain-gauge (PG) spokes will break at the shoulder (where they leave the hub) due to metal fatigue at some point during the life of the wheel. Varying the tension in a PG spoke tends to vary the amount of bend at the shoulder; varying the tension in a double-butted (DB) spoke tends to vary the length of the thinner section, which is much better from a fatigue perspective. There is no feel difference between 2.0mm-straight spokes, 2.0/1.8 DB-spokes and 2.0/1.5 DB-spokes at the same tension with the same rim. Source: I built them and rode them. There is no load-carrying difference between DB spokes and PG spokes either. Load-bearing capacity is a function of the spoke tension and the spoke count. If you take a look at the spoke specs of at least DT Swiss and Sapim spokes you will find that the DB spokes will take the same tension as (and often more than) their PG counterparts. The other option to consider is bladed spokes like the Sapim CX-Ray, which are basically DB spokes with the thinner section pressed flat. This has some nontrivial aerodynamic benefit and is also a bit easier to build with because you can hold the spoke straight: no need to worry about spoke wind-up. 

References: Bikehub - Cycling and the Law, Traffic Signs Regulations and General Directions 1994, Road Vehicles Lighting Regulations 1989 A velomobile or recumbent bike is covered by the same law as regular bicycles: 

So it's legal to use to ride one on the road in the UK. Cycle paths are a bit more complicated as some legislation refers to "bicycles" and some to "pedal cycles", so it would depend on how many wheels you've got and what type of cycle path / cycle lane / cycle track you wanted to use. If you want to use a velomobile or recumbent bike on the road between sunset and sunrise then you may have problems. To be legal you'd need 2 pedal reflectors on each pedal and these have to be clearly visible from the front and rear. The design of most velomobiles and recumbent bikes do not meet this requirement. This law is rarely (if ever) enforced, I think your main worry on this point is if you were involved in an accident then the other party might try to use your lack of reflectors to show negligence. Note - If your velomobile or recumbent bike is electrically powered then there are additional regulations that must be complied with, but I think that's beyond the scope of the question. 

If you have the GXP Red cranks (more normal) you want a Pressfit GXP Bottom Bracket. If you have the BB30 Red cranks you want a Pressfit 30 BB However not all press fit systems are created equal. I would have your LBS check compatibility, and supply and fit a suitable part. SRAM make both of these in the whole range of series from Red down to non-series Truvativ-branded versions. 

DT Swiss make a series of spokes called which incorporate a re-usable thread-lock type feature. You can build these over several days no problem and re-true them for years without trouble. It isn't blue, so that isn't what you have. The usual blue stuff is Loctite 242 which I would not personally want to use on spokes because it sets in ten minutes and is fully cured after 24 hours; after it cures you can fully break it apart but not make small adjustments, so later truing will not really work. Should you wish to remove it Loctite's data sheet suggests the correct solvent to use is . I personally use grease on spoke threads, as on any other threads which don't need locking. With grease or you can take as long as you like. I never tried for lack of a UK supplier at a reasonable price. 

The Highway Code (Rule 180) states that when turning right "Do not cut the corner", so it seems quite likely that doing so and nearly hitting someone would constitute careless driving. The driver could be given a fixed penalty (probably 3 points), or made to go on a driving course, or taken to court, or let off with a warning. If the driver came up with a different version of events to yours then a video recording or a reliable and credible witness would be useful. There might be other evidence, e.g. skid marks on the road. 

Note that the offence only applies to motor vehicles, a bicycle is not a motor vehicle, so you cannot be guilty of speeding on a bicycle. You could be charged with either Dangerous Cycling or Careless And Inconsiderate Cycling. 

Legal issues aside, cycling along a tramway can be dangerous. This blog entry describes the problem: 

I have had this problem when running (it's known as jogger's nipple). It's caused by friction when your top rubs against your nipples, moisture from sweat (or rain) tends to make it worse. Wearing technical clothing that draws moisture away from your skin will help, along with some kind of barrier cream. Personally, I use bodyglide as I find it easy to apply, but vaseline or nappy rash cream should work just as well. 

Let's start at the outside and work our way inwards. Most tyres don't care which way they rotate, although as others have said it may be beneficial to keep it going the same way for its lifetime. It might be slightly better for the fatigue-life of the spoke holes in the rim, the nipples, the hub flanges and the spokes if they are always put through the same load cycle as the wheel rotates; but my strong suspicion is that with correct (high) spoke tension the difference will be minuscule. On a rim-braked bike the the braking surface will fail first; on a disc-braked bike you'll destroy the wheel on potholes/cobbles/rock gardens before these are a problem. I can't see any issue at all with the hub shell, bearings, axle, or QR. 

Some data points: Almost all the factory-built fancy wheels I see on group rides are now laced 'passing' rather than 'crossing'. Seems to be standard practice across Campagnolo, Fulcrum, Shimano, Zipp, Mavic, etc. This may be because they like to use bladed spokes and perhaps there is an incompatibility there. But it may also be that it is as strong and removes a warranty-claimable failure mode. I did a google image search for 'broken spoke' which finds a lot of spokes broken at the elbow (as you would expect) and very few broken elsewhere. However the few which have broken elsewhere (and not as the result of a crash) look to have broken at the 'crossing' point. This makes sense because it should be the most-fatigued point in a double-butted spoke laced 'crossing'. I tried building a set of wheels 'passing' not 'crossing' and here are my observations: It was easier to lace the spokes. Tensioning and truing was more difficult because the tension of the inside spokes needs to be significantly less than the tension of the outside spokes to exert the same lateral pull. I had to cross the spokes on the rear drive-side: a short test revealed the rear mech was clipping the outside spoke otherwise. That was on an 11-speed hub with 10-speed drivetrain and the 1.8mm spacer behind the cassette, so on a true 11-speed system or with a 10-speed hub it might be possible to rip the mech off entirely. With disc brakes you might need to cross the spokes on the caliper-side to clear the caliper. With normal hubs and J-bend spokes I recommend that you interlace all sides of both wheels because the benefits of even spoke tension for all spokes on the same side of the same wheel far exceeds the minor benefits of not interlacing the sides you don't need to interlace. Looking at my wife's DT Swiss wheels they are laced crossing with the inside and outside spokes leaving the hub from almost the same plane, so they are close to achieving the benefits of both systems. 

Short answer - there's no widely recognized hand gesture for I'm sorry. You could try the American Sign Language for sorry: 

Lance Armstrong has announced that he will no longer fight charges brought against him by the US anti-doping agency. The USADA says it will ban him for life and strip him of his 7 Tour de France titles. Armstrong says that the USADA does not have the authority to do that. My understanding is that the International Cycling Union (UCI) is in charge of professional cycling events, including the Tour de France. So what is the relationship between the UCI and the USADA (and other anti-doping agencies)? Who has the final say over banning and disqualifying cyclists? 

You're probably thinking of Rideable - Cycling Visualisations. They have videos showing commutes in Sydney, London and Bristol. There are other projects such as the London Cycling Census. That compares different vehicle types (bicycles, cars, buses, lorries, etc). More generally, The Guardian Datablog is a good source for this sort of information. 

Note that only reported accidents where a police officer attended the scene are included in the statistics. This Wikipedia article has some details of the methodology used to collect the statistics. The complete data set is available here. The data above is taken from the table RAS50005 - Vehicles in reported accidents by contributory factor and vehicle type, Great Britain, 2014. 

If you use the chainrings you have, which are designed to be shiftable, you will find the chain comes off them quite easily if you are in the extreme ends of your rear gears. If you're riding on paved surfaces you can solve this by fitting a narrow-wide chainring instead: there are plenty of vendors including Absolute Black, SRAM and Race Face; I've used all of those and they work well. As Alexander suggested you can stay with shiftable chainrings and use the front mech as a rudimentary chain-retention device. To do this you detach and remove the shifting cable and shifter then turn the lower limit screw until the mech is in the desired location. You can completely lock it in position using the upper limit screw as well if you like, but the lower limit screw and the spring should be enough. I wouldn't do it this way as you're unlikely to be able to use the full range of the cassette without the chain rubbing at the front. Maybe it's a good way to find out if you want to go to a single front ring before you pay for the proper chainring. 

Campagnolo 10 speed cassette is only 0.6mm wider end-to-end than their 9-speed cassette, so as long as the 9-speed setup still has that much adjustment in the limit screws you should be fine on that count. The jockey wheels only care about the inside width of the chain which is 3/32" on pretty-much all derailleur gear systems that have ever existed, so you won't need to change them for that reason. I would try it, if it doesn't work you can always fall back to your 9-speed plan. 

Source - Metabolic Factors Limiting Performance in Marathon Runners (While the above paper is aimed at marathon runners, I'm not aware of any reason it can't be applied to other endurance sports such as long-distance cycling.) Exercise is fuelled by a combination of fat (plasma free fatty acids plus muscle triglycerides) and carbohydrate (plasma glucose plus muscle glycogen). The proportions used vary depending on the intensity of the exercise. 

To calculate the weight of a gas you need the volume, pressure and temperature. A bike tyre is a torus (doughnut) with volume given by the formula: V=(πr^2)(2πR) where R is the radius of the wheel and r is the radius of the tyre. For a 700c25 tyre, R will be 311mm and r will be 12.5mm that gives a volume of 9.59×10^5 cubic millimetres or 0.000959 cubic metres. Pressure is 100 PSI, which is 689475 Pascals. Room temperature is about 295 Kelvin. Using the Ideal Gas Law: n = PV / RT where R is the gas constant, gives n as 0.27 moles of gas. To keep things easy, lets assume the tyres are filled with 100% nitrogen. 1 mole of nitrogen weighs 28g so the gas in the tyre weighs 7.56g.