Almost all reputable historians believe that Jesus did exist. Why they believe this I will explain below. To be absolutely clear, when we say Jesus did live, we are not saying that everything or even most of the things said about him in the Bible is true. Even ignoring the supernatural elements, the gospels contain internal contradictions, so we are absolutely sure they are not 100% reliable. What we say is that the myth of Jesus originated from real historical person. Kind of like the myth of Santa Claus originated with a real person, the bishop Nicolaus of Smyrna which was later sactified as Sct. Nicolaus. Compare this this to say Jupiter which we consider a purely mythological figure. The outlandish claims regarding Jesus (walked on water, resurrected the dead etc.) cannot be taken as evidence that he is fictional. If we take Alexander the Great, multiple legends grew up around him - he was the son of Zeus, his sister was a mermaid etc. This just shows that when a figure becomes revered, legends will form. No historians in their right mind would deny that Alexander was historical. Stripping away all the legends around Alexander there is still a historical core which is more likely to be true than to be made up. I'm going to explain why historians consider the same to be the case for Jesus. So what evidence is there for Jesus as a historical person? We have no first-hand or contemporary sources to the life of Jesus and we have no archaeological remains to prove his existence. And this is not surprising - this is the case for the vast majority of pre-modern historical figures, including people who was much more famous in their own time than Jesus. Take someone Alexander the Great again, one of the most important figures in History. We have no first-hand sources and no remains. The best sources we have are written hundreds of years after his death. Even then, given the available historical evidence we assume Alexander existed, since a lot history is impossible to explain otherwise (and his invention would have required a vast conspiracy among historians in antiquity). There are a few references to Jesus by historians independent of the Bible, but they are not first-hand accounts, and basically just states what the Christians of the time believed. The most important is the Jewish-Roman historian Josephus which have two passages mentioning Jesus, although one of them is generally agreed to be a fabrication inserted by later Christian scribes. The other passage (which is generally assumed to be authentic) states: 

LiveScience: How To Make the Perfect Snowball This concept obviously applies to larger snowballs as well, which are the foundation of my "snowmen" scenario. 

Live Science: Why It's So Hard To Make Nuclear Weapons Also, the main obstacle is enriching enough uranium to have it be capable of being used to trigger a thermo-nuclear explosion. It seems like most of your concern focuses on the idea that a nuclear plant makes for a juicy explosive target that could set off a nuclear explosion. The differences between enrichment needed for power generation and weaponization make that not so. In order to be "weaponized," uranium much be enriched to a level of Uranium 235 of 80% or more (ratio of U-235 to U-238). Union of Concerned Scientists: Fissile Material Basics In order to be capable of a fission reaction for power generation, that level is below 5%. So, even if I have a reactor running on 20% enriched fuel, a direct hit isn't going to trigger a massive explosion. WorldNuclear.org: Uranium Enrichment HOWEVER, due to space constraints and the desire to get maximum bang for the buck, the nuclear military vessels do use uranium that has been enriched to a weaponized level. The design of the power plants is such that it isn't concentrated all together to reach that supercritical mass. You have many separate fuel rods, along with slowly dissipating materials that dampen the reactions for a more even, long-term "burn" of the fuel. On a side note, there is obviously concern about proliferation of stolen weapon grade materials with more uses in a more widespread manner. Moreso, probably, than fears about an accident or explosion from a strike. Wikipedia: Nuclear Marine Propulsion BlueBird Electric: USS Dwight D Eisenhower (has photo of nuclear fuel rod array) In slamming together the sub-critical masses into a supercritical one, a conventional explosive charge is carefully crafted, designed and triggered. Being hit by a bomb or shell would not have these characteristics. Now, there are the dangers of any normal nuclear power plant - if the reactions get too vigorous, the reactions will speed up to the point where the heat can't be controlled and the generator, itself, will melt down. There would be danger of fuel ignition if a carrier used diesel, kerosene, gasoline, coal or whale oil, though. Nuclear doesn't seem to be that much of a danger. Radioactivity is probably the main concern. So why not use it in regular transportation? Well, the nature of a military naval vessel is that it's going to be heavily armored and protected against attack. As such, any kind of shielding or protection to prevent radioactivity from harming the crew would not be an imposition upon the design of the craft, which does not put a premium on maximum fuel efficiency. They also have massive numbers of crews designated to running all of the ships processes and systems, including the power plants and engines, no matter what the design. Nuclear plants require constant monitoring and management. Are we going to trust someone who doesn't know how to use the turn signal properly to monitor and manage a mini nuclear power-plant in their vehicle? The scale of the operation needed to run an aircraft carrier makes a nuclear plant not a bad option. Not true for your compact Kia. 

This is extremely embarrassing. In the last moment he looses faith, thinks God has abandoned him, and dies with a whimper. Even Jim Jones or David Koresh did not lose faith like this! And people around him does not understand what he is saying and are making fun of him. Now consider the later account in Luke: 

The Jerusalem church is described in Acts (which is not by Paul but by the author of Luke), and Acts 15 has an account of the conflict between Paul and the Jerusalem church. The same conflict is described by Paul in Galatians 2, hence we have two independent sources, which at least establish the existence of the church. (The council is not surprisingly described somewhat differently in the two accounts, but the premise that there were a church and a council is established by both.) We don't have any archaeological evidence and wouldn't expect to, since there most likely were no dedicated church building (the disciples met in private according to Acts - church just means congregation at this point, not a specific building) and distinct Christian symbols like crucifixes etc were not used at the time. I don't see anything suggest that the church should be fictional, especially since the story of the conflict kind of weakens the authority of the early church and Paul, so it wouldn't be in anybody's interest to make such a story up. You are correct that Christianity shows a lot of Greek influence, especially in later iteration, but this has clearly been a gradual process. John (the latest gospel) shows much more Greek (perhaps even Gnostic) influence, while Mark (the earliest) is more purely Jewish. This is fully consistent with the mainstream view that the first Christians and the Jerusalem church where basically a Jewish sect, and Paul transformed it into a more Hellenistic religion approachable by non-Jews - a transformation which caused the conflict described in Acts. 

Here Tacitus mentions a number of supernatural occurrences just as amazing as what is described in the gospels AND basically claims that Vespasian (the roman emperor) is really the messiah, and anybody who cannot see this is an idiot! And despite passages like this he is still considered one of the most reliable ancient historians... Bottom line: Any ancient text should be read with a heavy dose of source-criticism. The gospels are actually relatively strong sources because we have four semi-independent account. The inconsistencies between the gospels have been a source of embarrassment for the church, but for the historian they are a godsend: They allow us to through textual analysis determine the age of various parts of the narrative and then estimate how it developed over time. The gospels taken together are actually pretty good source material compared to what we have about most other pre-modern figures, including kings and emperors, believe it or not. 

The Link between UTIs & Sex - Causes & Prevention - Everyday Health So, possibly Baldwin was saying she had to involuntarily pee from constant UTIs from having constant sex, because.... porn star. 

Using nuclear power to power the vessel, it's able to carry a fuel load many times beyond the longest possible missions and ranges. So, while not actually "unlimited," there isn't a plausible scenario where they'd run short. As mentioned in Nat's answer, the fuel core for Nimitz-class aircraft carriers is estimated to be at least 20 years. No mission would take 20 years, and that leaves plenty of leeway for outfitting with a replacement core if they are using up power faster than the original estimates. USS Nimitz - wikipedia How is it possible? Radioactivity <> explosiveness. You've probably noticed that nukes, while more widespread than we'd like, are not universal. The concept of fission and fusion are well known, so why is this? Because creating a device that is capable of creating an uncontrolled fission chain reaction is not that simple. You'd need to be able to have enough to create the reaction, but not enough that it would spontaneously happen. 

The basis of most of the grass-fed claims I've heard are based on the fact that the natural grass-based diet in cows and other ruminants leads to a much higher level of Conjugated Linoleic Acids (CLAs) in the foods derived from them. So, two questions have to be addressed to this specific claim - 1) Is the CLA content (and other anti-oxidants if you want to address broader claims) higher in grass-fed beef? 2) Are there any health benefits to higher CLA intake? A review of fatty acid profiles and antioxidant content in grass-fed and grain-fed beef 

How the variance of some extraction variables may affect the quality of espresso coffees served in coffee shops 

(Wish I could down-vote Mayo Clinic for using "aggravating" on their web site like that). Mayo Clinic: Eyestrain complications As one ages, like with many other types of tissues in the body, the lens of the eye becomes less flexible/more rigid, making it more difficult to manipulate for focus. This would speed the onset of and increase the frequency of eye strain, as the muscles have to work harder. This is why people (like me, who avoided glasses for almost 50 years) need reading glasses more often as they age.