Easy, if your old job is similar to the new one, and maybe even close in a geographical setting, your previous boss and potential new boss MAY know each other. Slim chance, but it's a trap you DON'T want to step in. Besides, you'd want some papers from your old boss, to show your new, and likely they will end up talking on phone regarding you. Lastly, as mentioned, you don't want to seem like the asshole. Not like your new boss can know if your old boss actually was a douche, or it was you who were the douche all along. In short: If you badmouth your previous boss, you only badmouth yourself. 

I would go with 'No'. The reason is simple. If you get a quick yes, you pretty much have to mention about your location to arrange when you are to start anyway. Depending on the job you apply for, some might want you in-house ASAP, and then you're in a slight amount of trouble. You are also expected to be honest on your resume, and while leaving details out isn't lying per se, it can still be seen as a negative thing. Your papers can be filled with details about experience and recommendations, but your papers matter little until they've actually had you in for an interview, face to face. And don't bother with adding linkedin, blog links or website links, they are not too likely to check it out, as judgement usually falls during interview. The more shiny you seem to be, the more likely they will try and test to see if you actually are that good, or just a punk who has blown his papers way out of proportions. In short, add it. The worst that can happen is you'll get a 'No' from them. They will rarely say exactly why, either. Getting a few negative answers is just your everyday part of being someone who is looking for a job. 

In addition to the comments from jmort253 I’d also add the following: If the hours of the internship are not interfering with your new job, and / or the interning company isn't in competition with the new company I would suggest continuing it based on your comments and my thoughts below. 

Companies big and small don't always describe the open job position very well. They often list everything they can think of that they 'want' a new employee to know or be able to do. Which often isn't the case. Just because a posting/listing doesn't sound like it fits your specific skills doesn't mean you wouldn't be a great fit. Phone interviews can only cover so much and an in-person followup interview can often help give you a much clearer picture of the job and the people you will be working with. Even if you love your currently company and have no desire to leave I feel it is a sound decision to do anywhere from 1-4 interviews a year with other companies in your industry, this not only helps you keep your interview skills up just in-case something bad were to happen. It also allows you to see what is available in the industry, most notably your current salary and benefits. It is often a good indication of where technology in your industry is moving. Unless your in a bleeding edge industry this can help you see what skills employers currently hiring are looking for. Allowing you to do your own research along those line which can help you personally as well as your current or new employer. 

Yes, that is acceptable. During my search for work, I was asked questions regarding knowledge in my field (IT here as well). Usually general things, but still enough to find who was worth looking more into, and those who were... bad... Regarding quiz in general, several people I know have told me that they were quizzed to test knowledge. One that stands out is a guy who applied to a CD\DVD store, he was quizzed about various songs, artists and music genres. As long as the questions are not about race, religion or other personal matters, most questions go as long as they are actually relevant to the job. 

Not illegal, but not really a nice thing to do either. You'd want to avoid that as much as possible. Usually the contract won't take effect before you start, if ever, just a day or so before set start date. In your situation, maybe you'd be best to consult another lawyer while yours is out? 

Working within IT, where sub departments work with different tasks, I can relate to this completely, and the answer I've got for you is this: Be honest, and provide all the information you can. There is no real way to avoid pissing of some people, there will always be those who just won't accept any answer not equal to what they wanted, and there is always those who try to play you by making you feel guilty or stupid. As long as you keep your cool and provide all the information you can in an honest way, you are doing your part. There is no shame sending them to other people you think can answer a subject better, that's how work synergy should be. Your job is primarily to send them in the right direction, a little detour here and there is bound to happen at times, so never feel bad for that. 

As with what was said by 'DJClayworth' I'd agree that cancelling is easy. Especially if the contact was with a recruiter and not the manager looking to hire. But unless you have a really strong reason/tie to your current company (of 6 months) I would suggest going to the interview for several reasons as listed below. 

The new things you are learning in the intern position may end up helping you and your new company in ways you don’t currently know. Learning new things is often fun and can keep a less challenging job albeit well-paying job more interesting as you try to find ways to help / improve based on the new things you’re learning, as well as helping you keep from getting burned out if the job is to mundane. I've noticed a lot of people that once they get a full time job getting into a technology rut, where their knowledge becomes stagnate because the company is using X technology and will be for several years. Keeping the intern position can allow you to stay current and have a broader variety of knowledge to choose from when mission critical issues arise at the new job. Lastly you could look at / use the internship as continuing education allowing you to get real world experience outside of your current employer without having to pay the exorbitant fees of your local colleges. 

Textbook answers are common, but everyone knows them, and thus it can lead to sneaky questions trying to peel the exact reason why you left to begin with. The cards you can play here heavily depend on what you carry to begin with. If you need to move house, and the new job is closer\more available, that's a start. Got kids? Maybe the area has better schools. See where I am going here? Just don't lie. 

In short, any reference is (usually) a good reference. I've never really heard about a company writing a negative reference, instead of writing none at all. The only exception, as mentioned, is any reference where family (or friends) is involved in a significant way, such as working at your fathers workshop, or in your mothers flower shop. A reference is more to show who you are, so if you've been on time, tidy, kind to customers, respecting coworkers and been actively taking part in various tasks, you're already in a good position. General knowledge about what you work with will usually be expected, but it's rare to just enter a work space and instantly mastering its rules. Something that is perfectly accepted one place, might be frowned upon somewhere else. So yes, use your references, it's better than going blank. In the end, the worst thing that can happen is to get a 'no', and it's not uncommon knowledge that one will have to work for that one 'yes'.