The only thing I have been able to find is that the squat depth could affect your vertical jump ability - but I have no idea if you even remotely care about that. Anyway, this study ($URL$ proved that parallel squat has a higher postactivation potentiation (PAP) than a quarter squat - meaning that less-than-parallel squats could negatively affect your vertical jumping ability. And while the study did prove a significant advantage of doing parallel squats when they are done right before preforming the jumps - the evidence on long term connection between PAP and enhanced athletic performance seems to be limited ($URL$ 

I've seen professional Muay Thai fighters complete 2hour+ morning sessions that included running, sparring/bag work and strength training - so yes, it's quite possible to do what you described - or even endure much longer training sessions on a daily basis...but like other people mentioned, your level of fitness will decide whether you're over-training or not. 

Measure the circumference of your waist at a horizontal level around the navel for men, and at the level with the least width for women. Don't pull your stomach in. Measure the circumference of the neck. Start below the larynx with the tape sloping slightly downward to the front. Avoid flaring your neck out. For women only: Measure the circumference of the hips, at the largest horizontal measure. 

Make sure to eat well following intense exercise. It's not low glycogen that is keeping you up, it's your post-workout catabolism (yes catabolic hormones can still flow quite freely even hours after a workout). The solution here is simply to bump up your insulin (which has anti-catabolic effects) level. Get your carbs -- simple carbs work great here -- replenished soon after exercise, and throw in some protein too. Don't try going to bed in a catabolic state -- insulin is your friend here. 

Generally you'll have to put in enough intensity, volume, and time-under-tension to feel sore the next day. If you're just going light on these, then that's just a lightweight workout you can do everyday. Lots of people go out on a walk and/or a short run on a daily basis too -- it just depends on how hard your workout actually is! 

I'm no expert in glenohumeral anatomy, but I've noticed that if I do "triceps-style" bar dips, I have no pain nor impingement in the shoulder joint whatsoever. This is the version of dips where the elbow go as far back as possible, almost as if they're trying to touch one another, as opposed to "chest-style" bar dips, where the elbows are much more flared out to the sides. But, taking a look at the skeletal structures of the shoulder joint, I see no reason why moving the humerus "backwards", as opposed to just flaring it out to the sides, should somehow make the movement a lot more impingement-less (mainly across the AC joint, which seems to be the most likely source of impingement). Granted, a simple "skeletal/ligament" view may omitting some other important detail as well --- if my elbow is pointed backwards (with scapulae retracted), I can move the elbow upwards only so far (I cannot raise my elbow above my shoulder joint when it's pointed behind me, for example). So, are there actually other structures in place (e.g., muscle tissue) that could be keeping 'triceps' dips from hurting the shoulder joint? My best guess so far is just deltoids, traps, and the long triceps head simply all bumping into each other thereby blocking any pain-causing or impingement-causing ranges of motion. Edit: According to the image below, what exactly prevents sagittal shoulder extension a full 360°? Is it the stretching of the deltoids, or some occlusion between the rear muscle groups bumping into one another, or something else? Since whatever it is, it allows me to do triceps dips comfortably with no pain or impingement whatsoever. 

The efficiency of the human body, like any other machine, depends on the surrounding temperature. We get exhausted quicker if we run on a hot summer afternoon than we would in the cooler evening. But how does the temperature influence our calorie burn rate? In a cold environment the body will need to burn calories to produce additional heat, in a hot environment the body needs energy to cool the system. But is this significant during sport? Does it make sense to train in a hot or cold environment to increase the calorie burn rate or is it better to train in a more or less ideal environment? 

Most cardio machines nowadays show an estimate of how many calories you have burned during your training. There are also a lot of different lists available, which activity burns how many calories over a defined period of time. I wonder if those values include the resting burn rate. Lets assume for simplicity reasons my basal metabolic rate allows me to burn 2400 calories each day or 100 calories each hour. If I sit on my bike for one hour and it shows that I burned 600 calories, are the 100 I would have burned anyway included? Did I burn 3000 or 2900 calories that day? This is an important question, especially for easy training, lets take walking as example. According to this calculator, one hour of walking burns 245 calories. Lets say I walk a little more than 2 hours, I have burned 500 calories. I might think I should/can eat 500 calories more that day, while I only might have burned 300 more than I would have without walking. To make a long question short - is the resting burn rate usually included when the calories burned during training are calculated? 

Almost every back anatomy diagram I see draws a giant trapezius muscle across the upper back. I work out frequently and I would say (for my body type/size) I have rather large "upper" traps, but have always wondered about the "lower" parts. It looks like they are always primarily mentioned in the context of scapular "depression". However, I have never "isolated" or purposefully tried to train "lower traps", nor do I feel any "weakness" when trying to depress my scapula manually or when doing exercises (such as weighted dips or pullups) that would make use of any scapular-depression musculature. In other words, I feel no "weakness" in my lower traps when doing exercises involving scapular depression or that seemingly would invoke lower traps for scapular depression or stabilization. So, are strong lower traps really that useful for most exercises? Do they need to be isolated, or are they pretty well invoked in any exercises involving traps anyway?  It seems to me like whatever weaknesses one may have in exercises -- such as dips and pullups -- that should make the most use of scapular depression musculature, the trapezius in general seems like the least likely muscle one would commonly need to strengthen in order to progress in those exercises.