It is not unreasonable that revolutionary parties in Britain's African colonies came to the same conclusion as Gandhi with regards to how the Atlantic Charter should be applied. Ultimately, Britain's withdrawal from it's empire was forced, but largely free of conflict within Africa (although, there were exceptions). Personally, I think the reasons for the French decolonisation of Africa needs another question. 

Further paragraphs from To Be A Military Sniper explains a little more about the growing role of Rifles in the American Revolutionary War, but the above passage shows the the Revolutionaries did intentionally target British Officers with rifle fire. 11th Virginia Regiment 

According to various sources (including the Wikipedia Article on Omaha Beach) 2 Battleships, 3 Cruisers and 12 Destroyers were tasked to Omaha beach. One of the battleships involved was USS Texas (The other was the USS Arkansas) fired 244 14" Shells in the first 34 minutes of D-Day, which equates to 7.5 Shells per minute (Source). Assuming at the USS Arkansas achieved a similar rate of fire, in excess of 450 14" shells were fired in this time frame. On it's own this is an incredible amount of fire and when you factor in the secondary batteries of both Battleships as well as the gunfire from the Cruisers and Destroyers the preliminary bombardment of Omaha Beach cannot be considered insubstantial. The aerial element of the preliminary bombardment was tasked to the 2nd Bombardment Division of the US Eighth Air Force. ("Omaha Beach: D-Day, June 6, 1944" by Joseph Balkoski, Page 76) which was made up of some 400 B24 Liberator Bombers. A B24-J could carry a maximum of 8,800 lbs of bombs on a short range mission. This means that the 400 B24s assigned to Omaha Beach could drop a maximum of 3,520,000 lbs of bombs on Omaha Beach. However, due to the fact that the nature of bombing in Europe (in that it was inaccurate due to the altitude it was conducted from) the bomber force was limited to using 100 lbs bombs in order to prevent the beach from becoming heavily cratered and therefore impeding the effectiveness of the bombers against the bunkers defending Omaha Beach. ("Omaha Beach: D-Day, June 6, 1944" by Joseph Balkoski, Page 78) While this bombardment was considered insufficient, it was not all that insubstantial. The bombardment described above represents the expenditure of a substantial amount of munitions in a confined area and time space. The insufficiency of the bombardment can be seen when the preliminary bombardment of Omaha Beach is compared to the bombardments seen in the Pacific Theatre. For example, the Invasion of Noemfoor, in 1944, saw a preliminary bombardment that was carried out by 5 Cruisers and 25 Destroyers. (Source) Granted, there were no Battleships but there is a large difference in numbers. While the bombardment of Noemfoor was considered to be highly effective, the same cannot be said of the 1943 battle of Tarawa Atoll. At Tarawa the Japanese were bombarded for 3 hours by the flotilla (that consisted of 17 aircraft carriers, 12 battleships, 8 heavy cruisers, 4 light cruisers and 66 destroyers, although I am unsure of how much of this Flotilla was involved in the bombardment). This bombardment failed to cause any major disruption to the Japanese defenses. This shows that even a preliminary bombardment that was nearly 5 times longer in duration and from a larger flotilla than at Omaha Beach failed to cause any major disruption to the defender. When all of these factors are combined, along with other salient factors such as the time of the bombardment (~5.50am) which hampered the ability of Naval gunners to spot their targets due to low light, it is evident that the bombardment was never going to have the desired effect on the defenders of Omaha Beach. 

IMHO King John was a bad king because he was a king who was a bad man. King John showed that he was a bad man by killing a bunch of kids. In addition to killing his nephew Arthur, John is said to have hanged 28 boys aged 12 to 14, hostages from Gwynedd, at Nottingham Castle in 1212, and also about 1212 it said that one of John's officials hanged a 6 year old Welsh hostage. Killing even one person who is a minor is enough to make someone evil in my eyes. 

The enlisted soldiers in European armies before the French revolution were mostly third estate lower class. Most of the officers in most European armies before the French revolution were second estate upper class. That is the general rule. Every society had its own twist and variation on the basic social classes. And every armed force had some variation in the class composition of the various ranks. Thus: 

Egypt was civilized before 2000 BC. Egypt is still civilized today. Egypt has been civilized since before 2000 BC. Nobody can point to a single year in Egyptian history since long before 2000 BC when Egypt was not civilized. Therefore civilization never fell in Egypt. But the civilization in Egypt is no longer ancient Egyptian civilization. Therefore ancient Egyptian civilization did not fall but changed into other forms of civilization. Egyptian civilization changed and mutated as it gradually merged into Hellenistic-Roman civilization and then Arab Muslim civilization and then the present world technological civilization. Also note that ancient Egyptian civilization also changed a lot in at least 2000 years of history. All questions about when past civilizations fell are meaningless unless the region in question actually became uncivilized and later became civilized again. Unless that process happened the civilization in question never fell but gradually merged into later and broader civilizations that eventually merged into the present world technological civilization. And since one civilization becoming part of a larger civilization usually takes centuries there no one single time to choose for when that happened. 

JIA already expected the U.S forces would land on the homeisland around the fall of 1945, already in early 1945 which coincidentally same with the expected first strike by the Operation Downfall by the U.S army. Now let's take a look at the Japanese site ( about the operation Ketsugou ) 

Oh, fortunately or not I think I hit upon the very answer when translating, I think. San Shiki, as you can see at the Wiki, mainly used for the anti aircraft, was used due to the flagship's timelessness of changing to "normal" bullet ( to normal aka Armor Piercing bullet ). I wish I was able to contribute to any degree. ( It looks like this battle itself started with both ( American fleet and Japanese fleet ) had no enough time??? Thank you. 

I googled Japanese site from which I was expecting a good answer. This site might be so. Okay, let's dig into his ( or her ) explanation. In Japanese, 

It is said the lowest class of peasants had to pay 50-60% of their income to the landlord at that time. And from the quote 

Because nationalist Russian historians liked to claim that it was the end of the Tartar Yoke, even though it was not exactly the end of the Tartar Yoke It is possible that the Tatar Yoke did not finally end for two centuries after the standoff on the Ungra River, gradually becoming weaker and weaker. And one could claim metaphorically that the Tartar Yoke continued until the February 1917 revolution, now being enforced by Russian rulers to benefit themselves. The reasons given by Semaphore and T.E.D. for considering the standoff on the Ungra River the end of the Tartar Yoke are strong. Another reason for claiming that is Russian nationalistic pride. Proud Russians would like to claim that that Tartar Yoke was lifted as soon as possible, regardless of historical accuracy. Thus one may wonder whether the standoff on the Ungra River really was the end of the Tartar Yoke or if Russian historians jump the gun claiming that it was. I note that Alatoo's deleted answer says: the Tatars ran away and Russians just left after the Tatar threat was gone. Wikipedia says: 

The shift of volume of critical materials ( This site looks first funny but if you follow the link, you can find the numbers ( but the difference between 1940 and 1945 ) Oil 

You can see the number 2800 ( actually it means 28 millions ), even if you can not read Japanese. This is the number of Kokumin Giyu Sentotai, in English, Volunteer Fighting Corps, ( and the link is in English ), which is a civilian forces, and as the link says 

( Hereunder let me call million --> mil ( and the abbreviated explanation will be subject to the former ( 1941's )) The number of ships ( including small size ships ) 

So, I was able to find only some critical materials and military power in terms of the comparison and time shift, --- apparently from the first and foremost there were huge gap between the JIA and the U.S and in 1945 the gap widened helplessly. Spiritual Capability side Why I would like to this was because of the mentality among Japanese then, who almost made a determination to fight even if they die in case the U.S force would have landed on the homeisland. The above link, is explaining Ketsugou Sakusen, in English Operation Ketsugo, almost equivalent to the whole Kamikaze attack by the whole Japanese. Since ( I don't know the reason why ) I can not copy the Chinese characters, so I can not copy the original sentence, but if you believe in me, according to the above link, 

The Royal Navy was faced with a need to maintain, and in some cases increase, deployments to these stations. 

War Office Instruction 166 (1914) detailed the rates of pay for all ranks in the various arms of the British Armed Forces as of 1914. I've listed the pay scales covering infantry only, but even within this limitation, you'll notice that Foot Guards were paid more than Line Infantry. 

The Minimum Wages act, obviously, defines the need for a minimum wage for people working in India but it also defines the right for workers to have a weekly day off. 

Image source According to a Wired article on Virgin Galactic (as well as Wikipedia...) some 98,000 people placed reservations and one individual attempted to pay 1 Million USD to secure his seat. 

Granted, not all of these formations contained destroyers but the extent of the deployments maintained by the Royal Navy is important in this case. 

It is known that in the short period of occupation that Argentines did make many changes consistent with plans to completely change the islands to be fully part of Argentina. Spanish was made the official language, Port Stanley was renamed Puerto Argentino, Falklands stamps were franked over with Argentine post codes/post marks, traffic was changed to drive on the right, signs were changed over to be in Spanish and use the metric system and the peso replaced the Falklands Pound. Martin Middlebrook in his book The Argentine Fight For The Falklands., along with numerous other sources, states that Argentina planned to and did, for the most part, treat Islanders with respect and prevented the taking of their food, homes and other possessions but whether this indicates that they planned to allow them to stay or to force deportation I do not know. However, given all the changes described in the paragraph above it does appear that the Argentine's, to some extent, did intend on their being Argentinian settlers on the islands. 

This freaking inflation makes me guess easily put so much hardship on the society in general then. However, ironically, the Ming Dynasty is one of the longest living dynasties somehow ( up to early 17th century ). And personally it is remarkable when we consider in Japan too, the then dynasty Muromachi Period from the early staage almost everywhere fightings between lords continually occured and uprisings by farmers were frequent but lasted 200 years suggests something might have happening in a similar environment in East Asia at that time. 

I think the possible answer could fall into how to tread the OP's word "capable of maintaining the war".... Thus I would like to analyze between the "material capability side" and the "spiritual capability side". Material Capability Side 

My answer is short but can be a complement to the nice answer by Semaphore. Already in the early 15th, from 1447 to 1449, un uprising by Deng Maoqi, a peasant in Fujian province occured. This suggest from the earlier stage of Ming's dynasty, the enocomic system was in chaotic mode. Quote 

According to the paper, the intelligence communities final thoughts on the reliability of NSWP forces were delivered in a National Intelligence Council memo in April 1990 - "The Direction of Change in the Warsaw Pact" 

According to "Birth of a Legend. The Bomber Mafia and the Y1B-17" by Capt Arthur H. Wagner, USCG(ret.) and Lt Col Leon E. Braxt, a Bulgarian Air Force pilot suggested the use of aircraft for bombing during the First Balkan War in 1912. Subsequently, Captain Simeon Petrov developed the idea and created a number of prototypes. After a number of iterations the final design had an increased payload, an X-Shaped tail, improved aerodynamics and an impact fuse. Furthermore, the book states that copies of the plans were later sold to Germany, was codenamed Chataldzha, and remained in mass production until the end of WW1. The paragraph containing this information can be found here (Google Books). While this doesn't speak for the other combatant nations in WW1, I can't imagine that the technology was that different. 

Fortunately, the paper then continues to assess the truth of the intelligence communities assessments of NSWP forces saying that 

If you wonder if any historical discoveries or speculations about the legitimate or otherwise birth of medieval persons can affect the claim to the throne of the present British monarch, the answer is no. Her claim to the throne begins with the events of 1688, and no prior historical events can make it stronger or weaker. If the world began in about the year 1550 it would not change her claim. After the childless King William III and Queen Mary II usurped the thrones of England, Scotland, Ireland and France in 1688-89, the English Parliament passed several laws restricting the future succession to the throne to the nearest Protestant descendant of the Stuart Dynasty. They included the Bill of Rights of 1689 and the Act of Settlement of 1701. When England and Scotland united to form Great Britain in 1707 the Protestant succession was reaffirmed. Thus in 1714 George, Elector of Hanover, became King George I of Great Britain, Ireland and France. In 1801 Great Britain and Ireland united to become the United Kingdom. Since 1714 every monarch of Great Britain or the United Kingdom has been the legal and rightful successor of George I, who was the nearest Protestant heir to the Stuart Dynasty as mandated by the Bill of Rights, the Act of Settlement, and other laws. Unless, of course, some rumored royal secret goings on were correct. King George IV, for example, was a bigamist, and it is unclear which, if either, of his marriages was legally valid. And Mrs. Fitzherbert, his secret wife, never answered the question of if she had any children with George IV. Queen Victoria, the niece of George IV, was rumored to worry about someone claiming the throne as a secret child of George IV. $URL$ James Ord, father of US general Edward Otho Cresap Ord, was rumored to be the son of George IV and Maria Fitzherbet. $URL$ But until and unless some proof of any such skullduggery and hanky panky turns up, we have to accept that the British throne has passed from rightful heir to rightful heir for three hundred twenty nine years since 1688. This compares to 340 years of legal succession in Denmark from 1523 to 1863. Thus the present monarch, Queen Elizabeth II, is the rightful heir of all previous monarchs back to the invading and usurping pair William III and Mary II. And only that far back, unless one totally accepts the ideology used to justify their invasion and usurpation. If someone does not totally accept the ideology used to justify the invasion and usurpation of William III and Mary II, then one will tend to believe that Duke Franz of Bavaria is the rightful heir by genealogy of the Stuart, Tudor, Plantagenet, Norman, and Bruce Dynasties that ruled England from 1066 to 1688 and Scotland from 1306 to 1688. $URL$ Though alternate claims could be made to be the rightful heirs of some of those English or Scottish monarchs. $URL$ $URL$ And that the heirs of John I Balliol are by genealogy the rightful heirs of King Malcolm III of Scotland and his successors until 1290, and also the rightful heirs of the Anglo-Saxon kings of England of the House of Wessex. $URL$ $URL$ (see posts numbers 5, 25, 27, & 28) And that Karl von Habsburg is probably the rightful heir by genealogy of King Harold II Godwinsson. $URL$ And Mr. Evan Vaughan Anwyl of Tywyn (born 1943) may be the rightful heir of the kings of Gywnedd and Kings of the Britons. $URL$ Anyway, it doesn't matter to the present Queen Elizabeth II whether any royals reigning before 1688 were of legitimate or illegitimate birth. Her claim to the throne begins with the events of 1688. As another example, in 977 King Lothair of France's wife Queen Emma was accused of adultery with Bishop Adelberen of Laon by Lothair's brother Charles. Nobody knows if the charges were true. Emma and Adelberen were not convicted and Charles was exiled from France. If the charges were false Lothair and Emma's son Louis was the rightful heir to the throne, if the charges were correct Charles would be the rightful heir to the throne. In 978 Lothair invaded the Holy Roman Empire and Emperor Otto II retaliated by invading France and proclaiming Charles the new king. And no matter who was the rightful king or heir of France before, the instant that the emperor decreed that Charles was the king of France, all right to the throne was snatched away from Lothair and his descendants and/or successors - such as the Capetians and Bourbons - and granted to Charles and his heirs forever, or until such time as some future emperor should decree otherwise. So it doesn't matter if Emmas's son, the future Louis V, was really Lothair's legitimate son or the bastard son of Bishop Adelberen of Laon. When the emperor decreed that Charles was the king of France, Louis and all his successors lost all right to become king. Centuries later four future successors of Lothair and Louis married two sets of sisters, two daughters of the Count of Burgundy and two daughters of the Duke of Burgundy, just to confuse everyone. The future Louis X, Philip V, and Charles IV, sons of Philip IV the (un) Fair, and their first cousin the future Philip VI, were married to those four young women when three of the wives were accused of adultery in the Tour de Nesle affair in 1314. Posts # 1, 14, here: $URL$ discuss the possible lines of succession to the potential heirs. And none of these possible cases of royal illegitimacy matter to the present day presidents of France whose right depends only on being elected according to the terms of the constitution of the Fifth Republic of France established in 1958. And for much the same reasons the claim of Elizabeth II to be the rightful monarch of the United Kingdom does not depend on whether any medieval monarchs of England or Scotland were of legitimate birth. Her claim of right to be queen goes back only as far as the invasion and revolution in 1688. She claims to be the rightful heir according to the rules and laws of succession established by the invaders and revolutionaries of 1688, no more, no less. If someone accepts that the "Glorious Revolution" of 1688 was totally right, then Elizabeth II is the 100 percent legal and rightful sovereign of the United Kingdom. If someone does not accept the "Glorious Revolution" of 1688 was totally right, then there are numerous other persons with claims to be the rightful monarchs, and the question of which medieval English and Scottish royalty was of legitimate birth is then important to selecting the true rightful heir.