We have been calling the star by looking at which we can make out the direction of the North Pole the North Star. This was the only method at the disposal of the sailors during the days when they did not have any compass with them. When the axis of the earth would point toward Denab, Denab would become the North Star. When it would point toward Vega, Vega would become the North Star. Likewise, when the axis would point toward Thuban, Thuban would become the North Star. When we look at the Polaris from the earth, the Big Bear appears to be revolving around it. So I am curious to know which constellations would appear to be revolving around the Denab, Vega and Thuban when the axis of the earth would be pointing toward them due to wobbling of the earth. 

If we convert the mass of all the stars and all the planets which must be weighing trillions and trillions of tonnes by the equation E = m.c^2 it gets converted into an unimaginable amount of energy. Would so much of energy not have gone into the evolution of the Universe? I am at a great suspense whether the Big Bang theory or any other theory at all answers from where so much of energy would have come that would have got converted into so many trillions and trillions of tonnes of the mass of all the galaxies put together. How we can believe in the big-bang-theory unless we know from where so much of energy would have arrived? 

There is nothing wrong with your maths, but it isn't relevant to the question of the frequency of impact. Now you ask about comets, but do you also want to include asteroids, since these are rather more common. You also ask about catastrophic, and this is a poorly defined word. A Tunguska scale event is a local disaster, but has no significant global effects. The Torino scale classifies objects according to their threat. A "10" on the Torino scale signifies a object carrying an energy of more than 10000 Megatons of TNT and capable of causing a global catastrophe. Such events occur, on average of less than once in 100,000 years. Within the next 100 or so years the probability is considerably lower than $10^{-5}$ in each year, as many of the potentially hazardous objects have been observed, and their orbits shown not to intersect with Earth. So while a naive estimation would suggest that the chance of an impact in the next 100 years is about 1 in 1000, the actual probability is rather less than that. If you restrict to only comets, the probability is reduced further. 

It seems that in most populated regions, a sunset takes between 2 and 5 minutes. There are locations, close to the Antarctic circle at this time of year, at which the sun merely partially sets, and then rises again. And at the Pole, the sun moves around in horizontal circles in the sky each day. During summer there is a permanent sun, as winter approaches the sun gets closer to the horizon, and then sets over several days. (Randall calculates 38 to 40 hours in the blog that Barry links) 

The short answer is yes, the Kepler mission has used transits to detect nearly "Earthlike" planets, one of the classic examples is Kepler-22b is only about 2x the radius of Earth and has a year that is 290 (Earth) days. Kepler has detected many planets smaller than Earth and closer to the star. With more observing time Kepler could discover similarly sized or smaller planets at comparable orbits, so technologically transits can already detect "Earthlike" planets. Practically, with Kepler's lost reaction wheel this has been difficult, but more Earth sized planet detections are likely from the K2 Kepler reboot. Microlensing is more sensitive to planets further from stars, a next-generation space telescope like the WFIRST space telescope, which might launch in the 2020s, expects to be able to detect planets smaller than Earth at slightly larger distances from stars. Taking a photograph or spectra, or directly imaging, a small planet far from its parent star is much more difficult, light from the Sun is around 10 billion times brighter than the sunlight the Earth reflects (a $10^{10}$ contrast), the sensitivity of current ground based instruments (like GPI) and the Hubble space telescope are closer to $10^7$. WFIRST project will be be able to detect giant planets and may be able to detect Earthlike planets but the technology is not quite there yet. Because of instrument stability and stellar variability, radial velocity instruments are not yet sensitive enough to pick out the incredibly small wobbles caused by a small planet in an Earthlike orbit. Future instruments, like the 100 Earths Project may get to this sensitivity in the moderately near future. 

Nobody has been able to find an answer how anybody may be able to see the inner organs of the human body as Natalya Demkina is able to see. In this context, I want to mention that the same way as we are able to see things in the light of an electric lamp or the sun-rays even though our eyes don't emit the visible band of the electromagnetic rays may it not be possible for her to see the inner organs of other people because the sun-rays contain X-rays also. According to me, it is wrong to say that since human eyes can't emit X-rays she may not be able to see the inner organs of other persons the same way as we are able to see everything even though our eyes don't emit the visible band of the electromagnetic waves. I want to know whether it may be possible that her brain's circuitry may be allowing her to see the inner organs through the X-ray band of the sun-rays unlike the rest of us or not. The chances of her having some special brain-circuitry of this type can't be ruled out according to me. 

According to me following reason of mass accumulation of earth has been completely overlooked so far. The sunrays that fall on the oceans travel deep into water and finally get converted into mass which eventually results in "mass-accretion of the earth". So earth is continuously getting heavier due to the mass being added to it due to this reason year by year. Therefore, should this also not be one of the reasons why the orbit-time of the earth (time taken by it to take one round of the sun) is bound to change (increase or decrease) with time? 

SIMBAD allows you to search for stars given various criteria. I searched for: Dec > -20 (easily visible from most locations in the Northern hemisphere) Vmag < 4 (easy naked eye objects) pm > 1000 (more than 1 arcsecond of proper motion per year. I got 8 results (including a double star counted twice) 

No, at 99% a narrow sliver of sun will be visible, the width of that sliver will be about 1.5% of the diameter of the sun at its thickest point. Baily's beads are caused by the sun shining through valleys on the edge of the moon. Such a valley would have to be about 50km deep (or surrounded by hills 50km high). You do get some beads at the thin edge of the sliver but these would be too bright to see against the sliver of sun (which would still be blinding bright) To get Bailey's beads you need totality, with the sun shining through valleys. Baily's which is why they are normally only visible for a few seconds before true totality, usually a couple of seconds after the predicted start of totality. You can see the worksheet I used to make these estimations at $URL$ however it is undocumented. 

They are not real. The images used in the animation use a mosaic of photographs taken by an orbiting satellite, the Clementine orbiter. This satellite has a polar orbit, and so returns images in strips that run roughly north-south. Due to variations in lighting between orbits, when the strips are joined together, there are artefacts at the joins. The whole moon image from a ground-based telescope doesn't have such artefacts. The lunar orbiter view was used as it covers the whole moon, including the far-side. As the moon orbits Earth, it appears to wobble (an effect known as libration.) By starting with a whole moon map, and then projecting it to a sphere, this libration can be simulated. You couldn't do that with a single ground-based image. 

Isoplanatism commonly refers to a region of angles over which a ground-based telescope observes effectively the same atmospheric turbulence (e.g. an "isoplanatic patch"), such that a laser guide star provides effective correction of atmospheric seeing. an-isoplanatism refers to a lack of isoplanatism, or a way in which the science target and the reference laser guide star differ. A single laser guide star does not provide knowledge of tip or tilt errors since the up-going beam experiences tilts in addition the down-going signal; these two sets of tilts are entangled and in the case where the transmitter and receiver are identical the laser guide star appears stationary. See a detailed overview and history of this problem the introduction of Ragazzoni 1996, $URL$ This is commonly solved by observing a "natural guide star" position, since its light only passes through the atmosphere once, and using that signal to maintain the position of the target star by changing the angle a small ("tip-tilt") mirror. 

The variance is the square of the standard deviation, so you can calculate 1$\sigma$ errors of the spectrum by taking the square root of one over the inverse variance of HDU1 ($URL$ (You will get infinity for bad pixels since their inverse variance is set to zero.) 

An affordable option is to build a "Barn Door Tracker", essentially two hinged plates connected by a threaded rod, with the hinge axis pointing at the north celestial pole, if you change the separation between the plates at the appropriate rate star trails will be cancelled out. The Springfield Telescope Makers have a long list of links to online instructions on their website . Gary Seronick's is a particularly complete motorized version while Noctilove is an example of a simple motorless design (with a moderate focal length lens, a clock and a steady hand, you can can manually drive the Barn Door Tracker). 

The grey areas are known as "maria" (singular:"mare") and they were formed from flood basalts. These are a type of volcano and they have formed on earth too, examples include the lake eruption on Iceland, and the Deccan traps, that played a role in the mass extinction 65 million years ago. On the moon, the flood basalt is old. About 3-4 billion years old, with some regions probably younger, but nothing less than 1 billion. Volcanism is driven by the heat of radioactive decay. On the moon there are no longer enough radioactive elements to melt rock, and so the moon is no longer a volcanic active body. There are no active volcanoes on the moon, and there is no prospect of any in the future. 

General Relativity does not limit the size of a black hole, and we have good (indirect) observations of black holes with a mass of more than a billion suns. Black holes are not object that are held together by gravity, and which could be ripped apart if forces opposing that gravity were increased. They are (in GR) singularities: a complete collapse of the matter to a point. There is no "object" inside a black hole that could be emitting radiation. Now if all the matter in the universe were to be a black hole, then that singularity would be in all our futures. We wouldn't "see" the singularity because it is in the future, never in the past. In fact a universe in which is one black hole could look rather like the one in which we are living.