Gravitational time dilation suggests itself, but the effect would only produce microscopic time differences. Earth could only be microseconds of the advanced civilizations. This concept, while part of physical reality, can be discounted. One way of speeding up technical progress for Earth is not by accelerating time, but by accelerating neural processing. The classic example of this is Poul Anderson's Brain Wave (1954). This assumes the existence of an inhibitory field in certain regions of the galaxy. This field slows down the speed of electrons through matter and as a result the rate of neural processing (that's a crude way of putting it). Life on Earth evolved inside the field and when our planet passes out of the inhibitory field everybody, humans and animal life, become hugely more intelligent because their brain processes are now very much faster. 

Where Amazon Books offers copies of Garwood's book for sale also lists other flat earth texts, but it also lists another voice who prove useful in your endeavours to establish a flat earth conspiracy. Eric Dubay's The Flat-Earth Conspiracy (2014) available from lulu.com. To quote from the blurb information about the book. 

This answer focuses on fiction. The most critical worldbuilding questions for fiction are threefold. The broadest questions are about the overall architecture of the world itself. If it's set in a secondary creation type of world as found in most High Fantasy trilogies, this provides a geographical and historical context and what the anthropologists call 'cosmological' factors like the nature of magic, whether the gods are real, and the biology and ecology of dragons. These questions form the shape of its universe. The most close-up questions are about the characters and the story that affects them. Who are these characters? What is their role in this world? What are their goals? How are their goals in direct conflict with the problems the story will throw at them? Between the broadest and the most close-up levels is the intermediate set of questions. They are the connective tissue of a story, drawing together the characters and their world as a whole. These questions focus on the coherence of the world and its relationship to the story as its setting. Is the advertising executive who found himself in Lower Earth really the stepbrother of the newly risen Dark Lord? Why do giant alien cyborg spiders want to capture a thermostellar physicist and steal research into neutrino refraction? This concentrates on the problems they face and have to deal with in resolving their story. They show how the characters can and must handle their problems. What are their limitations. What complications must inevitably arise in the course of the story. The answers to these questions shape the storyline. In the narrowest sense, in fiction the world exists to drive the story, to give substance the reality of its characters, the events they encounter, and give a sense there is more to this place where the story happens than a few scenery flats. That there can be a world beyond the confines of a story, with its own sense of reality, where more can happen, and that effort and imagination has been expended to give its own distinct poetry. 

The spaceship gets trapped inside a black hole when the wormhole collapses. Of course, the spaceship was composed of exotic, negative energy matter it would be trapped in an inflating universe. But exotic matter spaceships may be few and far between Also, the paper is downloadable in the format of your choice from the site linked above. 

The Earthlike planet is orbiting a primary star with higher mass. Probably, a F6 star as that will "age" faster than our Sun with its temperature rising to levels that the ambient stellar radiation (what we call sunlight here On Earth) will scorch your planet. This will be part of the star's natural development. A F6 star reaches the end of its road in 4.5 billion years. This is the same amount of time for life to evolve on planet Earth and produce the human species. Assume your planet follows exactly the same evolutionary history and its humans will suffer the fate of a scorching planet. An alternative is that, roughly, one million years ago a small black hole fell into the Sun. Assuming that the black hole doesn't consume the Sun, but accelerating its fusion reactions to a huge extent. It takes on the order of one million years for energy produced at the centre of the Sun to reach the photosphere where it is radiated out into space. The sudden rise in solar radiation will produce a scorched Earth. 

During the war thousands of orbital laser weapon platforms were launched. They target any aerial technology such as aircraft, drones, helicopters, missiles and rockets. These satellites were primary antiballistic missile systems but also possessed the capacity to destroy aircraft as well. Since this two centuries the laser orbiters are extremely advanced. They can repair and maintain themselves. The Earth-based automated infrastructure to support the orbiters continues in well defended sections of the wastelands. The orbiters can change their orbits which will prevent aircraft flying during windows of opportunity when there aren't any orbiters overhead to bring them down. This is essentially an advanced version of Strategic Defence Initiative, but one that actually works, is capable of precise targeting of structures and vehicles located on or near the surface of the Earth. Obviously, air vehicles of any kind are no exception. This system has the ability to locate and target air vehicles anywhere on Earth. Particularly, if there are orbiters placed in higher orbits to give them greater overview of the Earth's surface. There is little chance that flight can take place in safety effectively anywhere on the planet. 

There's not information from the other side to convince most people conclusively that things are better in the afterlife. The basic description of this device and what it communicates suggests it is highly unreliable. As a thought experiment if people had easy access to what life was like in the afterlife, then if everything was hunky-dory people could be convinced that passing over would be a good thing. In which case, suicide might be on the increase. Taking into account the thought experiment as a counterfactual and comparing this with the facts that the situation with your device is so uncertain and definitely not informative, then sensibly people aren't likely to be catching the suicide express. Basically it's ordinary skepticism at work. Also, people do tend to be reluctant to kill themselves. Death might be OK, but dying can be messy and painful. Besides we will go there sooner or later, and later might be a better bet. EDIT: Comments raised issues about veracity and belief. Consideration of those issues raised another possibility entirely. Of course, most major religions will endorse of a 'proven' afterlife and as proof of their faiths. (The inverted commas are there because poor communication to the afterlife suggests there are good reasons to doubt its authenticity.) However, the majority of major religions do not endorse suicide and as a result are quite likely to preach strongly against their adherents from committing suicide. Therefore, the failure for suicide rates to increase is a response to this preaching against suicide by the religious authorities.