I currently have a Shimano 5700 10 speed double 53-39 t crankset with BCD of 130 mm ($URL$ Can I change to a Shimano 110 mm BCD cranks of 53-39 t ($URL$ That's 11 speed but I don't think that will matter. The reason to change is I want to try a 165 mm length crank instead of 170 mm on current. 

Got a brand new shimano 105 FD double. I put the chain on the small ring and when I adjust the limit screw the cage can't go towards the frame enough so that the chain can't go to the largest rear cog because of the cage stop it from moving further to the frame. Then I started inspecting the FD and found the cage won't move a bit at all. To prove it I removed the two limit screws and tried to move the cage by hand and it just won't move. I don't have experience in it but watched many videos on YouTube and saw people moving the cage easily by hand to adjust FD. So wondering if there is something wrong with my FD? Update: The FD is fine, the problem is my FD hanger is extending a little bit too much from the seat post which makes the FD too far away from the frame. And my chain and cassette is 9 speed, and the FD is 10 speed so the FD cage a little bit tight here for a 9 speed chain. I googled a lot and found a solution is to use a 8 speed FD, which got much bigger size cage and can move further to the frame somehow. This plus a one mm BB spacer on the drive side solve the problem. I was not sure where was the problem at first so thought it might be the problem of FD itself, but it's just not compatible. 

Thinking to get a Montague bike for mountain biking. The reason for a folder is easy storage and transportation. And reviews I read all say good things about their bikes. There are these models available: $URL$ I have almost 0 knowledge on MTB, but based on my experience with other bikes, these frames are probably the same, only different components (except x50, which uses v brake so the frame/fork maybe different). So I am thinking to get the second least expensive paratrooper then buy a good fork later when needed. So what kind of fork can I put on this bike? Please let me know the points to consider (e.g travel, wheel size, etc etc remember I have almost 0 knowledge). I will be using this bike on off road, trails, etc but nothing too rough(jumping etc) in my mind. Or is the stock fork (SR Suntour. Suspension XCT V4. 80mm travel) already enough for my need? BTW, I want to get a decent enough fork so I won't upgrade soon after that (at least I hope LoL). So the fork can be a little more than my needs. 

I have two kids (about 70lbs/30kgs combined) whom I during the summer frequently took biking in a trailer (once I got them used to it, say a dozen trips this summer or slightly more). I biked 5+ miles round trip with them without significant difficulty; I'm not in great shape, but I was generally able to get up over 10MPH when I had a decent flat straightaway, and didn't need to stop (biking 3 miles in a residential setting with frequent stop signs/lights in 20 to 25 minutes). I typically bike in the 2nd forward gear, 4-7 rear gear (4 is for starting from a stop usually, then I go up to 7 once I'm at speed assuming I don't immediately stop again). I hadn't biked for a couple of months perhaps, when I suddenly had a need to bike ~6 mi round trip to take my older son to preschool and younger to daycare. This was on a suddenly cold day, below freezing - around 10˚F/-10˚C. I checked my tires visually and by feel, and they seemed fine (the bike was stored in an unheated garage, but it probably did have a 20 or more ˚F buffer from the outside given this was the first day of real cold weather). I made it half a mile, in 2nd and 1st forward gear, completely out of breath and almost vomiting. I saw at least two problems: one is that it was as if I had shifted to 3rd forward gear, as far as how hard it was to use the gears - I couldn't go at all in my normal gear range. Second was that the cold air seemed to have significant effect on my lungs even after not very much exertion. Are some of these issues things I can do something about, or is biking in the fairly cold impossible for someone of my skill level? Is the chain oil wrong and not functional at lower temperatures? Is the 70lb weight on the back of my bike making a bigger difference (due to air pressure in the tires or something)? I'm not taking into account ice or snow here - this was the first cold day of the winter, so just simply cold (this was during the 'polar plunge' or whatever silly name they gave it this year). I know exertion in the cold is a different beast than exertion in the summer, but this seemed a level of magnitude harder than I anticipated. I have a hybrid with factory tires, ~$400 USD bike when new (now 2-3 years old), probably has maybe 200 miles on it total. No particular maintenance done recently, just usual tire airing. 

Thanks everyone for the inputs. I have checked the front tube, there is 2-3 mm slit, so definitely from an explosion. That means the front tyre hit the crack, then deformed too much at the impact. Looking at vehicles in crashes (front ), they all have badly deformed front, rear is relatively intact. If front doesn't deform, then the force will go through all vehicle and cause even more damage to the driver. I think it's similar here. 

I have a Shimano 5700 front derailleur and 5700 flat bar shifter (left) but for some reason I can't use the FD on my frame (too narrow, my driven train is 9 speed). After lot of research some people suggest using Shimano 2400 FD (8 speed). I am going to try but my question is can I still use the 5700 flat bar shifter (left), which is for 10 speed driven train? 

I was commuting to work this morning and was following a bus, suddenly I saw a huge crack, no time to steering around so just run over it. Then I felt my bike not steering properly. Pulled over and had a check I found the front tyre was complete flat. That must be from the impact because a puncture should take longer to flat a tyre. The inner tube may have exploded (haven't checked). Never MTB before so wondering is front of a bicycle takes more impact than rear? Is that why MTB has longer travel in the front? 

The bottom bracket on my new Brompton is this one (I believe): $URL$ It is a JIS BB with 119 mm spindle length according to the description. The bike comes with 130 bcd chain ring/right crank, the crank length is 170 mm. I now want to use a shorter crank, 165 mm or shorter if available. So what cranks out there that I can use? The current crank is a single chain ring. Ideally, I want to just swap the cranks and use the current chain ring.