In ordinary two-body Keplerian celestial mechanics, an orbit's semi-major axis is the only orbital element that determines the orbital period. Therefore, one orbit may be circular and the other elliptic and inclined in all sorts of ways, but as long as the semi major axis of both is the same, they will have the same period. However, this whole scenario is completely unstable for any real-world celestial body. The (relatively small) asphericity of the Earth, as well as the presence of the Moon for example, causes all orbits around it to drift in some way or another. If you put two objects in orbits like you describe, they will not likely meet up very often before never seeing each other again for centuries. 

That's starting to look more like it! Roughly 80 years after the start of our analysis, the two Uranuses are almost 6 million km apart! Large as that may sound, in the grander scale of things this might drown in the noise when we take measurements here on Earth. Plus, it still does not tell the whole story, as we'll see in a moment. So next, let's look at the angular difference between the observation vectors, from Earth towards the two Uranuses to see how large that angle is, and if it can stand out above the observational error thresholds: 

Positions are usually given relative to the observer, not relative to the object. So instead of saying "I am under the star X", you would say "star X is overhead". The word for an object directly overhead is zenith: "the star X is at the zenith". 

All of the above quantities are in degrees. You may need to convert those to radians to perform the trigonometry calculations. For a more accurate calculation, you would calculate the position of the Sun (its right ascension $\alpha$ and declination $\delta$) and Greenwich Mean Sidereal Time (GMST) based on the date and time throughout the day. Then using the latitude and longitude, you would calculate H, A, and h for various times of the day. 

Technically, you can use any astronomical object to determine your latitude. Depending on how you do that, the Moon is probably the worse object to use. In order to estimate your latitude, you need to know the declination of the object (as well as other data or measurements). Because the Moon orbits the Earth, the declination changes "quickly". The Sun or stars are better because their declination moves more slowly or are fixed, respectively. Polaris is the easiest object to use if you are in the northern hemisphere. 

Second, you can play around with synthetic line profiles and other atmospheric data with GrayStar, a web app that computes basic atmosphere data. (I'm not experienced with it, so I'm not exactly sure how it works, but you can play around to get the information you want about e.g. the difference between line profiles in giants and dwargs, I think.) 

It's pretty easy to put upper limits on how bright any nearer stars could be. As a rough guide, consider a survey like Hipparcos, which is complete to something like 9th magnitude. If there's another star closer than Alpha Centauri, the brightest possibility is if it's at the same distance. Wolfram|Alpha tells us that a magnitude 9 star at Alpha Centauri's distance would have a luminosity of about 0.0004 times solar. Using the rough main-sequence mass-luminosity relation, $L\propto M^{3.5}$, that would give a mass of about 0.11 times solar. So already, you can see that if there's anything out there it's barely a star even if it's as distant as Alpha Centauri, and otherwise almost certainly a brown dwarf. I'm sure more recent surveys will place even stronger limits. Admittedly, the catch here is that the brightness will be concentrated at longer and longer wavelengths as the mass decreases, so things could be a bit bigger on the ground that we may have only looked in the wrong band so far. But even so, I think the sum of present observations make it nearly impossible that there are any stars closer to us than Alpha Centauri. 

The problem is not that right ascension goes from 0 to 24 hours (or 0 to any other number). The problem is that the Earth is revolving around the Sun, and our time system is based on the Sun. Because of the motion around the Sun, one solar day (24 hours 0 minutes 0 seconds) is different than one sidereal day (23 hours 56 minutes 4 seconds). So you need two clocks: one for the sun, and one for the stars. An example may help. Let's change right ascension to be from 0 to 100. At midnight (00:00) on day 1, let's define that 0 right ascension is on the meridian. At 23:56, the Earth has made one complete rotation relative to the stars, so 0 right ascension is back on the meridian. At 24:00, the Earth has made one complete rotation relative to the Sun (one day), but the right ascension has increased to 0.28 during the extra 4 minutes. Day 2. At 23:52, the Earth has completed a second full rotation relative to the stars, so the right ascension is again 0. But after two complete days (24:00 on day 2), the right ascension is now 0.56. 

Although there are differences, they are minute, and most importantly irrelevant for discovering Neptune. 

Nice! Next, I wanted to see the difference between the positions of Uranus with and without the influence of Neptune. So, I extracted just the positions of those two Uranuses, and plotted them: 

Most small-scale N-body simulations (e.g., planetary systems, solar system, stellar clusters, ...) use classical Newtonian gravity. Most large-scale N-body simulations (e.g., galaxy clusters, ...) use general relativity. My question: if I were to make a large-scale N-body simulation using Newtonian gravity, would it be enough to "correct" that to first-order by modifying the equations of motion to take into account the fact that gravitational fields propagate at the speed of light? 

which I'll describe here step by step. First, a plot of the Solar system to check that the N-body integrator works as it should: 

Similarly, the stars of Orion's belt are actually hugely separated in space. In addition, it's worth noting that the stars have different velocities across the sky, so the constellations will look increasingly different over long periods of time. Here is one prediction for 50,000 years time, and the effect will get proportionately larger as time goes on. 

The way I see it, there are three reasons it's such a big deal. The first, as you say, is the (further) confirmation of Einstein's theory of gravity. Newtonian gravity doesn't have gravitational waves. Their existence was already quite established by Hulse and Taylor's discovery and analysis of the binary pulsar PSR B1913+16. The system's orbit is decaying almost exactly as predicted by General Relativity. (Note that in the classic figure, the curve is not a fit: that is the prediction!) The direct detection of gravitational waves, however, better confirms that the waves behave as we expect they would, in the sense that the observations match the so-called "chirp" that we expected. The second reason is because this is now a new way of measuring things in the Universe. Note that the announcement told us (roughly) the masses of the two black holes. It's actually very difficult to weigh black holes! For example, this 2010 paper discusses constraints on 23 stellar mass black holes, all from the fact that they're in binary systems, and the motion of the partner can be observed. Even then those are mostly mass functions that still depend on the inclination of the orbits, which is often unknown. So the gravitational waves give us a nice measurement, not just confirmation that the phenomenon exists. With the method proven, there are some fascinating potential applications. One of my favourites is that LIGO (or similar) could potentially detect the formation of a black hole in a core-collapse supernova. Just like the detection of neutrinos from SN1987A confirmed some of our basic ideas about these events, detecting the gravitational waves from the birth of a black hole would inform our understanding further still. And it might even tell us, for example, how massive the black hole is at birth. There's no end to the novel ways that our theories could be tested! The final reason is simply the astonishing technical achievement. They measured motions of at most a few thousandths of a femtometer over the 4km arms. That's mind-bogglingly precise. Hopefully this will give more impetus to other gravitational wave detectors. Here's hoping that eLISA will fly! The parallel with the Higgs boson is quite apt. In both cases, we built a big machine to find something that we were pretty sure should be there. (Though the LHC was a tad more expensive...) Now it's a case of using the new tool to observe the Universe, and seeing if the waves behave as we think they should. And who knows, maybe some completely unexpected signal will appear to confound us completely. 

I think I mis-read your question before. Let me rephrase it to make sure I understand. In step D (moving the scope from Sirius to M42), that process took 5 minutes to complete. Or maybe it took 30 seconds to complete, but you then took a 4.5 minute coffee break :-). So during that 5 minutes of time since you calibrated the setting circle, M42 has drifted another 5 minutes to the west. 

The right ascension of the point on the horizon and due west is LST - 6 hours, where LST is the Local Sidereal Time. The LST can be calculated from knowing the date, time, and longitude. The declination of the west point is 0 degrees. So the angle between that right ascension and 0 hours right ascension (the vernal equinox) is just the difference between the two. 

If I understand you correctly (and I haven't seen the movie ^_^), you want to know if it is possible for two different objects in orbit to come close to each other periodically, with roughly the same period as one of the object's orbital period. Yes, that is possible, but not probable. 

...whoa! Well over 300 arcseconds difference, plus all sorts of wobbly bobbley timey wimey rippling going on. That seems well within the observational capabilities of the time (although I can't find a reliable source on this so quickly; anyone?) Just for good measure, I also produced that last plot leaving Jupiter and Saturn out of the picture. Although some perturbation theory had been developed in the 17th and 18th centuries, it was not very well developed and I doubt even Le Verrier took Jupiter into consideration (but again, I could be wrong; please correct me if you know more). So, here is the last plot without Jupiter and Saturn: 

The gap appears because of pair instability supernovae. In short, as one looks at such massive stellar cores at increasing temperatures, an ever-larger fraction of the photons are sufficiently energetic to spontaneously form electron-positron pairs. True, they soon recombine, but there is nevertheless a loss in (radiation) pressure, which causes contraction, and thus a further increase of temperature. If unstable, as appears to be the case in such massive stars, this leads to more high-energy photons, more pairs, and a further loss of pressure. Models of such objects suggest that the collapse leads to a sudden, rapid ignition of oxygen- and silicon-burning reactions. In a mass range between about 150 and 250 solar masses (corresponding to core masses of very roughly half of that), the thermonuclear explosion is enough to rip the core apart, and there's nothing left to collapse. This is a bit like how the sudden onset of carbon burning destroys white dwarfs in type Ia supernovae. More massive cores are more strongly bound by gravity, and models suggest that the nuclear explosion isn't enough to unbind the core. So below about 150 solar masses (and at higher metallicities, I think), the core doesn't reach pair-unstable conditions. Above about 250 solar masses, the induced nuclear explosion isn't powerful enough to destroy the core. 

Higher elevations by themselves do not change the time of sunrise. The horizon at sea level is 90 degrees from the zenith. The horizon at Denver is still an angle of 90 deg from the zenith if you assume that the ground is "flat". In other words, even though you are 1 mile high in Denver, you cannot see the horizon at 0 mile elevation. If you are on a hill or mountain and looking down so that the distant horizon is more than 90 degrees from the zenith, then sunrise would occur early. If you are in a valley and the sun rises behind a hill or mountain, the sun rises later. So you need to know the elevation of the observer and horizon (or obstacles). From that you can calculate the altitude of the sky in that direction. From that you can calculate the time of rising. (edit Jan 24) For points that are close to each other, simple trigonometry can be used. $$\tan(\theta)=y/x$$ where y is the difference in elevation between points 1 and 2, and x is the distance. Sunrise occurs when the altitude of the Sun is $\theta-sun's\;radius-refraction$.