Judging from the distance to its parent star, this could easily be a brown dwarf that formed together with the more massive star in a progenitor cloud. However as this object is directly imaged, it's orbital properties are unknown. A high eccentricity together with semimajor-axis of a few tens to 100 AU, if found, would speak for the co-formation scenario. The discovery paper mentions that formation is unlikely to have happened from the protoplanetary disc, as well that it is co-moving with the host star, a.k.a. physically associated. Also remember, that the $11\pm2 M_J$ mass of the planet is not measured directly, but derived from a model, that associates the observed luminosity to a mass, assuming a formation and atmospheric structure mechanism. Thus, it might have to be corrected upwards or downwards, emphasizing its origin as fragment of the original parent cloud. This means there's a possibility to not have been formed in the way normal planets are formed. 

which I took from this author's website, which has also a lot of follow-up in-depth research material linked. In short: Essentially any topographical features can be ruled out. That thing down there will be a liquefied, high-pressure mess. It is of course correct to say that Jupiter might not even have a core, but to build a planet with 1 Jupiter mass and one Jupiter radius one usually requires a certain amount of high-Z material in the core, which is why the core-idea is very attractive. Also, going around on conferences this year, it seems that JUNO does find a 5-25 Earth masses core, but there is no publication on this yet. 

You could now of course ask "who was the first to implement this?". The earliest theoretical work that I'm aware of (Peebles 1965) linking "a possible universal blackbody radiation" with the formation of galaxies came in the year of the discovery of background radiation by Penzias & Wilson 1965. 

So you divide the rotation periods of the planets by any number you need it to be for the end result to be 40, and wonder why the result is 40? Circular argumentation works because circular argumentation works. It's just not meaningful in any way. 

Take a look at the HR-diagram. You have forgotten to take into account that stars come in vastly different luminosities. For example, we can barely see all red dwarves out to a distance of 10pc, while we know that they vastly outnumber the more luminous stars. The luminous red giants however we'll be able to see on side of the edge of the disc, but even Gaia will not be able to look through to the other edge. It's limit magnitude is 20, while extinction through dust in the direction of the galactic center is often cited to be up to 100th magnitude. Hubble deep field galaxies for comparison are around 30th mag. However, there is Baade's window, a region just above the central galactic plane that has low dust content on our line-of-sight there. We'll be able to spy quite some stars there. If you're interested in the Gaia mission, you can find information here. 

Indirect physics can be: An active young star can have frequent outbreaks of CMEs, those are accompanied by strong UV / X-ray emission and this will affect the planet: 

As the front image on the wikipedia-page already indicates, a total solar eclipse is not always total. Earth's orbit is slightly elliptic, and so is the Moons orbit around the Earth. Now take the Moon's slight orbital inclination into account and far from all total eclipses are really total. Unlike stated usually. In fact wiki states "On average, the Moon appears to be slightly smaller than the Sun as seen from the Earth, so the majority (about 60%) of central eclipses are annular." On a sidenote: It's important to understand that if the inclination and eccentricity of the orbit would be zero, then we'd have a perfect total solar eclipse on earth every month! But yeah you can look it up, that this is not the case. There are, after all, not every month news reports from ppl staring into the sun, are there ;) On other note, we know that the Moon is increasing its distance to earth. This happens because Orbital angular momentum is converted into internal heat for both bodies through tidal forces. This situation will evolve over time, so yes, it's a coincidence. And no, I'm not aware of the Moon's distance having any strong implications for life. Tell me, if this is not clarified enough from the above. 

Enormous density, pressure and temperature. A gas mass of several tens of Earth masses will collapse under its own gravity to enormous central densities, temperatures and thus static pressures. The densities that this gas will be compressed to, can have densities comparable and exceeding that of water, which is a good rule-of-thumb for the center of Jupiter (typical calculations show gas densities around $\rm 20 g/cm^3$, source). The static pressure will crush your spacecraft, the high density will near instantly slow you down to zero due to strong friction, and the high temperatures will just melt or evaporate your spacecraft. 

In black: Found planets, red: debiased radial-velocity population Note: A Jupiter-mass is roughly 320 Earth-masses, so in this plot the Hot Jupiters are on the far right. This now closes the thematic circle to my initial note about Hot Jupiters: While in black Jupiter-like planets seem very common, in the debiased version this is not the case anymore. Mayor et al. estimate the Hot Jupiters to make up only 0.5% of the total planetary population with this method. Note also that although the debiased number of terrestrial planets increases significantly, their error bars explode in size. This stems simply from doing statistics with low numbers. Also for reasons of simplicity and clarity the error bars on the first two plots are not shown. 

(c) Wikipedia, Wiki commons license Sorry, if this answer seems a bit vague, but I think this is the best I can do without going deeper into the math of classical mechanics that covers those topics. 

As you've correctly mentioned observation biases play a huge role in current understanding of planetary populations. Let's have a look at a slightly outdated plot (age 2 months) that shows us the semimajor-axis vs mass distribution of currently known planets including KOI's (unconfirmed planets). 

You could even go one step further and include one of the (half-way) realistic mass distributions for stars, to generate your $m_s$ values. Your code (e.e. if you code in C) will only be able to give you uniformly distributed random numbers. If you want them to follow a specific distribution, you need to transform them. Google "transform probability density function" or ask someone with math education that you know, if you don't know how that works. 

Moons are not always tidally locked. They are formed with a certain spin angular momentum that will be dragged by asymmetries on the hosting planetary body. Those asymmetries then backreact onto the moon and drag it's spin to become synchronized with the orbit angular momentum. How rapidly this process happens is roughly a function of the tidal forces $$F_{Tid} = G \frac{m_{Moon} \cdot m_{Planet}}{r^3} d$$ exerted by those asymmetries. Here $d$ is the moon size, $r$ the distance between planet and moon and the other quantities are masses and the gravitational constant. The time $t_{lock}$ this locking takes can be estimated by comparing the excess angular momentum $L_{ex} = r^2m_{Moon}(\omega_{actual} - \omega_{orbit})$ with those acting forces: $$t_{lock} \approx L_{ex} / \left(r F_{Tid} \right) \approx \frac{r^5}{ d \cdot m_{Planet}}$$ The latter equation makes it fairly obvious that this is not a process that happens at a certain magical orbit or at a certain time. It is an asymptotic process, and the only coincidal thing is that we observe any given moon at a time where it may not have lost enough spin angular momentum yet. This should hopefully also clarify some confusion from the comments: 

The nature article you cite mentions 20 GPa pressure, for which one needs at least a Mercury or Mars type body to generate. This is not necessarily a problem, because Mars-type bodies form quick and early (we know this from theory as well as data), within the first 3-5 Million years of the solar system, when gas is still there. This is about 10 times faster than an Earth-type body, which has 10 times the mass. It is also thought that Mars-type bodies should form the basic building blocks for larger planets - thus there should be many more of them in the early solar system. However even if there are many, now there are essentially none in the inner solar system - the asteroid belt contains roughly 0.1% of a Mars mass. The total mass of the Kuiper belt is estimated to be far larger, by factors of 10-100. If a giant planet instability occurred, it requires a even much more massive Kuipter belt as trigger, after the gas disappears in the early solar system. 

Concluding 1.) Any moon would be tidally locked if we could wait long enough. 2.) There are much more effects / torques to consider for a detailed understanding than I did here. 

X-Rays from the sun don't reach the Earth's surface, as our atmosphere is opaque to this kind of electromagnetic radiation. This is why X-Ray observatories like the Chandra telescope have to be placed in space. Thus it is excluded, that anybody having an ability to see X-Rays would see people's inner organs. The other issue is that in general, human physiology doesn't allow to see electromagnetic radiation this energetic. Our abilities to see high-energetic radiation ends at the violet colour, which is where UV radiation has it's name from. X-Rays are even more energetic than UV. 

Ok so that was just a few ideas, but I'm not an observer, there may be better ones out there. Also you got keywords not to google further. 

Thermal energy is just the kinetic energy of microscopically moving particles, that hit each other often enough so that their momenta are redistributed all the time and thus on average they stay in the same place. Potential energy is the exact energy of whatever fundamental force field you're in. Chemical energy is electromagnetism + quantum mechanics. Radiation energy requires a bit more explanation: However thanks to general relativity we understand better how gravity rules over the universe: It is actually the energy-momentum-density of the universe that governs cosmic expansion. This is I guess what you refer to as mass-energy. And 'radiant energy' is the energy-momentum of photons, which do contribute to the energy-momentum of the universe. Physical cosmology takes this into account, and is even able to derive that there was a phase in the life of our universe where photons were dominating the energy-momentum. 

Yes, it is true that our telescopes are not big/strong enough to detect planets in other galaxies. All we know at the moment are some few planets (not even complete systems!) around some of the stars in our closest galactic neighbourhood. But let me explain why this is so. Far away objects are very faint and thus send out few light-particles our way. To compensate this, we must build bigger and bigger telescopes to catch more light-particles from those faint objects. And at the moment we are limited until the 30-40metre class telescopes become active in ~2025. However there is a class of 'cosmic accidents' that allow telescopes to catch more light-particles. We call those accidents micro-lensing events, as they briefly concentrate the light of a background star around a planet's gravitational sphere of influence. The result is a spike of light in our telescopes. The shape of this spike informs us about the characteristics of the lensing star and planet. To put this into context with your question about other galaxies, I've plotted for you how far away we have discovered planets so far: 

First a conceptual thing: There's no 'taking out' the reference frame. Only changing it. Next: Velocity $\dot x$ is the change of position $x$, thus this is a coordinate-dependent quantity. Then mass is a bit more complicated, as there are two concepts of mass: Inertial mass and gravitational mass. Inertial mass is the proportionality constant between an acting force $\vec F$ on a body and it's change of velocity $\ddot x$, thus we get Newton's 2nd law that states $\vec F = m \ddot x$. Thus inertial mass is coordinate-independent by construction. Similar for the gravitational mass. Then experiments show that inertial and gravitational mass are equal, also there are theoretical reasons to believe this. Thus we can show that mass in total is coordinate independent. 

As the Drake identity (it's not an equation) is just a trivial exercise in combinatorics, I'd suggest the simplest, most commonly used model in combinatorics: The urn. You have a number N of balls in an urn. Those represent the stars in the galaxy. Of those only a fraction is green, the rest is red. Green signifies "has planet", red "doesn't have a planet". You take the fraction of green ones that then host a planet in it's habitable zone and so on, for every characteristic the Drake identity describes. In the end you just count how many balls with all desired characteristics on them you've taken out of the urn, relative to the total number of balls in the urn. If you write the corresponding fractions in your video side-by-side with the undesired balls disappearing, it should increase the understandability further. 

A related problem is the virialisation of galaxy clusters. When a bunch of mass particles interact with each other gravitationally for long enough, in this case galaxies, their averaged kinetic energy $<T> = <\frac{1}{2}mv^2>$ becomes half the available gravitational potential energy $<V>$. Thus, under the assumption of virial equilibrium one can measure the total mass in a system by measuring the velocity dispersion. Because galaxy clusters are very old objects, it is usually assumed they display this equilibrium. Departures from this are still ongoing research and for reasons I don't remember the milky way is usually not assumed to be virialised. Zwicky 1933 realised that the Coma cluster then needs to contain as much as 400 times the observed mass, to explain it's observed velocity dispersion. 

As user2998 correctly states, one cannot measure the RV from proper motion, simply because they are perpendicular to each other. What needs to be done to get the RV is to measure the Doppler shift of one or several spectral lines relative to laboratory lines in the atmosphere of a given star. This is usually done from the ground in follow-up surveys. This means that once a star is identified and has measured proper motion, there are people on the ground that take the star catalogues from e.e. Hipparcos, find it again (due to known proper motion) and measure its RV. You can find links to the paper where your value of $-3.70 km/s$ originates from on simbad, directly below this number. Now there is the follow up mission for Hipparcos, which is called Gaia, which itself has limited RV capabilities. But also for this satellite there are already ground follow-ups in motion. 

I think the previous hints were already quite extensive, so I'll comment on the planets. You should know that Venus and Mercury can't be visible at midnight (which is not a random time for those planets, think why!). The total number of possibly visible planets in the whole solar system is 5. If you're taking an Olympiad on the topic then I'd assume you had an introductory class into astronomy at least, then it should be clear why it's 5. You have been given the information that there are 3 planets visible. So from 5-2=3 you know which planets that must be. Then the only thing you have to do is to order them according to magnitude to assign them their Names. 

I'm gonna give this a shot, without going into QFT vocabulary. Those energies you've mentioned are not fundamental forces of the universe. Instead, they are all expressions of the four fundamentals gravitation, electromagnetism, weak and strong force. The weak force is the weirdest one, it's effect is not to move things, but to change particle species. For this particles must meet, thus it doesn't act on distance. It is also as the name says weak, because in any particle encounter a change of species is very improbable. The strong force is not active on large distances, only very small ones, of about a femtometer ($10^{-15}$m, the typical size of an atomic nucleus). Thus this one drops out as well. The electromagnetic force is also fairly strong compared to gravity, but due to having equal amounts of positive and negative charges in the universe, this is shielded on large length scales. Then gravity remains, which cannot be shielded. Thus on cosmic length-scales gravity dominates. 

Here you see for example, that silicon (Si), an important rock-forming element, has an abundance relative to hydrogen of $10^{-3}$, or for every 1000 hydrogen atoms there is one silicon atom. Also we find lots of oxygen, carbon, magnesium, iron,... all known rock-forming elements. The above work has been performed using spectroscopy, and in a similar way we can detect solids in space mainly through three means: 

The magnetosphere is usually not generated by the atmosphere, but by the interior ferromagnetic flows of a planet. I say usually not, because Venus is an exception for the terrestrial planets in our solar system. But in general rocky planets will exhibit a wide range of interior flow conditions, depending on their individual composition and state of cooling. Gaseous planets can be a bit easier in that case, if one accepts uncertainties about the properties of metallic hydrogen. If you then simply go an assume you know all those complicated properties, then sure, you can simulate something. But it's not a scientifically testable prediction only playing around with parameters, as long as it's not tied to a specific object.