I would say "Full Stack Web & App Developer" because just Full Stack + mobile would still read as just Web to me personally. App development tends to be called out separately. If I just saw "mobile", I'd think responsive websites etc. 

If this is happening to you often (and it sounds like this isn't a one-off) the best thing for you to do is to create your own plan to track your progress through it. If your plan says that X feature should be complete by week 1 and you're approaching the end of week 1, you know you have to get a move on. That should keep you making expected progress throughout rather than the nasty surprise near the end when you realise it's only half done. 

I think you're looking at this the wrong way. Your first programming job should be the one where you learn the most. You want to use it to absorb all the knowledge of your colleagues and become a decent programmer in your own right. As long as you're making enough to live off without getting into debt, try not to think too much about the salary, think about everything else you can gain from the job. Later jobs will pay you more for this knowledge. In short, move on when you're not learning very much any more. 

Have a look at sites like $URL$ There are a lot of resources out there aimed at making it fun to learn to code. Try to find one close to the skills you're using at work and build it from there. Once you've built up some confidence with a technology, come up with a little side product for you to work on at home. Don't choose anything too ambitious, and then use Stack Overflow for specific questions and issues with your project. You'll start to feel more confident in tackling the programming books too after a while. On the other hand, if you try the above and are still feeling like you don't enjoy it, there is nothing wrong with a move to testing. It's a very valid career path, not too badly paid and you are likely to still have chances to dabble in coding if you feel like it. 

Well here is the problem. Lot of people are scared of sharing information, also known as collaboration. But I think if more you share, more others will eventually share with you, or more opportunities will open. And certainly the coworkers will start to warm up, and you can find the relationship beneficial. If you have too much work on your hands, you can get their help. Do this slowly and steady, so you all feel comfortable. 

After two hours, go to one of them and casually ask how is it going. Or, make it random. What if they are on social media with their friends. If they understand they must be accountable, they will start to straighten up. 

If numbers aren't required, don't use them. You may find quality more relevant that quantity. Resume should list 2 or 3 tasks (and percent of time spent on them. These must add to 100%) Under each task, you list sub-tasks such that it falls into 

Can you do self-learning on your free time? From there, you can show more of your knowledge, your employer can give more responsibilities, and eventually a raise. Maybe you can strategize eventually starting your own small business, i.e see Small Business Administration. I don't believe they do background checks. And it doesn't have to be in IT. See what else you are good at. This was a shot in the dark. Best wishes! 

So far, I have my current supervisor, and past supervisor whom I can ask. How do I approach? Do I simply say, please register for this online system, or do I create an account and password for them, ask them to log in and change it. Is there anything else I should do Bottom Line: How to make it easy for supervisors past and present to provide letter of recommendation for this online format? 

There is no obvious objective "right or wrong" here. Ultimately, any ticketing system aims at turning the unpredictable&unstructured human interaction to resemble a boring machine-to-machine interaction; it shows a staff as a machine, and to the staff the requests also look like a steady factory line. Your manager wants to strengthen this factory line abstraction; you don't. He wants keep the content as close to the (did I mention boring) facts as possible; you don't. In my opinion you're right and he's wrong. Others have their own opinions. What really matters is that you are not a slave. You are free to use your judgement in major things as well as in such minor things. I know I go against the standard Workplace.SE way, but sometimes you don't do as your told and it can harm your career only a tiny little bit. But you need to weigh the risk and try to predict the management response. If you proceed with good-karma-stupid-nice-smile way, your boss could go bonkers and turn this into a horrible ego trip. Another boss would just point the thing out twice more and then say to themselves "what a moron, well, I've seen worse, whatever". Another boss would just find some light punishment (like "so, mister nice guy now always gets tickets from our wonderful top priority customer XYZ") and forget about it altogether. Experienced managers more often than not are used to really serious discipline issues; they just don't let everyone to see it. Your problem is not so serious. I guess it's up to you to risk this tradeoff. 

Although other answers here are great, especially the counter-open-question one, they are all requiring you to direct the entire brain activity to the conversation (for example to come up with X creatively). This could be a problem in some work positions and the two boilerplate reactions avoid that. These are easy to execute even if you are intensely processing something else. Not super polite, but a talker like this have faced many worse reactions already somewhere in their career; make you look a little eccentric, but won't cause an angry reaction. 

There is a scholarship program for current employees in our company to go to graduate school. The Graduate school in question require letter of recommendation from supervisor via online. It's been more than 10 years I've been in University, and back then when I asked for letter of recommendations, the person would give hardcopy in sealed envelope. Now, Graduate school website says: 

Next time you encounter this type of behavior you can POLITELY ask "how well do you think I fit for this position?" ... perhaps they will be attentive and/or give courtesy to end interview early. But don't discount disrespectful interviewers. I had this type of experience once and was STILL given job offer 

I've been asked to do mentorship in my organization (City Government in USA), which is rewarding because I get to teach eager employees (from other departments for 2 months at a time). On the other hand, I've come across 1 or 2 people (one is hard to fire, other has permanent City title and cannot be fired) who've, lets say have given me a run for my money. Now I am volunteering as officer role at Toastmasters to get "hands-on" leadership training, and I'm dealing with an especially toxic person (acts nice to your face, but does opposite when you are away). And this person happens to work at my organization (different building though) Question: Please recommend books that will enhance my understanding. Perhaps show me how to create healthy boundaries, i.e. a ship is surrounded by water, but the ship is built so water does not get in. Moderators - Feel free to edit post to comply with forum guidelines. 

I wrote a rather long diatribe expanding these points, but it grew so bitter I decided not to share it. The observation which could escape many readers: publicly known salaries give a great power to employees to get more money from the employer. Some say that secret salary negotiations are advantageous to the most powerful employees. Are they? Well, the power of these employees is quite soft: knowledge, skill, experience, relations, performance. Publicly known salaries could lead to the public salary negotiations, which could then lead to collective negotiations (think trade unions). What is the negotiating power of a whole team? Humongous. Just for starters it trivially includes the soft power of the team's top employee (the same knowledge, skill, experience, relations, performance that a top employee could use in secret negotiations). Now combine it with the soft powers of all other team members. Now add the hard power: "we are yet to see if our entire team could continue to work inside this organization". This illustrates how even the top performer can expect some gain, while it's true that the mediocre performer gets relatively more. 

You've stalled them. You never say how long you intend to think, and you don't promise you will actively get back to them to continue the conversation. Flat intonation means the pitch (frequency) of the sound you make should change as little as possible through out the sentence. My second approach. Say what you are currently doing, addressing as much yourself as them. Your tone shouldn't indicate you are responding to their question, you are simply friendly communicating your own actions. 

It makes other employees scared to resign and shows that company doesn't trust their morality. It is also a bad idea, culturally. Coming from Europe I'd say that you can do this differently, we do this differently, and all the terrible risks and obvious reasons enumerated in existing answers don't apply. This is because they only exist in your brains and not your world. They are errors in your judgement. A company in financial sector. Some employees of IT dept resigned trough the history, who could technically: steal credit card numbers, introduce back doors, install subtle bombs that would fire in future. And who could with just a little bit of thinking devise how to do it anonymously (I said it already: IT). They worked 3 full months after resignation. They didn't particularly like to work these 3 months and stated it plainly, but they were legally obliged to do so. They didn't even like the company. The company could have legally walked them out on day 0, but the decision was to keep them. The bad stuff never happened. And they fixed some stuff during the time, cleaned some of 'their' mess, did some knowledge transfer. It was more than one occasion. Go figure. Employees actually have some morality. They don't go around harming others just because they see no immediate penalty. I think that after 3 months if they found on a sidewalk a wallet of their CEO, they would return it. Their managers trust in that morality. And the upper manager knows that they can trust the lower manager's judgement. The owners know they can trust the upper management. A magical chain of trust. It's bad I believe that other answers, maybe because of the immersion, didn't see what is obvious to me. If you (a person) hire yourself a janitor, and interact with him for years, and as he says he would like to resign the next minute you send guards to escort him? Really...? Because your stuff is so precious? Unacceptable risk, huge liability? A minute before it was acceptable, now it's not? Nevermind how long is the list of your stated reasons and justifications, the action brings a clear message about the employer. It shows how employer treats others, how much trust they have with morality, what you could expect of employer's own morality. (Update) Cause If you see a company that experiences this, and want to find the cause you ask a simple question: "what needs to change before this company can keep employees after resignation?" If you address all the stated reasons one by one, and somehow magically exclude them all (the risk that an employee would reduce staff morale, poach customers, sabotage, etc) I won't expect the situation to change. I expect they would still have been escorted out and I expect the enumeration of reasons would get new entries. So these are not actual cause: they don't influence reality. If you re-create the trust in human morality, I expect things to change. This is because you nailed the true cause, not just a stated reason. Now, how it is repaired, is there a recipe to change a mistrusting company, I honestly don't know.