In the Republic Plato claimed that the idea of marriage was a "natural enemy" of the "commonwealth," aiming for its own higher unity. He thinks that a king should not marry nor should he engage in sexual conduct while he is king, as it is a distraction from the 24/7 job of ruling, and to lack the wisdom and self-control necessary to avoid sexual temptation is unbecoming of a man who holds the highest of stations. I dont believe he mentions queens and in his view they would be unnecessary, yet he doesnt explicitly discount the possibility of the rule of a sole unmarried philosopher queen. He does speak of a kind of eugenics where temporary marriages are arranged by the rulers, and an allowance of promiscuity at retirement as a reward for a lifetime of service to the republic. 

Would human behavior be more or less ethical if decision making was devoid of emotional attachment? There are many different philosophical systems that argue either for or against emotional attachment like Buddhism, stoicism, Christianity, and the emotional attachment to the right to pursue happiness is at the center of much of the attitude of modern life as the most desirable goal. What would the implications be on ethical behavior without the desire to attain a feeling? Imagine a thought experiment of a simulated reality similar to the matrix except at any point you could hit the reset button and restart the simulation and every time you died it automatically restarted. It could be argued that living in such a simulated reality you would never develop an emotional attachment to anything (not even your own life as there would be no reason to fear death) or fear losing it because you could just hit the reset button every time an experience that you wanted to be extended or repeated ended. Inversely you would never fear any consequence to any act. In such a reality what would be considered ethical behavior. The idea of reincarnation would imply reality itself resembles this kind of simulation. 

Yet, I think when there are houses around, we don't need to assert their existence, even if we acknowledge it. So while we might suppose that houses exist, it does not logically follow from this comment alone that houses exist, because we could equally well use the same comment, with the same meaning (a) in a scenario where there are questions about whether there are houses (e.g. most have been bombed), and (b) in a scenario where there are no houses (e,g, when we're search in the desert for any source of food). 

Like many, many other features of logic, we have a lot of flexibility about how we define the terms and symbols we employ — and even which terms and symbols we choose to make central to our presentation. The idea of “an argument” is certainly subject to such flexibility. 

Sure, Matthew Kieran has written a recent paper in Philosophical Quarterly based on the problem that it is difficult to know whether one is a snob or not, and how that difficulty might pose a problem for aesthetic justification. The paper is The vice of snobbery: Aesthetic knowledge, justification and virtue in art appreciation. That's the one recent paper I know of. To search for other papers on any topic you might search the PhilPapers database. 

Socrates' personality was in some ways closely connected to his philosophical outlook. He was remarkable for the absolute command he maintained over his emotions and his apparent indifference to physical hardships. Corresponding to these personal qualities was his commitment to the doctrine that reason, properly cultivated, can and ought to be the all-controlling factor in human life. Thus he has no fear of death, he says in Plato's Apology, because he has no knowledge of what comes after it, and he holds that, if anyone does fear death, his fear can be based only on a pretense of knowledge. The assumption underlying this claim is that, once one has given sufficient thought to some matter, one's emotions will follow suit. Fear will be dispelled by intellectual clarity. Similarly, according to Socrates, if one believes, upon reflection, that one should act in a particular way, then, necessarily, one's feelings about the act in question will accommodate themselves to one's belief—one will desire to act in that way. (Thus, Socrates denies the possibility of what has been called “weakness of will”—knowingly acting in a way one believes to be wrong.) It follows that, once one knows what virtue is, it is impossible not to act virtuously. Anyone who fails to act virtuously does so because he incorrectly identifies virtue with something it is not. This is what is meant by the thesis, attributed to Socrates by Aristotle, that virtue is a form of knowledge. Socrates' conception of virtue as a form of knowledge explains why he takes it to be of the greatest importance to seek answers to questions such as “What is courage?” and “What is piety?” If we could just discover the answers to these questions, we would have all we need to live our lives well. The fact that Socrates achieved a complete rational control of his emotions no doubt encouraged him to suppose that his own case was indicative of what human beings at their best can achieve. So Socrates' view on free will, believing that the unexamined life is not worth living, was the wisdom and will for self-control, which for him required reflection or a conscience, in other words, for socrates free will is impossible without self-control, for people without self control arent capable of free will because being slaves to their passions they lack the free-will required for self-control. His view in the republic, (in the dialogue with Thrasymachus) is in conflict with the libertarian view, where people who are "slaves" to their passions have the right to self-determination, regardless of what their idea of the best life is, and the reason for his disagreement with libertarian free will in the republic is that justice requires reflection, and that the tyrant is a slave to his passions, does not reflect on his actions and believes he has the right to self-determination. i also find the stoic view (which they borrowed from socrates') on emotional self-control interesting, namely, that all emotion emerges from incorrect judgement and that the person with reason properly cultivated is able to control their emotions because they posses the wisdom to properly put the source of emotional conflict into the correct perspective or context, and therefore able to make the correct decision. 

Avoiding microphysics, let's say that a wall is a continuous surface. Let's also take for granted your suggestion that our senses are discrete, in that a neuron either fires or does not when stimulated by something like touching a wall. Now, your problem is that a wall is continuous, while our experience of it is only ever a series of on-or-off neuron firings when we encounter it. Well, we constantly sample things, and then generalize from the samples to wholes. I see one side of a tomato from one angle and I make an "inductive inference" to there being a full tomato in front of me, with many sides, filling in what I have not experienced by reasoning that there is probably a full tomato there. Similarly, if you touch a wall at number of different points, you might infer that it is continuous. It is an "inductive" inference (rather than deductive), because you might be wrong. You are concluding something that goes beyond the evidence you have. So, we arrive at your next problem: when we claim that a wall is continuous, but have only ever experienced parts of it, do we know what that means? Well, this is a problem only if our understanding of continuity could only come through such experiences. But we can also understand it by thinking about Euclid's definition of a line: a continuous series of points. We can understand that without ever having any experiences at all. And we use that concept to make sense of the wall being continuous, even though we know about it just based on a few points. Adding: Certainly serious questions remain about concepts and their relationship to our experiences! 

What is the basis for believing that there is such a thing as human rights? I am all for human rights but it could be argued that the notion of human rights is imaginary and reducable to absurdity (that humans by virtue of being born are magically entitled to certain things) when trying to prove it scientificaly or logically. It also seems incompatible with evolution, where survival of the fittest would dictate, that you either have what it takes to secure the resources necessary to survive, or you perish if unable to secure said resources, evolution doesnt state anywhere that everyone is born with a right to a specific alotment of resources. Is it possible to reconcile these contradicting positions or is it more logical to conclude that human rights are a human invention? 

Science, generally is analyzing information gathered from observing phenomena, and coming up with theories to try and explain the phenomena. Then, attempting to predict a new phenomenon before it happens (when we can do that we usually say that we have discovered "a fundamental law of nature"),and when we can consistently produce the same result, this is regarded as proof of the theory. Mathematics is different. it does not rely on these experiments in order to claim the discovery of a new truth. Theres a distinction between what Mathematics claims as proof in contrast to science. For a scientist, ten experiments with consistent results might constitute proof, For a mathematician, a million successful experiments is not enough proof. Instead, mathematicians rely on logic. Mathematics is very often inspired by nature, but it is a purely intellectual pursuit. It is just a bunch of ideas in our heads, like philosophy. Pure abstract reasoning. Mathematics is so intricately related with science, Mathematics being the language used to describe scientific theories, but the difference between methods for arriving at proof appear to make the notion of mathematics as a science inconsistent. Is Mathematics considered a science? 

You imply that you sometimes reject (1) in such arguments. I would find it hard to agree, though, that at least poverty and sickness are not bad. (Anger, meanwhile, is often just fine.) But if you accept that the named thing is actually bad, then if you want to assert that there's a fallacy at work, you need to deny (2) or (3). In some cases of sickness, (2) does not apply, because no amount of time or money can fix them. That might even apply to some cases of poverty. But there are clearly many cases of poverty and sickness to which (2) does apply. The cholera outbreak in Haiti after their 2010 earthquake, or the current situation in the Philippines after their typhoon involve a lot of people suffering who don't have the resources to fix their problems. Meanwhile, it is possible to reach them with meaningful, economically-efficient aid. And so, in that sense, time and money can work to address bad situations. So, it might be that you'd just want to deny (3). You don't think it's good or important to stop bad things — or rather, you dont think that stopping bad things is as great a good, or is as important, as your enjoyment of luxuries. That yields a consistent position, though it's one that ethicists argue against in a number of ways. More specifically, philosopher Peter Singer argues that many of us do accept (3), and even demand that others accept it, when faced with a situation like a nearby drowning child, but deny it for more distant situations we would rather not think about. Singer argues, among other things, that distance is not morally relevant, nor is the presence of others who are able to stop the bad things but don't. His argument is worth engaging. So yes, you can assert that a fallacy is involved, by noting that the conclusion only follows when other tacit or silent premises are presumed, and then by denying the plausibility of those. Whether or not you categorically deny them is, of course, beyond the scope of your question. 

I would recommend b.f skinners behaviorism and Freud's psychoanalysis theories because they are pioneering and comprehensive attempts at psychological theories of everything. 

The question of "Could a machine/AI ever feel genuine human-like emotions"? arises in movies such as Bladerunner, IRobot, Star Trek and A.I among others. What is the philosophical arguement behind why the humans generally assume that a machine/AI cant feel genuine human-like emotions and act like it's a big deal when they learn that the machine/AI do feel genuine human-like emotions? Also, why do humans assume that Machines/AI are untrustworthy because of their percieved lack of emotions? Doesnt Ethical philosophy generally teach that ethical decisions come from reason and principles, not passions? It just seems as though a machine/AI that follows the golden rule could possibly be more ethical than some humans. 

The work of Noam Chomsky is generally accepted as the cutting edge of linguistics and because of his contributions many people regard him as the most relevant living intellectual in the world. The basis to Chomsky's linguistic theory is that the principles underlying the structure of language are biologically determined in the human mind and hence genetically transmitted. He therefore argues that all humans share the same underlying linguistic structure, irrespective of socio-cultural difference. In this he opposes the radical behaviourist psychology of B.F. Skinner, instead arguing that human language is unlike modes of communication used by any other animal species. Chomskyan linguistics, beginning with his Syntactic Structures, a distillation of his Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory, challenges structural linguistics and introduces transformational grammar. This approach takes utterances (sequences of words) to have a syntax characterized by a formal grammar; in particular, a context-free grammar extended with transformational rules. Perhaps his most influential and time-tested contribution to the field is the claim that modeling knowledge of language using a formal grammar accounts for the "productivity" or "creativity" of language. In other words, a formal grammar of a language can explain the ability of a hearer-speaker to produce and interpret an infinite number of utterances, including novel ones, with a limited set of grammatical rules and a finite set of terms. He has always acknowledged his debt to Pāṇini for his modern notion of an explicit generative grammar, although it is also related to rationalist ideas of a priori knowledge. A popular misconception is that Chomsky proved that language is entirely innate, and that he discovered a "universal grammar". Chomsky simply observed that while a human baby and a kitten are both capable of inductive reasoning, if they are exposed to exactly the same linguistic data, the human will always acquire the ability to understand and produce language, while the kitten will never acquire either ability. Chomsky labeled whatever the relevant capacity the human has that the cat lacks as the language acquisition device, and he suggested that one of the tasks for linguistics should be to determine what the LAD is and what constraints it imposes on the range of possible human languages. The universal features that would result from these constraints are often termed "universal grammar" or UG. Though Chomsky generated the universal grammar theory with the belief that language is uniquely human, a series of studies from various laboratories have shown the existence of acquired language in several great ape species, including common chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans. Thus, great apes at least partially possess whatever mental functions might underlie the LAD, and are therefore important species of study for exploring the neural basis of language. 

You've asked both how Kant approaches the Is-Ought problem and whether he does a good job with it. I'll give the outline of an answer to the first, and you can decide whether it side-steps the issue. Kant works around Hume's problem by focusing on the idea of rationality. He argues that it is rational to act out of respect for duty and to respect rationality wherever it occurs. That is, his ending point is clearly at ought-statements, like that we ought to act out of respect for duty. The question is whether his starting point is merely descriptive—about what "is." Rationality is a word or concept with not only a descriptive function but also an honorific function. Another word like this is "artistic." One the one hand, if I describe a painting as artistic, I'm simply saying that it's art. I'm making an "is" statement. On the other hand, built into the very idea of being appropriately called "artistic" is the idea of being (at least somewhat) good art. I would hesitate to call my sloppy napkin sketch artistic. This is the word's "honorific" function. I point this out to suggest that Kant's concept of rationality may have normativity (or the idea of goodness) built right into it, in which case he doesn't so much move from "is" to "ought" as postulate a kind of "ought" people probably ought to accept (in so far as they want to be rational), and then argue that it implies some other "ought" statements. That's the start of an answer. A great deal has been written on how Kant argues, and there are significant disagreements among experts about his strategy.