All types of clinging that Buddhism talks about are really forms of addiction, reinforced by indulging in them, followed by withdrawal symptoms when you stop suddenly etc., so all Buddhist methods for stopping bad habits at the mental and behavioral levels are applicable in principle to all forms of addiction. It's also true though that this or that method's efficacy depends on the strength of the addiction and the particularities of the patient's life. Not every therapy works equally well for everyone and at every stage or type of addiction. Also, as taught in Buddhism, there's a progression from low freedom (high automatism of behavior) to high freedom (low automatism) and a succession of methods that are adequate for the different levels. It's unlikely that simply sitting in meditation will give you the best results when you're in "full-on addict mode" - you will most likely benefit from some forms of controlled/conditioned abstention first, which would later enable you to calm down enough to do proper meditation. Meditative-type practices are best when adapted to your starting level of "brain noise" (or in this case addictive compulsion), with each method aimed at getting you to the next lower level and finally to zero "brain noise" (e.g. moving/walking/bowing/sweeping/cleaning/wax-on-wax-off meditation for when you're very restless, standing/sitting + chanting meditation for when you're calmer but not calm enough yet for silent meditation, then silent sitting meditation when you're calm enough for that). Try to find such a progression that works for you, and sure, incorporate methods from clinical psychology if you experience improvements from trying them. Buddhist sitting-meditation may not be the very first thing to try, but it would definitely help once you've got some modicum of control over your behavior. 

Dear Lanka: In response to your request for a reference to "Hair on fire", Bhikkhu Bodhi ed Anguttara Nikaya: Book of Fours II93 verse 3 pg, 474 "...Just as one whose clothes or head had caught fire would put forth extraordinary desire, effort, zeal, enthusiasm, indefatigability, mindfulness, and clear comprehension to extinguish {the fire on} his clothes or head, so that person should put forth extraordinary desire, effort, zeal, enthusiasm, indefatigability, mindfulness, and clear comprehension to obtain both those wholesome qualities. Then, some time later, he gains both internal serenity of mind and the higher wisdom or insight into phenomena. " The reference varies slightly in repetitions found on pgs, 879, 1222, 1405 & 1498 Hope this may be of some help to you. /jojo 

The question is not one of being "allowed" or "not allowed" things, you're taking this too much like a dogmatic religion. Buddhism is more like a form of psychotherapy that comes with its own philosophy that it needs you to understand for the method to work. The therapeutic method comes in an if-then formulation: IF you do this, THEN that will follow; IF you don't want that to follow, THEN don't do this. Its focus is suffering and the thing it teaches you how to do is eliminate a necessary cause of suffering that is present in your own psyche and without which the suffering cannot happen. If you don't feel any suffering or don't want to eliminate it, then there's nothing to do, you can ignore the Buddhist method. If you do feel suffering, you have in Buddhism a most efficacious method of eliminating it, namely by stripping away one of its necessary causes. The necessary cause of suffering that's contributed by your psyche is having expectations. An expectation is a certain insistence or dogmatic belief that things having to do with your life must be or remain in a specific way (this is what they call "attachment" - this insistent belief or strong expectation). Unavoidably whenever you entertain such an insistent belief you are setting yourself up for disappointment and suffering - "things must be or remain in this exact way or else... <insert negativity>" - and life, being a process of continuous change, will be all too happy to provide these violations to your expectations and produce said suffering. So to the extent to which you want to avoid suffering, to that extent you must abandon your insistent belief that the world "must" be or remain in a certain way, e.g. that you "must" keep your current level of wealth and never go lower, that everyone in your family "must" remain alive and healthy forever, that you "must" keep all your limbs forever, that you "must" benefit from your current good relationships forever etc. etc. Any of these expectations can be violated by the process of life at any time, and this will immediately cause you great suffering because of your insistent belief that these things must stay constant, especially for you, forever. But the process of the universe is not tuned to such static(!) wishes, and the sooner you understand this the more immune to suffering you will be. So the short answer would be: sure, enjoy every kind of sense-pleasure and emotion and feeling and whatever you want to enjoy in life, BUT... if to the pleasure you also add an insistent belief (expectation, attachment) that the pleasure "must" last or stay with you for X amount of time, know that you are setting yourself up for disappointment and suffering. If you want to avoid the suffering part, just feel the pleasure that is there to be felt in the present moment and don't create any beliefs about how it should behave in the future. If it continues into the next moment, that's fine, and if it ends and is replaced by some pain in the next moment, that's fine too, because pain is also something that arises and then ceases, and doesn't last forever. Learn not to cling to things, be they pleasant or unpleasant: this is the essence of the Buddhist teaching. 

(My person will try to invest this day, to complet the answer and give as much as possible hints for not getting caught by Mara-kileasas, add talks and readings to have most accessable base for developing the base) Much mudita! Possible importand Additions: Don't break precepts, harm your virtue for the ake of making Dana: What ever is near and own is good. Do not take, even kill, ly... for the sake of giving. Even is good made, the taking and giving, it's maximum same, but does not bring benefit at least. One who has really nothing to give is gifted, since he can focus one more refine and greater gifts, that of virtue. Sometimes to let go of desire for making Dana can be of more merits than such outwardly act. But beware of self cheating and excuses here as well. Defilements are smart and quick. Beware of mara-kilesas, demons of defilements: There is a nice talk with good story by Ven. Ajahn Lee, that gives good explainings: The Demons of Defilement: (Kilesa Mara) Do not give to win or harm: There are many people who give to win, gain in reward wealth, honor, influence, favor. Such is of short wordly merits althought it might work as well. There are even many people who give the highest gift of Dhamma with a thought of harming others with it, and to fight something. That is why the Buddha bound "not harming others with your gift" on what makes a benefical gift. Juice as tonic for the afternoon: There are some fruits allowed by the Buddha, where juice can be made from, such as citrus fruits, appel, mango... (general tree-fruits and no big fruits). If wishing to serve such, the juice nedd to be cooked then filtered and before serving made cold. Such couldbe keep one day and taken in the afternoon. Sugar might be added. In regard of packed juice, not all monks and communities are not afraid to receive it. It's sometimes not easy to find out if the juice is made in such a way and what it contains. Coffee without milk and tea can be served. This topic migh be handled most different by certain communities. No problem to ask in advanced "Are the Ven. Sirs able to receive and make use of this or that, if given?" Note that silence usually means not "no", but let you freedom to take action as wished. Main dishes - Rice nessesary? No, not at all. Bread, noodles, potatos... what ever main nutrishion, if wishing to give a whole dish, is fine. It's maybe worthy to tell here, that it is not usual to receive/eat more side food ("curry") that 1:4 in regard of "rice". So a monk would possible have not enough food is given a western style dishes with much main food "side-food" and less side-dishes "main food". Sources for more about food and medicine: One who knows much about others ways, can help much. Used in this way is of benifit for the user. Used in a way to revile or blame others, even if right, but with a unskillful mind, is of no benefit for one. As giver you are not obligated to know what is needed and proper to give, but if liking to be a perfect giver and have joy with it, it's of good use: BMC 2, CHAPTER 4: Food [BMC 2, CHAPTER 5: Medicine (incl. Tonics for the after noon and food for sick monks) Putting the food in the bowl Since not proper and not usual to lift the cover of the bowl wide, but food possible careful into it, one by one. It's good not to touch the bowl, it might harm the surface and it's not easy to fix such for a monk (in Asia, out of this, the folk believe that touching the bowl brings bad fortune has been developed). If you wish to give the side dishes, thinking on possible carring about the monks wefare, in small begs (think on that he has possible no way to care good about packing material, is here also good) or put the side dishes as they are into the bowl. Good to consider that some monks go not only for them alone for alms, but share the food under fellows. Some might have themselves or assistant with them, to receive side dishes, sweets, fruits... in kind of small "picknick boxes". Follow as it looks proper for you and the situation and as you think it's good. Some monks may have not a slight problem to take how ever it comes, some might not have the freedom yet. Don't fall into ideas like: "He should, must...", that reduces just you own benefit." Temperature Frozen, if not ice-cream, is maybe not so easy to take, but well, if ready to eat. Temperature does only play in regard of what you like to give and possible for receiving play a rule and there will be no requirements at all. To hot: is a monk, althought it might be seldom to meet, carries his bowl with his hands, not on support, no protections, the heat you but into the bowl will touch fast his hand as well, can hurt and make him even to let fall his bowl or not able to carry. One might be cateful on such in regard of fresh cooked rice. In a case such happens, one maybe likes to offer some leaves or a piece of garment, or what ever idea one has. Recources for Dana and its practice: 

How can you explain karma in the genocide of babies and "innocents" (For example: The Holocaust) in Buddhist terms to a non-Buddhist, without seeming cold and uncaring? Yesterday, I tried--by saying, "I cannot say unequivocally, why the millions had to suffer or whether karma came into play or not, but perhaps it is better to focus attention on the present and try to generate good karma here and now." I know Buddha said certain topics will only foster disputation and I felt like this is one of those that can only be speculation so I steered the conversation in another direction. What can you say in a better (or kinder) way to explain it to a non-Buddhist person who asks how the holocaust suffering can be justified and who expresses interest in knowing the Buddhist view about it? 

And what is needed to be and stay conscience? Conscience. That is only archived by right View at first place, especialy the 1. Noble Truth and the backwards of all consciencelessness. And how to put it into action? By being mindfull, remembering and keeping in mind and focus primarily on the frames of reference in all deeds, all times. Knowing the body, knowing the feelings, knowing the mind, knowing the phenomenas, all when arising, being present, decay. One who is mindful, one how practice mindfulness on the four frames of reference is a person that is conscience. Don't think that a person just siting in meditation is conscience. That is not for sure. But a person that does not seek after liberation, after archiving path and fruits, is a person of heedlessness, as well a person who does not know and ask for the way, askes people who have not archived anything aside knowing. Why? 

As I understand from what contact I've had with Mahayanist explanations, a prominent feature of the enlightened mind is that it no longer splits the world into "X and non-X" categories but sees it all as a single harmonious continuum. But that would mean the same mind would also no longer split human experience into "suffering and non-suffering". What motivation, then, to follow the Bodhisattva path of helping all beings escape "suffering", if "suffering" is no longer distinguished? Or is it the case that Mahayana never said enlightenment guarantees that a Buddha will take this path, and therefore that Mahayana does not guarantee you will come out a moral person once you have followed the path to its end? 

(proper time is when possible and nessesary, sometimes also "just" for others if the certain doer is not capable to take.) So to give the answer, "Does a stream-enter still uses the weapon of speech", the last Sutta and the samples of Buddha, his disciples, till good teachers of today, will show: "Yes (if wishing) he/she will use the weapon of even strong speech (yet still not with word of fools an outcasts), but not for gain, not to harm and simply out of compassion, less are able to receive.", and if a stream enter would have use it in affect in a wrong way (with akusala mind), maybe as defense (never for intended gain!), as a break of good conduct, he would suddenly confess his wrong doing. So it might aslo happen that a Noble One uses not nice word wrongly. It's good to do not just pick up certain things from the teachings and use it as weapon. Most Dhamma-Dealer (those who make a livelihood in teaching, or gain, claim and sometimes even provide no defilement-cutting of speech, "peaceful, not opposing speech, ever lovely speech", because the costumers and fans like that, or better their defilements and so they are able to make more gain while simply slander and harm the Dhamma and lead people to fools. Why? Because what counts is the truth and not artifacted peace for nobodies benefit. Take care to do not use this weapon Dhamma to kill youself off. That goes quick if grasping the head of the snake, walk a way of demand peace and metta (yet on fight and aversive your self), and if not willing to put oneself under good authority, its hard to get the right way. Hope that this - surely at first - unpleasant answer reaches the worriors and warriors at the right time before theiy cut them off with an haft and incomplete weapon and reason to fight. Many think "Oh I Won." Having make a visible strike. But the cut of the other war's so sharp that they still do not realice that the head has been seperated already and it's just a matter of time that he will fall down." 

Let’s look at this question from a different perspective with this analogy: Let’s imagine you know a car mechanic that works on race cars--let’s say Lamborghinis. You tell him you want to build one and he says, “Sure! Look up the information yourself.” Having never done any car repairs, how confident would you be in your finished product? Your question is not really so different. Without a teacher, you don’t even know enough to know what you don’t know. You also won’t know what you might have misunderstood or failed to grasp. While Buddha said to question what you are taught and ultimately decide for yourself if it rings true with you, (Kalama sutra AN 65 Book of 3s pg 280 B. Bodhi ed) there is much to be gained from a teacher. A deep and personal relationship can encourage knowledge and a sense of humility. He can skillfully shape you the way a carpenter shapes a masterpiece, and he is an experienced guide in the vast and often overwhelming Buddhist terrain. I don’t find any Pali cannon references specifically saying you have to find a “teacher”, but many times the Buddha extolled the benefits and importance of having a “good friend” (Kalyāna mitta in Sanskrit--which basically IS a spiritual friend/guide/advisor/teacher) as being an essential part of the spiritual process. This person will keep you on the correct path and get you through times of discouragement. When his disciple “Ananda” said good friendship is ½ the Holy life, Buddha responded: “Not so, Ananda! This is the entire holy life, Ananda, that is good friendship, good companionship, good comradeship. When a Bhikkhu has a good friend, a good companion, a good comrade, it is to be expected that he will develop and cultivate the Noble Eightfold Path.” SN45:2. B.Bodhi ed. Pg.1524-1525 I will objectively say a rare person will find enlightenment on his own, but the vast majority need skilled help. Best of luck with your efforts! 

Even if you remove the notion of "self", everything physical that used to exist still exists. Physical causes will still produce physical effects, which in turn create other effects and so on and so forth. You're only removing an abstract concept, an illusion, not something real, so all the real things can still function very much like they used to. Empty stomach -> sensation of hunger -> electro-chemical potential going from one neural circuit to another, one brain lobe to another -> muscles getting triggered as part of a food-seeking behavior etc. It's all still there and can still work (almost) the same as before, only now the brain won't also be doing weird and counterproductive things trying to further the interests of some abstract "self" that doesn't even exist. If you want a secular representation of this mode of functioning, I recommend Daniel Dennett's "The Magic of Consciousness" (either the book or online videos of him talking about it) as a very accessible explanation of how human conscious behavior could be accounted for completely on the basis of physically existing interacting elements, without adding something magical/un-measurable/non-physical on top of that and calling it "consciousness" (or the "soul", or the "ego" etc.). 

What do you think? Is this a sample of a Monk you harms you? Heavily harmed your defilements? And/Or sharp words to stay on track and to keep you from serious wrongdoing? Deeply compassioned with some good wisdom, or the act of a fool? Think good and wise about it and its up to the wisdom of the receiver if a gift is taken or rejected. Meaning at least, only a Noble One would recognice another with secure. Just one who had seen will know if a reminder is right. Other need to think, test, observe and bring it to have seen by my self fist or have deep faith. Anumodana! A maybe extended answer and a possibility to ask further or/and discuss the topic can be found here. (Note: this is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or any other wordily gain)