I usually run for an hour in hot weather every Saturday (I'm in the tropics, so it's usually 30 degrees or above, with around 90% humidity). I weigh myself before and afterwards, and usually I'll lose about a kilo in weight in that time - which I assume is mostly water - I sweat like a pig. (Currently I'll drink about 600 ml of water while running, plus another 400 ml when I'm done, so I guess I'm actually losing about 2 kilos through dehydration during that hour. I weigh about 75 kg, so that's roughly 2.5% of my body weight that I've lost in that time.) The people I run with don't drink anything while running. They're possibly better habituated to the environment than I am (mostly locals, while I've only been out here for a couple of years) - what could I do to reduce my fluid intake while I'm running? 

I'm a new father (7 months in), and sometimes struggling to pick up and carry my child (previously trained mostly for marathons, so I'm not blessed with copious upper body strength). As of now, the child weighs 16 pounds. Since I don't have a gym membership or any free weights lying around, but I do have a convenient 16 pound weight in the form of my child (with the bonus that as she gets heavier, my workout weights will naturally adjust to demand higher load, rather than having to buy heavier dumbbells), will lifting her provide a good, baby-wrangling-specific workout? How many reps and sets would be recommended? What exercises in particular are suited to lifting a (generally) cooperative baby? I'm not trying to bulk up, just have sufficient strength to be able to deal with the child on a day-to-day basis. 

Ideally, on all of your lighter sets, you'd be using a double-overhand grip (both palms facing you) to actually work your grip as well as the rest of the posterior chain. If you keep your mixed grip work to just the heaviest sets, it doesn't matter as much if you switch them. Yes, the muscles of the forearm and shoulder end up getting loaded differently, so if you deadlift heavy, often, you might develop imbalances. But if you're a competitive power-lifter, that's probably an ok trade-off, and if you're not, you probably aren't deadlifting so heavy or so often that you need to worry anyways. FWIW, I used to switch up my mixed grip pretty regularly, but over the past few years, have settled on having my right hand switched on the heaviest sets, and haven't had any issues at all. Yet. 

Reverse lunges, which you can scale up with either weights at your side, or a barbell in either the front rack or backsquat position, or even overhead if you want to get really spicy? Offered with NO knowledge of what happens during or after a PCL tear, so please take grains of salt as needed. :D 

The only reason to wait 48 hours is to maximize hypertrophy (muscle growth) post-exercise. The strongest people you've ever met are dudes who dig ditches every damn day. The 48-hour window came out of bodybuilding, NOT health and fitness. Strength and health have only tangential correlation to muscle size. You can work out every day. You may not see the GAINZ, BRO! But you will be healthier. Note that this all goes out the window if/when you start overtraining, but here's the dirty secret: most people are NOT strong or... uh... endurancey enough to overtrain, with the exception of most runners who've gotten into the 30+ mile/week club and or ANYONE who doesn't have enough sleep/nutrition going on to allow them to adequately recover. 

Since time seems to be a factor for your workouts, I'd suggest you switch to doing 2 sets. Do a warm-up set (50% of workout weight) followed by your workout set. 

Looking at the research, it appears that performing extra sets give quickly declining returns on investment. A very thorough research guide can be found at ExRx.net - Low Volume Training. Some interesting quotes from that guide: 

I am a very overweight man at 400lbs (181 kg). I've been told by several doctors that I need to lose weight or else my health will get worse and worse. What exercises are safe for a large person? For weight training I'm wary of doing squats since every time I've tried I end up with sore knees and have problems walking. I've also found that most cardio programs have the same effect. For losing weight should I be concentrating on cardio or weight training? Is it better to exercise or should I just change my eating habits? What are some good websites for teaching myself proper nutritional information? I've heard the old adage "eat less", but considering that most of my meals are from fast food restaurants, I have no idea of what kinds or proportions of foods I should be eating. 

I am a very overweight man at 385 lbs (175 kg). I've been this weight for over a decade. I've started a new eating & exercise program in order to lose 185 lbs. One thing that worries me is I've seen many websites and YouTube videos showing loose, hanging skin. Is there anything I can do to prevent this from happening as I lose the weight? 

Position is personal or can be based on your goal (especially high-bar vs. low-bar), but I think what you're asking is this: How can you make the bar not hurt in WHATEVER position you choose? Simple (ish): Make sure you pull your shoulders back (pinch your shoulder blades together) then shrug up, which creates a platform of muscle over/behind your shoulders, and it is this muscle which should be supporting the bar. Not your spine, not your neck, not your shoulder blades. Muscle. This can be seen in the pictures posted by Marten, and is probably gone into in depth in the Rippetoe article. Rip is the man when it comes to low-bar squats. 

Cost benefit analysis: If thumbless is more comfortable, you might conceivably lift a few more pounds. If the bar slips out of that grip, unless your spotters ALREADY had a grip on the bar (ie, it was already not a real lift (google "Clemson 640 bench." Perfect example of a non-lift.)), its gonna mash your face/neck/ribs before they even have a chance to react. Most of the severe benching injuries I've ever "seen" (youtube, etc, so total keyboard warrior here...) have been extremely sudden bar-drops. A failed lift takes a second or two, and even the lifter is able to exert some slowing force on the bar, and everyone has time to react. A slipped bar? Not a chance. Wrap the thumbs, unless you're a sponsored powerlifter and its literally your JOB to lift every last possible ounce. Everyone else, who's supposed to be making themselves BETTER in the gym, not getting injured pretending they're a pro powerlifter IN a meet... wrap the thumbs.