I'm a Christian now, but I can remember the days when I was a rather unreflective atheist. Back then, I considered the word "wisdom" to be meaningless, and would be suspicious of anybody who claimed to have it. Now, as a Christian, I think of myself as having a certain degree of wisdom, and consider it to begin with "The fear of the Lord". But what does it mean for the reflective secular person? How is wisdom obtained within the secular or atheistic worldview? 

Short answer: Philosophy is the wrong department for this. Try spiritually instead. Ask in Christianity.stackexchange is my suggestion. Long answer: You've stumbled on a question that would be answered differently by each worldview. Atheism is one such worldview. Christianity is another. Yet another is Hinduism. As a former Hindu, former atheist, and current Christian, I'll try and answer according to each of these views. Hinduism: Hinduism is a religion that broadly says that the world is an illusion, and that our desires for the impermanent things ought to be minimized. Ways to minimize this may include doing yoga, meditating, ritualistic prayers(poojas), etc. Atheism: While there may be atheistic philosophers who have advocated being in control of one's desires, I'm not sure what arguments they may have put forward for why one should do this. If the material world is all there is, then why should one way, the way of moderation and temperance, be any better than any other way, apart from appeals to pure pragmatism? Even then it is not clear why I, as an evolved creature, should not gather so much for myself as to deprive my neighbor of those same resources, so that I am better off, but he or she is worse off. Christianity: Christianity says that ever since the fall of mankind, we have a fundamental inclination towards sin, which includes idolatory and covetousness. Moreover, our hearts are darkened without knowledge of the goodness of God, which causes us to fear for our own provision. This, in turn, inclines us towards gathering and hoarding more for ourselves than we really need. The solution, according to Christianity, is that we need to trust in Christ for our salvation, which results in a new birth, which restores or redeems our fallen nature, so that we are free to live according to God's desires for us. I'll stop for want of time. I just wanted you to see that the question you have posed indeed does touch upon spirituality, and that in order to properly answer it, you need to go down one of these mutually exclusive paths. 

The specific example I am thinking of is that of Google and the web: It seems as if, in an effort to stamp out content farms, Google has to add complexity to its algorithm. Now, does that added complexity make it tougher for legitimate websites to go higher up in the rankings? I'm very interested in knowing if anyone has written more extensively about this. 

Mew has given a very pragmatic answer, but doesn't raise the thorny philosophical problem. I'd like to add my two cents.. There a few problems with the genetic selection and modification of human beings. The biggest problem is the desacralizing of life. I have a small observation that I will probably develop more fully somewhere else, and that is this: With the desacralizing of life, death, sex, marriage, not only do we lose out on living meaningful lives, but we also lose out on the ability to know God, because ultimately the questions of objective meaning and purpose of life are inextricably intertwined with questions of the nature and existence of God. I think that this spiritual dulling of the senses, if I can put it that way, is already in progress across much of the "developed" world. There are other problems too. For example, suppose we were to be able to design offspring who wouldn't suffer from any adverse health conditions. Would they be as empathetic to another person's suffering? I have to be clear, I don't want to sound glib about suffering (I myself have had more than my fair share of it). But we may have to admit that the elimination of suffering of all kinds cannot be the ultimate purpose of life, because if successful, it could change the very nature of life itself. As for the article linked to above, again there are pragmatic reasons why it is unwise to screen embryos for potential personality flaws. But I'll just mention a more philosophical reason: Within the Christian view, an individual has free will. I have no doubt that people have different proclivities and weaknesses, but learning how to deal with these is a part of our human experience. It is what makes us unlike robots. In short, people who choose to turn their back on a religiously based arguments against these kinds of modifications merely because they are religiously based are showing a dangerous kind of cultural bias which is myopic and foolish. Humanity as we know it can morph into something less glorious in the blink of an eye. 

This person is saying that H is false, because of A, but this is wrong because of F. This person is saying H is false because of A & B, but this can be disregarded because F and H has yielded true for a year. This person is saying H and F is false because of B & C, but because H has yielded true for two years this is not enough to disprove H. A through Z is being used to try and disprove H; however, because H has been proven to be true countless times for countless reasons H cannot be wrong no matter how unlikely it may seem. 

I have been wanting to post this question for quite a long time now but I guess I just kept procrastinating. What do you call the reasoning that occurs when the number of times a theory has failed to be discredited is the primary reason for accepting the theory? For example this chronology: 

As time moves forward the amount of "proof" he has increases making the scam appear more legit. It doesn’t have to be because of something in particular it may just be the fact that he/she found it to be true a number of times. 

First off let's define what faith is, according to the primary dictionary definition (first def. listed in Oxford) faith is "Complete trust or confidence in someone or something". However, I would personally say that it is used also to specify the level of confidence, at least that's how I've heard it used. With that being said the definition which some others have used while also in the dictionary is that of blind faith, that is faith without reason. Nobody who is religious will use the word faith to imply blind faith, for the most part only atheists use it this way because many think that all faith in religious doctrine is blind faith, and because the word faith already has the connotation of being religious every time faith is used it naturally refers to blind faith. Using the standard definition of faith, the answer is yes we can trust scientists even if we do not fully understand the theories behind it. And yes this is faith. In fact, if we did not put faith in scientists we couldn't trust their experiments and we would never have gotten out of the stone age. Faith is a very important thing in academia because without all of the scientific information we would have would, would have to come from our own experimentation. Granted the word trust is more frequently used to describe this due to the religious connotation. Ultimately, what matters is the reason we have faith in the individuals whom we have gotten our information from. I would say that by saving millions of lives the doctors who work for the Red Cross are a pretty trustworthy, same goes for the engineers who build planes that can fly and everything else. And religious also have their reasons for believing in what they do, it might be difficult to understand such as when people claim of an internal divine revelation, but it is never for just no reason. Of course, the reasons for having faith might be ill-founded. 

This person is asking for some money to give me more money, however, he has actually sent me more money than I need to give, which is something a scam artist would never do. Well now I need to give just a little bit more money; however, he gave me money upfront, and only stupid people get scammed. So the check he gave me originally just bounced, and now I need to pay for taxes, but only idiots get scammed twice. Since I am not an idiot this cannot be a scam. Now I need to pay taxes for the other state, but since you would have to be a complete imbecilic to get scammed three times. Therefore this must be legit. 

Well, we actually cannot be sure we won't be proven wrong. Among the most important things in science is to be willing to question everything and always be open to other possibilities. Appropriately every article describing a study will always list possible faults in the experiments. No experiment can determine things with a 100% accuracy, there will always be a 'what if' which can cause everything to fall apart. Saying things are 100% proven is not a good scientific practice, and can even be considered a red flag. (If that is the case that it is proven then you probably will have already heard a timbit or two about it). Although, the media always state things in terms of people like to hear (absolutes), so it might sound strange at first. Of course, we can still be 99.9999999999999999999999999% sure of things and this is enough for things to be 'proven'. But technically speaking in order to keep things falsifiable given enough evidence you should be willing to reject the theory that the Earth is relatively round, even if you are an astronaut you should be willing to believe it was all some Matrix-like simulation. For an example of how this all works, think about Newtonian physics. It is hard to argue that Newton's theories and equations, which are taught in schools and used in engineering to this day, were unscientific and should never have been taught. Yet we wouldn't have GPS if we were not willing to accept relativity. Not to mention Newtonian physics still describes principals in our world that need to be understood. So even if our most trusted theories are 'wrong' they are still bound to represent a simplified derivative of our reality, as well as be an astounding approximation for it. Finally, there are some problems with your question. You are speaking in terms of science being better than religion. The idea that religion is some kind of alternative conflicting system to science is one that only a negligible number of religious people actually have, and you will not be able to effectively communicate arguments with other people if you refer to their stance as being something which they vehemently deny. Your putting words in their mouth and this is a fallacy. It also says that you are unwilling to accept others beliefs since any scientific proof would automatically disconfirm itself in your opinion.