If you were attempting a thru-hike of the Appalachian Trail, starting roughly now (being mid to late March) and going northbound, how many sleeping bags and of what types would you need, assuming cost is not an option? So a little background. I've talked to a number of people who have thru-hiked northbound on the AT, and have heard about the various sleeping conditions. Assuming a pace of about 5 months, would different bags be needed for March in GA, June in VA, August in VT, etc? Obviously I don't plan on carrying more than one bag at a time, but if need be bags could be mailed to spots on the trail at certain dates. Minimizing weight is always #1 on the priority list, but staying warm up north in the later months would be #2. I've mostly lived in the VA region of the AT, so I am used to backpacking with a very lightweight sleeping bag in summer months. Also, I'm hoping for this to be information given a usual year, not necessarily the spring going on right now in 2012. I am planning to thru-hike the AT in 2013. 

Specifically for biking, they do make spray cans to keep dangerous animals away. Most of my experience with these products have been dealing with loose dogs. I would think it could be used for an animal the size of a buck, but obviously more research than my word should be taken there. Dog repellent Larger animal (bear) repellent I haven't seen any spray specifically for deer. There are ultrasonic deer repellers for cars, not sure how that would work. Personally I don't use any of the things I mentioned because it has never been an issue for me. I have had many similar experiences of running into deer on a mountain biking trail. Usually they stare for awhile and then run off. Very rarely I have tossed rocks/sticks in their general direction and that worked to scare them off. 

There are two common chemical options to water purification; chlorine and iodine. Both forms use some kind of expiration date. The consensed quantity of the chemical slowly degrades. Some things like sunlight cause the degradation process to speed up, so these are usually packaged in foil (as in your case) or brown glass bottles. Different recipes and forms cause different degredation speeds, the people who have studied the numbers published the expiration date you are looking at. The expiration date is usually a safe date for the tablet when stored properly (temperature, moisture, sunlight, etc). That means you can probably go a few months past the date and not worry about anything. theoretically you could use larger quantities of tablets that are much older but that's dangerous territory and not very weight conscious. The reality is the tablets are cheap enough that whenever possible you should buy new. This is the kind of thing where the only people who play around with clean water are the ones who have never experienced the effects of dangerously unclean water in one way or another. 

I hike in generally the same area of the country, mostly on the AT around NC and VA. Snakes in this area will be most active during spring and fall months. Generally they will be more active in moderate temperatures. In extreme cold and extreme heat you'll see less snakes. In the summer they will be more active in the early mornings and evenings. During the winter they will be more active during the peak heat of the day. Additionally you should be aware of snakes after large rains, as flooding can push them out of their homes. Finally, I should note that there are many species of snakes in the region and they all have different tendencies, so there is no time of the year that is 100% safe. 

I haven't used this trick for your exact issue but I have used it for similar issues. I would attach a small amount of velcro to the inside of each shoe and the bottom of the insole. You'll want to be careful with your placement so that it doesn't alter the feel of the insole, which I'm guessing is a big reason you are using them. It should not take much to simply keep the insole in place, maybe a small strip on the front, back, and sides. If you use the same side of velcro on both shoes then you can take the insole out of one and put it into another in a matter of seconds. 

It's been a couple of years since I last had bad shin splits but I can still recall how painful they can be. I was able to heal them before mostly with a couple weeks rest. If the pain came back when backpacking, a day or so away from transportation, what methods can be used to at least control the pain enough to get back to civilization without having to leave all my gear on the trail? I prefer answers that do not include an additional person to carry weight since I often backpack alone. I also don't need answers on how to treat it once I am home. Is there anything better than a couple of ice packs and aspirin? Obviously I would prefer the lightest solution to reduce pack weight and the chance of the shin splints in the first place. 

This could indicate a poor fit, but if they boots are otherwise comfortable then I would not say it is due to a poor fit. It is very possible that as they break in more and more this problem will happen less and less. If the boot tongue does not have loops to pass the laces through there is not a lot you can do. I would explore various lacing techniques that would put more friction on the tongue. If you really love everything about the boot except this tongue slippage then maybe you can look into attached loops down the center of the tongue to help keep it in place. 

I look at soft plastic drinking bottles as a great but slightly risky way to trim weight. Soft plastic should always be lighter than hard plastic, even if the difference is minor. The same applies to thin metal bottles which have the same benefits as hard plastic. The risk is in the ability of the soft plastic to either puncture or explode under pressure. To balance this risk/reward I actually tend to bring both. I have a soft plastic bottle that is in a pocket on the outside of my pack, easy to grab while hiking. Then I keep a second hard plastic bottle in my pack as backup drinking water. This way if I take a hard fall, and the soft plastic bottle gets damaged, I still have one unbroken bottle for water. Also, for the same reasons, I carry a plastic water bladder to use in campsites so I can store large amounts of water but have less to carry when hiking. Also should note, I didn't mention how big the bottles are since everyone hikes with different amounts of water in different places. 

There are no reliability problems specifically with dual fuel stoves. Reliability really has more to do with the design and the manufacturer than the fuel(s). So the best stove for you really depends on what you are doing. If you are making lots of short hikes with occasional multi-night treks, then a reliable dual fuel stove could be a great solution. If weight was your top concern I would not recommend a dual fuel because they usually have more bulk in their design. If you liked your Whisperlite I can say that I use the International version which burns pretty much every fuel there is. The Cat Stove design the Don mentions is phenomenal for reliability and cost, but it can be tough to learn to cook on them and I find they are best for the ultra-light multi-night type of treks. 

Unfortunately the words "Tomahawk", "Hand Axe", "Hatchet", etc are not rigorously defined terms. If I wanted to make my own heavy blade attached to the end of a stick and sell it, I could use any of those terms. That said, typically a Tomahawk has a lighter head on a longer handle (and usually a smaller cutting surface, because it's a smaller head). A Hand Axe has a larger, and heavier, head on a shorter handle. A plain-jane axe has a heavy head on a much longer handle. As for trade-offs, it comes down to the weight you can carry, the type of cutting you need to do, and the accuracy with which you need to accomplish your task. I find any axe/hatchet/tomahawk with a lighter head and longer handle makes accurate cuts easier to make, while the heavier head on the shorter body allows for more powerful cuts, with the most powerful cut coming from a heavy head on a long handle (aka your typical axe). If you are showing off your axe throwing ability, a tomahawk (as defined in this answer) is better since it will spin less. Otherwise, if you are trying to actually chop wood for useful purposes, the hand axe will make quicker work for you. 

Polypropylene based rain gear is a subject of great debate. It seems to fit some people's needs perfectly while it is terrible for others. Frogg Toggs is one company, I know DriDucks is another. They both seem to get similar reviews, hot or cold. The material leads to very lightweight rain gear compared to equally breathable/water resistant materials. So it should be as lightweight if not better than anything out there. Because of this it also offers little to no warmth, so if you are going into cold and rainy weather you will need an under layer. Many of the complaints are about the durability. I have not had any problem with this but I may not be as hard of my gear as others are. My backpacking trips are mostly weekends on US East Coast. Climates with more rain the durability issue may be worse with packing and unpacking more often. I believe the durability comes from difficulty in assembling the material, which is also why it is never stylish. This issue may be improved as time goes on. Rain resistance is very good, on par with the best competing materials. 

When building a fire in any weather condition you need some kind of starter. If you are expecting to experience wet conditions a great planning step is to store some starter in a waterproof location. If you don't have any household material, then gathering kindling and storing that will work. When backpacking I keep a small water-proof cylinder with a lighter, 2-3 strike anywhere matches, and some tightly rolled newspaper. You'll also need larger pieces of wood to sustain the fire. Eventually your fire will be able to handle wood that is slightly damp, but you'll need a few decent pieces of dry wood to build up a base of hot coals that can then be used to help dry wood later. The best way to accomplish this in wet conditions is to look for naturally piled up wood or big thickets. Underneath a fallen tree can be a great place to find some medium sized sticks that have been shielded from the rain. As for starting the fire, you will most likely need some kind of cover. The amount of cover depends on how bad the rain is. At a minimum you'll need good cover when starting the fire, and depending on conditions you may be able to fully uncover your fire once it is started. This is where all the big warnings need to be posted though! The cover over the fire could itself catch fire, creating a dangerous situation. The cover could block fresh air, which obviously is dangerous around a fire, not to mention bad for the fire as well. The few times that I have needed to start a fire in a very light rain, I simply used by body as cover for the kindling, and once that was going an occasional drop of rain wasn't a problem, never tried in a heavier rain though. The last item I would mention is placement. Especially if you are quickly getting your fire going as rain starts, make sure to pick a place that will not get washed out if the rain intensifies. If you are using a fire pit this shouldn't be a concern.