I am looking for a chart (or good reference) that shows every possible orthographic representation for each phoneme (in General North American English; I don't care about the low-back merger). Something like /a/.......au (caught), o (pot), a (garden) But for each phoneme 

I am looking for a forced aligner in Spanish. Something similar to P2FA for American English. I want to force align simple sentences in Mexican Spanish for a project. Does anyone know one? 

I recently recorded some subjects reading lists of words and sentences. The recordings were taken on a ZOOM H4N recorder, sampled at 44100HZ, on a head-mounted condenser microphone. The recordings would be high-quality if there were no echo. I want to do forced-alignement on these recordings and measure intensity as a correlate of the lenition of voiced stops. How bad are echoes for taking measurements? Is there a way to filter the echo out? 

I am trying to find words in English that mirror the conditioning environments for spirantization of /b, d, g/ in Spanish. I am balancing for proceeding phone, lexical stress, word-internal vs. word-medial etc. I'm holding the following phone constant (to /a/). I want to be able to search CMUdict for words that have the the exact string of phones I need. For example, I want to be able to search for a word that contains a word-medial token of /b/ that is preceded by /s/, part of the onset of a stressed syllable, and followed by /a/ I also want to limit this search to nouns. Like by using .[n*] in COCA. And also to integrate frequency (COCA). I can do orthographic searches on the COCA, but I can't search for the actual phoneme pronounced which is why I like searching on CMU dict. On CMUddict I can also search for stress,but I can't do wildcard searches to get word-medial vs. word-initial tokens. I also can't control for frequency. I have been opening the CMU dict in chrome and doing searchers on the .txt file (using Arpabet) I guess what I want to do is combine the best of both worlds. I was thinking about generating lists in the COCA and then importing them into CMU dict/ARPABET, but I'm not sure to do this. I'm open for any suggestions. Thanks!!!! 

I am trying to design a word list for a phonetics project. I can use wildcard searches in the corpus such as * sb * which will return all words that contain this sequence of letters (either medially or word-initially). However, I want to restrict this search to a specific lexical category (nouns). Is there a way to search for this. Short version: How do I ask the corpus for all nouns that contain the sequence of letters sb? Thanks, 

I understand that morae are used to determine stress and timing in some languages, so obviously there's some motivation to posit their existence in the syllable. But I am not sure I understand what kind of unit a mora is and what stress/timing have to do with light, heavy, superheavy (sounds like a Starbucks-inspired naming scheme: why not just light/medium/heavy?!) Is there an example from Generative Phonology that explains this? Sometimes all this theoretical stuff confuses me. Maybe I overthink it. (But the discussion in this community is so helpful to me, btw!) 

If we compare two unrelated languages with lexical tone, where both languages have the same number of tonal contrasts, are there any universals/tendencies regarding: 

Is there a standard representation that combines onset, nucleus, coda with mora? That would help me visualize the prosodic hierarchy better, because I could put something beneath the syllable level. My intuition says that the relation between onset, nucleus, coda and morae is language-independent, but I'm not confident. Can one of you help me shed light on this? 

It's obviously easier to pronounce and, perhaps even acquire, a sound or sequence not present in one's native language if one watches carefully a speaker's mouth. What is this phenomena called? Where can I read more about it? 

How could one frame the differences between phonetics and phonology in Saussurian terms? I know langage/langue/parole were not developed to these ends, but this explanation can help me get a handle on these terms. If this exercise isn't too "clunky", that is. Here's my first pass, but I appreciate your expertises and advises in helping me refine. Thanks. Phonology is the scientific study of how the sounds that comprise parole are organized into systems in a langage (or langue?) Phonetics is the scientific study of how parole is produced and perceived 

Likely there are a few others, but these three show up in most of my informal lit review. Although I'm somewhat familiar with these three approaches, I wonder if there's any consensus in the linguistic community about which has the broadest explanatory power. Does the use of any one of these somehow negate the relevancy of another or are they all complementary? Any heuristics you may have to help me differentiate the use of one theory for another with regards to accounting for suprasegmental phenomena would be just tremendous. For example, I read in my intro to phono coursebook that one of the central tenants of prosodic phono is that phono phenomena are not isomoprhic to morph/syntactic domains. But isn't this also a tenant in e.g. metrical phono? 

In most dictionaries and grammars, 'noun phrase' is defined by the function it performs, i.e., a subject, an object or a predicative complement. But this definition is not quite helpful considering this from CGEL*: 

What is the exact meaning of the adjective 'common' in the grammar term 'common noun'? Does the adjective 'common' mean 'found often' or 'shared'? FYI, 'common noun' is defined in Oxford as follows: 

As far as I know, common nouns include all the nouns except for proper nouns. Specifically, common nouns include abstract nouns as well as concrete nouns, which include material nouns and collective nouns. But concrete nouns also include a large subset of nouns that are neither material nouns nor collective nouns. For example, concrete nouns such as 'car', 'building', 'person', 'country' and 'chair' are neither material nouns nor collective nouns. I think this subset of concrete nouns are always countable unless they are converted to material nouns in context. Is there a name for this large subset of concrete nouns? EDIT I don't know why, but comments suggest 'pronouns' as the answer to my question. But I'm not interested in pronouns. I'm interested in common, concrete nouns such as 'car', 'building', 'person', 'country' and 'chair'. But the term 'common noun' is too board as it also includes abstract nouns, material nouns, and collective nouns. Even the term 'concrete noun' is too board as it also includes material nouns and collective nouns. 

When you draw a tree diagram in phrase structure grammars, should you draw a complement of a verb any differently than an adjunct of a verb by using different tree structures? 

Is Chomsky's X bar theory applicable to any natural language other than English? Or is it applicable to English only or to only a subset of natural languages including English? EDIT I think that the X-bar theory in its default version describes the English language. If so, I wonder if there have been any efforts of either Chomsky himself or some other linguists to assign a different version with a set of different rules to another language than English, such as French, German, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, etc. 

Now, is this sentence ungrammatical because now mistake isn't indefinite anymore without "a"? Or because now mistake isn't an individual, separate entity anymore without "a"? If this proves that a in I made a mistake doesn't denote indefiniteness, why do we have to call it the indefinite article? 

I’m studying feature geometry in my intro to phono course, and we’re looking at tone. One topic which I have trouble getting my head around is the “tonal motivation” for autosegmental phonology; namely, the requirement to distinguish between rising+falling tone and falling+rising tone in the same language. I understand that feature matrices cannot account for this because the “members” of a matrix are unordered with respect to one another, so it’s not possible to have a +high, - high contour “/” contrast with a -high, +high contour “/“ in the same language. What language makes this distinction?  Also, probably stupid question but why not just postulate a feature “concave tone” and a feature “convex tone”? Thanks!  

I suppose his evidence for positing this representation was based on impressive typological familiarity and anatomic knowledge. Was there any other special knowledge Clements had in positing this now widely-accepted and tremendously useful representation? Thanks a lot. 

This is a popular image floating around the internet, but like many things floating there, it seems like a gross simplification and just plain inaccurate. However, I’m more of an armchair linguist than a bonafide linguist like most of you guys. To what extent is this accurate, would you use it as a heuristic for undergrads? For ex.: It seems strange to distinguish between “literal meaning” (do linguists even believe in literal meaning?!) as an object of study itself? Also, the first four circles suggest a “is made up of” relation: “phrases are made up of words are made up of phonemes...) but that doesn’t work for the outermost two. Etc etc. but maybe this is still a useful tool to understanding units and subdisciplines in the field. What’s your take? 

The link at the end takes the reader to a webpage without much description of what hmm-synthesis is. But maybe those of you more familiar with speech synthesis have some insight. Is hmm-synthesis Concatenative synthesis, Formant synthesis, or something else altogether? I am boggled so any help would be great. Just want to get an idea of the kinds of speech synthesis so I understand better the overall strategies for synthesis speech generation. Thanks! 

I was reading about spectral techniques to detect pathological phonation and came across the plan to establish relations between harmonic-harmonic and harmonic-noise ratios in for certain kinds of dysphonia. But what do these ratios have to do with voice pathologies?