Welcome to the site Karmalu, the question of mutation is likely irrelevant as the sun will likely consume the earth during the red giant phase...that's bad for mutation... If you would like some more reading check out this scientific american article for some hypothesizing on how it'll work. $URL$ 

First I should mention that the horse/deer family and the cat family are significantly separated on the mammalian family tree. So the idea of a hybrid that comes from a cross descendant seems unlikely...though not impossible. It seems more likely to me that a cat species evolved them over time...a long time and you would need a environmental factor that makes them select-able. Odds are a herbivore or omnivore would never develop to the point that they are obligate carnivores, most simply because there is far more food available for herbivores and omnivores. 

Gas More specifically non-lethal gas. It wouldn't even be expensive in terms of manpower and risk. Simply find a way to access the air system and introduce the knockout gas of your choice. Send your marines in with masks/filters and clean up any security forces that were prepared enough to have a mask handy when the gas hits. For best effect you want a colorless/odorless gas, which you can search the web for or, considering it's the future, make up as some new advancement in chemistry. 

Both are useful in different ways. Ice: Ice will not staunch the bleeding in any meaningful way unless you were to actually freeze the tissue/blood. But this is a terrible idea as the cells in your body are primarily...water. Water does what when it freezes? Right, it expands. When your body freezes the cells literally burst. This is what we of course call 'frostbite.' Once they thaw you have simply exacerbated the wound and as you can't heal while frozen there is no way to remedy the situation. So in short, trying to use ice to staunch a wound with either do nothing or make things worse. On the positive side ice can be used to clean the wound before it is sealed (although it may not be totally necessary...which Ill get to on fire). It can also be used to treat swelling after the fact which even though very simple could help save a fair number of lives. Fire: Its going to hurt like crazy and it is less ideal than...you know stitches, but of the two options, fire is the only thing that will allow you staunch the wound in your scenario. In short you burn flesh to seal things up. We know from history that it works and was used for a long long time before medicine became a practice and came up with better options. One piece of misinformation is the idea that the process of cauterizing a wound sterilized it and kept infection at bay. While partially true, as fire will certainly kill bacteria, the process actually makes the tissue more prone and friendly to bacteria. 

I have a race in my world that in most respects is comparable to a human, perhaps not in form but certainly in function. One of the key differences between humans and this species is a lack of opposable thumbs. 

Movement is energy intensive and necessitates the development of musculature or a complex system of water pumps to extend and contract various parts of the plant. The main problem here is mobility requires cellular specialization beyond what plants have...and picking up those pieces makes them less "plant" like. When you start adding sensory organs (sight/smell/etc) you are drastically increasing the amount of energy needed to support the creature. This plant would require a massive amount of space to have the energy, and I would think at a certain size energy transfer would lead to diminishing returns on increasing the size. The size would make item #1 even more impossible as more mass requires more energy to move... Sorta already covered this. Photosynthesis as we know it is not capable of this. Even man made photosynthesis (solar arrays) is not terribly efficient (though a great technology). Does not compute. There is simply no way to get a plant that is better at being an animal than an animal. 

With that point settled the question remains, how could a system spanning empire with a true feudal flavor exist in a far future setting? Well...its impractical as feudal systems tend to be more and more inferior in efficiency the larger they grow in size, that said, we can probably set up a plausible or at least acceptable scenario to get there, after all, there are still plenty of monarchies today even when to most of the world they make no sense. Reasons for a monarchy rising in a far future setting: 

This society you are describing is very VERY different from what we have today. With modern technology in information and communication the realities of human fallibility are often laid bare for all to see. Government and business scandals, stuff like that. To get what you want your society simply can't have that. When information and knowledge is easily available to all faith in infallible leaders falls to the wayside. The idea of the philosopher king hearkens back to simpler times when people still wanted to believe and follow their leaders, leaders who were in fact fallible and flawed but when news travels by word of mouth...things get distorted. 

This should be obvious but, how big is the other army? Over-sized armies can actually end up defeating themselves so to speak if they get too big, they become disorganized and starve to death. Your opponent helps define your army (or it should at least), base your force size/structure/make-up on what you are being confronted with. How far is this army going to have to go from its base of operations. Home-(battle) field advantage is a thing for a reason, the closer you are to home the easier it is to keep an army fed, meaning more troops are available. What kind of climate and geography are we talking about? Lush plains full of food or barren rocky crappy desert? Feeding and watering a large army is tough...and on a side note remind the troops to poop down river from the cooks... Population base. You still need people to run your cites and day to day operations (unless you are working with a pre/early conquest Mongolian horde I suppose) and to serve as troops. The number that is most often floated around here is around 8 to 1 though as the army grows and its needs expand things seem to slide more towards 10 or 12 to 1. (Civilian to military) 

While option 1 is far and away the better choice it isn't very interesting... So. What would this fortress need? 

Specifics Rather than go creature by creature I am going to list off some standard categories of air power usage and then we can slot creatures into each category. Airlift/Search and Rescue: Airlift is simply the movement of people and cargo. There aren't a lot of creatures that would fit in this category, even with modern technology air transport is incredibly energy intensive and there just aren't a lot of creatures that have the size/cargo space. The exception here would be support for a covert operations (basically the roles for which we use non-attack helicopters), dropping operatives off, or for search and rescue. Dragons in most versions can carry several people but considering the other abilities of dragons it seems like a misappropriation of assets when they could to more good elsewhere. The Pegasus would fall into this category, essentially, like the helicopter it can be used to get troops to places they otherwise may not be able to reach. Hippogryphs and Griffons would be useful here as well. Air-to-ground: This is where a medieval force will be best applied. Dragons could wipe out legions without even landing. Keep in mind that in warfare, the biggest bang for the buck is not always (nor even often) a military target. Strategic objectives, i.e. command and control, transportation, communications, supply chain etc. You can to a lot more damage to an army if you destroy their food supplies than if you attack them head on. Stymphalian birds are also a great choice...if you can control them. They are not generally looked at as intelligent so much as a force of nature like a plague of locusts. Air-to-Air: This is a weird one as we tend to think of fighters with missiles...dragons naturally come to mind, but compared to smaller aerial creatures the are big and slow a pack of giant eagles could shred a dragon's wings without much effort. Giant birds thus fit well, giant eagles, roc's (in some uses they can breathe lightning which would be awesome), the phoenix (my personal favorite), wyverns (usually depicted as smaller than dragons) I will add as well, though not really birds. Spying/Reconnaissance/Assassination: This is where it can get fun in my opinion. Gargoyles obviously come to mind, hide as stone, strike while everyone is asleep. The cockatrice works as well, can turn people to stone... Support Roles: Now, any good air force member will tell you that air power is not best utilized in support roles because it violates several tenets, offense most particularly. That said some mythological creatures are totally functionally different. Sylphs and Fairies can heal in some mythologies so that would be helpful. 

I think the most logical choice would be a trickster/practical joker kind of god. The difference is the jokes go WAAAAY over the line and cause permanent injury etc. Essentially you are creating Loki... but there is some nuance of course. This should not be a global deity, nor would it likely be widely worshiped by most of the races who would see his shenanigans for what they are which is...well evil. Some races/tribes could find this god's way of doing things to be funny and bring laughter/joy. These barbarians could be known for torturing their opponents and saying disturbing things like "Look at him squirm, his guts are falling out" which would of course be followed by psychotic laughter. So yes. It could be done but to be realistic it shouldn't be a respected universal deity. This god would be a niche player on the deific scene and along with his/her followers would be pretty universally reviled for their views on suffering and pain. If you don't keep it a small fringe religion you run the risk of making it difficult for users/readers to accept because lets face it, MOST people do not find joy in the suffering of others. 

So all that aside... If the dam were to completely fail the impacts would have been different, better or worse likely depends on specifics. Locally (just south of the dam) the effects would be catastrophic. While not densely populated the loss of life would have been greater. This is mainly due to the fact that there would be little to no warning for the first 50 - 100 miles. Additionally the water would have overflowed east and west more significantly than it did, the impact being greater the nearer to the dam you are. This is mainly due to the fact that while the river wants to follow the river bed, it is also going to follow the easiest route meaning it spreads out a lot. In short the impact of a total failure is total disaster for anything nearby. Further downstream the impacts would probably not have been terribly different than they were. You still have time to prepare as you go further down stream. The water jumping the banks near the dam means the total volume of going down river is probably a little higher but not significantly. If the dam is not repaired then you have all sorts of problems with irrigation and flow control in the following seasons. So in short the failure would be a giant mess for anyone directly downstream of the dam and would probably end up similar for most other people. The aftermath would have significant repercussions on regional infrastructure until the dam was replaced/repaired. 

If your group is so inclined (maybe they are rebels under an evil overlord) have them only strike at imperial targets...then your myth could even be celebrated by the local population as spirit guardians/protectors.