The keys don't appear to be that expensive. I'd buy one and put on enough credit to last a few days. If there's still money left on there, simply give it to a colleague without expecting to be compensated for the cost. (if the colleagues are polite (and it seems they are), they'll offer to pay you for the credit). This seems to be the obvious/least complicated answer. 

Yes it's fine It's fairly normal to ask someone to proof-read your resume or to help with layout, so there's nothing wrong there. There's so many resumes sent out with elementary mistakes, so another set of eyes really helps in getting things right. If the recruitment is happening via an agency, the hiring company won't see your resume, they'll just see a copy/paste of the relevant parts (recruiters won't want the client seeing your contact details). In general, it's far more important to get the facts right than for it to look pretty. 

You're going through a disciplinary action because the customer raised an official complaint. The company is following a policy here and can't simply log and ignore the complaint without any transparency regarding process and outcome. Go through the process and learn what is and isn't "the line" when it comes to handling angry customers. You'll probably get some additional advice and guidance on how to mitigate the situations before they get to this stage. Don't assume that you're going to be fired unless you really don't want to fix this. The customer might insist that you get fired, but that's a different issue that the company should protect you from. 

If you're interviewing for a technical role, then you can expect the test to be a technical test, unless told otherwise. If you're unsure what this test involves, then ask. 

Approach the sales hiring manager first and discuss your suitability for any role that might be there. Also discuss anything more you need to do in order to be more suitable. If you approach your own manager, you're communicating your wish to leave your team, which may negatively affect your time there, especially if you're not suitable for a sales role yet. 

You sometimes have to gradually train users how to report issues by repeatedly asking for repro steps and/or screen-grabs. 

Be straight forward about your available time slots and state what's available rather than making excuses for when you're not. I don't think it's a good idea to say that you're "buying souvenirs" as this sends the message that you buying gifts for your friends/family is more important than a business meeting. If you really don't want to meet, then simply state that you're fully committed during your trip and apologise for not have any free period in which to meet. 

It's usually best to take some time to read over the offer and have a few days to think about it before accepting. You won't want to walk into something you'll regret later if there's something about the offer or the role that you overlooked. 

The fact that you now have a year's experience will be obvious, there won't be a need to state this. Any salary increase will be based on the company's policy and your performance during the review period. If you don't get a "market rate" equivalent salary after your review, then it's up to you as to whether you stay and gain more experience in the job you have or whether you want to risk looking for another job. 

Talk to the community manager. Explain your need to contact developers and what issues you're facing and then take the resulting advice. Discuss as required. It seems as though being the interface between you and the developers is part of the CMs job. 

If the recruiter has been foolish enough to give you details of opportunities like this, then there's no reason why you can't approach directly and cut out the middle man. The same goes for whether you reached out. Normally (in my experience), the recruiter details the role/responsibilities/salary/rough location and engages you before you learn the identity of the company. I guess any fall-out depends on how the recruiter is getting their commission. They might just be happy enough to get a referral fee for their part in filling that headcount. 

Depends on the wording in your contact of course. If there's a fee for breaking your contract within the 4 week notice period, you'll have to suck it up and pay it. Your current employer might wish to waive that clause. It's worth discussing before you self-sabotage. 

There's a huge amount of potential risk here, but this can work if people keep to the rules. Also, clear this with HR or your health & safety representative - you want to make sure this is legal and acceptable to your company. And don't put that box anywhere near the first aid box - you really don't want to give the impression that your first aider is giving out medication. 

You've apologised, she accepted. It was a bad thing to do, but just wait to see if there's any outcome - you don't have to go to HR to self-report. Just deal with any outcome in a mature and contrite fashion. And watch yourself in future, it's good to get into the habit of omitting potentially offensive terms/words in your every-day speech. 

Do what anyone else would do in your place. Start sand-boxing a new process. Pick something up that's taking a long time, and work on getting that process slicker and more efficient. Demonstrate this, try to get it adopted by the rest of the team. If you give up and move on, it's unlikely that you'll find something that exactly meets your needs and you'll go around in a circle, and find it progressively harder to explain why you're moving jobs. 

Speak with your manager, who should be aware of this guy's health issues and should therefore be able to guide you to the most appropriate way to work with your colleague. This is a pretty big burden for you to take on board and you should have support from your management to do so. 

Yes, of course. You have a skill-set that is applicable to many different industry types. This has no relevance at all on your employability or the length of time you spend at any job. We don't know why you decided to leave your previous jobs, but it seems unlikely that having a particular skill set prevents you from staying anywhere long-term (unless that skill set is focused on the actual business start-up process). 

The thing about burning bridges is that you won't always want to go back to the same bridge in the future. Are you likely to be trying again with this company? I suspect it's unlikely that you'll meet the same person again in the future. You could respond back by saying that the company isn't a good fit for you, which covers a multitude of sins, or you could be more explicit and say you had a personality clash with the interviewer and didn't feel that you'd be a good fit. 

Be honest about it. Just state that you didn't realize that there was a significant personal cost involved with this event and that you've not budgeted for it. You can bet that other employees will also decline when they learn that they have to pay to attend a company social event, and they won't be happy about the fact. 

Don't worry about it and carry on with your assigned tasks. You could try and make their days go a little easier in helping them out in ways that could help. Make them coffee, do other mundane tasks so they don't have to... 

Book some leave. You're in a new company now, so make that change in your life. You're in South Africa, you have a statutory entitlement to PTO, so take it. Book something soon that doesn't infringe too much on your current project and get used to taking your entitled amount of leave. 

It depends on your culture and the nature of the company you're working in. People will usually forget information on the first introduction, so we usually keep things simple. Hi. I'm [First Name], I'm working with [Manager's Name] in [Department] So, you're giving them your name and letting them know where you are in the company, leaving them only one thing to remember (your first name). Any more information can come as part of natural conversation. People may need to know your last name if they want to email you or add you into documentation, but this is something that people are used to asking. 

Honesty is usually the best policy. Simply state that you had a break from work to deal with family issues which are now resolved. There's no harm in implying that these were health issues, which reinforces your caring/commitment personality. As long as you demonstrate that you're in a fit state to work, I don't think the gap will be much of a problem. 

As always with resumes, the answer is It depends Your design choice depends on what role you're targeting. If the job is design focussed, then give them a well-designed resume. If it's for a software engineer, make it readable. Regardless, the person reading the resume has to "get you" within the first ten seconds or so, otherwise it might end up on the "no" pile. Recruiters see a lot of resumes, make things easy for them to maximise your chances. There's a case in point - if your resume is being seen by a recruiter, they won't "get" your design angle and any design/typography detail will be lost on them. Here in the UK, recruitment agencies will strip out the main details before passing information onto the client - you'll just lose all of your hard work right there (recruiters don't want to send your contact details to the client). So, I'd put design elements in if you're pitching directly for a design based vacancy.