Meat eating is prevalent in most Buddhist communities because of interpretation. Interpretation is a matter of convenience. So interpret it whatever you deem fit. If meat is the only thing you can survive on eat meat otherwise be vegetarian. Being vegetarian has its advantage that it helps in meditation but if you can digest meat easily and it is not a hindrance in meditation I guess you can have it. Be objective and use your own experience which can only be only obtained through experimentation. If you go by books and interpretation it will be impossible to come to any conclusions. 

Bodily, verbal and mind fabrications can be calmed through breath watching. Humans have three centers - body, mind and heart. These centers and breath are interlinked. If your mind is at peace breathing will slow and deeper and if your mind is restless breathing will be shallow and fast. Buddha's terminology is slightly different. Verbal fabrications have their origin in mind and mind fabrications origin lies in Heart. All three fabrications can be calmed through Vipassna. But one needs to follow percepts in spirit. Trouble is lot of people are trying out meditation technique without becoming a true disciple of Buddha. Meditation is about understanding and implmenting messages of enlightened souls such as Buddha. 

When energy which is stored in lowest chakra starts rising you experience jerks. Vipassna has unleashed the stored energy. Unfortunately your past has created lot of bottlenecks for the energy to rise upwards. There is simple technique of removing bottlenecks which Buddha taught. One needs to scan all parts of his body slowly with eyes closed. whenever on some part there is some sensation (twitching, pain etc) center your attention for sometime till the sensation subsides. Try this technique and if it does not help go to some other expert. Do not try to force the upward movement of energy till you are pure in body, mind and heart. 

You can establish mindfulness by discerning the arising and passing of "boredom" and reflect on how that very boredom is conditioned. Also one needs some patience because eventually boredom comes and goes, have to wait it out and keep looking at its arising and ceasing, eventually perception and discernment will be appropriately conditioned by such reflection and mindfulness. Take it one moment at a time, meditating on a moment-to-moment basis if you find yourself impatient and bored. Recognizing, discerning, perceiving and learning about those phenomena. Noticing the states of mind that are of likes and dislikes, wanting and restlessness in particular. 

decision-maker or will-maker are words, that is not what is actually happening but if you think words describe ultimate reality you get into this trap "decision is made therefore there is a maker, logic". It is logical but the word " Decision" would not be useful if trying to describe the position and properties of every particle in the universe, that would be a more accurate description of what is happening. In example "2+2=4" logical, try mix 2 ml alcohol + 2ml alcohol and it you wont get 4ml alcohol, some will evaporate. Words are useful but only conventionally, next thing you will think that because universe seems to be created there must be a creator. It is a misunderstanding of what words are and communication in general. 

People who have children have them for the sake of their own happiness, and ultimately the child suffers. Can we justify not having children at all even for householders stating that all life is bound to suffering? 

I think this will take you too far with the body contempletion meditation. And if nothing works contemplate on this story of buddha. 

Hereditary illness or not...the offspring you will produce will become old, fall ill and die. The dukkha is inevitable. We may as well say that dukkha is hereditary to all humans so should we have kids? If your intention in having a child is good, if the child is born out of love and not lust, if child is born not out of any form of sexual misconduct...then you will be fine...there will be no bad kamma. 

I am riddled by this question lately and it necessary for my progress on path of Dhamma. My question is, why is it that in this life time I have became obsessively bent to attain nibbana while everyone around me is living in total oblivion. I mean if I had so many rebirths in past lives exactly what was I doing all these quantillion lives, was I never told the dhamma. If I was told, then why am I not already enlightened. Was I dumb or something all these lives not to have awaken to the truth of suffering? What must have been my mistake all these lives? How can I rectify that mistake so that I can felicitate my nibbana in this life? 

I am looking for canonical passages regarding the 13 Dhutanga practices in particular Nesajjika dhutaṅga, the sitter's practice. 

I think that many or most people are simply not capable of entertaining complicated ideas especially the ideas that are conflicting with their established values, bias, opinions or the ideas that would immediately affect their position of perceived relative advantage in the society. However the Doctrine is so comperhensive and versatile that people can still pick and choose what they can accept and can simply ignore the rest or even proclaim it as fake. There is a good amount smart-shaming among people and Buddhist circles are no exception. There is no immediate punishment for being stupid & irrational and this irrationality, this stupidity can be hidden from others by smooth rhetoric and a veil of authority and from oneself by ascribing it to non-omniscence, lack of development or mere negligible cognitive dissonance. There is not much one can do about this other than finding the smart people and alligning oneself with them. Overcome doubt by inquiry, balance skepticism with conviction and conviction with skepticism. Nowadays i would say try and find the most intelligent people who are also known as or alligned with the best of the meditation-monks in particular, i think that is the best starting position. There are several ways to learn and develop in the Doctrine as i see it. There is the analytical part of the teachings dealing with the theory, there is the disciplinary guidelines, there are analogies and similes which are semi-analytical and there is the poetry, the Gathas which will appeal to the emotional individual. Sometimes i think that people just don't like to admit that they do not know things. 

As I have understood, Heavenly and Hellish realms are determined by state of mind. It is well said that two people can be walki g down the same street and one is in hell and other is in heaven. Heaven and hell is the way we experience this universe. So if you do meditation and you get born in a monastry world setting and it is still heavenly as it will all be experienced. 

As I have learnt in S.N. Goenka's Vipassana course, you have to be aware of normal breath only. If you are not able to concentrate on breath in normal mode only then you make a forced breathing to be long or short. So the normal is norm. 

The very first point is to make sure you are not doing it for Ego gratification. The purpose of 'debate' per se is to win over other. However this should not be the case. You should try in utmost polite language to get your poibt across. If the other party still hold on to their opinion you should end it up as just that-- 'their opinion'. Make sure the dialogue exchanged contributes to exchange of knowledge and you both together end up with broadened line of thinking. Dont use Ad Hominem arguments. If the debate gets centered around things which cannot be proved or confirmed no matter what...for e.g. you enter into debate 'wheater there really is a heavenly or hellish realm as told in scriptures or its just a metaphor'. Now no amount of intellectual and logical thought exchange is going to settle that. In such cases dont go into debates. Its a waste of time and mental energy and moreover it leads the sangha nowhere. 

These courses are the best imo, held in Hamilton, ON Canada, on an individual, on-going basis, free of charge, including room and board for the duration of the course dependent on keeping the eight Buddhist precepts for meditators Foundation Course – 21 days (approx.) ...Foundation Course in Satipatthana Vipassana Meditation as their first course. Meditation techniques include mindful prostration, one- to six-step walking meditation, sitting meditation based on the rising and falling of the abdomen, the sitting posture, points of bodily contact, as well as contemplation of daily activities from morning to night. The emphasis in this course is on learning the basic technique of recognition (sati – a.k.a. mindfulness) of the body, feelings, mind, and dhammas (meditation objects) in the present moment. The course follows, as its technical outline, the sixteen stages of insight knowledge found in primary Buddhist texts and commentaries; no formal instruction in the stages of knowledge, however, is given in the foundation course and not all meditators will obtain the same results from the course. Course content includes daily interviews with a teacher and regular group lectures. No previous experience is required, but advanced meditators in other meditation techniques may request a streamlined course to suit their needs. They also offer advandanced courses to people who have completed the foundation course or the online course, so one could theoretically streamline several courses $URL$ 

May be Hon. Subhuti was in some way pedantic about the use of word 'recognised' and 'perceived'. So you can't perceive a Buddha through 32 characteristic...as in may be all of them cant be preceived by everyone of us straight away. And if perceived then you can recognize a Buddha. But this looks like a reasoning based on semantics and not on wisdom. 

Meet old people be aware of their bodies, facial features especially, pay attention to the wrinkled skin, stinky weak teeth, bad eye sight, feel the repulsiveness. If you ever happen to be in India visit the place called Varanasi, its the dead body burning ghat for the hindus. Not only they burn it they also just throw it in river to rot, if they are poor. There are also half burned bodies all over. See that sight. Try and attend a stomach surgery or a post mortem at a hospital. 

I understand that if I am looking at a beautiful woman, I am obviously not seeing as she is, but what when I am looking at a clear blue sky, not clouded by ignorance, lust, and greed, am I seeing things as they are? Or I should necessarily have to have insight into Three marks of existencece? Can I see things as they are without Enlightenment? If so, can only an enlightened being see things as they are? Sometimes when we look at a flower we can see something transcendental, something which is greater than the sum of the parts. (Not a concept from Buddhism) but some people have an aura around them, even the Buddha in pictures is shown with an aura around His head. So does seeing this metaphysical reality constitute seeing thins as they are? 

Buddhas do not start a religion. Disciples who have not attained Truth, and consequently who do not have identity create one. Organized religion is a set of individuals/organizations who market Truth. Truth does not need religion but its the other way round. 

West is obsessed with thoughts and thinking process. Contemplation implies thinking in West. Contemplation about death does not mean imagining death or deep thinking about it. It is a tool to see things objectively that this world of yours is about to be finished sooner or later. It is a way to create an urgency to meditate and find out if death is the ultimate thing or not. It is also a way to make you relaxed and therefore prepare you for meditation. If you are going to die what is point of stressing yourself out for trivialities? 

All sects dilute Buddha's message that only your efforts and that too in right directions can help you. This recitation or chanting has sounds which can calm you. Or the very fact that chanting helps you concentrate which helps in bringing you closer to meditative state. But is this the goal of Buddha's teachings? Buddha talked about only one goal i.e. liberation. One needs to be careful about different sects. No doubt they benefit you psychologically. But then your priorities should be clear. 

Because Samsara is Nirvana (this is something I learned in Zen). Also not focusing on people who are not of profit to you or not yours shows selfishness and will bolster your ego. Remember the Jataka tales and remember all the sacrifice the Buddha did in His previous life for other beings, out of compassion. 

People who have done wrong to me remain in my memory and continuously stay in my mind. I have feelings of ill will and hatered towards them...to revenge...how do I get out of the feelings of ill will... 

Kamma is largly based on intention...in both the cases you have given the intention is not clear. Moreover Kamma is not some measurable quantity that can be quantified...so you cannot ask such questions like whose Kamma is more bad... 

You will not incur bad Karma for your actions because your intentions are not per se to deliberatly cause sufferring to living beings. In case you are doing research so as to make money i.e. develop a product which can be sold to masses based on your plant-insect interactions, then it comes under wrong livelihood. But as I assume you are doing this for your degree so Karma will be merciful. Now, how can you approach this, so before killing the insect you give it your kindness and compassion. You ask it to be forgiven as you have no other choice. And you kill it with minimal suffering incured by the insect.