Is the Halting Oracle inconsistent? Basically, the axiom of consistency says that paradoxes can never emerge in any universe. The laws governing all universes are such that no paradox can occur. Axiom of Inclusivity (Axiom 2 of the Multiverse Axioms): 

  Glossary Individual: This refers to any sapient entity; generally, this is restricted to humans, but if another conscious life-form (being aware of their own awareness, and capable of conceiving “dubito, ergo cogito, ergo sum—res cogitans”) decided to adopt this system, then it applies to them as well. Event: Any well-defined outcome from which an individual can derive utility—positive or negative. Negation: The negation of an event refers to the event not occurring. If event $A$ is the event that I die, then $\neg A$ is the event that I don’t die (i.e. live). If $B$ is the event that I win the lottery, then $\neg B$ is the event that I don’t win the lottery. Utility Space: The set containing all events from which an individual can possibly derive utility from. This set is finite. Utility Preferences: The mapping of each event in an individual’s utility space to the fractional utility they derive from the event, and the implicit ordering of events according to it.   Assumptions: Each individual’s utility preferences are unique. No two individuals have the same utility space with the same values for all events therein.   We deal only with the utility space of an individual at a given point in time. For example, an immortal who values their continued existence does not value their existence for eternity with ~1.0 utility, but their existence for the next time period, and as such the immortal and mortal may derive same utility from their continued existence. Once an individual receives units of a resource, their utility space is re-evaluated in light of that. After each event, the utility space is re-evaluated.   The capacity to derive utility (CDU) of any individual is finite. No one is allowed to have infinite CDU. (It may be possible that an individual’s capacity to derive utility is vastly greater than several other individuals (utility monster) but the utility is normalised to deal specifically with such existences). No one has the right to have a greater capacity to derive utility than other individuals. We normalise the utility of every individuals, such that the maximum utility any individual can derive is 1. This makes the system egalitarian as every individual is given equal maximum (and minimum) utility regardless of their CDU.   The Utility space of an individual is finite. There are only so many events that you can possibly derive utility from. The death of an individual you do not know about is not an event you can derive utility from (assuming you don’t also find out about their death). Individuals can only be affected (positively or negatively) by a finite number of events.   Some Inferences: A change in an individual’s CDU does not produce a change in normalised utility, unless there’s also a change in their utility preferences. A change in an individual’s utility preferences is necessary and sufficient to produce a change in their normalised utility.   Conclusion Any Utility system that conforms to these 5 axioms destroys the utility monster. I think the main problems of traditional utility systems, was unbounded utility, and as such they were indeed not egalitarian. My system destroys the concept of unbounded utility by considering the utility of an event to an individual as the fraction of their total utility from their utility space. This means no individual can have their total (positive or negative) utility space sum to more than any other. The sum total of the utility space for all individuals is equal. I believe this makes a utility system in which every individual is equally represented and is truly egalitarian. This is a concept still in its infancy, so do critique, comment and make suggestions. I will listen to all feedback and use it to develop the system. This only intends to provide a different paradigm for reasoning about utility, especially in the context of egalitarianism. I did not attempt to formalise a mathematical system for calculating utility, and did not accept to do so due to lacking the mathematical acumen to do. I would especially welcome suggestions for calculating utility of dependent events, and other scenarios. This is not a system of utilitarianism and does not pretend to be such; this is only a paradigm for reasoning about utility. This system can however be applied to existing utilitarian systems.   References [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

I would suggest the opposite: that a pregnant woman is typically the person most interested (and most expert) in the life of the fetus inside them, even in cases where they choose to abort. Expertness and interest are themselves subjective or at least not-clearly-defined terms, as is their degree of relevance. Your "Life and choice matrix" just seems to graphically show the result of your postulates that a fetus is life and that life is inviolate and that the inviolateness of life trumps a woman's choice. 

Again this is a complex scenario that doesn't have one answer from logic, but I wouldn't disagree that limited resources need to be allocated, and it makes sense to have a "disinterested expert" select - although the criteria are again going to have to be chosen, probably based on some grey areas. This is an interesting example though because here you have two different families facing death competing for limited resource that the medical establishment (and legal system) controls, deciding who is likely to live or die. However in the abortion case, you have a pregnant woman's choice of whether to abort a pregnancy, and are proposing that the legal system declare the fetus as inviolate life and deny her that choice (which risks her own life, in some cases greatly or, in rare cases, even certainly) about her own potential future child and her own life, with no one else involved. And there is also the situation to consider that the result of illegalizing abortion is not the prevention of abortion, but causing women to get dangerous black market (or improvised) abortions instead. 

For every event that can occur, there’s a corresponding event that represents that event not occurring called its negation; every event has a negation. If an individual gains positive utility from an event happening, then they must gain equivalent negative utility from the event not happening. The utility they derive from an event and its negation must sum to $0$. Such is only logical. The positive utility you gain from an event happening, is proportional to the negative utility g This follows from the method of deriving “2” explained above. This follows from the method of deriving “2” explained above. This follows from “2” and “3”. This follows from “3”. This follows from “3”. This follows from “3”. This is via intuition. Two events $A$ and $B$ are independent if the utility of $A$ does not depend on the occurrence of $B$ nor does $B$ in any way affect the utility of $A$ and vice versa. If such is true, then to calculate the utility of $A$ and $B$, we need only sum the individual utilities of $A$ and $B$.   It can be seen that my system can be reduced to postulates “1”, “2”, “3”, “6” and “10”. The ten point system is for the sake of clarity which always supersedes brevity and eloquence.   If any desire the concise version: 

Ayn Rand is alluding to an even more fundamental realization when understanding the concept of value above and questions, "of value to whom and for what." Essentially what she means by "where no alternative exists, no goals and no values are possible" is explained below... 

This is also elegant and flexible enough (I believe) that it can't be interpreted to mean "every human life must turn out the exact same and we must all have the same set of values." The real beauty of Objectivism, in my opinion, is that it's presentation of an objective moral framework accounts for and explains the illusion of moral relativism within the context of individualism (within the context of an individuals conditional and hierarchical code of values based on that individuals own life). While the "ultimate value" is always the same (that being ones own "life"), and the basic biological questions of what sustains survival are the same, farther removal from these more basic questions doesn't diminish Objectivism's ability to underscore an ought among alternatives... generally in the form of "If you value X over Y then you Ought to Z." 

From Axiom 2, every entity whose existence is not paradoxical exists, and every event whose existence is not paradoxical occurs.   Is the Halting Oracle paradoxical? Does its existence violate the principles of formal logic? I get that the halting problem cannot be solved in any Turing Machine, but is the existence any other computational paradigm (Halting Oracle) inconsistent?   In case you're wondering, the multiverse axioms (3 in total) are a set of axioms I came up with to answer the question: 

The same system for appropriating utility is applied to all individuals. This is for the purposes of consistency and to be more egalitarian. The Utility an individual can get from an event is between $-1$ and $1$. To derive the Utility an individual gains from any event $E_i$, let the utility of $E_i$ under more traditional systems be $W_i$. $U_i = \frac{W_i}{\sum_{k = 1}\^n} \forall E_i: W_i > 0$. In English: 

The term "Randian" is very much a slur in comparison to the term "Objectivist." Think of it like referring to the "Tea Party" people (or really anyone from the right) as "Teabaggers." The perception is that Ayn Rand had the type of personality that did not accept disagreement among the people she associated herself with, and this was true to an extent. One application of the term "Randian" is essentially viewed as students of Objectivism who follow a person, as opposed to ascribing to a philosophy. Some people did (and do) treat Ayn Rand as if she's one of the romanticized perfect characters in her books. The term "cult" is thrown around a lot, and maybe its applicable to some groups of Objectivists. There are a lot of different types of Objectivists you can meet. One particular strain most associated as a "Randian" are the hyper-judgmental, very insecure, socially awkward types. This is obviously a stereotype but some of them do exist in the same severity as the Westboro crowd. The difference between the two isn't in philosophy. In fact I don't think there have been any major schisms on thought. It's not like when the Protestants split off from the Catholics. This is an unofficial label applied subjectively for a number of reasons (ignorance possibly being one of them) to Objectivists. Where most schisms occur is when one Objectivist comes to believe that the actions of another Objectivist are inconsistent with the principles of Objectivism. 

My answer would clearly be: no. Hijacking is a loaded word. You don't explain how this argument from adverse consequences would work, but I assume you are suggesting that the pro choice movement is suggesting that a foetus is not inviolate life because unwanted pregnancies have bad effects on women's lives? I don't think I've ever heard anyone argue that, so no. And I don't agree with your premise that the "only real issue on the table" is "life", so no. I think the comment that goldilocks made about this "begging the question" is accurate: you seem to have unquestioned premises that a fetus is "inviolate life", and that that trumps a woman's choice about whether to bear the child or not. All your conclusions on the question of abortion rights seem to just be direct consequences of assuming those premises to be true. If we instead start with a premise that, just to pick another arbitrary example, that the ancient Roman attitude that a child isn't a person yet until a year after birth is instead our premise, then we'd have very different "real issues" and very different conclusions. Postscript: To respond to your comment by explain why I think you're "begging the question" here. I don't mean this ad hominem, or to suggest you're intentionally doing this. Begging the question is where your conclusion is essentially the same as the premise you start with. The questions you stated were: 

[1]   I first found out about the utility monster a few months ago, and pondered on it for a while, before filing it away. Today, I formalised a system for reasoning about utility that would not only defeat the utility monster, but make utilitarianism more egalitarian. I shall state my system, and then explain each of the points in more detail below.   Dragon’s System: > 1. All individuals have the same utility system. 2. $U: -1 <= U <= 1$. 3. The sum of the utility of an event and its negation is $0$. 4. Specifically, the sum total of all positive utilities an individual can derive (for unique events without double counting) is $1$. 5. Specifically, the sum total of all negative utilities an individual can derive (for unique events without double counting) is $-1$. 6. At any given time, the sum total of an individual's potential utility space is $0$. 7. To increase the utility of an event, you have to decrease the utility of its negation. 8. To decrease the utility of an event you have to increase the utility of its negation. 9. An event and its negation cannot have the same utility unless both are $0$. 10. If two events are independent then the utility of both events occurring is the sum of their individual utilities. Explanation: 

To answer your question, "How fatal" I would answer "Not at all." If human beings are understood as living organisms with specific requirements for survival (obvious), and that a code of values (morality) is a requirement and necessarily must be based on the ultimate value of ones own life (including achieving happiness throughout that life)... then the very concepts of what ought a person do can be easily answered and defended based on individual codes of value, within the context of the ultimate value of ones own life. Lets better understand another piece of this quote now. My emphasis in bold, and commentary in ellipses. 

I'm not really sure what more there is to explain other than to point out that it has nothing to do with the shallow immediate economic gain for the masses and everything to do with the principle of self-ownership. Any shallow immediate economic gain can't have any substance if "you" are nothing but a piece of property owned by the state.