Most vendors don't make bikes for people outside the most common height range. Even professional racers such as Emma Pooley (5ft) and Conor Dunne (6ft8) have struggled to get bikes that fit. Fortunately there are vendors that make bikes to fit all sizes. It sounds like you want a bike that also lets you sit rather more upright than the typical road or mountain bike does. Some vendors that have bikes like this are: $URL$ $URL$ There will be more options out there. Maybe ask at a local bike shop or look up a local cycling club's website and ask on their forums. 

I resumed cycling after a +20 year break and I was having problems with the saddle. At first I thought it was my weight and being unused to cycling (I would get discomfort and then numbness after about 90 minutes, which wasn't nice). I persisted and got my weight down and rewarded myself with a fancy Olmo bike. And it felt like the saddle wasn't even there. I even managed an 11 hour ride without any discomfort. The saddle on the Olmo was a Selle Italia SL Gel Flow. I used to race on a bike with a Selle Italia SLR, so I got a SLR Gel Flow that was the same length and width as the SL Gel Flow and put it on my commuting bike. And no change. So I thought maybe it was the bikes and swapped the saddles. Nope - it wasn't the bikes, it was the saddles. I bought a new commuting bike that had a Selle Italia C2 Gel Flow. And it was okish. I could manage the commute into work (about 75 mins) with no trouble, but any longer wasn't good. The C2 suffered in the Glasgow weather and the cover started coming loose, so I got a Fizik saddle and it is like the SL - extremely comfortable. So I am baffled about the Selle Italia saddles. They look identical and I've measured them every way I can think of and they are the same, except for the weight. They seem to have the same amount of give on the surface. But when I actually sit on them they feel very different. I don't understand it at all. Incidentally, the Fizik is pretty much the same shape as the Selle Italias, except without the gap in the middle. I am baffled by what is going on with the saddles. Does anyone have a clue as to what is behind this? 

Looks like nobody has taken the geometry into account yet... In the image below I have drawn the situation with highly exaggerated proportions. 

You don't need to worry about that. There are nearly no components on your bike -- except for the hub and bottom bracket bearings -- that are sealed to be more or less waterproof. Most of the components are totally fine with water on or in them. Especially for your shifters: their internals are mostly made out of plastic so no need to worry. As they are built in some half-closed way, there may be some water condensation in some corners, which is no real problem. The water may disappear as soon as the weather is warm enough and the bike stands in the sun for some time. It also may reappear, but as said, it's not a real problem, just some matter of optics. 

To answer your question title in very short: You don't have to fear them but some healthy portion of respect won't be wrong. The longer version: normally cow herds aren't really aggressive so it is quite safe to just go around the herd (if it blocks the trail) or pass them if they're close to the trail. Going right through the herd isn't a good idea in any case unless you know what you're doing. But there are two situations where some more caution is appropriate: mother cows that want to protect their calves as well as bulls can be somewhat aggressive. If those are present in a herd you should better keep a good distance and maybe avoid the herd by some more amount to prevent coming too close to them. Depending on the size of their meadow it may be the easiest to just avoid their meadow at all or at least forgo them by some 50 to 100 meters. 

From my own experience (199cm, quite fit but 'semi-athletic' 120kg): For £500 - £750, you won't have that much choice! The most important aspect are wheels, and despite extensive research, I haven't come across a suitable "off-the-shelf" setup. Instead, I use handbuilt wheels, 36 double-butted spokes, deep profile rims, quality hubs. I currently have these in use: $URL$ The other pair I have ordered is the aid:339609. The 105 hubs seem to be identical to the Tiagras, but I have chosen them for the "all black combination". I've combined the wheels with 25/28mm slick tires. The difference in rolling resistance is neglectable, but comfort and protection against pinch flats is much better. The wheels took quite a few beatings from pot holes on longish night rides with added panniers, i.e. the London to Brighton and Dunwich Run. They are still true and fast. I also hadn't any broken spokes since using the replacement wheels. The whole wheel/tire combination will cost you about £150, which leaves £350 - £600 for the bike, maybe less if you want to invest in pedals, shoes, replacement tubes, basic tools and a small computer. I would suggest you go with a good alloy frame. Some people don't like their stiffness, but what might be uncomfortable at 70kg and small frame sizes gets much more elastic at 140kg and a bigger frame! The other important part is the crank set and bottom bracket. I personally went with a Decathlon Fitness bike (Forme 3, was on offer for £200 and is now back to £250). Note that the front wheel has clearance for 25mm tires only, while the rear wheel can fit 28mm. I also needed to replace the cassette as the bike comes with a 7 speed freewheel setup which is incompatible with typical road hubs. This wasn't too bad as I don't need the mountain-ish 14-28 range and have now a 12-21 instead, which gives about the same range as a 20 gears compact race setup. The Decathlon was a temporary choice while looking into a more suitable race bike, but it has worked so well that I decided to keep it as my future commuting/fitness bike. The bike I've ordered last week is the Radon R1 4.0: $URL$ It is currently on offer for €849 (around £650) plus about £25 for shipping to the UK. You can probably sell the included 20-spoke Mavic Aksium wheels and tires for £150. It has a good stiff alloy frame with a combination of Ultegra, 105 and FSA parts. The FSA cranks are a bit on the heavy side, but I read about a taller Tour rider who actually preferred these for the added stiffness. Regarding frame and part weights in general, you can probably start thinking about these when you're down below 80kg ;) As you might expect, I can't give you any long term opinion on the Radon yet. Other alternatives I looked into were the Chris Boardman bikes which were recently on sale at Halfords, except that they are not produced in my frame size. Good luck! 

On outdoors.SX.com also someone presented a slightly different approach that translates different parameters (elevation gain, trail conditions etc.) into distance travelled, which could be another useful approach here. So my question is, is there some rule of thumb or a set of rules of thumb for cycling as well? 

I have recently installed the Cyo-T head light by the German manufacturer Busch & Müller. It has a daylight riding feature that is buffered to have up to 4 minutes of light when standing without energy supply from the dynamo which powers the daylight riding light LEDs. The buffer is good enough that if I switch off the light right after stopping, it does still make the daylight riding LEDs light up after having the bike parked in the shed for the whole weekend. By that, you have at least the daylight riding light immediately after you start cycling. And since the circuitry seems to be developed in a way that the daylight riding LEDs get enough power to go to full brightness before the main light is powered, you will at least have full brightness in them – definitely enough to be seen on the road. So to answer your question: yes, there are such lights, but I don't know whether you will be able to grab some of those or find something equivalent where you live.