There are many ways to protect against an Electro Magnetic Pulse (EMP). If your antagonist has a device capable of generating an EMP field of 20,000 volts per meter, shielding can reduce the effects of the EMP enough to protect the androids. An example of shielding is a Faraday Cage. Developing one that is capable of producing 80 db would reduce the EMP by a factor of 10,000. That 20,000 volt generator would only be able to produce a field inside the cage of 2 volts per meter. Even simple shielding can reduce the effects 3 - 4 times, the EMP becomes nearly useless. As an example, the androids could wear flexible metallic fabric suits that could block the interference caused by the EMP generator. Such suits are used all the time in working on high voltage power lines. I am sure androids who are just as worried about stray voltage as it might affect their lives would look for ways to protect themselves when working on their own electrical needs. Properly shielded androids could deploy a Faraday Cage around your antagonist which renders his device practically useless. Good luck protecting the androids. 

Ryugyong Hotel I'm using this as an example because it's 330 meters tall, but a wide pyramid shape. It obviously occupies more than a city block. It's using concrete and steel, but one could use stone and iron as a support material. a combination of a solid rock core and exterior support walls would give you height. With a wide enough base, you end up with useable floor space which is offset by the support. Good luck. 

There are several simple (loosely defined) ways to accomplish this without a bulky reactor plant. Use the heat from radioactive decay to create power. It eliminates the need for the reactor vessel and a cooling structure. I understand this is not a nuclear reactor, but it is a way a home consumer could access nuclear power. Advanced Stirling Radioisotope Generator An Advanced Stirling Radioisotope Generator (ASRG) is a radioisotope power system developed at NASA's Glenn Research Center. It's based on an idea of creating power from the heat of radioactive decay from plutonium. It uses a Stirling power conversion technology to convert the radioactive-decay heat into electricity for use on spacecraft. A Stirling engine is a closed-cycle regenerative heat engine with a permanently gaseous working fluid. Closed-cycle, in this context, means a thermodynamic system in which the working fluid is permanently contained within the system, and regenerative describes the use of a specific type of internal heat exchanger and thermal store, known as the regenerator. The inclusion of a regenerator differentiates the Stirling engine from other closed cycle hot air engines. 

You would end up with a head full of horns or quills. Human hair is made from keratin. It's the same with your fingernails and toenails. In fine form, hair is soft and flexible. With thicker amounts of keratin, it becomes stiff. In the animal world, most horns have a bone core covered with a thin sheath of keratin. Since we lack boney protrusions on our heads, humans with thick hair might end up looking a bit like a porcupine or a hedgehog. with long hairs covered with keratine. Or if they started to clump together, our heads could end up looking like a rhinoceros horn, which is made of entirely of keratin. With a head full of quills, humans have another form of defense. Ramming people with your head could cause painful injuries. Imagine tangling with a human sized porcupine. If it formed like a rhinoceros horn, it would act like an helmet, further protecting the skull. It would become a defensive and offensive weapon. 

The Island of Hawaii has 4 out of the 5 major climate zones in the world, and 8 out of 13 of the sub-zones in an area 94 miles long. The temperatures remain pretty consistent throughout the year in each zone. As an example, I have friends that live in a zone which is the consistent weather of a Seattle summer all year long. The snow on Mauna Kea is consistent all year long. If you wanted a template to have extreme zones next to one another, this seems like a good place to use as a template of what is possible and what can exist in your readers mind. More information: 

Combining genocide with various fears could get the human race wiped out. Genocide alone without a object of fear like witchcraft is enough to get millions slaughtered in several instances around the world and through history, sadly even into modern times. Uh, good luck. 

In a large body such as the Earth, this train could be left to accelerate using just the force of gravity, since, during the first half of the trip (from the point of departure until the middle), the downward pull towards the center of gravity would pull it towards the destination. During the second half of the trip, the acceleration would be in the opposite direction relative to the trajectory, but (ignoring the effects of friction) the speed acquired before would be enough to cancel this deceleration exactly (so that the train would reach its destination with speed equal to zero). The math works out that from the time entering the tunnel to the time exiting would take around 38-45 minutes. 

The biggest question is how do you sell an unhealthy lifestyle (vegan) for a healthy lifestyle (omnivore)? Veganism is a lifestyle based on shame thats full of contradictory rules that make no sense. My approach would be to look how the fast food lifestyle of excess carbohydrates (mostly vegan) has become a worldwide phenomenon which has lead to obesity, diabetes and heart failure. All over the world we have turned to sugary drinks, fast food snacks and fast food meals to become dangerously unhealthy. Diabetes from lifestyle choices is already one of the biggest killers in the world and it used to be a rich mans disease. We eat it because it tastes great and lifestyle marketing and sheer convenience. It's cheaper and easier to eat junk food than healthy food. Start marketing vegan sodas, vegan snacks sold at fast food places for a comparable price. Convince chains like McDonald's or Subway to offer tasty vegan alternatives. If they see a profit in providing those items, capitalism will sell the idea worldwide. 

Wood starts to burn at 450°F (233°C). In space, all the moisture in the wood will be sucked out by the vacuum of space. When facing the sun, the skin will heat up to 250°F (121°C) and on the shaded side, cool to -250°F (-157°C). Some cracking will definitely occur. I could tell you scenarios where your space station would spontaneously combust, but what intrigues me is how would you pull off a wood space station? Would the wood be growing in space? Would the station somehow be alive? Because green wood would still ignite below the auto-ignition temperature of a metal like aluminum, but above the temperature where aluminum loses it's structural integrity, which is 1112°F (600°C). Wood as you know is mostly carbon. An application of carbon such as carbon fiber under the most optimal conditions will burn at 572-932°F (300°-500°C) which is substantially higher temperature than the 450°F for wood. Live wood means that your space station would have the ability to heal itself when a tiny meteor strike hits. This is something aluminum cannot do. It could disperse heat (sap could pull heat away from an area), even grow. That means that it might make it's skin thicker in some areas to protect from exposure to the sun, be able to heal from micro meteors or have symbiotic insects or fungus that could help enhance it's ability to thrive. Wood as we think of it now has drawbacks. But wood has many features that could make your idea really intriguing. Good luck. 

In order for Bob's cobblestones to be visible above Alice's house, he's going to need to brush up on orbital decay, drag and gravity. Or crib off the work of ALE’s “Sky Canvas” project, which I am sort of doing right now. ALE would like to release colored meteorites into the atmosphere for a show. As you can see by the handy info-graphic, some planning has to happen to use gravity, friction, drag into account for proper deployment. Bob is in orbit moving around 15,000 mph. In order for his cobblestones to hit the sky above Alice's house, he's going to have to figure a way to de-orbit them, or slow them down so they drop exactly(ish) where he wants them. If he releases them and lets them fend for themselves, it could take several years before their orbit decays enough to fall to earth. For a more precise entry, he's going to need a device like a rocket to slow down the cobblestones for a more precise de-orbit. This means during his EVA, he may have to start the de-orbiting process hours or days in advance of being over Alice's house. The exact timing depends on how fast Bob wants to de-orbit them. If I could make a suggestion, it would be to use strontium and magnesium instead of plain old cobblestones. The strontium will burn bright red and illuminate the sky. The magnesium will create a whitish blue that will be extremely visible. 

Mass hysteria is a heck of a drug. It can cause people to do very irrational things. As a grisly example, Tanzania has recurring witch problems where people are killing people they suspect of being a witch. There has been around 500 people killed so far, mostly women. If you're albino in Tanzania, your life right now is in real danger, because body parts from albinos are the only thing that can stop the witches. 

I've studied fascinating aspects of the venus flytrap and it's 20 second rule. The flytrap counts the number of times something touches the sensory hairs on it's leaves. If you touch one, it triggers the plant to a ready state. Touching two hairs in a short amount of time causes the trap to close, but not all the way. It leaves room for small insects to escape since it will cost the plant more energy to consume the prey than it produces. If you touch three hairs, the trap switches to digestion mode and with five hairs, it releases digestive enzymes. All of this comes from a plant with no nervous system, no muscles, we simply do not know how this works. What we do know is that each leaf can be used around three times before it dies off and the plant needs to create a new leaf. With the need for a massive branch to be created to digest a man, it would require some really amazing growth. It would grow as fast as the fastest bamboo, yet be solid enough to support a man or large prey. I'm not sure it would be effective to have such massive roots supporting a branch and the large, tough leaves required to trap a man and hold him until digestion starts. 

As another person mentioned, what in your mind constitutes recovery? Using Chernobyl as an example, nature is taking back the area around the damaged power plant rather quickly. In the decades since the accident, forests have sprung up regardless of former human activity. Even as it takes back, it doesn't completely heal itself. The buildings and traces of man are still there, but every season nature takes back more and more. But how long is long? Using an old growth conifer forest as an example, if you log an area within the forest, it will take at least 600 years for the forest to make that clearing indistiguishable from the other parts of that ecosystem. Damage done to areas with permafrost take even longer to heal. Roads and paths abandoned for over 100 years will still be easily identifiable. During the last big extinction event at the end of the Permian–Triassic period, 90% of life on earth was wiped out. This included insects, plants, marine animals, amphibians, and reptiles. Life that was on the earth bounced back in a few years. Anything that could capitalize on the event did very well. However, for full recovery of species and biodiversity took 30 million years. So in a major apocalyptic event where 90% of all human and animal life is snuffed out, we might lose large animals like elephants or manatees, but in a few years you'd see trees springing up, rats running around and a limited amount of animals capitalizing on the environment. For new species to appear and all traces of the apocalypse to recover, it would take millions of years. 

If you build a tunnel for long distances underwater, you will run into a variety of problems, one of which is the time the journey would take on long trips. To go from Honolulu, Hawaii to San Francisco, California would take 2,393 miles at best train speed, it would take 8 hours of travel time. Imagine if you could go anywhere in only 38 minutes. What you really need is a Gravity Train. 

The true answer to your question can be found on a place called Anthrax Island in Scotland. In 1942, British Military scientists experimented with various strains of anthrax to use as biological weapons during World War II. They bombed the small island with a particularly virulent strain of anthrax called Vollum 14578. One of the reasons why anthrax didn't become a weapon is that the spores were really durable and if they used it as a weapon it would contaminate an area and render it uninhabitable for decades. It's hard to recover and rebuild when your livestock and farmers get wiped out by a pesky bacteria. Gruinard Island remained contaminated for over 40 years because the cost of cleaning a .75 square mile island was cost prohibitive and very dangerous. Cleanup took four years and 280 tonnes of formaldehyde solution diluted in sea water to decontaminate less than one square mile of land. A flock of sheep remain on the island to act as a "canary in a coal mine", to alert scientists they missed a spot. Anthrax will fit your needs for your story. The best part is it's completely natural and organic. There's no pitchblende (uraninite) to collect and refine like you need for dirty bombs, just a good old fashioned deadly bacteria. Good luck