A language might be simplified when literacy is not as high as people would like. (That's not a sufficient condition, but it can be a driver.) We see this with simplified Chinese, which started in the early 20th century for use in education. The government of China has promoted simplified Chinese since the 1950s as a way to increase literacy. My Chinese coworkers (living in the US) read and write both traditional and simplified Chinese. This isn't exactly analogous to what you're describing; Simplified vs. Traditional Chinese is a difference in how the language is written but not in the grammar itself. (The spoken language is the same.) But, from what I understand (I do not know Chinese myself), Chinese doesn't have the kinds of grammatical markers that English does; there's no equivalent to the "-ed means past tense" rule, for instance. You get tense, number, possessiveness, etc. from the way hundreds of characters are composed. What they did to try to improve literacy was to make those hundreds of characters easier to read and write. That seems similar in spirit to your idea of making English easier to understand by reducing the complexity of its grammar; instead of hundreds of complex characters you're simplifying dozens (?) of complex rules. It's an analogy, not a direct example. I doubt that a population that is already largely literate and fluent would see a need to simplify its language. And you probably couldn't simplify all English anywhere, in the same way that simplified Chinese didn't take over in all Chinese-speaking places. But in a population with lower literacy and a government able to enforce a change (for whatever reasons), it seems plausible that simplification efforts could succeed. 

I have a colony of humans on Mars, living in enclosed cities to maintain breathable air. (If they need to leave, they suit up.) Assuming modern-day technology, how do I figure out how many people a city of volume V can support? Or, to reverse the question, how large a domed city would I need to support a population of size P? (I assume that if we can solve one of these we can solve the other, so attack it from either end.) The protective enclosure dates back to the founding of the colony; its purpose is to enclose breathable atmosphere so they can live on Mars. I have been assuming that a transparent dome is preferable for (a) getting sunlight and (b) combatting any feelings of confinement because they can see farther than the city borders, but I'm open to alternatives. The people living on Mars need to be self-sufficient (no deliveries from Earth, though they could have brought whatever starting equipment they'd need). They do not necessarily all live in the same city. (How I distribute my population among cities will depend in part on the answer to this question; I'm trying to figure out what's practical.) I assume that there would need to be ample vegetation to consume CO2 and emit oxygen -- which is fine, because those people are going to need a food source anyway. That vegetation requires space, so factor that into the calculation (or tell me why that's not an issue). I am flexible about what my people eat. The question of how large a structure can be built, engineering-wise, is separate. Here I'm trying to get a handle on the life-support side of the problem. 

There is another legal system where participants face a similar threat, where participants believe that false testimony has dire consequences even if no witness could otherwise prove they're lying. So we can look to that system for guidance on how this one might play out. I'm talking about rabbinic courts, specifically in the time of the Sanhedrin. The ultimate "stick" that the court had was to require somebody to swear an oath. What's the big deal about swearing an oath? To modern-day Americans, maybe not much -- just words and all that. But in its original context, a false oath was (and to many today still is) a transgression against God. Who, you know, would punish you for that. So you really, really don't want to swear a false oath, and it's safer to avoid swearing an oath at all because of a reluctance to bring out the "big guns", so to speak. The passages in the talmud that talk about how the Sanhedrin operated and what the laws of various cases are show a tendency to avoid oaths at all unless necessary. The truth stone, being not only a big gun but a singleton, will be similarly reserved for special cases. Most trials will be conducted as they were before. Second, when an oath was required, its text was fixed. I'm not sure if it's fixed by the law itself or by the judges, but either way, the accused (or witness) doesn't get to say "sure I'll swear, and what I swear is (carefully-crafted dodge)". When your truth stone is brought into a case, expect the one presiding over the case to similarly dictate what the speaker must testify to. Just having the "truth" isn't enough to settle some cases, though. Your truth stone, and an oath, measures the speaker's perspective. It doesn't measure actual truth. You could therefore end up with situations where two litigants both have the "truth" on their side, but their positions are incompatible. One of them is mistaken, but not lying. ("I picked up the lost bag of gold first!" "No, I did!" They both ended up holding onto it; who was really first? You don't know.) You will have cases where the truth stone didn't help you, in other words, and you should expect to fall back on what you would have done without it. (Sometimes rabbinic cases end with no oaths and "they divide the proceeds".) A final note: the rabbinic system I'm describing didn't rely only on the fear of false oaths, any more than the king here should rely only on the truth stone. Testimony of eye-witnesses and evidence are still big factors, same as with courts today. Using the truth stone is still the exception, as I argued earlier. 

It's the UV light and, thereby, the feeding cycle. The light of the moon is reflected sunlight. This light extends into the ultraviolet spectrum, which most humans can't see into, but canines can. And what does this allow them to do? To more-easily see and track prey, relying on signs that don't show in the regular spectrum: