Miscalculation After your edit, I see that you are not referring to the probability of seeing the occultation, but the probability of a mis-calculation. I'd say that those odds cannot really be calculated, but it can be said that they are extremely small. No physical theory can ever be proved, but after a sufficient amount of verifications, we usually accept a theory as "true for all practical purposes, until disproved". Many, many factors go into a calculation like this (all the way down to mathematical axioms). But a calculation like this has to do with celestial mechanics, which is very well understood, and which continuously makes accurate predictions and hence is continuously empirically verified. So the odds you request are definitely much, much smaller than, say, the odds of calculating the weather tomorrow, or the mass of a galaxy cluster. Uncertainties Of course there are always uncertainties associated with such calculations, which gives an uncertainty in the position of celestial bodies. But if you take a look at this video, you'll see that the predicted path of Venus is more or less through the middle of the Moon. If the actual path should not cross the disk of the Moon, the calculation would be off by $\sim15$ arcmin, the probability of which is virtually zero. 

Three millions. For this answer to be any fun, let's first assume that before removing the atmosphere, we have equipped all humans with oxygen supplies. In return, they are not allowed to go indoors or otherwise protect themselves. 

First, let me clear up a misunderstanding: Particle horizon The "edge" of the observable Universe is called the particle horizon, and lies roughly 47 Gly (billion lightyears) away. It is always receding, both because the Universe expands and because light from increasingly large distances eventually reach us. In comoving coordinates (the coordinate system that expands along with the Universe), it asymptotically reaches a finite size (some 63 Gly), but in physical coordinates it increases forever$^\dagger$. Event horizon The event horizon is the boundary between the part of the Universe that contains the galaxies (and other stuff) from which light emitted today will be able to reach us, and the part where it won't. Currently, it is roughly 17 Gly away, but his horizon is always shrinking because the expansion of the Universe accelerates. In other words, stuff outside the event horizon is so far away that the expansion carries it away too fast for the photon amitted today to ever reach us. Thus, at Big Bang (BB), the event horizon was 63 comoving Gly away, because that was the maximum distance from which we would ever receive information. The CMB will always lag behind the particle horizon The farther away we look, the more we look back in time. If there were galaxies a second after BB, and if we had the technology to look that far, we would see them right after BB, and they would be 47 Gly away. However, galaxies weren't born until several hundred Myr (million years) after BB. And now to your question: The CMB wasn't emitted at BB, so it doesn't origin from a region that is now 47 Gly away. Instead, it was emitted 380,000 yr after BB, and it was emitted from all of the Universe, in all directions. This emittance wasn't instantaneous, but almost (took something like 10,000 yr), so let's assume for now that it was. Let's call that time $t_\mathrm{CMB}$. In that case, because light travels at $c = 300\,000\,\mathrm{km}\,\mathrm{s}^{-1}$, if you were present one second after $t_\mathrm{CMB}$, you would see the CMB that came from all regions that were 300,000 km away. That is, the CMB would be the light from a thin shell of radius 300,000 km. Two seconds after BB, the CMB would be the light from a shell of radius 600,000 km, and so on. However, because the Universe is expanding, it is actually at little more than 600,000 km in radius. And now, 13.8 Gyr after BB, and hence 13.7996 Gyr after the CMB was emitted, this shell is not almost 14 Gyr away, but in fact 45 Gly away which is almost, but quite, at the particle horizon. Because of the expansion, the distance to the CMB shell always increases. But so does the distance to the particle horizon, and because the CMB was emitted after BB, the particle horizon will always "be ahead" of the CMB. As the CMB shell recedes, it becomes more and more redshifted, slowly fading into darkness but never disappearing. This is irrespective of whether the Universe is finite or infinite, except in the possible, but rather fantastic, event that the Universe is larger than the ~47 Gly we can see today, but smaller than the 63 comoving Gly that is the maximum size we will ever see. Finite or infinite? We don't know if the Universe is finite or infinite, but if the un-observable part of it looks like the observable Universe, then it is infinite. What we can say is that, at least in the observable Universe, the CMB was emitted everywhere in space, and there is currently no reason to believe that it was different elsewhere (although it could bee, if it expanded differently in other parts). To the best of our knowledge, space is homogeneous, meaning that (on average) there are as many baryons, photons, dark matter particles, and bicycles in one place as there is in another. In other words, to the best of our knowledge, there is no edge. Even if it's finite, it is difficult to (and most, if not all, astronomers don't) imagine an edge; rather it is thought that it would "curve back on itself", just as the surface of a ball is finite in area, but doesn't have an edge. 2D analogy As an analogy, imagine living on a flat, inifinite Earth, populated evenly by people with loud voices. At some point in time, everbody yells "CMB". First you'll hear your neighbors yell, after 1 sec you'll hear those living 340 meters away, after 1 minute those living 20 km away, after a year those 10 million km away, and so on and so on forever. Now imagine the same on a round Earth. After 16 hours, you would hear the folks living at your antipode, and if I understand correctly, this is when you expect to "hear a hole in the sound". But now you would start hearing the ones that are closer, but whose sounds have been traveling more than halfway around Earth. After 32 hours, you'd hear your own yell. And so on. But, our Earth analogy is also expanding. If it were expanding at a steady rate, we would eventually hear our antipode friends. You might think that if it were expanding fast enough, their sound would never reach you, but as explained by the ant-on-a-rubber-band puzzle, that's not the case). However, our fictional Earth is not only expanding, but in fact this expansion is accelerating. And in that case, there is a limit to how far away you can hear people. Back to the real Universe, there is a limit to from how distant regions you may receive CMB photons (or any other information). Moreover, if the Universe were finite, and were not accelerating, you might think that you would eventually see the CMB that was emitted from our own neighborhood and had been traveling around the Universe. However, it can be shown that, in this case, the Universe will reach a maximum size, start collapsing, and end in a Big Crunch exactly at the time where you expect to see your antipode. Only in a finite Universe with a rather special mix of gravitating matter and accelerating dark energy might it be possible to delay the collapse or the eternal expansion to a point where we eventually look back at ourselves. But that's sort of fine-tuning. 

The size of cosmic dust grains is in general given not by some size, but by a size distribution. The only direct measurements of such a distribution are made on dust collected on plates of satellites, which is of course a very local measurement. When we think that distributions look similar — though not exactly alike — in other locations of the Universe, so far away that we will never be able to go there, it is because we know how a given distribution and composition affects light traveling through an ensemble of dust grains. A particle has a given probability of absorbing a photon with a given wavelength, and in general this probability peaks around wavelengths of the order of the size of the particle (for small particles). Thus, if we know how the spectrum of some light source looks if there were no dust around (and we do for many sources, e.g. stars), then the difference between the known intrinsic spectrum and the observed spectrum can be modeled assuming some distribution and composition. Often the composition needs not be assumed, but can be constrained from the emission of the dust at infrared wavelengths. Usually, the model that fits best the observations is a steep power law of the form $P(r)\propto r^{-a}$ with an index of roughly $a\sim3.5$; that is, the probability of finding a small grain is much larger than the probability of finding a large grain (more precisely, for $a=3.5$, grains of size $r=x$ is $10^{3.5}\simeq3\,000$ times more common than grains of size $r=10x$, and $10^7\!$ more common than grains of size $r=100x$). For very large grains, the probability of absorbing a photon becomes independent of the wavelength of the photon. Whereas the small grains as described above have a "color preference", large grains are said to be "gray". This is the case for boulders, rocks, pebbles, and even sand-grain-sized particles. Thus, if a cloud consisted of such particles, the spectrum of a background source would simply be diminished by a constant factor at all wavelengths. This is very rarely observed — rather the sources are diminished much more at the short wavelengths than at the long wavelengths, as expected if there are more small grains than large grains. 

The Wikipedia article cites "Zdeněk (1962)" for the statement that the dust responsible for the Gegenschein has a possible concentration at L2. I haven't been able to obtain that paper, but I can't really see why that would be the case, since L2 is not dynamically stable. However, the dust consists of millimeter-sized grain (see e.g. this APOD image), which is quite large for dust. Such large grains probably has a highly anisotropic "phase function", with a high preference for backscattering. Since when you look from Earth toward L2 you have the Sun in your back, you will thus see an increased brightness compared to other directions, even though the density of that dust is the same. If this is the case, then placing JWST in L2 is no problem (except when it looks exactly away from the Sun, but that would be a problem anywhere in the ecliptic). 

Galaxies grow through cosmic time by accretion of the surrounding matter. Some of its mass increase happens through smooth accretion of gas, but much also happens through merging with small clumps of dark matter, gas, and stars, called satellite galaxies. This is called "minor merging". If merging galaxies are similar in size, it's called major merging. Most large galaxies have gone through of the order of one major merger through its life (Man et la. 2014), but whether or not it happened for Andromeda, we cannot know for certain. However, if you take a look at Andromeda, you'll see that it has quite a large bulge, i.e. the central, reddish part of the galaxy. This region is dominated by stars with a more "chaotic" velocity patterns. That is, their paths aren't "rotation-dominated" (lie in the disk), but more "dispersion-dominated" (leave the disk). To achieve such velocities, the system has to be disturbed by infalling matter, so a large bulge is probably a signature of a major merger. Investigating the velocity patterns of Andromeda, Dorman et al. (2015) find that it has had a much more violent history than the Milky Way, and in fact models by Davidge et al. (2012) and simulations by Hammer et al. (2010) of the history of Andromeda suggest that 8-9 billion years ago, Andromeda went through a major merger. Note however that a large bulge can also be explained, at least in cosmological simulations, by a more smooth and "cold" accretion, i.e. gas that doesn't get shock-heated (Dekel et al.)