Not being unhappy with your job doesn't mean you are uninterested in theirs. Most companies prefer someone who is already a stable, employed employee for some other company, because then they don't have to be as worried about the candidate being on the market due to deficiencies. Recruiters consider the "passive, employed applicant" to be their favorite brand of candidate, for the most part. So, "Why do you want to leave your current position?" The answer could very well be "I don't, necessarily. I'm pretty happy with my current position, and have nothing bad to say about my current employer. However, I am open to the idea of a better opportunity or situation, and your company/position seems to fit that description." So, instead of a message that communicates - "I'm interested in you because I'm dying where I'm at and want to leave," you're telling them "I have a great job with a great company, and, since I'm interested in talking to you about your position, it seems like you could be even better." 

Be professional, even if the former manager isn't. Simply respond, with a "cc" to that developer something along the lines of - 

If your company has a lump-sum number in the contract for services, then that's not a big deal for your company, though he is probably ripping off his own company. This is highly unlikely, though. Most contracts are based on an estimate of hours worked, and have a provision for authorizing more funding when those hours run out. Padding his hours like that would accelerate that process and certainly cause your company to pay. Also, even if he gets paid a salary from his company, consulting gold, where they get their money, usually, is by their employees working billable hours. He may not see more money, but his company is very possibly charging yours for his time, at a huge, massive markup over what he gets paid. If your company is directly contracting with him, then it is a big deal. If he had a salary based on work completed, he'd be an regular employee, not a contractor, unless he is an awesome negotiator. I'd at least mention it to management, and leave it at that. Something along the lines of "I heard contractor X mention he logs a full day {"with his company", if that applies}, even if he only works until 14:00, which I've seen that he often does. I don't know if we get billed by how many hours he reports, but if we do, I thought you might want to know about that. No need to follow up with me, I'm not personally invested in this." 

NOTE: I was also a continuous improvement team facilitator in a past professional life, so there is a little bit of group/consensus decision-making experience that goes into that suggestion. 

Since you indicated, in comments, that it's been a month, you should definitely seek another headhunter, if you're determined to do this. I did this for a living for a few years, so this is what my experience was - 

Should you not wear the clothes again in response to a compliment? No, I think maybe you have a particular style that you wear that is nearly monolithic, so the compliment was meant with genuinely good intentions, and they gave it as encouragement to continue to change it up from the expected norm. So, don't wear that outfit more often than others, but put it into your regular rotation. As an aside, between the compliment and the joking (I assume) reaction to your changing up your choices, it seems like both work and outside of work acquaintances have noticed a certain amount of predictability or lack of variety. To the degree that it is convenient when you would be purchasing additional clothing anyway, maybe acquire more items that align with the complimented/noted style than with your traditional look, so your "regular rotation" gets a bit more variety. This is from someone who still has/wears T-shirts that pre-date the Internet, so I'm not some kind of trendy-fashion-inclined person. The only message you'd be sending is that you, personally, like wearing those clothes. The person who complimented you won't think anything of it, unless you lurk around that person's cubicle fishing for more commentary. I like the "you do you" answer, but don't put too much stock into worrying about what people think about your attire, either way. For some people clothes are a big personal statement. For others, like me, they're something I put on because I don't think people would appreciate my nakedness, generally. 

Agree with the selected Best Answer, that there's nothing you can do to salvage this job. However, if there were mental health issues that they are characterizing as character or behavior problems. If there is discrimination or misbehavior in the process, it was by the former employer, not with the potential new one. I don't have enough legal expertise and don't know enough about your past situation to give any advice beyond "Perhaps you should have a chat with an employment-specialized attorney, or seek some legal-aid advice if your means are modest." I don't even know what country we're talking about here, so my assumptions might not apply. Some random factors - If a past company thrashes you, that opens up the possibility of litigation if the claim is made that they are unfairly doing so. Because of this, in a background check or reference check, many US companies will only verify dates of employment and position titles, unless you specifically signed a document at or after the end of employment where you give them permission to disclose more. If you signed such a document allowing them more latitude in what they disclose, then you may have given them free reign to disparage you, from your point of view. Mental illness might be a disability under the ADA, depending on the conditions. Also, if it is a mental health issue and not behavioral, then there might be issues about them disclosing your personal health information without permission. The list of potential issues is pretty endless, without more specifics to focus, so, again, a discussion with a professional might be in order, if you feel strongly that they did you wrong, of if you want to prevent them from doing so again (maybe just the threat of action if they ever do this again will resolve it going forward, for instance). Also, be careful about who you list as a "reference," and how all-encompassing a "background check" form is, before you (possibly) sign away all confidentiality and privacy. 

If adding the automated tool has increased the need for hand-holding, then the customer interface of the automated tool is not user friendly and is poorly designed. You, in customer service, have to be the data collection point. You can identify and quantify the problem ("The tool is confusing the customers, they call to get help on how to use the automated tool"), and you can record, very easily, what they are struggling with and their feedback on why it isn't clear to them. Once you've recorded the actual data on the problem, those in charge of design can make changes that will directly impact the problem. Your continued data collection can validate that their solutions have improved, made worse, or had no impact on the problems. The tool is supposed to reduce the amount of interaction you have to do on this specific issue, it is clearly having the opposite effect. Instead of my just advising you on how to handle the callers, you can be crucial in focusing in on and addressing the problem. Taking this approach will turn heads. You are looking at a personal work issue from a larger, strategic perspective, you are finding ways to identify specific problems in a way that others can see it is an actual problem, and in a way that they can address the problems. All of that should lead to better service for the customers and reduce non-value-added service time, helping your company's bottom line. Holding seminars that teach the customers to figure out the interface, instead of changing the interface itself is, you are correct, a band-aid solution that will never end, unless you don't have future customers. 

Cuts 20% of the workforce. Slashes raises to a fraction of what they were, historically Does not pay even the reduced amount of the raises 

If you think it might be work-related burnout, I think it would be okay to inquire. "You seem a little less peppy. Anything I can do differently to help ease the load?" - if it's a personal thing, then the boss will decline, but then, without being obtrusive into the personal life, the boss will know that it's noticeable. If it's noticeable to a subordinate, maybe the boss will think it might be noticeable to superiors, and will be motivated to take care of himself. If it is work-related, then you're a pro-active, willing to help employee who is aware beyond the location encompassed by his/her own navel. Just be prepared to follow-through in case the boss takes you up on an offer to be helpful. 

Do you mean your career, period, or your career within this company? The two might not be entirely compatible with one another, if the company is coming apart at the seams. If you are able to manage the chaos and come out smelling like a rose, it might be the equivalent of getting a promotion to Senior Deck Chair Arranger on the Titanic, after it hit an iceberg. Protecting your career advancement might mean doing so with another organization. Maybe, if you are able to talk to your boss, ask if he will keep an eye for opportunities in his new organization, if there is one. If he resigned, and was not let go, and didn't have any job offer in hand, then that would be an indication that things are bad where you are, as well. I realize that this answer is probably useless in terms of addressing how you make the best of the situation within your current company. Other than recommending you go nowhere without a shiv in your pocket (just kidding, folks), I'm afraid I'd be out of my depth trying to advise you how to do battle in an unsupervised cage match setting. 

If you feel more is accurate, then invoice for more, clearing it with him verbally, first. Keep in mind, though your friend/customer suggested 10%, he also indicated that more is acceptable, if that's accurate. That means he also agreed upon more than 10%, though in an undefined way. He's already stated that he's fine with it, as long as it doesn't seem incredibly out of line. Chances are he's building that into what he's invoicing his client (as sub-contracted work), and wants to see you get paid for your help, but doesn't want to have to try and defend an extravagant claim. Give your best and most accurate estimate, erring on the side of slightly under-counting, since it was your error to not document, and to not try and recall for so long. 

If the position is pretty much dedicated to doing work for the client, full-time, then it's not that unusual at all. Instead of wasting the time of hiring someone they think would be great for the client, then possibly having the client reject them for some reason, this puts part of the onus on the client to accept the new hire, since they had direct input into selecting the individual. I wouldn't say you'd do anything different. While your employer is acting as an intermediary, it's basically an interview for a job that will be done for the client. The job, itself, won't be that different and the parameters of the interview will be the same. The client company would merely remove themselves from the process once you move further along and get into the logistics of on-boarding with the employer who signs your paychecks, so you'd just be looking to stick to the technical nuts and bolts of the work for the client, and their work environment, and assume the contractor-related discussions will be handled separately, in a future meeting with just the actual employer, once the client agrees that you are the best thing since sliced bread. 

NO. You do not tell them that they offered you that job. First of all, why raise an issue about rejecting them if they don't raise it? Secondly, companies can have odd thought processes about candidates. One that readily springs to mind is "this person wants the same job that wasn't good enough for him years ago? The person is regressing/moving backwards in his career. Not the person we want...." Finally, that isn't relevant to your job experience or other qualifications for the job. If they find you are qualified, again, you are qualified. If it comes up, THEN you share what you shared with us as far as reasons, but don't express that it was a huge mistake that you wish you could take back, or anything like that - just that the other offer seemed to be a better opportunity, for where you were in your career at that time. 

Christmas gifts are not performance bonuses. They are "hey, you are a human being, and so am I. Happy Holidays!" Allowing other, professional issues to bleed into that "other side" gesture implies something about the valued humanity of one side or the other, possibly. If you have issues with performance, they should be handled through normal performance review channels, normal disciplinary channels, normal compensation increase/bonus channels. If this person's professionalism bothers you enough that you dislike them and don't want to contribute to a gift from the people who avail themselves of her work throughout the year, according to company etiquette, then don't give. But I have to feel that being conspicuously absent from a gesture of holiday appreciation is not going to improve issues, at all. You're going to add very specific personal drama and resentment to the mix. Whether you give gifts at work, in general, is only relevant if someone else works in a direct support position for you as an administrative assistant does. This is a common gesture from those who make a lot more money and benefits to those who they ask to do scut-work they'd much rather not do themselves. Not only do they make less, but their work tends to be much more of a drudge, specifically because they're doing your drudge-tasks so you don't have to. That's what the gesture acknowledges. 

Your previous headhunter will definitely be reluctant to help, in general, and may be contractually prevented from doing so. So, it may not even come down to you having that choice, but, regardless, you want someone strongly engaged and eager to find you a new position, which would be a different recruiter. Just be aware, a new recruiter is going to look at you leaving this position with a little bit of "what if this happens with the position I place this person in?", possibly. Be prepared to answer questions that will assure the next person that this was an incredibly unique situation that won't replicate itself, as opposed to a flight of whimsy (from their perspective). Since you aren't asking about whether it's a good idea or not to leave, and we don't have any information on the exact circumstances, we won't explore those issues. 

There's no reason to avoid answering that question. At one time, in the USA, I was a contingency-based recruiter. If you are already in interviews with that company, through your recruiter, then any position they hire you for is going to generate a payment to the recruiter. At the time you are submitted, and accepted as a candidate, they are agreeing that it was the recruiter who brought you to the attention of the company, and that they were unaware of you, as a candidate, before that. This is usually good for any contact with you over the next six months to a year. In this case, it seems like they are all internal recruiters. This one probably liked the interaction they had with you. Maybe they looked at your LinkedIn profile and saw that you might be qualified for positions they are in charge of filling. And, yet, they did not already know of you, personally, even though others in the company obviously do, if you are interviewing. Since you are already interviewing, that other recruiter has already done much of the preliminary work, and they probably can't initiate a process on their systems with a duplicate candidate. The recruiter you exchanged messages with probably needs to make sure they aren't chasing someone who will already be hired for another position, or perhaps aren't pursuing someone who got red-flagged in that other interview process. In any case, the most logical reason for asking is because they probably have their own positions they might think you are a fit for. 

If you are looking at how to get this project done in time, I'm not sure you can implement company-wide compensation and other changes in time for it to help. If you are looking to change what you're doing because people aren't currently motivated to go over and above, doing so in a slap-dash, hurried fashion runs the risk of (A) not working and (B) creating a deeper cynicism in the workforce that would view management as the kind that rolls out change that does not address problems, for the sake of looking like they are doing something. The workers currently have incentives to work X hours, and get Y amount of money. If the company has an unhappy customer, fails in a project, etc, it does not impact them getting Y dollars (or other monetary units) for X hours, one way or the other. What you need is for the workers to be invested in the success of the company, as a whole, not just in putting in the hours they need to meet their household budgets. Do you have any kind of profit-sharing plan? If they get rewarded when the company succeeds, beyond having a continued hourly wage, then the quality of product, service, satisfaction, and reputation of the company suddenly matters a lot more. Often, to keep the long-term view on this, companies will tie such profit sharing partially or entirely to fattening their retirement plans. Quite often, as well, if workers are told to do the work they are getting paid for, and they're not invested beyond that, a change in how decisions are made might be in order. If they are taking marching orders from above, then they accept was is bad or inefficient because they don't have any say, and they're not getting paid to do their jobs better, just to do the jobs. If the process improvement and decision-making structure is changed to a more team-oriented, bottom-up approach, with managers becoming more team facilitators and not the ones who impose their decisions, then, for the workers, it becomes theirs, and they are able to change and make better their work routines, eliminate the stupid time-wasters that frustrate them, and feel empowered about their day-to-day jobs, which are all very motivating, even if there aren't a large amount of additional dollars involved. That all takes time, and it takes commitment from the top, either for a wide change and sharing of the financial stake with the workers, or for giving up control and ceding a lot of that to the workers who do the work. Either way, just giving lip service and not committing to that change will only deepen the frustration and cynicism, so if you want to truly motivate the workforce, and not just save this one project that is in trouble, it's going to be a broader, more comprehensive change that will have to be carefully thought out and implemented.