13 billion years ago, the universe was about 600 million years old according to many scientists. At that time, all matter in the universe would have to be closer, or in other words denser. Did time pass more slowly, at that time, relative to now? I ask, because increased gravity causes time to pass more slowly. If we'd been there, and measured the speed of light as we measure it today, would the speed of light be different? Finally, does distant stars look magnified, given that a "tiny" universe is stretched on our entire sky? I assume then that we'd measure time based on caesium 133 and distance not as a function of the speed of light, but as a theoretical physical "device" that would be the same physical length then and now. 

When a planet is spinning around its own axis, it has an effect on the trajectory of its satellites. I believe it is called frame dragging. Spin increases the kinetic energy of an object, contributing to its mass-energy, but some other effect must come into play as well. How does one differentiate between spin and orbit velocity? What is the effect of the spin? Lets say that Earth suddenly started spinning faster, what would happen to the moons trajectory? 

Something moving toward or away from us will be contracted in length according to special relativity. As the M31 galaxy is moving toward us at great speed it's "depth" should appear slightly flattened for us. A sphere moving toward us at the speed of light will appear "pancaked" in lack of a better word. This was predicted by Lorentz and has been proven in experiments. Does this also mean that electromagnetic radiation (light) from a flattened star is focused in the direction of motion relative to the observer? 

The Andromeda Galaxy is tens of thousands of light years in diameter. That suggests that the most distant stars in the Andromeda galaxy is up to tens of thousands of years "behind" in their orbit around the galaxy, compared to the closest stars. Have anybody generated pictures of the galaxy, which shows the approximate real position of stars? Is this effect visible when looking at the Andromeda galaxy through an amateur telescope? 

Are there pictures that contain high enough dynamic width, so that amateurs can use fourier spectrum analysis to observe the redshift themselves? I know pictures usually are encoded using RGB and/or CMYK and therefore lose a lot of color information from a physical perspective, but I'm wondering if there exists a picture format that could store that much information, and if so, could amateurs then use fourier spectrum analysis to actually see the red-/blueshift? 

When matter crosses the event horizon, it is easy to imagine that matter is torn apart into their individual components by tidal wave effects. Atoms would be ripped apart eventually. At one time, the particles will fall so deep into the gravity well, that a single particle would be touching both sides of the gravity well at the same time. At that moment, I choose to assume that the particle particle core may be spaghettified, but externally it will appear to be shrinking. Knowing that spaghettification is dependent on the size of the object, as well as the difference in gravity on both sides, a shrinking particle may eventually become so small that the steepness of the gravity well is no longer a problem. The particle continues to shrink forever. Over time, gravity between all the particles that have shrunk, will again start to take effect - and I imagine that that is what happened in the big bang. So the cosmic inflation, could just as well be particle shrinking, as a result of all particles in our universe being within the same black superhole. Taking this idea, we could look at our own universe and I guess we would expect to see certain effects such as accelerating cosmic expansion, perhaps a cosmic background radiation and we would expect our universe to end as a cold, dead place. Is this a known theory or idea, and where can I find papers on it? 

When a particle travels through spacetime, this is sometimes illustrated moving in flat grid with various depths. How accurate is this way of imagining gravity? Can the gravity well be infinitely deep? Gravity well $URL$ Looking at this illustration, it suggests that there is an amount of distance going down the well. Is movement down the well limited by the speed of light? Remember, I'm aware that it is an illustration, and the question is about the accuracy of the illustration. Is all gravitational wells infinitely deep at the exact center? So that if a particle could be made small enough to fit within the center, it would become a black hole. 

This is a question, where I start with some assertions: Try to consider the universe as a four-coordinate system, x,y,z,t where t is time and where we view a change in t as a change in position, and as a velocity in the same way as any other change in either of the other components of the coordinate. Everything is then moving at the speed of c. The difference between a photon and another particle would be that a photon "spends" its velocity in any of the x, y or z dimensions - but not in the time dimension. This implies that all photons are on the same coordinate in the t-dimension - only the x,y,z values change while t remains 0. It also implies that time would appear to stop for something travelling in only the other dimensions, while it would pass fastest for something completely stationary. You can then also consider space-time as a function of acceleration. A physical objects' coordinate could be derived from its velocity, which would have to be derived from its acceleration. Acceleration would be a function of entropy, or "age" I believe. Is this the basis of general relativity? Is it at least an initial starting point for general relativity, or is it completely wrong? Would spin have to be part of the coordinate system? 

The specifics of the Pluto Charon system are complicated, so I will answer more generally for now. A single body orbiting the sun can be tidally locked with the sun if its rotational period (its day) is equal to its orbital period (its year). The Moon is tidally locked to the Earth because the period of one orbit of the moon around the Earth takes the same amount of time as one rotation of the moon about its axis. (Note that the Earth is not tidally locked with the Moon. One Earth day does not correspond to one lunar orbit.) A binary (dwarf) planet system (like Pluto and Charon) is considered to be tidally locked if their respective orbital periods about the common barycenter of mass are equal to their respective rotational periods, and all of these periods, for both objects, are equal to each other. You specifically asked about the tidal effects of the Sun on Pluto. Unfortunately, the complete answer depends on the orbital parameters of Charon and Pluto's orbits around the barycenter of mass. I will assume the orbits of Pluto and Charon are such that their orbital plane about the barycenter is not perpendicular to a radial vector drawn from the Sun to the barycenter of mass for the following explanation. (i.e. one body is slightly closer to the Sun at a given instant in the same way the Moon gets closer and farther from the Sun as it orbits the Earth). With this assumption, tidal effects from the Sun should slow the rotation of the Pluto Charon system about the barycenter (the orbital period of each body about the barycenter of mass should decrease over time). This slowing would occur because the radially inward (toward the Sun) side of the closer body would have a greater gravitational pull on it that the farther side of that body. Thus, the Sun's gravitational pull would attempt to slow the rotational period of that body (equivalently: increase the length of that body's "day"). This process I am describing is the same as the process that caused the Moon to become tidally locked to the Earth. The Pluto Charon system introduces complications to this explanation because of the highly inclined and atypical orbital parameters of the Pluto-Charon-[Other Plutonian Bodies] system, the varying masses of the system bodies, and the system's extreme distance from the Sun. The large orbital distance of the system from the Sun means that any tidal effects on Pluto and Charon are mild at their strongest. Thus, measurable changes due to tidal effects are next to impossible to measure over human time scales. 

I have not studied this galaxy cluster specifically. However, I can speak about systems like galaxy clusters that have a large number of bodies that are in close enough proximity to have a non-negligible gravitational effect on each other. For any such n-body system, where n is large (a solar system, a galaxy, a galaxy cluster,...), it can be assumed that, 1. there is a net angular momentum of the system, and 2. it is reasonable to assume that this angular momentum is non-negligible. I state 1 and 2 based on the following (very general model of solar system and galaxy cluster formation). Such n-body systems form by the collapse of a very large amount of gas, dust, and other minerals. When fully extended, these clouds are cold, the the velocities of any given molecule or atom in them is comparatively slow. However, it is very improbable that the total angular momentum of the cloud of gas is zero, and more importantly, that it is close to zero. From this point, it is easy to reason that, so long as no angular impulse is applied to the system and no mass is added or removed from the system, the gas cloud can collapse or disperse in whatever way is consistent with the conservation of angular momentum, and the angular momentum of the system will not change. Thus, a galaxy cluster like Abel 1689 should have a non-negligible angular momentum. But I have skipped over the most important logical step in the above argument. I simply assumed again that the angular momentum of the gas cloud would not be even close to zero, effectively shifting the level of the explanation up one level. Unfortunately, the best answer to "why do the gas clouds have non-negligible angular momentum?" requires explaining where the gas clouds came from. The extent of my understanding here is that the gas clouds that formed galaxy clusters only existed during the very early universe. Once they collapsed into galaxies, there is no process that could have caused a galaxy cluster (or even a galaxy) to disperse so completely that it forms a new very low density gas cloud that can re-collapse. Thus, the gas that made the galaxy cluster must have had an angular momentum if the galaxy cluster system is to have angular momentum. I do not know if the sum total of the angular momentum in the universe is said to be zero or some finite value. However, I do know that even if it is zero, localized regions of matter in a system that has zero angular momentum do not also need to have zero angular momentum. Thus, the Abell 1689 system could be one such local region with non-zero angular momentum. Continuation: According to The Cosmic Perspective: Seventh Edition, when considering galaxies that have not yet collided with another galaxy, the initial angular momentum of the protogalactic cloud is a large contributor in determining if a galaxy will be spiral or elliptical galaxies. Regarding elliptical galaxy clusters, TCP has this to say: "Observations of galaxies in clusters support the idea that at least some elliptical galaxies result from collisions and subsequent mergers. Elliptical galaxies dominate the galaxy populations at the cores of dense clusters of galaxies, where collisions should be most frequent. This fact may mean that any spirals once present became ellipticals through collisions." Thus, TCP suggests in this paragraph that at least certain clusters contain dense cores of elliptical galaxies that resulted from collisions and mergers of galaxies that had markedly different angular momenta, resulting in a new galaxy that has much less angular momentum. But this doesn't really answer your question either. I have looked also for scholarly articles to find some consensus on what the typical angular momentum characteristics are, and found very little. Most discussions of galaxy cluster formation discuss filament formation and collapse. The one article of note I found was from Tom Crawford at the University Of Chicago: askanastronomer.org "The most obvious and uncontroversial class of structures beyond the galaxy is the galaxy group or cluster. These structures consist of tens to thousands of individual galaxies that are bound by gravity to one other and orbit a common center. That center is not defined by some huge central object, as the Sun defines the center of our solar system, but instead by the center of all the mass in the cluster, including dark matter. In fact, the dark matter dominates the mass budget of galaxy clusters, outweighing the normal matter by about a five-to-one ratio." This description suggests more than just "random" motions of gravitationally bounded objects (galaxies), but does not definitively say anything about the net angular momenta of these systems.