False. This is an epistemology fail. Knowledge is created by noticing problems with your current ideas, proposing solutions to those problems, and critically discussing the solutions until only one is left and it has no known problems. So what problem does free will solve? Free will is about the fact that a person can change his mind, and the sense in which he can do that. If a boulder falls down a cliff and kills somebody, we don't lock up the boulder. Nor would we talk to the boulder and try to persuade it not to fall down a cliff. There are some devices like microwaves where you can alter its behaviour to some extent by pushing the right buttons, but you it won't do anything original, that is, anything that requires new explanatory knowledge, unless you program that knowledge into it. Non-human animals don't create new explanatory knowledge, so they are in this category. You might manage to program an animal to attack people or refrain from doing so, but no animal will ever learn differential geometry. And then there are people. People can create new explanatory knowledge. A person who is so inclined can differential geometry, or political philosophy, or whatever. This means that if a person commits a crime there is a point in locking him up because unless he changes the bad idea that motivated him to committing the crime, he may do it again. There is also a reason to talk to him about his crimes so you can learn why he did it and try to fix his ideas. It would be useful to understand how humans create new explanatory knowledge. It would be useful to understand how that ability evolved. But it is not necessary at all for reaching the idea that we have free will. What is necessary for that is just the realisation that human beings can create new explanatory knowledge, and so can adopt new policies for dealing with the world and with each other. 

Drunkenness has both subjective and objective aspects. The subjective aspect is the altered state of consciousness. On the other hand, the presence of certain amount of alcohol in blood plasma, or being unable to walk on a straight line are the objective aspects. Now is the statement "I'm drunk" subjective or objective? Drunkenness is a simple example. However, if we accept physicalism, or more specifically the idea that every conscious experience is related to a unique pattern in the brain, can we conclude that all statements are somehow objective? 

If I'm an idealist and I'm right, it means that the reality I know is entirely in my mind, right? Now how is there any room for other minds? 

S is subjective and C is vague. S is objective and C is definite. S is subjective and C is definitie. S is objective and C is vague. 

I believe the following three examples are equally self-contradictory: A: Nothingness is blue B: Objects don't exist when we are not looking at them C: There exists a parallel universe that never has any interaction with our universe You may have a different criteria for existence from mine, which you can discuss here, but even if we assume B and C are not self-contradictory, do they convey any meaning? Can we somehow deduce that unverifiable statements don't provide any knowledge? Two additional examples: D: The universe froze for a trillion years between now and then. E: We are living in a simulation without any intervention from above 

The Libet experiment has nothing to do with free will. In that experiment, the subject has decided what he wants to do. He wants to press a particular button. He then has to decide when to press it. The process of making that decision is instantiated in his brain. It turns out in this particular case that you can read part of that process and use it to surprise the person before the process is complete. If Libet had connected the button to a gun that would shoot somebody in the head if you pushed the button, then some people would have refused to participate. People who agreed to participate could have been talked out of it if presented with the right argument. Nobody who participated could claim that he didn't have a choice: participating in the experiment requires that the person take certain actions, and refrain from backing out. Now you say that every living creature is programmed to propagate its genes. This is not accurate. Genes contain behavioural programs that resulted in those genes being copied in the past. In the case of human beings, that genetic program gives us the hardware required to create new explanatory knowledge. As a result, a person can learn a new explanation and decide not to do things that will result in his genes being copied. Free will is a moral idea about how we ought to deal with people: that is, we ought to treat people as if they act on ideas. If a person does something bad you don't act as if it was an accident. Rather, you should treat him as if he might do it again. By contrast, a rock doesn't have ideas and if it falls down and hurts somebody there's not much point in locking it up or talking to it. 

Not necessarily, it depends on how you define each of the words. Let us take three distinct cases and tease out how their definitions determine what classes as having those properties. An entity may class as having the property of being a "Can-Opener" if it plays the functional-role of opening cans. You put in a closed can, you get out an opened can, and so long as the entity can fulfil that role, it is a can-opener. Bear in mind the use of can fulfil that role; a thing need not have ever opened a can for it to classify as a can opener, so long as it bears the disposition to do so given that the right conditions occur (i.e. A can is put between its teeth and the process performed). On the other hand, an entity classes as having the property of being a "murderer" if it has (I suppose, deliberately) taken a life. Differently to the can-opener, this entity only classes as a murderer given that it has taken a life, whilst a thing may be a can-opener despite never having opened a can, but by simply bearing the disposition to do so. To clarify, classing as a murder requires that the entity has performed the specific task required to class as a murder, namely, the act of murdering. If we consider being stupid, which of these types definitions fits "being stupid" (bear in mind, there are many others available, but for now let us consider only these two). I am inclined to say that "being stupid" is defined as a disposition to act stupidly (given the right conditions), in a similar way to have we defined the can opener as having the disposition to perform a certain function. Say that we have the same conditions twice, and in one case, a person does something stupid, and in the other case, they do not, then it does not seem as though they truly have the disposition to at stupidly, so we might say that they do not class as "stupid". Alternatively, if one appears to regularly display acts of stupidity, then it may be enough to suggest that have a disposition to act stupidly, and thus potentially class as stupid. So, perhaps we should say that a single act of stupidity may not be enough for one to class as stupid, but perhaps after a number of stupid actions, it may be sufficient to suggest that they have a dispositon to act stupidly, and thus we may class them as stupid. 

If you have any doubt at all about whether you owe them money, you should alert them to that doubt. I think there are two reasons, one legal the other moral. Amazon may be responsible for sorting out whether you owe them money, but it is a bad idea to put yourself in the position where you might get involved with the courts in any capacity. You know that you may owe them some money. In addition, you have admitted this in public. You may be in a very dangerous position, even if you are technically not guilty of anything for which you could be prosecuted or sued. The courts are not pleasant, they are not quick, they are expensive. The reason for this is that government officials have extremely limited accountability, so they do not have to make any effort at all to make your life easy. You should not want to get involved with them unless it is absolutely unavoidable. The moral reason is that what you are doing is dishonest by your own admission. It is a bad idea to take an action of which you have a criticism because it is irrational to do so. I will address some of your comments on other posts. You said that: 

According to Rand, morality is about choices and actions. It deals with issues like whether you need a code of values, and if so why you need them. You then have to decide what sort of values fulfil the purpose of having values. Rand argues that the point of morality is to help you live your life. This contradicts other moral codes that advocate serving others and that sort of thing. Rand holds that reason is man's means of survival, so you should not act in such a way as to undermine reason. For example, if, in your judgement, somebody you know is bad, then you shouldn't support him, e.g.- you shouldn't give him money. So the welfare state is bad since it requires you to support people regardless of whether you think they are good or not. A person who subjectively values the welfare state has bad values. A good short account of Rand's moral ideas is her book "The Virtue of Selfishness". 

A set of sentences can be shown to truth-functionally entail the conclusion so long as there does not exist a model capable of satisfying the premises whilst the confusion fails to obtain. This proof of truth-functional entailment (⊨) is distinct from the deductive entailment (⊢) which might standardly be used in a derivation. 

One thought is that death is a lack of experience. In trying to experience non-experience, we destroy the lack of phenomenon so we cannot truly experience non-experience; that is, experiencing non-experience is impossible because to experience anything is immediately not non-experience. I know this section is less related to your original question about nominalism, but I feel it is relevant to the sentence quoted above. Hopefully it leads you down some new and interesting lines of thought. 

It is conceivable that, given we assume "water" does not also refer to Ice or Vapour, but only to H2O in its liquid form, then it is an essential part of understanding the term. Both Saul Kripke and Hillary Putnam, amongst others, subscribe to a notion of natural kinds (such as water) which defines them based on internal microstructural features (such as the room temperature chemical structure, H2O), but our reference to them does not depend on this. We may still refer to the water, as generations before us have, without knowing that it is H2O, but by identifying it with some basic macroscopic properties such as being colourless or liquid, and so on. So, this is a concern when determining what will be included in our definition. If you are looking to know whether this is analytic or synthetic, let us consider this. It may be analytic, only insofar as liquidity is contained within the concept of water, but it may still be a posteriori as the discovery of something like this involves interacting with the real world (according to Kripke in Naming and Necessity). So this will be determined, I suppose, the type of knowledge contained within our definitions. Although, with an entity like water, there has been a substantial move away from the notion of definitions. Such an approach was termed descriptivism, and the descriptivists such as Russell and Frege proposed that we could form sets of descriptions to determine how terms within a language make reference to entities. Kripke, Putnam and Burge have all moved towards the direct reference theory which posits that the meaning of a term is contained within the object that is being referred to. So, when I say "water", I am not referring, through a set of descriptions which picks out all of the things that are water. Instead, I am referring, through a chain of reference forming a network throughout our linguistic community (Burge), where the term is used to pick out a certain entity by those before you and those around you. I hope these considerations at least point you in the right direction for further investigation. 

Update 2: Another approach: We need to accept the existence of at least one object as a reference (let's say our hands), which is followed by two rules: A: Anything observed to have interactions with existent objects is also existent. B: Anything whose existence is consistent with our knowledge probably exists. I think the circularity of this definition is resolvable, but I admit it's vague. 

A: All bachelors are unmarried B: Water is liquid We all agree that A is analytic. To prove its truth, we only need to replace "bachelor" with its definition. The proposition B can be controversial, depending on whether we include liquidity of water in its definition or not. Now here we encounter a problem: How much knowledge should we include in definitions? Some extremist may attach any new knowledge about water to its definition. They will come up with a very long definition of water, but any statement about water will be analytic to them. 

What are the criteria for existence, i.e. the answer to "what exists and what doesn't exist?" in modern schools of philosophy? My trial: Something exists if and only if it can affect our senses, either directly or indirectly. For example, magnetic fields or electrons exist, because they affect our measuring devices, which we can see. Update 1: There are at least two challenges for this criterion: 

Consider this statement: There exist black swans. It is (practically) not falsifiable, since we can't search the whole world to conclude there are no black swans. However, it is provable, and I guess we can all agree that it's a scientific fact. Can we conclude that falsifiablity is not necessary for being scientific? 

A formal system is expressively complete if and only if it is capable of expressing, as a formula, everything that is the subject of that formal system. A deductive system is semantically complete if and only if every sentence that is truth-functionally entailed by a set of sentences can be derived from that set. Is there a relation between these two types of completeness? If the two are related, what type of relation is this? 

So, in short, the answer is no, but I can understand the intuition behind this. The issue comes from the nature of each of these things; truth and possibly. What is possible to tends to be divided into three branches: 1) that which is logically possible 2) that which is metaphysically possible 3) that which is physically possible Whilst, on the other hand, truth is generally taken as a relation between language (or propositions) and reality, depending on which view you're taking. The more popular views on truth tend to be correspondence or deflationary views which equate the truth of a truth-bearer with that truth-bearing expressing something and that thing is the case. In each possible world, the set of true propositions will be specific to that world; each proposition will be true with respect to the reality that is the case in that possible world. The sets of each of these things will be distinct, as the set of all possible propositions is far greater than the set of all true propositions. This is because the set of all contingent/possible propositions contains all the true propositions, as they must be possible if they are true. But the set also contains non-true propositions; i.e. "the Eiffel tower is in London" is possible on all three versions of possiblity mentioned above, yet it fails to fall into the set of true propositions. It would be correct, concerning conjunction with necessary propositions, to claim that the set of all contingent propositions contains the set of all necessary propositions. But it wouldn't be the case that the set of all true propositions is identical to the set of all contingent propositions - the latter set is far greater.