This is a common occurrence, especially in the NFL now that kickoffs have moved to the 35 yard line. But it does not result in points. From the NFL rules (rule 3, section 10): 

NCAA Football Rule 8-2-3-a, covering the "try" (either extra point or two-point conversion), states: 

"Duck" means 0 in cricket, as noted in this question. Presumably, breaking one's "league duck" means getting one's first goal in the league, though I have not heard this usage. See also Wikipedia on ducks. 

The key word is "airborne". Once the kick has bounced, it is no longer considered airborne. If the onside attempt is a "pooch" (short high kick), then even if no one signals for a fair catch the kicking team would be penalized if they interfered. By Section 1, Article 1, item 2: 

To understand this phenomenon, you need to know something about the culture of sports in the US. First: there is no promotion/relegation system for professional sports. This means that in any particular sport, most of the US has no local professional team at the highest level. And if you are not living near a major metropolis, you are not likely to ever get one. There are 32 NFL teams with no expansion on the horizon. Conversely, there are 128 teams at the top level of NCAA football (Football Bowl Subdivision). Over 97% of the population1 lives in a state with at least one school which plays at the FBS level. This gives nearly everyone in the US some kind of local team to root for. (And unlike NFL games, it's actually affordable to go to a college game.) Second: NFL teams are not a constant. College teams are. NFL franchises, unlike European football clubs, are not tied to a city. Just in the last two years, three different franchises either moved (St. Louis Rams to Los Angeles, San Diego Chargers to Los Angeles) or announced plans to move (Oakland Raiders to Las Vegas). Or look at Baltimore: the old Baltimore Colts won three NFL championships and a Super Bowl, then moved to Indianapolis and won another Super Bowl. The Cleveland Browns moved to Baltimore, changed their name to the Ravens, and won a couple of Super Bowls; meanwhile, a new Cleveland Browns team was formed to replace them. Colleges don't do that. If you live in Alabama and your grandpa's grandpa lived in Alabama, you're still rooting for the same school that he did. Or maybe you did switch from Alabama to Auburn (or vice versa), and that could cause tension at family gatherings for years because the rest of your family is still loyal. This happens all over the country, but most particularly in the South (source: anecdotal). It is also important to note that perhaps none of you actually went to the school that you cheer for. You may have gone to another major school, a small school, or no college at all. College attendance is not a prerequisite to college fandom. Third: College sports predated professional sports by decades. I touched on this in the last point. College sports are more established, though the NFL has better television deals now. People grew up watching their team. 

The 2015 NCAA football rulebook does not mention stances at all. But standing straight up would mean terrible leverage for blocking, and crouching for any length of time without flinching is difficult. So most of the time, linemen use a 3-point stance unless they are playing in a hurry-up offense and the ball is snapped quickly. Defensive linemen are not required to be in any stance, or even to stop moving. They can do pretty much whatever they want as long as they don't cause the offense to false start. 

I am unaware of any game in which this actually happened, but this is my interpretation of the rules: 

Note that "airborne" and "in flight" are not explicitly clarified anywhere in the NFL rules that I can find. A high bouncing kick could be construed as airborne by the dictionary definition; in fact, the NCAA has recently made exactly this decision: 

If the score had been 34-32 or 33-32 in favor of Oklahoma State or tied 33-33 after the touchdown, then Oklahoma would have attempted the try. But since Oklahoma already had the lead, it was not necessary. My interpretation of "unless the point(s) would affect the outcome of the game" leads me to believe that the try is only attempted if it would help the scoring team; i.e. a team that scores to take a one-point lead as time expires would not have to attempt the try, even though the defense could in theory score two points on a turnover or blocked kick. Note that the NFL's rules differ on this point; in the NFL, the try is always attempted except after touchdowns in sudden-death overtime. 

None were listed as point guard during their qualifying seasons. In the 2016-17 season Andre Roberson is the only guard averaging 1.0 blocks per game, but he, like most players on this list, has never played PG. 

Footnotes: 1 Eight states do not have an FBS team: New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode Island, Montana, Delaware, the Dakotas, Alaska, and Vermont. The combined population of those states is less than 9 million out of the 322 million living in the fifty states. 2 I'm not even touching here on the secondary issue of "my school is better than yours because we put more players in the pros". This answer is plenty long enough already. That's also why I didn't mention Division 2 football or try to address cultural differences in the South vs. Northeast vs. West, etc. 

Yes, only one forward pass per play is permitted. Also, the ball must not have gone past the line of scrimmage at any point; in other words, it is illegal for a player to take the ball past the line, then lateral it backwards to another player who then throws a forward pass. Yes, pitches and laterals (and even hand-offs, as long as they are either behind the line of scrimmage or not handed forward) are identical by the rules. Any player who is eligible to touch the ball may pass it. This means that offensive lineman can only pass the ball if they pick it up after a defensive player touches it behind the line of scrimmage, but every other player on the offense (including punters, kickers, and holders) can legally attempt a forward pass providing the conditions in (1) are met. 

One of the purposes of motioning a receiver is for the quarterback to discover whether the defense is playing man-to-man or zone. If a defender follows the receiver, the defense is likely playing man-to-man; if the defense remains (relatively) stationary, they are likely playing zone (defending areas of the field instead of specific players). The quarterback can use that information to determine which receivers are most likely to be open or whether he should hand the ball off instead. 

The rules make a special exception for the case of a kick holder, or else place kicks would be nearly impossible to execute. In NCAA Rule 4, section 1: 

Not since blocks became a recorded stat in 1973-74. Basketball Reference does not allow querying specifically for point guards as opposed to shooting guards, but very few guards of any kind meet your criteria of 1+ blocks over 70+ games. This is the entire list: 

This includes field goals, kickoffs, and punts. The NCAA first considers the goal posts to be out of bounds (Rule 1, Section 2, Article 5.a), then makes an exception for the case when a kick hits them and bounces through (Rule 4, Section 1): 

All of that is to tell you this: in large swaths of the United States, people watch the NFL -- but they care about college football. I personally know people who root for a particular NFL team that's halfway across the country and isn't particularly good, just because they have players that went to the local university. The players know this, the networks know this, and they give the people what they want.2 

Provided by Basketball-Reference.com: View Original Table. Generated 12/23/2016. Ten different players appear in the list: 

Therefore, if there were no stoppages of play in the last four minutes, there would be a media timeout immediately preceding halftime. This would be consistent with other timeout rules; it is, in fact, legal to call a timeout during halftime or between the second half and overtime (though two successive timeouts cannot be called during such break periods; see Approved Ruling 161 in the 2012 Case Book). As a side note, if there were no stoppages in play between the 9:00 and 3:30 mark and a player is fouled in the act of shooting, the 8 minute timeout would occur before the first free throw and the 4 minute timeout would occur at the next dead ball, which is before the second free throw (AR 159). 

The Champions League uses a two-legged tie format: the teams play a match at each home stadium and the overall winner advances. This (nearly) eliminates the home-field effect. In this match, Fenerbahçe had won its home leg by a score of 3-2, so Sevilla needed to win 3-2 to tie the aggregate score at 5-5 and send the match to a shootout. 

How often should you expect it? Never. Only 24 times since 1983 has a player recorded a triple double with 20+ rebounds, which is the absolute minimum required to even look at the offensive/defensive breakdown. Since the 1983-1984 season, which is as far back as Basketball Reference has rebounding stats, only one player has achieved your "jumper's triple double". That player was Shaquille O'Neal. On November 20, 1993, in his second season in the league, he had 18 defensive rebounds, 10 offensive rebounds, 24 points, and 15 blocks. It was a pretty good game. 

How did the current imbalance begin? It's hard to even define when it began, though this piece makes a strong effort, pointing at the late 1990s. Western teams have been successful in luring high-profile free agents like Shaquille O'Neal and Dwight Howard away from the East. Now that it's in full swing, it is partially self-reinforcing through the draft. Here's an example. In the current 2014-2015 season, three teams made the playoffs in the East with a record of .500 or below: Milwaukee (41-41), Boston (40-42), and Brooklyn (38-44). All of these teams had a record above .500 when playing against fellow Eastern teams. They were rewarded by losing in the first round of the playoffs and getting draft picks #15, #16, and #17. In the West, one teams missed the playoffs with a record above .500: Oklahoma City (45-37). They were rewarded with draft pick #14, the worst pick possible for a team that missed the playoffs. If the draft relied only on record rather than playoff status, the Thunder would have received the #17 pick and Brooklyn the #12 or #13, depending on the tiebreaker with Utah. Instead a team that was 7 games better gets a better pick. The bottom teams in the West similarly find it easier to tank (intentionally lose) to get better draft picks. The top two picks in the 2015 draft are held by Western teams. And the West gets yet stronger. 

Denver was not penalized for a false start; they were penalized for illegal motion. The referee's hand signal is the same for both (hands rotating around each other). The NFL's official play-by-play reads: 

A batter is not permitted to wander in and out of the box without requesting the umpire to call "Time" (rule 6.02(b)). A comment on the rule goes on to urge umpires not to grant excessive requests, since the batter is there only to bat. If the batter leaves the box without requesting time, rule 6.02(c) allows the umpire to call a strike. Ordinarily umpires are hesitant to do so without warning the batter first. If the batter still does not enter the box, the umpire can continue the procedure until the batter has struck out. This is not just theoretical; in 2013 the minor-league player Vinnie Catricala took the first pitch for a strike, stepped out of the box to argue the call, and wound up striking out without getting another pitch. 

A false start is called when "an offensive player who has assumed a set position charges or moves in such a way as to simulate the start of a play, or if an offensive player who is in motion makes a sudden movement toward the line of scrimmage." (NFL Rules 7.4.2) Illegal motion (which is not a dead-ball foul) is called when an offensive player is moving forward at the snap or is never set for one second at any point before the snap (NFL Rules 7.4.7). Peyton Manning was moving towards the line to call an audible when the ball was snapped; but since he was not simulating a snap, it was an illegal motion and not a false start. 

In the NCAA, the first possession of the second half goes to whoever has the possession arrow (rule 6-1.2 [pdf link]), not necessarily whoever lost the opening tip. If the opening tip goes out of bounds, the first possession (by whoever did not touch it last) establishes the alternating possession, and after that it works normally. If a tie-up occurs before either team has gained possession, then a new jump ball is held (rule 6-2.3). Similarly, in the NBA, possession beginning each period is determined by who had the first possession (rule 6.I.b). Tipping the ball out of bounds does not count as a possession (rule 4.XVIII). 

Again, note the qualification "in flight". This is why most onside kickers attempt to either roll the ball along the ground or kick it down hard so that it bounces high. A high bouncing kick is ideal, since the bouncing is likely to slow it down enough that the kicking team can get into position and block the receivers. 

The rankings are released after each season. In 2012, San Francisco was the healthiest (or luckiest) team by a fair margin, losing only 16 adjusted games to injury. Green Bay brought up the rear with 100 adjusted games lost.