There's no harm in making contact with them now, even to ask a generic question. If I was out of state, it would be something to do with food arrangements. Since you're not local, you don't know if you need to take something in with you or if there are places you can purchase food. Equally, it could be asking who you need to report to on your first day if you don't already know. Make it polite and say that you're really looking forward to getting started and leave it in their hands. 

This is the line that grabs me. The company needs your skills to help them with a need right now. It’s not right for you but it is right for the business and, at the end of the day, that’s what’s important to them. 

The company I work for has three locations. My contract says that my place of work is location A but this may change due to the needs of the business or, if I was to take this literally, I could be in for a 240 mile daily round trip to work if they decide to relocate me. It’s unlikely to happen but it’s in my contract and I signed it, same as you did. So what can you do? Find another job would be the quickest answer but you would have to ask yourself why you’re so keen to leave so quickly. If it’s just this one task you‘ve been asked to do then get over it, and quickly because every job you’re going to have throughout your life has tasks you won’t want to do and you’ll find yourself changing jobs every few months. If it’s the company culture or something else then that’s different but first you need to identify why you’re so keen to ditch this company so quickly. You could try talking to your supervisor, explaining that you’re doing the manual testing but it’s not what you’ve been hired for and as soon as an appropriate task comes up, you’d like to do it. It almost certainly won’t make a bit of difference. Your supervisor wants to get this task done and he’s chosen you for it but if you really feel you need to, then talk. 

I would definitely talk to the boss about your situation and see what he is thinking. You may have given your boss the impression that you're not to be counted on to work, and they may have the wrong idea. You should ask your boss for a closed door meeting, where you can discuss what happened to you on that first day, and explain why it happened. Let him know that you are able to work, and are willing to do what you need to do to prove to him that you are to be counted on, and you will be at work when they call. He may just have the wrong idea, so the worst thing you can do is just let this go and hope for a good outcome. You need to address this, don't be confrontational, don't storm in and demand to know if you're being fired. Just ask for a meeting, talk to him about your situation, and maybe you'll find out they just didn't need you for those few days. It's always a good idea to just talk it out. Also, as Vers said, you should probably consider also just starting to look for a new job as well, as if being gone a day or 2 gets your boss mad enough to fire you, after all you've done for them in winter times, then maybe it's not a company worth your time to stay with. 

If you've already explained your situation to them, and they still can't or won't be flexible, then you're out of luck. You don't really have any "rights" when it comes to interviewing, they can choose whether or not they want to be flexible, they don't "owe" you anything as you're not employed. So no, you don't have any rights, and it's probably best to just forget this job, or find a way to have someone watch over your Aunt while you interview. 

Well I really messed up: A small batch of custom resumes were perfect and typo free, however, they were not converted to PDF correctly and as a result there was additional personal information from another document included at the bottom of the resume. The mistake is obvious and will most likely result in receiving no call backs from these employers; this field is unforgiving of these types of errors that scream incompetence. My question is that while there is nothing I can do to correct the mistake and become a "serious candidate", I would like to at least get the sloppy resume updated in their database, so as to remove the personal information as well as hopefully prevent it from being seen in the future, in case I have later dealings with these companies. Is a short letter saying "I made a mistake and would appreciate it if they could replace the faulty resume with the correct one" appropriate or understandbale? Please note that these resumes were emailed, not uploaded into a web-based database (otherwise I would just update it myself). Will an HR Manager even do this? Anything else to add in order to soften the blow... like a note taking responsibility for the mistake and an apology for the inconvenience? 

Finances/Tuition/Living Expenses aside, for the reasons stated above, would it be wise to delay graduating in order to work for an extra semester? Will this experience allow one to apply after graduation as a "Level I" candidate instead of "Entry Level", thereby significantly raising their salary? 

I had always planned on focusing on my studies until senior year and obtaining at least one year of work experience in my field before graduating to set me apart. Due to a number of factors, I am now ready to graduate but have not yet had employment in my field; this is due to outside matters and not inability to find work. I believe it is in my best interest to begin working before graduation, because companies may more readily hire cheaper workers and I may be allowed a more pleasant learning curve as I start out. I do not want to enter the workforce full time and be let go because I didn't judge my capabilities correctly. As a graduate I will also be competing for larger salary numbers against others who will most likely have this industry experience. 

First of all, I wouldn't threaten to leave the company. Let me explain. During a performance review, you are (probably) going to be asked what you like and dislike about your year so far. They usually ask you if you'd like to work on anything specific or just keep doing what you're doing. Granted they might not ask those questions, but it would definitely be a place where you could talk to your manager and ask about what you can do, if you can get different projects this year, etc. Just say you're wondering what projects they have in mind, and see if maybe you can suggest and/or push your manager a certain direction. Telling him "if things don't change, I quit", will probably not put you in a great light, and might even jeopardize your job. What I would do is make a list of the things you want to work on, ask your manager if any of the things you want to work on are feasible for the company and gauge his/her reaction. If they don't or can't give you the projects you are looking for, then it's probably best to look for another job. Obviously it'd be nice to give them a heads up, but it's not up to you to make sure their feelings aren't hurt, it's up to you to watch out for yourself. The best you can do is make sure you give proper notice if you do find another job, and do everything you can to finish out the work you're on before leaving. Leaving on good terms is nice, but it's not always up to you. 

Short answer: No, don't put this on your resume. Long answer: Just because you were let go during the trial period, due to slower than normal adaptation to the job, doesn't necessarily mean you're bad at what you do. Maybe you just take longer to grasp all the ideals that the company has for their employees. This can lead to you being let go, as you are not "perfect" in their eyes. Now, knowing that yourself, doesn't mean everyone will see it that way when you walk into an interview. Even if you explain what happened, they might just assume you're putting yourself in a positive light instead of telling them what really happened. I would say leave the job off your resume and just go from there. Build your resume up on your strengths and past employment that you performed well in. The people who read your resume will only see that you lasted in your previous job for a month, and they'll wonder why, possibly might kill your chances of getting an interview. Again, don't get down on yourself. Each company has different expectations of their employees, some expect you to be a pro within a week, some expect it's going to take longer to get settled in and they understand things can take time, especially for a new employee. Just keep working hard and keep your resume focused on the good. 

I would be honest with any interviewers. Leaving your chosen profession to help out your family business is a good thing and should be looked on favourably. Equally, there's nothing a wrong taking a job with lower pay when there wasn't a lot out there in your area of expertise is a good thing and shows you're willing to work, even if it's not exactly right for you. Tell your interviewers that you realise the market has picked up and you are now looking for jobs where your skills will be most useful. If your current salary is mentioned, make it clear that it's a start up and the pay is reflected accordingly; stating what salary you to expect at an established company. 

Your manager has said no so the answer is no. It's as simple as that. The reason he's (probably) doing it is that with so many people streaming films, the internet speed becomes too slow for anyone using the internet for work related things (ie, those earning the company money) cannot work. At my workplace we are allowed to surf the internet at lunch times but streaming is forbidden. 

They wanted to see how you react under pressure and on your feet. You don't say what the job is but I imagine it's probably something where you're speaking with members of the public and believe me, they will ask you very random questions. I once attended an interview for a well known toy store and everyone there was given a random toy and told to sell it. Some people just sat in their chair and basically read off the box, some others stood up and pretended they were on one of those television shopping channels and the rest (me included) did somewhere in the middle. Not one person who stayed sitting and reading got the job. 

This is just something you'll probably have to learn to deal with. The most you can do is try your hardest to be nice to these people and make friends, but unfortunately, no one can really be forced to be your friend, if they don't like you, there's not a whole lot you can do. Now if they're causing a stir, bullying you, making fun of you, whatever, then you could always take it to your manager. Now if they're cold to the point where it's making it hard for you to do your job because they simply won't talk to you or acknowledge you, then you also have a problem, but if they're simply just not making any effort to be your friend, there's not a whole lot you can do. The best advice I could give is to just keep trying, say hi to them in the halls, try and spark up a conversation with one of them sometime about something you enjoy, or might know they enjoy. Try to be personable even if they aren't that way back to you. If they don't warm up to you, then it's on them, not you. Just be the best you can be, do your work, get things done, and just remember you have friends outside of work. 

The fact that there were no technical questions asked, that would pertain to how you would do this job, were you to be given it, means this was most likely just an introductory interview. An interview to ask those generalized questions like "where do you see yourself in 5 years", or "name a time where you were in charge and had to make a difficult decision". In this instance, the position of the interviewer is irrelevant. Since she was just conducting the introductory interview, there was simply no reason to question her position with the company. It may not have been meant as an insult or meant to offend, but that's probably how it came off, especially after she said "I will send your application to the hiring manager", it's clear she wasn't the one making the hiring decision, she was just getting those common questions out of the way. In my experience, the phone interview is generally just an "introductory" interview, kind of see how you may fit into the workplace, a few generalized questions that they ask to get them out of the way so the next interview can focus solely on the technical side. Next time, just worry about answering the questions(and no it doesn't mean you can't ASK questions), and let them decide who is going to interview you. If they're interviewing you with unqualified people, maybe that's not a company you want to work for anyway.