To disarm unwanted gestures, especially those that have a physical component to them, I've personally found that the best approach is to simply call out the behavior when it occurs. For the pat on the back, just simply say "please don't do that". Say it calmly, clearly, and look the person in the eye. Do this immediately, the first time it happens. Boundaries are much easier to establish and maintain before they have been disrupted. Wait too long, and your response won't carry the same weight. For the handshake, you could grab the person's right hand with your left and then cover both with your right. Used effectively, this could look really sincere while also preventing the overly boisterous crush grip. Another alternative to the handshake is the fist bump. While not as professional, if you're working in a testosterone filled environment where people regularly try to smash the small bones in your hand together, then the environment you work in probably isn't all that professional. Whatever you do, don't do back to the person what they are doing to you. If the pat on the back is sincere, or intended to be sincere, and you respond in an insincere manner, the message this person will see isn't that you don't like the pat on the back but instead they'll just think you're a jerk. So give people the benefit of the doubt. If you don't like something, just say so. 

However, you'd like to apply for work while studying, and you're wondering how to describe your ongoing studies in your current rèsumè. If so, the direct answer is: any way you like, as long as it's factually correct to the best of your knowledge. For instance, you'd be perfectly fine listing it simply as: 

The alternative, if you try that and still find yourself and your line manager contradicting each other in front of other bosses, is for you to unilaterally stop trying to speak for your line manager, and instead to always ask for them to make any objections they may have directly to the other bosses. Basically, in the scenario your describe, that would mean not saying "No, we can't do that" (since you knew your line manager had said you couldn't), but instead just passing the buck by saying e.g. "I believe <line manager> had raised some valid issues / might have some useful input / would be better placed to comment about that." However, while that's definitely one way to ensure that you don't take the blame for arguing your line manager's position, it's far from ideal, since it may end up looking pretty awkward to the other bosses. In particular, if you do this, do try to phrase your buck-passing reply in such a way as to leave your manager the freedom to choose any response without appearing to lose face. Specifically, don't say e.g. "I believe <line manager> had some objections," since that will inevitably leave either you or your line manager (or both) looking bad if they respond with "No, no, I had no objections at all!" Just suggest in a neutral manner that your line manager might want to take this question, and leave it at that. 

In summary, what Dr. Cloud is saying is that you need to set the expectations on how you will be treated, as well as how other employees are treated when there is a conflict. You have an opportunity to set that standard. Lead by example, and don't allow people to treat each other this way. Finally, on that same note, you can also start by addressing these issues between subordinates on your team. If two of your subordinates call each other out publicly or if employee A announces an employee B sighting or does something similar to embarrass that person, this would be a great opportunity to call out this behavior, but without you being the target of the bullying or the conflict. 

As others have mentioned, communication is key! Consider that technology today is awesome, and there are many amazing free products out there to make working from home almost like you're in the office. This gives you the opportunity not only to prove that you can work effectively from home, but also, as a side benefit, it can make you out to be the valuable technology pioneer in the organization who introduces the team to some new ways of using this technology. I'd suggest starting a Google Hangout and inviting your key coworkers to join it. While it might seem wierd at first to be on a persistent call, everyone will eventually get used to it. If someone has a question, or if you have a question, you can just ask without needing to initiate an IM or video call. This also helps solve another problem that hasn't been addressed here: Remote workers can easily become disconnected from the mothership. It's much easier to have an us vs them mentality when dealing with people who don't work on-site, so by being in the hangout, you'll still be part of the group. You won't get to eat lunch at the taco restaurant with the group, but you will be a part of any in-office jokes or banter. Other than this, the other answers hit the nail on the head in terms of what you should do as a strategy for ensuring that your work at home is both productive as well as giving the appearance that it's productive. Good luck! :) 

might the/a prospective employer care about this detail, and if yes, would including it give a favorable impression (or save you from embarrassment later)? 

Because a CV is supposed to be a factual and impersonal description about you, not by you. Yes, usually, you do actually write your own CV, but that's not something you're supposed to emphasize. Basically, write your CV as if you were someone else describing yourself in third person. Ps. Caveat: Rules are meant to be broken. Sometimes, writing your CV in an unconventional style might make it stand out and cause a prospective employer to pay more attention to it. Of course, sometimes it might also just get it sorted into the circular file that much quicker. It's up to you whether you feel that's a risk worth taking. 

You could, if you wanted, even include details about any minor subjects you're studying, if you feel they might be relevant, and maybe your current GPA or any other relevant academic performance metrics. The important questions to ask yourself, with regard to any extra pieces of information are: 

Whatever else you do, apply for the position anyway. Make it clear in your application that, while your physical disability prevents you from performing offsite tasks, you have already demonstrated competence in the other parts of the job while in your current contract position. What you need to keep in mind is that a job posting is essentially an advertisement, and everything in it can be subject to negotiation. Yes, the employer is saying they're looking for two full-time programmers who also do some offsite support — but they may be perfectly willing to settle for one full-time programmer who cannot do offsite work, and one who will do a little more, especially if the first programmer is already known to them and familiar with the job. Sure, if they really just don't want to re-hire you for some reason, and have worded the new positions deliberately to exclude you, then doing this won't help. (In that case, you might also indeed have cause to sue; but you'd need to talk to a local lawyer about that.) However, if that's not the case — and the fact that they extended your contract suggests it may be so — then they may well be glad to have you apply, even if you don't technically satisfy all the stated requirements. Approaching the person who'll actually be doing the hiring (that is to say, not the HR person who posted the ad, but whoever you'd actually be working for if you got the job), as littlekellilee suggests, may also be a good idea. Make sure not to come across in any way demanding or confrontational, but just mention that you heard about the new positions, and that you'd like to know more about the offsite work aspects so that you can decide if you should apply. At least, this will let them know that you're interested in a permanent position, which could be useful even if you don't end up getting this particular job (e.g. because they really do specifically need more offsite support staff). 

In my experience working for a company with a startup mentality, focusing too much on one single platform, stack, or technology could be detrimental, and we're always learning new stuff, especially since technologies change so quickly. There is still the occasional developer I encounter on the Internet who focuses his or her energies on ten year old technologies that are outdated and that are slowly fading away. Depending on where you're working and what your career goals are, you may find better successes demonstrating that you're capable of quickly acquiring, storing, recalling, and processing knowledge of new technologies and using that knowledge effectively to build great things. Employers that fit this category, such as the startups and small businesses, seem to prefer applicants who are diverse and who possess these traits. Now, even if you work for a company that focuses on a single technology, whether it be small business or enterprise consider that while Java is a great platform that most likely isn't going away anytime soon, it's still a good idea to diversify for another reason: When you learn other programming languages, you begin to connect the dots together much better and more thoroughly master certain concepts. Now, I'm not a Python developer, but just spending some time playing around with some Django demos helped me understand more about what servlets in Java do, since Django solves this problem in a slightly different way. In short, if you're knowledge is more diverse, you'll gain more problem solving skills that will help you succeed working with your language of choice. Don't limit yourself by not at least dipping your toe in the water and at least familiarizing yourself with other technologies. I also want to add that this isn't true just for programming. If you're an automotive technician who specializes in Toyotas, but you've also worked on Ford, Chevrolet, and Honda, you'll probably be a better mechanic, a better problem solver, than someone who just works on one particular Make/Model. Seeing things from a different perspective is key to becoming an expert in your field. 

For example, if you're applying for a job as a xyzzyxian frobnicator*, you should definitely mention that that's the specific subject you're studying. If you're applying for work as a grocery store clerk, and doubt your employer would know a frobnicator* from a fnord*, leave it out. Similarly, might your future employer care that you're studying at Barville*, rather than at the main Footown* campus, e.g. because the job you're applying for is located a lot closer to Barville*? If so, do mention it. If not, you could leave it out (but it probably won't hurt to mention it anyway). Ps. The same general principle also applies after you've graduated. Sure, 10 years after graduation, nobody's going to care about your degree beyond the fact that you have it (because by then, you should have some relevant work experience and/or a further degree to demonstrate your skills), so you don't want to waste too much space on it. But if you're applying for work straight after graduation, then your studies will be, for the time being, the most relevant part of your rèsumè, so they deserve some extra detail. 

*) Placeholders for unknown major / institute / town / year / etc. **) Or maybe a B.Sc. or a Ph.D. or some other degree. 

If I understand you correctly, you're currently studying applied xyzzyxian frobnification* at Foobar University Extension School* in Barville, XZ* since 201X*, which will eventually earn you an M.Sc.** in frobnification science* from Foobar University* in Footown, XZ* when you graduate in 201Y* or thereabouts. Once you've graduated, you'd list your degree in your rèsumè as something like: 

As a full time employee, I've met people. I meet people I work with, vendors, clients, and I run into people through colleagues at work who are in need of people with my skills. Some employees have left companies I've worked with to begin new adventures, and because they've worked with me, they've sometimes approached me for consulting/contracting gigs, and as long as I know the work is serious, will get paid for it, and that my employer wouldn't have a problem with it, I'll likely take on the work. I've no plans to move into consulting full time, as I enjoy the perks of a stable career, but if you want to move into consulting, you should already have a potential client base or referral network. If you don't, then you'll first need to build one up. Here are some ways you can do this: 

Have you considered the possibility that the prima donna workers may in fact be the way they are because it is their drive and personality that made them that way. Extremely successful people don't get where they are by being average, mediocre, falling in with the crowd, and just blindly doing what others want them to do. Take Steve Jobs for example. If you worked with him, you probably would have felt that he was a prima donna. Everything had to be his way and everything had to be perfect. In one example, he actually told the engineers of one of the first Mac computers that the circuit boards inside the machine weren't beautiful enough. In the end, he made a lasting, positive impact on the world, and we might attribute this to his eccentricity, stubbornness, and persistence. Creative people, entrepreneurs, developers, designers, writers, painters, musicians, chefs, and many other people who do creative work, tend to be more eccentric. The greater the contributions, the more eccentric the person may be. We even had a moderator on the Mathematics site who, according to meta posters, was a genius. Yet he couldn't get along and follow simple rules of the site. While this was an extreme case, it highlights the fact that some of the most gifted and talented people in our society will sometimes do things that others may not agree with. Therefore, you can weed out all of these gems out of your organization and replace them with a manufactured series of mediocre automatons who will blindly follow orders, or you can embrace the people who set high expectations for themselves and who bestow greatness upon the world. These same people will also expect a lot in return and make no allowances for anything they don't believe in. These people wouldn't have achieved the things they've achieved if they just blindly followed the flock or given into the whims of what others considered to be "the rules." This Apple Commercial from the Think Different Campaign may inspire you to rethink how you deal with these so-called prima donnas. If you look carefully enough, you may discover that these people are a lot more than what you see on the surface. 

However, if you're looking for work in a field related to your studies, it's quite plausible that your prospective employers might be interesting in knowing a bit more about your studies than just the fact that you'll hopefully have a diploma some day. As such, you could also consider fleshing out the entry to something like, say: 

I'd say you absolutely need to talk about this with your line manager. It sounds like the fundamental problem is that both you and your line manager are (or are perceived to be) responsible for allocating resources to different projects, but, despite your mutual discussions, you end up disagreeing with each other in front of higher management and failing to present a consistent position. If so, you really need to sit down with your line manager to figure out why this happens and to come up with workable strategies for preventing it in the future. In particular, you really should ask your line manager for their viewpoint on the matter; they may well be equally annoyed with you for, say, failing to be properly accommodating towards upper management requests. For the future, once you've both raised your concerns and agreed that there's a problem, you should try to come up with some way to present a consistent front. There are many possible ways you could do that, from planning in advance your mutual responses to any likely upper management requests, to agreeing on definitive, non-overlapping areas of authority, so that you can simply pass any requests not in your designated area of authority to your line manager (and vice versa). 

Basically, if you take this job, use the higher pay to build an sinking fund to help leverage against future unemployment. When and if the contract ends, use that money to cover your expenses as you look for a new gig. This is very similar to what a freelance consultant or small business does by reinvesting profits to get through dry spells. The slightly higher pay helps you get through those times when there's no work. If you were to compare two positions, with all things being equal, and one position was temporary and one was permanent, the pay may help you decide whether to take the permanent, less risky but less rewarding position or the temporary, higher paying yet more risky one. 

In many professional organizations, the ideals of leadership are more valued than the ideals of traditional management. While managers want control, leaders get out of the way and empower others to innovate. The best ideas often come from cross-functional, self-organizing teams, where new ideas are embraced and encouraged. Sometimes this self-organization only lasts for a few brief moments, just long enough to help foster a new idea. Do your job, but don't hesitate to help others I'm a developer, but if I happen to overhear a conversation about how to sell one of our products, and it's something that interests me, I may jump into the conversation and provide some input. Oftentimes, myself and others have planted seeds that have helped solve problems. Most of the time I'm not working on anything pressing. It's important work, and I set goals for myself in order to stay on track, but there always seems to be room to help others. If a server goes down -- the equivalent of a fire -- then anyone with technical skills focuses 100% on the issue. Outside of sensitive, mission-critical issues, we're pretty laid back. The point is this: There shouldn't be any cons to getting involved or taking initiative to help out in other areas at your work, so long as you don't overpromise or take on work you don't have time for. If there are cons in getting involved, then you may want to take a moment to reflect and ask yourself if you're working in an environment that fosters innovation. If getting involved is looked down on, then your options are to either focus only on your work and be okay with that, or find a place where sharing ideas is encouraged. There's no right or wrong answer; it's up to you. Observe your colleagues, then try an experiment You can tell what kind of culture you're working in by observing others. Do you see colleagues getting involved in such discussions? Are those discussions productive? If they are, then that's a good sign that your input will be welcomed. Even then, if no one else is taking initiative, try it yourself. Use the reaction of your manager and other colleague to determine whether or not this is encouraged. You'll really not know unless you try. As for the pros, I'd like to think most professional organizations want self-starters in their ranks -- people who go out of their way to go the extra mile and solve creative problems. Thus, if you're one of these people, it may help increase your chances of advancing your career while also finding a workplace you enjoy! As one who works in such an environment, I assure you, it's quite rewarding. There are challenges, of course, but there are no cons. Circling back to my first paragraph, management and leadership aren't the same things. As a new hire, you can show leadership by involving yourself in company issues and by taking initiative by offering new, fresh insight. Start your career off on a strong note and show your employer and colleagues what you have to offer! If they don't want you involved, they'll go to a private office. Many discussions are held in public precisely to foster more involvement; it's why the company I work for redesigned our offices so that we all work in a single, collaborative space.