whether or not "tense" is even meaningful in (Classical) Arabic is an open question. Arabic verbs do not generally have tense, although they have aspect. to give a definite future meaning to an imperfect like yadbribu you prefix the invariant "sawfa", a separate word. but "yadribu" can have any "tense" depending on context. "daraba" is taught as past tense (he struck) and "yadribu" as present or future, but that's wrong. the main distinction is aspect not tense. 

there are many transliteration schemes. if you want to be scholarly, follow the Encyclopedia of Islam scheme. informally, I use H for your first example and h for the last. the middle one is not really an "h" sound, I usually go with "kh". 

Arabic has no fewer than 4 forms: independent, initial, medial, and final. but in all cases there is a "kernel" form common among them all. one advantage of this design is that you do not need spaces to separate words - not a minor consideration if writing materials are expensive. Caveat: in Arabic, final forms are not always distinct. for example final Waw can look just like medial or initial or independent Waw. but the system works. 

try $URL$ it's a little rough but it contains the full text of both Lane and Lisaan al-Arab, in parallel. It's not designed as a dictionary, i.e. something where you just look up a "word". It's a tool for exploring the lexicon. it only understands roots, and will show you all permutations for a root, so you can examine Eg all words that start with "kt" and ponder whether they share a common semantic kernel - a very old theory in Arabic lexicology. you need to read the help screen carefully and experiment. E.g. Lane and the Lisaan pick different roots for some words that have "weak" letters, and I have not yet unified them. 

old joke: a language is a dialect with an army. terms like "the German language" are practically useful; they help us to communicate, which is to say, to help us coordinate our actions. But in reality there are no such things. What counts as the German (or French, Chinese, etc) language is always driven by norms established by a dominant social group. Real people speak whatever they speak, which is always unique to the individual: an idiolect. once you have a community of speakers whose idiolects enable successful joint action (communication), then you can start talking about dialects, languages, etc. but in all cases what counts as the language is a matter of norms, not any kind of objective rule or grammar. If you find German perplexing, try Chinese or Arabic. Both of those terms are very broad, umbrella terms that cover enormous variation. It's useful to have them so we can say, e.g. "he speaks Arabic", but in fact nobody speaks "Arabic", since there is no such thing. What he speaks is one of millions of idiolects that enable people in a broad community to communicate. so terms like "the German language" are really more sociological than linguistic. PS. I don't have the citations handy, but there is good reason to think of dictionaries and grammars a indoctrination devices. 

of course mathematics is not a language. but we do have a "language" of mathematics, that allows us to express mathematical ideas. Or so it would seem. Is there really such a thing? Not really. It looks like a formal language, but it isn't, it's just a tightly constrained variety of natural language. Mathematicians do not write their papers in a formal language, generally. Some of them even oppose doing that. we cannot (so far) even define "language", although we can formally define very impoverished formal structures that we like to call languages. regarding the classic triumvirate of phonology, syntax, and semantics: its obvious that the language of mathematics does not have its own phonology, for example. what is the phonology of the symbol used in differential equations? {\frac {\partial z}{\partial x}}? 

As the other poster indicated, accent is the application of native phonology to another language. However, if someone grows up speaking two languages, they would necessarily have less of an accent than someone who speaks just one language. Two languages necessarily have a larger phoneme inventory than just one, which means the speaker has more native phonemes to choose from. The perfect example is from Portuguese. In my experience monolingual Spanish speakers have a really hard time pronouncing European Portuguese sounds, particularly the reduced vowels and opened variations of E and O. Whereas English speakers have trouble pronouncing rolled R and reduced consonants such as the approximates of B, V and D. In my experience, students who grew up speaking Spanish and English do wonderfully learning the Lisbon variant of Portuguese. In the case of Mandarin, from what I've heard the Chinese usually classify foreigners differently. Since that language is so unrelated to Spanish and English, typically they just say someone had a Western accent, which it is usually not easy to determine the origin. 

In English, there is no change in meaning due to the change in palatalization, like there is in Russian. We have no contrastive words or minimal pairs due to palatalization. Дан [dan] and дань [danʲ] are different, meaning "Dane" and "tribute" but this differentiation doesn't occur in English. That doesn't mean that palatalization isn't an interesting concept in English though. For example: Western American speakers render "education" as [e.d͡ʒɪ̈.ˈkej.ʃɪ̈n], resulting from the palatalization of the 'd' followed by the /ju/. Some British accents pronounce "tune" as [t͡ʃun] for the same reason, and despite these siginficant changes in pronunciation due to palatalization, they do not change meaning. Our /ɹ/ sound has an interesting effect on palatalization as well in some dialects: "try" -> [t͡ʃɹaj] "dragon" -> [ˈd͡ʒɹæ.gɪ̈n] In conclusion we have quite the opposite phenomenon occurring in English, words can be significantly palatalized but do not change meaning. 

In the First, Second and Fourth declensions, Nominitive Plural is the same as Genitive Singular. The other two don't follow the same pattern, but don't deviate very far from it. Even in English, we say: 

If those verbs had a long (or doubled) vowel in Latin as their theme vowel then they were most likely going to be pronounced with a wide e - or a wide o - in conjugations where they retain the tonic stress. In the following examples I'll use first person singular i.e. Eventually those wide mid vowels became and in Spanish, because Spanish phonology does not contain wide mid vowels. Some simplifications are going to be made here, but here are some etymological timelines: 

The answer is because of vowel harmony in Vulgar Latin. The rule is not 100% anymore because Vulgar Latin was spoken so long ago. Clearly since the paradigm started, the stem changing has been applied to verbs that don't match the pattern, in general it is as follows: In verbs with medium height root vowels: 

Stepping off of the airplane in Lisbon, I could immediately hear that the pronunciation was much different from Brazilian Portuguese, which I am more accustomed to. The level of vowel deletion was so pronounced in fact, that I almost thought people were speaking Polish, due to the high number of awkward consonant clusters - such as brzydka or ptaki in the Slavic language. The four most striking and frequent examples I personally heard were: 

The word that interests me the most is the last one podes which is pronounced in rapid speech something like "pɔdʃ". Could the last sound cluster "dʃ" be considered an affricate, or is there a requirement that the affricate be entirely voiced or devoiced?