My friend often goes out with her sister who is the geocasher. By looking in a different way, she often finds the ones her sister does not. Going down on her knees (even belly) to look from the bottom up. Standing on tip-toe or climbing on available higher points. Reaching in narrow openings (be careful if there are dangerous snakes in your area) and by using a light or a magnet at the end of a stick. Often it is not these tricks but just a fresh look at the place that cracks the problem. 

Picture from the Wikipedia page, public domain, full disclosure here. And the Thump knot based instructions (from our home supplier, Grog's animated knots.) 

If you have string or rope around which is handy, start with that. You can go out to buy lines when you are a bit more experienced and know what you want and need in them. The best string or rope I have ever found to try out knots is shoe and boot laces. They are easy to tie, relatively easy to untie from almost every knot, hard wearing and nice to handle. And they come with aglets, helping in feeding through the ends. For practical knots I usually go for the thickest size mountain boot lace. They are the size that fits my hands, they might be a bit thin for some people. If you make your own training piece of string, remember to finish off the ends well. Taking a page of the shoe lace book might help, by putting a narrower stiff end on. (Imitating aglets.) When you know the basic shape of the knots you will need to use in serious situations, like in climbing where your life is going to depend on it, you have to have trained in the rope you are going to use for the purpose. The actual rope is best in that case but shorter ends for just learning have their uses as well. And when you are going to use laid rope, you should be familiar with how that rope handles. Which is rather different from the way braided rope and string handles. Each knottyer I know has his/her own 'trained' piece(s) of string with which he/she is trying out new knots, teaching others and doing bits of showy knot work when people are watching. Each person will tell you why this is the best string. The only thing they have in common is that the user has used it many times, is very familiar with how it behaves and is happy to use it. 

One other fixed cost, transportation to/from the trail: For me, that means 2 one-way flights at ~$400/each. 

My answer will assume we are talking about a quilt. You can get down quilts that are made of exactly the same material as a mummy bag (Pertex Quantum face fabrics with 800+ fill down). Most quilt users that are going into colder climes will add a down balaclava to keep their head warm. Futhermore, quilts are often cut in the same shape as a mummy bag (on top), specifically to prevent creating areas of dead air inside the bag. Expect any good down quilt to look very similar to a mummy bag until you look under it. They will also have a yolk as @AM_Hawlk mentioned. Quilt Summary 

If you're hiking in dry, hot weather places, and you have a whole backpacking setup your best bet is to store your water deep in your pack. The sun is your only real enemy here. In the desert, I've had success with packing my bag so that my water is "wrapped" in my insulated gear - jacket and sleeping bag. Since I don't actually want to expose my sleeping bag to the possibility of a water spill (desert nights are still darn cold!), I usually put the water against the small of my back, and the sleeping bag in it's compression bag on top. Then I wrap my jacket around the front/bottom of the water. Pack the rest of your bag as best as possible around those items (it will be less comfortable and carry more awkwardly for sure). This way, the sun beats down on your sleeping bag and warms the top of it significantly. It insulates the water from that heat. At night, leave your water out on the ground and make sure you pack it in the morning before the sun gets up. You will have the coolest water possible :) 

I've been surprised by how durable tent floors are. I've never used footprints, and I have a silnylon-floored tent (i.e. not very durable material) that has lasted hundreds of nights and still doesn't have any holes or thin spots. So really, I would call it wasted money and weight in your pack to carry a footprint. If you forsee using the tent in "fast pack" configuration, i.e. no tent body, then consider getting the footprint just for that. 

So even with all that, you're looking at 2 days. What can you do beyond that? I think the simplest solution to get you the recharge you'd need is to buy an iPhone battery case - usually this is just an external Li-ion battery that plugs into your iPhone. These are pretty common, fairly light, and generally easy to use. They also have the advantage of often combining in a waterproof case (so you can take pictures even if it is raining). The limitation might be that it doesn't actually get you enough charges for what you want to do (a bazillion pictures are a lot!) I agree that hand-cranks and solar chargers are not nearly reliable enough. So the only other solution that I might consider is something that eats AA Li-ion disposable batteries (or if you feel environmentally friendly, the best AA rechargeables you can find) and spits out power via USB. Tekkeon makes a couple products that might be the right kind of thing (I've used one before that worked perfectly)... You might try this one. Li-ion AAs are very light, although expensive, and each set of 2 will charge your iPhone 1-2 times (depends on which AA charger you get and which iPhone you have... might be best to test this before you leave!). 

When I bought my first pair of walking boots, I was told to buy a jar of vaseline and use that on the hooks of the boots. You can apply it very precisely and it is very likely not to run off and spread over the boot. (Not sure how it reacts when it gets hot.) 

From a male friend I heard that a wrongly designed or wrongly adjusted harness did hurt his private parts when it came under stress the first time. In this case not permanent because he was wise enough to test the harness while still on the ground, but as he is likely to abseil it could have happened when he was committed on the way down. He also told us about working in a harness for a whole shift, somewhere in the middle of an abseil inside a narrow part of a building, no way to get out for the breaks. In that case you will want the best fit and extra attention on comfort. So not all males can use all harnesses, they have to be adjusted right for the person and the job the harness has to do. 

Luggage is usually chosen on its size, not on the weight it can transport. Liters are a measure of size, kilos are a measure of weight. To me it is harder to convert a given weight in a certain substance into a real size than it is to convert a given number in liters to a real size. If you want to know how many kilos of water a given pack can move, you can just replace liters with kilos. Good pack makers will also tell you the weight limits of your pack if you are likely to reach them in normal use, but as very few people will be able to lift and carry backpacks filled to the limits with heavy items, a well made pack should be able to withstand more kilos than the average human can carry. The point where packs fail is mostly after use, so a weight limit or indication will not be very helpful. 

While bunching up (see the answer by @Charlie Brumbaugh) works most times, it might be useful to have a method at hand that is less bulky for storing purposes. You can make a Chain Sinnet, which is a slip knot into which you pull a loop and repeat. When you fold your tarp or tent and find several lines together (making the bunches inconvenient as it makes too much of a bump) you can chain them together, by pulling all lines together into the loops and going on till the complete lengths are used. The final move of a chain that is in danger of getting undone is to pull the last end through the loop. But when putting the tarp in storage I would leave it without that last move to help in undoing when you use the tarp again. For shortening while using the tarp, the Chain Shortening will work, but best when the line is used. In that case you will need to fix the end of the chain, by pulling the end through or by tying an extra bit of string around the loop and the rest of the line.