The White House, which had been occupied for only 14 years at this point, had been richly furnished with sofas, writing tables, commodes, card tables, and beds by Jefferson. The Madisons "inherited" these furnishings, and brought in their own personal possessions. So most of what was burned or looted (like the small medicine cabinet pictured below) was historic only in the sense that it had been purchased by founding fathers. Some of the more notable looted items were Madison's dress sword and ceremonial hat, and a portrait of Dolley Madison. (source) 

My source for this is the single best source I have found on this issue: the political scientist David Karol's chapter on "the politics of race" in his 2009 book Party Position Change in American Politics: Coalition Management. 

In the bolded passage, Franklin reveals that he has not successfully grown anything from the soybean seeds he has forwarded along. He calls them "Chinese Garavances," and says he doesn't know whether they differ from ordinary Garavances. This means he thinks soybeans are like chickpeas/garbanzo beans (though to be fair, he doesn't seem familiar with chickpeas either). But when he says that soybeans "are said to be of great increase," this implies a lack of firsthand experience with growing soybeans. No soybeans, no tofu. He also implies a lack of experience with making tofu when he writes "some runnings of salt (I suppose runnet) is put into water." This is Franklin's sole commentary on the tofu recipe, which he otherwise forwarded to his friend unaltered. Franklin writes more authoritatively when describing recipes for dishes he probably has made (e.g. "Bite of a Mad Dog"). If you follow the link above, you can read the original recipe from James Flint. Flint also implies that he has never tried to make tofu himself: "The method the Chinese convert Callivances into Towfu. They first steep the Grain in warm water ten or twelve Hours to soften a little, that it may grind easily . . . Then they stir up the flower & put the Water over the Fire just for it to simmer . . . This is the process as I always understood." So Franklin is playing a game of telephone with tofu recipes. Also note that Franklin makes no mention of tofu's taste. In his other writings on food, he does mention taste: 

In the Dutch General Election, 1948, the largest party was KVP with 32 seats. Second was PvdA with 27 seats. Normally the largest party provides the prime minister. Yet in the folowing KVP-PvdA-CHU-VVD coalition government, the prime minister was Drees (PvdA) rather than Van Schaik (KVP). Why did the second largest party rather than the largest party provide the prime minister between 1948 and 1951? 

The Allied Liberation of The Netherlands lasted from 12 September 1944 (when the first villages were liberated) to 5 May 1945, when the German capitulation took force (not counting a few German remnants on some islands). However, the Dutch government-in-exile did not return until the war was over. How was the administration of the liberated part organised? Was it under allied military administration? Did parts of the Dutch government return to be in charge? Did the Dutch government govern remotely? 

(If you ever get the chance to listen to Sergey Zimov speaking in person, I strongly recommend you do. His are most memorable lectures I've ever attended.) 

These laws have since been worked and reworked countless times, but "the United States is considered to maintain the broadest and most stringent set of marking requirements" (p. 1-3). The Tariff Act of 1930 seems to have been particularly influential in American Country of Origin Labeling law. Of course, voluntary labeling of country of origin may have predated these laws from the 1880s. Consumption of foreign goods has often become politically fraught, as evidenced by the non-consumption movement in pre-revolution America and the later Non-Importation Act. 

Here’s the limited semi-statistical information I was able to find on 19th century theft and robbery. From Lane’s “Urban Police and Crime in 19th Century America” 

Source: "The Political Economy of Mass Printing: Legitimacy, Revolt, and Technological Change in the Ottoman Empire." Metin M. Coşgel, Thomas J. Miceli, and Jared Rubin. 

There's more here. And of course, ancient Greek sculptures had even greater verisimilitude. 2D art can never be as representative of 3D space as 3D art can, so it is not surprising that 3D art has long had a more realist bias than 2D art. In two-dimensional art, artists generally privileged thematic and spiritual considerations over realism. According to the article on perspective, they "typically sized many objects and characters hierarchically according to their spiritual or thematic importance, not their distance from the viewer That said, perspective in 2D art is not intuitive, and the development of perspective required grounding in mathematics. While the ancient Greeks (who were quite good at math) did begin to develop some understanding of perspective, modern theories of perspective did not really start developing until the 15th century. Brunelleschi is an especially important figure here. Within two centuries of the development of perspective, we have artists like Vermeer who are noted for their "almost photorealistic" style. Still, you are correct that not even early modern artists were as obsessed with "photorealism" as members of the modern photorealist movement. The photorealism movement, from its chosen name to its chosen style, was a reaction to the ubiquity of photography in the 20th century: 

Interior minister Louis Beel was at this time based in Oisterwĳk. The period is described in detail the book: D.C.L. Schoonoord. Het Circus Kruls, Militair Gezag in Nederland, 1944 – 1946. Available online: PDF, 4.8 MiB, 890 pages (in Dutch). 

The administration was carried out by the Militair Gezag, literally the Military Authority. This authority was initially based in Brussels (Belgium), later in Breda and finally in The Hague. They had lower authority than the Supreme Allied Commander Allied Forces (General Dwight D. Eisenhower) leading the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces (SHAEF), Mission to the Netherlands. From Wikipedia: 

Yesterday I learned of the (somewhat obscure) Centrocaspian Dictatorship, an unrecognised state that existed for less than 2 months in 1918. Are there any other (less obscure) states that have called themselves a dictatorship? It seems more common dictatorships call themselves the free democratic people's worker's utopia and so on. 

According to Russian scientist Sergey Zimov, the disappearance of grasslands in Siberia was not due to Climate Change, but due to overhunting in prehistoric times. The theory is that humans killed the large grazers. This led to the older steppe-like landscape to be replaced by the less productive and less biodiverse dense forests that we associate with Siberia today. Those forests are so much darker than the previous landscape, that it has a significant impact on global average temperature. According to this theory, not only did pre-industrial civilisations engage in unsustainable practices, but they actually engaged in anthropogenic climate change. Note that there is currently no scientific consensus on this theory, but I find it a very intriguing thought. 

The Poor For the (mid/late) 19th century, Rerum Novarum is arguably the single most important document in Catholic Social Teaching since the Bible itself (actually, when I was in grad school, it was considered the "first, best place" to learn the Church's opinons re: social justice). If you like that, there are at least a dozen encyclicals based off of that, some being as clearly named as "Forty years later" and "One hundred years later", but those are from the beginning of the 20th century onward. Immediately, this document on almsgiving from the Council of Trent comes to mind. 

You can get a fairly comprehensive answer here. Honestly, that seems like it is a good source and it certainly agrees with the Geis family. I'm only including the comment below because I wrote it before finding that link (and I really like the story I relate in it). 

Troubadours often played up the courtly ideal and generally were unreliable sources of information on how love was played out. As marriages were arranged, romance was not a key component (a stark contrast was made between religious/marital love and romantic "courtly" love). It was not uncommon for someone to seek romantic relations elsewhere. Adultery was actually relatively frequent in said relationships. 

You have specifically asked about income inequality, and that is how I have answered. However, Piketty argues that wealth inequality is both more severe and consequential. The immense destruction of private property during WWII really cut into wealth inequality, but again, since the 1980s wealth inequality has been making a come back too. 

I'm not claiming that there wasn't poverty, hunger, and hardship during the Depression: there definitely was death due to starvation during the 1930s. But in no sense did the United States experience anything on the scale of the Holodomor. Would Hoover (who helped address Russian famine after WWI) or FDR (father of the modern American welfare state) have allowed around 5% of the population to starve to death when the nation literally had more food than it knew what to do with? The answer: probably not. The basic humanity of the two presidents aside, the well-known economist Amartya Sen argues that electoral pressures in functioning democracies tend to prevent famine. And indeed, the first presidential election after the start of the Depression brought in an administration and Congress devoted to using the power of the state to distribute food and resources to needy Americans. 

From 1885 to 1929, the Irish Parliamentary Party held the seat Liverpool Scotland in England. Why did the Irish Parliamentary Party choose to contest a seat in England, and what factors contributed to their win? Did this constituency house a large Irish population? Did they ever contest any other seats? I found this article but it focusses more on the biography of the MP than on the background of how an Irish nationalist represented an English seat. 

As the Nazis invaded the Soviet Union, incorporated conquered territories into Reichskommisariat Ostland, Reichskommissariat Ukraine, and military administration, they went on to implement the Holocaust and exterminate most of the Jews in Belarus, Lithuania, and elsewhere. Already during the Soviet invasion of Poland, many Jews reportedly welcomed the invading troops, apparently expecting to be better off under the Soviet Union than under Nazi Germany. Despite Stalinist oppression and antisemitism, Jews must have been less bad off under Stalin than under Hitler. In Western European countries, there was little time for Jews to flee to neutral or Allied countries; it took the Nazis only five days to occupy The Netherlands, for example; and the logistics of fleeing to the United Kingdom were complicated by the North Sea. But in the Soviet Union, it took the Nazis three months to take over the Baltic States, Belarus, and part of Ukraine. There would have been enough time to flee east. Why was there no massive wave of Jewish refugees, fleeing the advancing Nazi army by retreating deeper into the Soviet Union? Apparently, around 300,000 Polish Jews escaped to Soviet-occupied territories at the beginning of World War II. 

I was already aware of anti-potato prejudice, but now it seems to me like disdain for vegetables was even more widespread. Even some vegetarians did not think much of the health benefits of vegetables, according to an editorial in The Index to Good Health (Michigan, 1899): 

It may be the German V-3, with a maximum range of 165 km. It was destroyed before it could be fired, although several experimental models were used in Luxembourg in 1944-1945. After the war, a U.S.-Canadian group revived the V-3, hoping to use it as a cheap weay to launch objects into space. According to this military history site: 

And FDR was the moderate candidate heading into 1936. Huey Long, Louisiana born and bred, was known for wanting to "share the wealth": 

Without knowing the materials used to make that ball, it's hard to tell how heavy it would be. This site goes over the possibilities: 

There are various theories about why one side of the road was preferred to the other, often based on the handedness of riders or the side of the body on which travelers wore swords: