Your safety Your other colleagues safety The safety of the colleague showing up drugged while at work The health of the colleague showing up drugged Protecting your company against direct material loss Trying to keep the workplace morale at an acceptable standard 

Seek (medical) help, and that may include counseling, medication, or even a therapy. I had also phases like this in the past, as others people answering had here, but I wont include my personal diagnosis - it could be physical, psychological, you could be doing the wrong job, or doing it in an bad environment. 

This means that it would be extremely bad for a company if employees tried to infer how much money "typically" is offered. Most likely this rule was meant to keep difficult poisonous ex-employees from talking to former colleagues, and I suppose they only have a standard clause, which they offer to anyone. Much more difficult for the employee representative to establish a baseline if people are not allowed to talk - so yes, the clause most likely also practically limits the capabilities of the employees to collect the information needed which would support them in negotiations/lawsuits etc... 

Your portfolio should represent the skills and technologies you mention in your application. If you apply for using the frameworks you mentioned, use these. 

You must realize that the head programmer probably has a point. I would not let somebody who describes himself in the way you do (JavaScript background, categorizing languages in the way you do) close a big and critical OOP codebase without you answering some serious questions. For me it is something very different if you code in a prototype based language or a class based language. I myself am proficient in many languages, however all of these are class based (even if I have no fundamental issue favoring one over the other), I know that my weakness is in using prototype based languages - and if I would apply for a job in these then it is obvious that I would need to convince the technical person interviewing me that I know what is going on. What you typically should show in such a situation is the attempt to clear up what is missing from your skills, including accepting that you may not be the technically most proficient person for the job, but the most professional with the will to learn and do what is needed. 

Let's say: i am not a lawyer, but your company should immediately consult one. Things which immediately come to my mind: 

The only explanation for leaving a job which I would give is that the job does not enable me to have the professional development which I like. During an interview somebody could ask for specifics, but on a form i would only write that. 

No. I would sort out applicants who do that, unless it is in the news already (and then there should be no reason to write it). Reasoning: An employee who discloses such information to the outside can not be trusted. 

What I am missing from your side is a little reflection on your role in the game. If I interview (technical interview) somebody with something which has gone wrong, I usually will ask him/her what he/she learned from it. A convincing answer to that is more important than getting everything right. Actually there were applicants who got a very bad final thesis grade, and yet, they explained to me in a calm and reflected way what went wrong - and what they could have done better. 

For a "pregnancy test" this is useless. The amount of alcohol in one chocolate one time is far from what is relevant to the development of a child, and i assume that pregnant women would know this. There is another possibility: They wanted to test how you react to a question which is out of line. I got a few of such questions myself (things which clearly go where interviewers were going borderline - in that case with politics), and it became apparent later that they were trying to provoke me to see if I stay professional. So if you are e.g. in a customer facing role, they may want to know if you are able to suppress inappropriate behavior without getting offensive. 

I am going to answer this from a PM perspective. What is the main function of a PM? To communicate relevant information about budgets and timing between stakeholders and participants in the project. There are several reasons why a PM doesn't have to ask developers about the time needed: 

I think you could do it like this: State you own age during some conversation. If people don't feel comfortable about it, they will just let it be there, if they feel comfortable they will tell you their age. In a formal setting (people who you don't work with every day), i would avoid the topic completely. In Germany i could imagine asking male colleagues directly in a non-formal setting. In the right context i could also imagine that it is ok to ask female colleagues - e.g. a situation come to my mind where I was amazed that some female colleague worked with some software, because I thought she was too young for it, and she was not embarrassed but was amused and explained me that she was very young when she used it. In Japan, I would ask during lunch, although usually colleagues (male and female) usually introduce themselves with their age, and my experience if that Chinese are also not embarrassed to talk about it. 

I am a contractor (via a consulting company), and as such i provide service which can be bought at some price. I am not in competition with employees, and I am perfectly fine with the project manager knowing how much i cost per hour. This in not my salary (far away from it). Internally at my employer projects are only billed some average rate for the qualification, so i do not know any of my coworkers salary, even if I know the cost a team is billed at. So I do not see any reason you should act. 

If the paper was published in a scientific journal, these tend to have guidelines on authorship. In general the usual question here is if you structured/gave big parts of the content the paper, or if you did some work which did not add any knowledge to the topic. So before talking to anybody, consult these guidelines to see what is being said there. On the practical question whether you should your name to be included, it depends mainly on the lived practice in the company, your status (as seen by your boss), your exact function and the legal situation, and how valuable being an author is to you. 

I am a technical team lead, and a such the primary contact between customers and consultants when it comes to assigning consultants technically. Recently our customer made me aware that one of our consultants has communications problem in the team with technical persons on the customers side. I know this consultants mindset, talked to the managers, involved and the decision is to move the consultant to another customer. Now I would like to know if there is a kind of playbook on when to tell what. 

Wow. Your answer was negative, showed that you have bias, and actually showed a lack of technical understanding (suggesting an expensive solution is bad, but suggesting one which does not work is worse - a single 3G cell will not handle enough channels to support more than only a few tables at the same spot - it is much easier to upgrade wifi than to change the design metrics of a mobile cell). The constructive way of dealing with it would have been not to make it ridiculous by making an absurd comment but by constructive criticism: 

I sometime interview people technically. Sometimes I realize that they dont fit for the jobs around me early in the interview. However: I usually do my best to go trough their experiences with them and get them to show some strengths which maybe leads to me recommending them to another colleague or department. 

Why did you see her CV? On her and the owners behalf this was incredibly stupid that you saw the CV at all. The positive side: you learned something about your employers ethics and professional standard. The question is less if you look like a liar but if the person who may write your reference appears to be one. 

The reasoning behind this is that often an interviewer may not be the one who drives the process. If however, it is obvious that there was no HR, or that the HR in not in charge of the process the story may be different (and that depends on your gut feeling in this case!). 

You are taking this way too personal. Would it make you feel better if the partner answered your mail in a hurry on his mobile phone and slipped on his touchscreen? A spelling mistake in an email is not the end of the world. And neither is the use of a template for emails. 

If you have not received an offer yet, this is most likely not to burn any bridges. You can even ask them to keep you in their database, and call you in a year if a similar position comes up. I would actually assume that if you specify that you want to continue education (if you do a PHD or master program) or research, they most likely wont hold it against you (and if they do, it it a safe thing that you dont want to work for this company). 

He takes the time to do pair programming and instruct you, so try to learn from him. I have a younger colleague much less experienced than me (I am programming since before she was born). We don't do pair programming, but regular code reviews, and after 1-2 months I can see her getting better to a point that I estimate that in 1-3 months i can remove myself from that part of the project and let her do it on her own. So if your team and the senior developer have the right attitude (to learn and have him free for other stuff after some time), the world should be fine. Some practical advice: 

I would potentially do one or more of the following steps in roughly that order, where the next step would depend on the outcome of the last. Please note that the first three steps are to establish which legal conditions you have to fulfill. The outcome of these supersedes anything which is said here, and the output of these steps in not to be replaced by anything which we say here, since nobody here can give you advice on you legal obligations. Do not make your action dependent on the your employees wishes or fears, but immediately try to establish by contacting (legal experts) what you need to do based on company rules and laws in your country. 

As a PM your loyalty belongs to your project/customer/employer/colleague (in order of descending priority). 

The other answers have considered the ethics and the resources/practical side already. My opinion focuses more on the opportunity which this may be. The clients management is betting on the following things: - The customer does not realize that he has paid for developing the first version without a good outcome - You will provide the skills to give them a turnkey-ready-project - And now come the tricky point: They obviously want to be ready to remove you - or the other team. If it's you it's ok if you know it, but the other team should not be aware of their possible doom. You could bet that the team does not manage to replace you after you give them the initial version for the upgrades, and then it may be that they have to come back to you. The other bet would be that as soon as they have your working version of the app, they chop the other team (which would be the only reason why they want to hide it from their team) and fetch you onboard more firmly. I am not saying you should, but certainly could hope for such developments. 

I dont comment on the legal aspects. I will rather describe why it is perfectly sensible (i am not talking about legality or ethics here) for a company to attempt to have something like this: Every employee who leaves is special in some sense 

No, it is not appropriate. I am doing technical interviews, and such a call would is not appropriate. I also find contact attempts on linkedin etc. not appropriate. If you ask, ask trough HR. The rule for us is that any communication to the applicant goes trough HR. 

So yes, I get your problem, but if this was a singular event (and not a recurring pattern - which may be a different story), you might want to reconsider your standpoint on this and potentially apologize. Oh and BTW: secretaries also have important jobs beyond fetching coffee. 

I interview candidates (technically I am not the hiring manager, but more often than not my decision is an important factor for the hiring manager). 

Please discuss this with your customer. There are may be several factors, tho following of which come to my mind which would cause the agency or the customer not to like that 

Did you consider that the new guy is plainly right? Not in the sense that some abstract value of performance is optimal, but in the sense that within performance, implementation time, real run time behavior, testability, impact on caches/locality of write accesses, multi-process locks etc. his solution may be better (i.e. still ok for the given problem sizes)? I mean if it does not hold up in production, your methods will still be implemented; I have heard people issuing similar statements like yours, and sometimes the one complaining that the best solution was not chosen actually factored less inputs and criteria into his decision. 

Something which works often for me: I pose a question, which requires to go one step back, but is not directly related to the thing the person/people are angry or fighting about. 

As somebody who worked with people who were affected by Aspergers: Give the people some time to adjust to you - even if they have an offended look in the first few days sometimes (I know how i looked and felt when my colleague finished the sentence with a technical statement and left the room one second later), it's not the end of the world. Many people (usually the more successful ones) are capable of realizing that individual events do not make up your personality - and (as with all other colleagues) they will see your strengths in comparison to your weaknesses. (e.g. in my experience for finding a technical solution, the people who have are less susceptible to social interactions may also feel less social pressure and make a more unbiased decision) 

If I would be the hiring manager, and it would come to my attention that HR would be that rude to candidates, possibly scaring off good people (I myself decided for smaller transgressions on the HR side not to take a job), i would be seriously pissed. So it would be possible that mentioning this to the hiring manager in an innocent way could play the inherent conflict between these two to eliminate the disadvantage. If a candidate would hint this to me, i would communicate to HR how important it is to fill the position. 

No, unless you know somebody in the company or available who is suited for the tasks you see the problem with. Rationale: if you see the solution to somebody else's problem (management) tell them, if you like them. If you don't see a solution, then report the problems with the code, and let the problem of your former bosses be their problem probably they are already aware of the issue. 

I am an technical consultant sometimes and evaluating resumes for relevant experience (typically a PHD is required). And still I would see such a job (i had applicant with simiar jobs) very positive, since it is about handling people, and I have never heard anything different from my colleagues or managers with whom i discuss the resumes. And it seems (good grades) obvious that you do not want to go back to that job.