In Daniel Nettle's 1995 paper Segmental inventory size, word length, and communicative efficiency the author takes a sample of 10 languages and demonstrates a correlation between mean word length and the number of segments. 

Two follow-ups seem to verify this result: Nettle (1996), Coevolution of phonology and the lexicon in twelve languages of West Africa Wichmann et al (2011), Phonological diversity, word length, and population sizes across languages: The ASJP evidence. However, none of these are indicative of a causal relation. As mentioned in this Linguist List discussion on Nettle 1995, Maori has a very limited segment inventory and their words are quite short. One possible reason is that the metric of word length (either by segment or syllables) varies with morphosyntactic variability. A language may form predicates by using light verbs/phrases consisting of short words (dance -> do a fun move), in which case neither phonemic diversity nor word length are crucial components. It's also a methodological question what is measured by mean word length. Syllable count can be a worse measure than word length because languages differ in how complex a syllable can be. A language with only open syllables ("sa") will need more segmental variety to convey the same amount of information with monosyllables than a language which allows complex onsets and codas ("sploink"). 

What is the linguistic term for a palette of words, which are derived / span from the same stem (excluding the so-called doublets like warranty vs guaranty...)? Example: Act (verb), react (antonym?), action (verb-noun), actor/actress (a creature doing the verb), active (adjective), etc... PS I don't count explicitly the various inflections of a word in the span (e.g. (s/he/it) acts, (many) actors, ...) as part of what I call a palette and don't consider pairs of words like "see" and "sea", which sound similarly but don't have any etymological relation, as palettes. 

I'd like to ask whether someone has ever tried to classify verbs (and other parts of speech) in a relatively small number of semantic groups /not necessarily disjoint/ and if yes, what groups they have come up with? Some (non-exhaustive) examples of groups: The verbs say, talk, tell, speak, whisper, converse, hint, communicate, negotiate, message, call, ask, inform, etc all refer to some exchange of information; the verbs do, work out, make, create, build, form, shape, establish, found, think out, compose, etc express the action of creating/doing something; go, move, displace, come, arrive, run, walk, drive, ride, jump, fly, flit, etc express movement/displacement; be (be, sind, wess), exist, represent, serve as, possess, have, will, shall, become, able, appear, belong to, etc express some state of existence or belonging; and so on... 

All this can only give an idea of how the function word as could develop so many divergent uses. It would be very hard to prove such things in detail. Added: "as" is also in Low German. It is used as English as (when) and for comparison, just as English "as" in "as a friend". 

to peek - into the alley to look - into the mirror to go - into the house to fall - into the pit Such structures are verb + preposition group (a where-to indication). If you analyze the structure as "go into - the house" and take "the house" as a direct object, then this is the wrong view. A direct object never answers the question where to. 

Even if after he/she/it the verb in present tense had no ending -s the grammar would have to describe this. But your suggestion is naive, it would be impossible to destinguish between present indicative and present subjective. If you find the single ending -s in the present tense too difficult you should learn Latin where each of the six verb forms in present tense has a different ending. Besides,how is it in your mother tongue? Do you think your mother tongue is a language without a system? And the description of how the system of a language works is called grammar. And such language systems evolve over a very long time, more than a thousand years. How a language system works is not the decision of a single person. In the long evolution of English this language has managed to get rid of five verb endings in present tense compared to the six endings in Latin. A great achievement of simplification. If the community of speakers has kept the last ending it has a cause. Perhaps you think about what ambiguities would arise without this last ending. Think of the plural problem in English. Sometimes singular and plural have the same form. 

Independent of implementation-specific details such as one that acattle mentioned, the possible alternative that you mentioned appear word-finally only in native Korean nouns -- word-final coronals do not appear in Sino-Korean nouns (Sohn 2001). It's plausible that they're more likely to adapt to the Sino-Korean pattern, which has the common t-s alternation. More significantly, I think it's too strong to say that it's "systematically adapted as /s/." Kang 2003 took a corpus of loanwords and found that word-final coronal stops ([t]/[d]) were largely adapted with an epenthetic final vowel. 

As the implementation of tone across languages differs considerably, it's also worth wondering about adaptation between tone languages. The Hsieh and Kenstowicz paper mentions that Tibetan adaptations of Mandarin words, for example, ignores the original tone in favor of the voiced/voiceless distinction. 

According to some ancient historians (e.g. Herodotos, Dionysius of Halicarnassus) and poets (e.g. Virgil) there was some ethnic relation between the people of the East Coast of Asia Minor (where Troy was situated and where later Lydia evolved) and these of nowadays Italy (either Etruscans or Latins/Romans). I know that this hypothesis is very controversial, however, in the same time it appeared to me that the sound difference between Lydia vs Latium (Lazio) is very similar to this of Lithuania (Lietuva) vs Latvia. My main question is whether there is some etymological relation between the above names? And in case this is just a coincidence, my secondary inquiry is - what are the etymologies of the names, if known? PS What is the etymology of the similarly-sounding Slavic word for people, pronounced "люди" (lyudi) / "лугье" (lugye) / ludzie / lide in the different Slavic languages? 

Under their analysis, (2b) is ungrammatical because it involves a head-initial NP embedded within a head-final PP. 

Following up on jlovegren's point that head directionality does not empirically hold: Anders Holmberg and other researchers have been attempting to sharpen the analytical relevance of mixed order languages such as Finnish into the Final Over Final Constraint which states, paraphrased very loosely, that head-finality is restricted to positions where it only dominates head-final structures. Hence mixed order languages can have head-final configurations up to some point in the (relevant) syntactic structure, where it switches to being head-initial. As support of this proposal, Biberauer, Holmberg, & Roberts 2010:19-21 point out the observation from Holmberg 2000 that while both postpositions and prepositions are present in Finnish, a postpositional phrase involving a complex NP is ungrammatical: