Of course this doesn't help you see into the past because we would have to send the telescope there. But it could help those in the future see into their past. Assuming this is technically feasible, the Earth will have a maximum brightness corresponding to $m \sim 35$ so something a lot better than JWST would be required and that ignores the problem of the brightness contrast with the Sun, which would be separated by only 0.03 arcseconds from the Earth at that distance. Note also that these calculations are merely to detect the light from the whole Earth. To extract anything meaningful would mean collecting a spectrum at the very least! And all this is for only 2000 years into the past. 

The zero age main sequence (ZAMS) is the theoretical locus of points in the Hertzsprung-Russell diagram where the luminosities of young stars (at a range of masses) are mostly supplied by the nuclear reactions that have begun in their cores. Prior to this, the objects are known as pre-main sequence stars and most of their luminosity arises from the release of gravitational potential energy as they contract. The exact definition (whether it is 99% or 90% of the luminosity) does vary, but since the nuclear reactions ramp up quite quickly this doesn't materially affect any quantitative analysis. In any case, the age of a star is not measured from the ZAMS. The reason for this is that what is of physical interest is the time since the star formed and that must include the pre-main sequence lifetime. Whilst this is very short (maybe 1 million years) for stars more massive than the Sun, and certainly shorter than the total main sequence lifetime, it can be much longer (100 million years) for a low-mass M dwarf. This is also the reason that the ZAMS is a theoretical construct. Stars born at the same time will never be all on the ZAMS at the same time. By the time low-mass stars reach the ZAMS, more massive stars will have evolved away from the main sequence! As to the origin of the term, I suspect it comes from the early computer/analytic models of stellar evolution. There you would likely miss out the pre main-sequence phase and start your model with "zero age" at that point where it achieves equilibrium with the luminosity supplied by fusion and with a pristine He/H ratio in its core. Thus in reality, stars of different mass would have different ages at this point, but from the point of view of a theoretical modeller, it would be their starting condition and hence a "zero age". 

Ok, not sure where you get 200m from, the maximum baseline for the VLT interferometer is 130m. Nevertheless, your question still stands. There are a number of reasons. Firstly, it is important to understand that with relatively limited number of baselines (4 VLTs = 6 baselines) one does not get actual images out of the interferometer, but rather "visibilities" that enable one to work out whether sources are double, extended or whatever. Second, the interferometry only works at infrared wavelengths. This is a technical issue that might be solved in the next decade or so, but a general rule of thumb is that the longer the baseline, the longer the wavelengths you will be limited to use. Thirdly, the light gathering power is limited to the light that can be gathered by the constituent telescopes. I think this also limits the kinds of instruments you can use since the required delay lines and optical components of the system make everything inefficient. Fourth, there are limitations of the abilities of optical/IR interferometers caused by turbulence in the atmosphere. This limits them to very small fields of view and the performance does not reach the ideal case. It also means that you are limited to bright objects because individual exposure times need to be very short. The E-ELT is designed to work at optical and infrared wavelengths and will gather enormous amounts of light. Not everything in astronony needs spatial resolution; sometimes what you need is just a bigger light bucket. Examples include: deep imaging of the universe, gathering spectra from faint objects; accumulating enough photons to do transmission spectroscopy using exoplanet transits. It's horses for courses really. At optical and IR wavelengths the future will likely be big telescopes in space and even bigger interferometers in space. 

The Gliese catalogue can be found at CDS here. Given an RA and Dec then you can use the fortran program found here to get the constellation. 

Yes indeed there could, especially in the case of a transiting planet system. Whilst the radial velocity curve would be nice and smooth, reflecting the position of the barycentre of the double planet, the transit light curve would show structure associated with the two planets obscuring the disc of the star. Essentially the transit shape would vary depending on the orbital phase of the double planet and on occasion the transit would occur in two steps as first one planet then the other passed in front of the stellar disc. No such objects have been found. People are already looking for this in the context of searching for "exo-moons" - for example, the "Hunt for Exomoons with Kepler" programme. Finding a double planet with equal sized components would be comparatively easy compared with the tenuous signals expected from exomoons. 

In terms of what can be measured; you can measure the flux of neutrinos and the neutrino energy spectrum. There is also of course the timing information that you might get from transient events like supernovae. There is also the question of flavour oscillations and the mix of neutrino types that are observed. I don't understand enough about this to make any predictions about how astronomically useful this property is - but I bet it will be. 

The answer here is very similar to if you were asking about light. In principle gravitational waves might allow us to fractions of a second after the big bang. Electromagnetic waves can see back to where the cosmic background radiation formed, about 400,000 years after the big bang. You are right, the universe has expanded. At the present epoch it is estimated that the observable universe, containing objects that have emitted light or GWs that may reach us now, is around 46 billion light years. However, it seems quite likely that the universe continues well beyond this horizon, and sources beyond this horizon can never have emitted light or GWs that will reach us. As the relevant section of wikipedia ($URL$ points out, the detection of GWs extends our view very slightly. We cannot "see" with electromagnetic waves beyond 45.7 billion light years because of the "fog" of the cosmic microwave background, but GWs can penetrate this fog allowing us (in principle) to see signals from objects currently 46.6 billion light years away.