The point raised in the quote is not the same as the question that you are asking. In the quote: It is a difference whether we define what one is, and then we define what two is, and so on, or whether we define the abstract concept of (natural) number (as pointed out by Mauro Allegranza in the comments). Of course we can say that natural number refers to the totality of the numbers we have defined, and that is a separate definition, and we may or may not be happy with it. (If you want to learn more about problems with this, look for non-standard models of Peano arithmetic). Your question: There are many concepts of numbers of some kind that differ from the natural numbers. Examples are integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers, real numbers, complex numbers, (transfinite) ordinal numbers, (transfinite) cardinal numbers, surreal numbers. They have all nothing to do with the point raised in that quote, though. 

In a), you essentially want all pairs $(n,m)$ with $n < m$ in your relation. For b), consider the following process: Start with some element $a_0$. Then pick some $a_1$ such that $R(a_0,a_1)$ - you can do this by Sentence 2. Then pick $a_2$ such that $R(a_1,a_2)$, etc. In a finite structure, there would need to be a repetition at some point, meaning that there are $i < j$ with $a_i = a_j$ (Pidgeon hole principle). Then you use Sentence 3 (possibly very often) to obtain a contradiction to Sentence 1. 

The point here seems to be basically that the given logical-axiomatic framework under which we are working does not imply the proposition, so that it cannot be said to be true or false. In other words, given what we know and belive, there simply is no effective statement we can derive which would serve to indicate the truth-value of the issue under inquiry (at the very least none indicated by the rules or laws under which we are operating). In the particular instance here it seems to be one way of expressing the notion that correlation (the French are short and lose battles; white/snow-colored polar bears thrive) does not imply causation (the French lose wars because they are French or because they are short; the bears prosper because they are white or because they are snow-covered.) Given the way the question is formulated this may be something of a tangent, but Fodor seems to be making a point about evolutionary biology (we will have to wait for someone better familiar with his work to seriously comment on this.) However, quickly, from the linked article, here is a summary and response to what seems to me to be the basic claim involved here (and which, in passing, uses this phrase several times in such a way as to provide a fairly good context for its intended meaning) -- my emphasis: 

There are different kinds of mathematical truth, and depending on what you would want in a notion of absolute truth, some of these may fit - or not. My personal stance would be that absolute truth is not a fruitful concept, and probably not worth thinking about too much. The agreement about truth amongst mathematicians A defining feature of mathematics as a field is that mathematicians can generally reach consensus about the truth of a particular mathematical statement, by providing a purtative proof, critizing its weak points, shoring them up, etc. This process can require clarification/abstraction: If the a priori assumed axiom systems of the involved mathematicians differ, they may have to move from "X is true" to "Axiom system Y proves X". If a statement written by a mathematician using classical logic is read literally by a constructivist, it will often be false - but constructivists know how to read classical mathematics in a way that retains truth. Even on the "fringes" of mathematical foundations, say the ultrafinitists would typically attack results as being meaningless, rather than being false. We thus see evidence of a notion of truth that trancends individual view points or perspectives, in manner that most fields of philosophy are not privy to. This also differs from the one in the natural sciences, where experiments can provide an arbiter of truth. On ontology The notion of truth described above is - on purpose - divorced from any assumptions about the ontological status of mathematical objects. One can refuse to entertain this question at all (which essentially leads to formalism, and the unresolved questions of why we are playing this game, and why math works so well to describe nature). The stance that most readily leads to a notion of absolute truth would be platonism in the strict, "one mathematical universal", form. This does not mean that any mathematics not done in the "one and only correct system" is invalid - since we can translate between the various systems, we can recover (almost) all other systems as a fragment of the chosen true reality. A stance that seems widespread amongst mathematicians working on foundations is that of mathematical relativism (described very nicely by Andrej Bauer here). We just accept a plethora of mathematical universes, and study those we find most fascinating. Depending on what is meant by absolute truth, this might be incompatible with such things. Conclusion Mathematics offers far more absolute truth than other areas, but asking for perfectly absolute truth probably doesnt make much sense. 

The BwO is the limit of the body; not the surface or flesh, but an especially intense body; a key point here is about affectivity being originary. Artaud is really the principal reference here (cf. To Have Done with the Judgment of God.) Too quickly: the BwO is not an image of the body, unless we conceive of 'imaging' as 'potentialization', in other words as an 'infernal' vision which assembles a virtual field or process of actualization. Keep in mind that every organ has its own rate of flow/breaks, it has speeds and so even its own time; so that there are many temporal dimensions present in a single organism. These organs are not identical with the body, its limit-surface/potentiality, which is glorious, intensive, 'all by itself'. Artaud discovers, in the depth and agony of his suffering, that affectivity exceeds the individual organism (even the definite article) and is in some way a process more primary than recognition or even perception (since perception has a relationship with activity that affection does not). The body without organs is passive and yet repels the organs. Making yourself a BwO involves freeing lines of flight, experimenting with intensive segments, in a meticulous and even ascetic relation with stratification/organization. One key for me is about the development and organization of new senses, forces, problems -- discovering what a body can do, what a body may become sensitive to -- which involves possibly dangerous (at the very least unpredictable) encounters, and which still all risks remaining a negative exercise without the concepts which could empower and affirm these new distributions of sense, these new problems which reconfigure what is important/unimportant, interesting/uninteresting, etc. This is not the most clear explication of the BwO, of course -- but hopefully it represents some starting-points for further research. 

Your argument shows that a naive implementation of utilitarianism that defines global utility as the sum of personal utilities would not work if utilities are allowed to include both positive and negative infinity. For this argument to have any bearing on utlitarianism at all, you would need to argue that both positive and negative infinity are indispensable as potential values of individual utilities, and you will find this to be very difficult. Note that we already run into big problems here simply by considering probabilitistic events: What would be the expected utility of tossing a coin to either receive $+\infty$ or $-\infty$? All formal approaches I am familiar with tend to demand that utility values are real numbers, and hence disallow infinite utility values. In particular in a context where we are going to aggregate different utility values, it may even be prudent to demand that utility values come from a bounded interval, to avoid running into this situation: SMBC comic 

An approach to make sense of the necessary vs contingent truth distinction is by considering a theory $T$ and a model $M$ of that theory. Theorems of $T$ are the necessary truths in $T$. Statements that hold in $M$ but are not theories of $T$ are the contingent truths. If we follow this approach, then the question of whether AC (if true) is a necessary or contingent truth essentially depends on the question what our chosen foundational theory is. We could consider all models of ZF as potential mathematical worlds, and just explore one where AC is true right now. But we could just as well start with ZFC as theory, and thus deem AC to be necessary. Ultimately, this question does not really lead us anywhere, I believe. 

Just in passing and much too long for a comment: Deleuze's thoughts on this may be aggressive -- but keep in mind that (as he says) the question "what is the use of philosophy?" itself is intended to be caustic or at least ironic. So the ideas below may not be expressed with your sensibilities in mind, but they are certainly not meant to insult anyone. He does say that philosophy makes stupidity something shameful, but again this is not exactly an insult to anyone -- given again that he emphasizes that philosophy is at its most positive as an enterprise of critique, dispelling the various myths that stupidity falls for. For background, here are the relevant remarks from Nietzsche and Philosophy (p. 106 of this edition): 

So, there are a number of things I am actually after with this, but to try to encapsulate the concern briefly: which thinkers or writers might comment on the relationship between animals and human beings? In particular, I am concerned about the meaning of a certain "non-relation" that our habitual relations with animals tends towards, a gap between animals and human beings; perhaps particularly within the context of the history of philosophy. I have been reading and enjoying the recently translated Two Lessons on Animal and Man by Gilbert Simondon; I am also planning on working through Derrida's The Beast and the Sovereign. (I have also been considering trying to read Agamben's Homo Sacer, and perhaps Guattari's Three Ecologies, alongside these.) While I would be interested in finding out about any works that might help supplement the study, anything from critical animal studies to deconstructionist/schizoanalytic approaches to the general question, I would definitely love to discover a robust critical study of the animal-human relation in Western thought/letters. 

I read your question as Is computationalism falsifiable? In the comments, Not_Here argues that it is, because we would just need to demonstrate that minds can solve non-computable problems, e.g. the halting problem. However, to experimentally demonstrate that a mind solves the halting problem, we need to show that it correctly determines halting for all possible inputs. We immediately run into two problems: First, we have no general way of checking the answers - after all, the halting problem is non-computable. Second, any experiment can only deal with a finite number of inputs, and we would need to test them all. Essentially, the claim that a device (which always answers) solves the Halting problem is itself only falsifiable, but not decidable. We could find out that a given model of minds is able to solve the Halting problem, but that only tells us that this model and computationalism are inconsistent. It is not helpful in determining which one to let go. If you wish to avoid using theory for non-falsifiable stuff, I would recommend the word paradigm. 

Adorno might be interesting to you, but consider looking at certain composers who also “write” — Cage and Xenakis come to mind. Attali’s Noise: The Political Economy of Music is also highly recommended in this vein. 

Good and evil refer ultimately to a moral judgment: that you have an intent to do good or evil. It’s more difficult to ascribe intentionality to lower “orders” of creatures, and especially the cultural and religious sorts of intentionality associated with the ethical act. Could a paramecium have a “consciousness of guilt”? What about a fly? Dogs certainly seem to have an internal life (at least appear to emote shame, guilt, etc.) Monkeys engage in what some characterize as war, suggesting something like the “sociocultural intentionality” (which I’m positing here as a kind of “floor” for the intelligibility of the good-evil distinction) might be present. 

Mozibur's answer is great. I would just add that their "hostage-taking" of language is in almost every instance thoroughly grounded in literature or science (or other philosophers in turn). In particular, consider reading Lautman, Ruyer and Simondon; these are critical sources for Deleuze, and will make many of his subtleties more clear (Nietzsche and Spinoza can also help here too.) In terms of Guattari, it can help to keep in mind that he is a student and former analysand of Lacan, and that despite their break-up there is an awful lot that Lacan can help us with in terms of understanding the kind of project that Felix Guattari is pursuing. There is an especially intensive use of language in these texts that (as they point out) wavers, perhaps intolerably, between analyst and patient. --However, in terms of the problem of "grounding" texts like Anti-Oedipus, it may help to keep in mind a few things: 

What is going on here is the implicit use of a criterion like Popper's falsifiability to assign the burden of proof; and a helping of Laplace' "I have no need of such assumption". If a sufficiently specified God is discussed, then it becomes reasonable to ask for evidence for either existence or non-existence. We have climbed Mount Olympos, and found no sign of Zeus, etc. However, typically such debates are about very unspecific notions of God. The believer could still offer evidence, by specifying God however he wants, and then suggesting matching evidence. The New Atheist argues that until that happens, the default position should be to assume non-existence - just as we do with many other hypothetical constructs. 

Fundamentally, category theory does not seek to model "having a structure". It rather starts from the realization that the way how we use the structure is typically via the structure-preserving or reflecting maps; and that it is only the maps that really matter. For example, in topology the topology is just to define what continuous functions are. Everything else can be expressed in terms of continuous functions (not at least because we can recover the topology on X by looking at the continuous functions from X to Sierpisnki space). Sticking with topology, one can then see that for many results in topology, the precise nature of the continuous functions is irrelevant. Most theorems have natural counterparts in the setting of computable functions. This is because the relevant categories have very similar properties. 

The virtual could feasibly be said to name this place where factual and counter factual coincide, or the matrix of this interface. (Combray as it was never lived, conjured up now-here in glory.) The virtual is described as real-without-actuality — this is again a Proustism. It is “like a memory or dream” but wakeful. Perhaps something here is trying to move, trying to set up the conditions of thinking, the conditions of the event of thinking; the encounter which forces us to think. In the virtual every “inconceivable” encounter is incompossibly realized. Maybe most poignantly the virtual is temporization, it is the spirituality or non-substantiality of time. Though the past does not exist, we access it through a virtual plot hole (e.g., time is crystallized in music especially, but all the plastic arts deal with these delicate “spiritual” signs...) 

To some degree this is presumably a legal question, but my question is really trying to ask about the principle here. I guess the core question is about what expectations a "reasonable" agent might be construed to have as regards privacy. The edge case where even consciousness is somehow public and legible is what particularly interests me here, though. What if any might the ethical implications be of inspecting a sentient machines' code, or perhaps more provocatively, somehow directly inspecting its "qualia" while it's running? (Though presumably at this post-Singularity point, many of the ethical referents that sustain an individual expectation of privacy would have mutated irrecognizably...)