It's similar to consistency within electricity. It's the same voltage (the same typical of consistent speed) which generate various events which may be used to generate various comparison, which may lead us to perceive different times, different speeds. I believe (closer) to the root level of particles, all of these kind of particles (closer) to the root level, ONE TO ANOTHER, have the same (or closer) frequency and pulsating at the same (or closer) moment (it's like two metronomes are playing identically) no matter where they are. I will leave it to scientist to prove (perceive) it. It's universal time, where time can be measured based on this understanding. 

A proposition is always provable (by a programming system) "G" is a proposition Therefore, "G" is always provable" 

We have senses, and from these senses derive ethics. Democracy in our society is merely product of humanity that derived from ethics. It's one of ways to make a specific response to the situation. But since ethics have various ways to be implemented, then there are more possible leaderships that can be implemented for society life. Limiting the possibility to run our society strictly under specific system is an opposite to the possibility of changeability of communities, and there won't be any help for progression for survival on our communities. Depending only to one system political will put community into imbalance that will place our communities into possible worse scenarios for our life. For example, understanding that a community is the power, is not perfectly right. Under specific circumstances, a democracy might be left behind, where aristocracy might stand for a while. During world war, there were less democracy, but both the essence of democracy (people's power) and aristocracy (direct command from military) helping each other to win the war. Besides, giving democracy alone as the strongest force may change community itself from democracy into tyranny by society. We need balance. 

Responsibility It is the fact that the persecution against the elements of the ecosystem will affect the lives of others. That is the consequence, but that's all we can do, except that one day the animals can talk to us forward thinking and shows how the animals also have a stake in our survival. But while animals can not communicate well to voice their rights, their rights is an implied rights that can be captured (understood) by any intelligent creature. 

(ONLY IF) (P) then (Q) (IS A MUST) = (ONLY IF) (you need a wallet) then (I buy a wallet) (IS A MUST) = "ONLY IF you need it then I MUST buy a new wallet for you" 

Without these, we may be drawn into fake believe (we believe that we are not dreaming, but actually we don't realize that we are still dreaming). It's not about "we are not dreaming" or "we are dreaming", but it's about we are living with continuation as it should be or not. This understanding not only put us on awareness whether we are dreaming or not, but this understanding lead us to be open minded to accept any possible realities whether we are dreaming or not and put us away from fake responsibilities for others and for ourselves. It's the essence of living. 

From here i will use dependency on proposition to make us see a clear distinction for possible arrangement (easier then using syllogism). 

Philosophical question has never been answered until there is an answer to it that can be implemented within reality. So we can consider it as knowledge and use it for our purpose, then we believe it as a wisdom for ourselves. Further we can share our knowledge to others and may be our answer will be a wisdom for someone else. Answering a philosophical question as an understanding (theoretical) to further it gives us awareness about our limitation and for us to be implemented by answering a philosophical question through an appropriate action. It's tangible philosophy. Without it, philosophy is far away from its essence! Something that may be forgotten. 

An argument is a knowledge about specific causality. Causality can't go further outside boundaries. Causality is related to realities. A piece of reality is an existence. And an existence is exist as far as we perceive. We perceive something at different levels, therefore a piece of reality can be perceived by us differently to someone else. How we perceive something can be provided through our five senses (or even more for someone believe in spirituality - third eye for an example). Through these senses we have awareness to an existence. The more we can use our senses to identify something, the more an existence that we perceived become closer to us (more real). What an 'objective' statement or argument really is? Therefore our statement is more objective if we can: 

But "i know" means "i am aware" rather than "i am focusing" on something, therefore "I know that I know something" is equal to "I am aware that I am aware of something". It asserts possibilities. Those are: 

(ONLY IF) (Q) (is perceived) then (P) (IS A MUST) (be perceived) = (ONLY IF) existence (is perceived) then functions (IS A MUST) (be perceived) = "ONLY IF there is perceiving existence, then there MUST BE perceiving functions" 

Dependency of Proposition for Incompleteness Theorem Now, we try to place this incompleteness theorem issue to a dependency of proposition to learn something whatever it is. Kurt Godel Logical Framework Syllogism G = Unprovable Proposition 

Rather than saying there is true selfless but assert a little bit egoism, better say "there is proper selfishness that is in line with ethics and moral. Besides, it's SELF-LESS (LESS, but not completely "NO-SELF", just LESS for the degree of SELF). 

Less or more ... The Essence: But, if we define for how the two things can be considered the same at the essential level, then it's strictly can be asserted as "there is something on the first thing that exist within the second thing". The more the same for the two things each other, the more the same completeness in between the two each other. 

Causality is within boundaries. If causality is outside boundaries then there is no causality. And we are not changing the element of causality, but we rearranged, directing possibilities within boundaries for specific purposes. And each time we do arranging, directing possibilities, we will get new knowledge that may be adapted for our own purposes. This knowledge can be considered as assertion to a specific behavior of causality. And cause & effect part of an individuals theory of the mind, it's where we collect different knowledge compared to someone else. Further, cause & effect is not a part of an individuals theory of the mind, it's where we can't be outside boundaries. 

Questioning is asking for solution (completion to the specific extent) in any possible means relevantly, and answering is giving the fact or solution in any possible means relevantly (whether through giving ability to imagine, or point to nowhere - "helping by asserting there is no answer", or to get something or any possible means relevantly). : This question (request) may be accomplished (fulfilled) in any possible means relevantly (there is an answer, there is an accomplishment whatever it is). IT ASSERTS (just) POSSIBILITIES OF FULFILLMENT TO THE SPECIFIC EXTENT 

Pleaser refer to SuperEgo, Id and Ego for further understanding. I am not supporting exactly what Sigmund freud said, but part of his work has the closer principle as mine and it can be used as citation to make a clear understanding on this case. I have different point of view (Bending Consciousness) regarding on this. The points are: We can always trace back our current choices to previous events with limitations that dominate us and lead us to current decisions. Therefore, what does it mean to have freedom as a human? 

We do something for our happiness. This happiness may be in line with (or against) our ethics and moral (for some religions). Happiness has levels, but essentially to get satisfaction (whether it's bad or good). We can do evil and we will get happiness. We can do good and we will get happiness. But both have differences. 

Opposite Direction of Causal Chain Infinite backward asserts a causal chain: If infinite backward asserts new creation, then there is a causal chain at forward direction closer to current The Intersection of The Two Opposite Directions of The Causal Chain Backward direction and forward direction of causal chain are ended at the uncaused cause: The two points close together assert consequences that each of the two points must be an uncaused cause or both of the two points as uncaused causes, therefore for the last consequence if there is no one as a cause for the other then it asserts there is a creation that exist from nowhere which is an uncaused cause itself. SYLLOGISM