My belief is no, it does not. I like to think about it this way, there is a brain; the physical manifestation of our mental capacities, inside the brain lay or rather the brain itself comprises the infrastructure for our senses. Then, there is the mind; the mind uses the brain's capacities to make sense of the world. The mind represents the plentitude of mental models we create to navigate our lives. Then, there is the self, the self is the integration of the information from the combined efforts of the brain and mind to a reference point, that reference point being the self. Another way to think about this is say for example if a building were to be built. The brain can be the concrete, and the metal, and iron and all the different physical materials used to construct the structure. The mind then is the instructions, the plan of how it should be constructed. The self can then be thought of the lead engineer or architect who uses the plans and the materials to make something of his/her own. The opinion here is that the self is where consciousness lives. Anyways, what all this leads up to is, the senses, as we experience them can thought to be an interaction between the brain and mind. The senses however, are not part of the self which is consciousness. Are the inner-workings of an ear belonging to someone in a coma incapable of picking up sounds? I'd venture to argue they are perfectly capable of it. Again, disclaimer here, there is just personal opinion 

Option 2 is correct. One could also use resolution. If there's a clause p∨¬q and another clause q∨r, one can conclude p∨r. If there's no such pair of clauses, the set is satisfiable. Otherwise one gets a smaller set of clauses and since it's finite one will finish after a finite number of steps (possibly arriving at a contradiction). 

Emmon Bach uses in "The algebra of events" the term 'eventuality' to denote states, events, processes, etc. How can their actual existence be expressed logically? For example, when I say "John came" the eventuality e in ∃e.came(John) obtains whereas in "I want John to come" John's coming is an eventuality which doesn't obtain. Can a first-order predicate be used, something like Obtains(e)? 

Davidson argues that events are individuals. According to him, the meaning of Brutus stabbed Caesar is ∃e.stab(e,Brutus,Caesar), that is, there was a stabbing, Brutus did it, and Caesar underwent it. Likewise, Caesar died means ∃e.die(e, Caesar). Is there a reason not to view states as individuals, too? Something like ∃s.dead(s, Caesar) for Caesar is dead? One could then say, for example, that 

unless you are expecting to save at least two persons from certain death (if you hadn't donated these healthy organs), i don't even seeing this as increasing utility. 

to get along with me, you need respect my religion no more nor less than i respect your irreligion. you should check out who Dawkins, et. al. are so you know what Alexander King is referring to. if we let each other bring up our kids, within societal norms, but with respect to our own world view, we'll get along. if one of us forces the other to rear the other's kids in accordance to our own world view, we won't get along. we need to respect each other's world views at least to that extent. what are those "societal norms"? they vary with societies and some societies are nasty and oppressive. but if someone's supposed religion requires or excuses some practice like human sacrifice or even adults using kids for sex, i don't give a shit about what they think about their religion, i am for the State intervening. to that extent, i do not respect their religion. in a pluralistic society, it can be sometimes hard to come to a consensus regarding what domains of activity are protected and what are not. i feel we do pretty well in the U.S., but had not always done so well. religious pacifists were not granted space to practice their pacifism until the mid 20th century (WW2). even today there are issues regarding parochial schooling and the State's interest in accreditation. there are religions, even various quasi-Christian denominations, that i do not fully respect. but i respect them enough to agree to disagree peacefully and to provide mutual dignity. 

I think it's far more obvious than what you're trying to make it out to be. He is essentially saying he has no idea, and neither does anyone else. I don't particularly agree with him, and it may just come down to semantics. That is to say, what he categorizes as "unconscious thought" may very well be part of the "no free will" argument. 

This is not an answer, but I can't add a comment yet so here are my thoughts. First, why is this a paradox? It seems your question begins to fall on probability. If so, there's no paradox there, that is simple the game of life. In theory you can flip a coin an infinite amount of times and get either heads or tails on each flip. The frequency with which you will get either a heads or a tail eventually will fall on some limiting value, as the number of flips increases. This may only begin to become a paradox, given one's absolute conviction on the existence of a God, because the fact that there is a God and the fact that there isn't a God are equally probable events in all cases. But usually, you don't have someone with absolute conviction in some form of God's existence who will also be convinced about the 50/50 chance of God existing. 

how much evil would "so much" be? where is the line? when i have arguments/discussions with apologists of atheism (not presuming any position from Alex) there are two issues that they consider slam-dunks that i consider less than that. one, of course, is the Problem of Evil (the other is the God of the Gaps thingie which we can leave to a different discussion about purpose and teleology). about the Problem of Evil, the apologists of atheism are so convinced that they know the mind of God, if God existed. and then because their concept of the mind of God, that they believe they understand, is so non-sensible in human terms, that it must mean that God can't exist. i consider that position flawed. it doesn't mean that i understand the mind of God either, so much that i can dismiss the Problem of Evil. i cannot. but i don't presume that the Problem of Evil authoritatively concludes that God cannot be all of Good, All-powerful, All-knowing, and Existing. yet i acknowledge the reality of deep Evil in this world, and i assume if there are other planets in the Universe somewhere with conscious, sentient, and sapient life, that those beings will likely have virtually the same problem. BTW, Plantinga has a great response to Dawkins called The Dawkins Confusion. 

Again, the logical form of (4) implies that of (3) (since A & B ⊃ A). But in this case, (3) entails (4) because "few" is a decreasing quantifier. Is there a simple solution to this "paradox"? Update: a note on the notation (to avoid confusion): In Davidsonian event semantics, sentences are represented as (existential closures of) conjunctions of literals. In dog(x), x can be a dog or a set of dogs (or some others individual that can be lexically described as dog). In this so-called conjunctivist approach, every(x) implies that x isn't a specific dog, but - as some put it - a typical/generic individual defined by the eventuality dog(e,x). There's one axiom in the theory that say that if something holds of a generic element of a set, there's an eventuality with the same predicate for every member of that set. Formally, genericel(x,s) & y∈s & P(e,x) ⊃ (∃e′)P(e′,y). This technique is widely used in commonsense reasoning, but as one can see, there are problems with some quantifiers. 

In event semantics the logical form of (1) is (∃e,x) every(x) & dog(x) & bark(e,x). As for (2), one would add the conjunct loud(e). The latter formula implies the former, as one would expect. Now consider 

well, both religion and science question, search, and make claims about "Truth" and/or "Realtity", whatever the heck those things are. for the most part they are involved in non-intersecting domains. what Stephen Jay Gould called non-overlapping magisteria. but not always. someone might believe in a transcendent God and that such a transcendent God has interacted in the reality experienced by human beings. for example, Christians normally believe that God has acted in history in the person of Jesus. they may believe that Jesus died while being crucified and within 72 hours was resurrected. none of us were around back then which makes it pretty difficult to decisively disprove this belief, but even so this claim does not belong in a physiology textbook unless there are repeated instances of this phenomenon which might indicate something like this happening again, when we can measure and document such an event. in this manner, both religion and science are making a fact claim in an overlapping portion of their respective magisteria and the fact claims are incompatible. other religions may claim their own miracles and "science" (whatever the hell that is) has something definite to say about the miracles. if a person who is a believer and also is a scientist or dabbles in science and requires that their observations and scientific method be subjected to their religious belief and possibly the scripture of their religious belief, it is my opinion that they practice both poor science and poor religion. and, except if one's faith or belief system is materialism or physicalism, it does not seem to me to be totally schitz to hold beliefs in both realities. perhaps even for a materialist, there is plenty in our observed reality that seems contradictory to other observation of reality. we just don't know what the hell it all is about. a little bit of humility coming from the devoutly theistic or devoutly atheistic is, in my opinion, healthy.