You should definitely get a space for them. If at all possible, that space should be within the space where the rest of your team works - not in corner by themselves, and certainly not remote. Interns aren't hired solely to get tasks completed. They are hired to learn how to work, how to fit into a corporate culture, how to prioritize, how to perform the relevant tasks. In addition, you have indicated that you might want to hire them eventually. Thus, you need to be able to see and evaluate their daily work. They need to see and evaluate you and your company as well - so they can make an informed decision if you do offer them a job. Interns need mentors that can help them. They need interaction with those mentors frequently - ideally every day. That interaction is best handled face-to-face. There is plenty of time later in their career for remote work - after they have been hired, after they can be fully trusted, and when they need less daily interaction and instruction. 

Assuming you want the new job, in all cases you should write the salary you had when working at your previous job. That is specifically what they are expecting you to do. Doing anything else risks having your application rejected. If you decide not to do that for any reason, write "N/A" (for Not Applicable) if alphanumerics are permitted and "0" if they are not. Be prepared to discuss it in person if they should decide to go ahead with your application and call you in for an interview. We could debate whether or not it is a good idea for an employer to ask for such information on an application (IMHO, it's not), and whether or not most online forms are a good way to gather such information (they aren't), but that isn't the question asked here. The reality is that many companies do ask for these details using online forms. Not following their requests will often lead to a quick rejection. 

Don't use an excuse - just tell the truth. You didn't really know what you wanted at the time, but have since concluded that the other company is a better fit. And thank then for their consideration. And, don't expect to end on a good note or stay in touch. It's probably not going to happen. 

It mostly depends on the industry and locale. I work in software, and the only companies I have ever worked for who didn't have annual reviews were early-stage startups. My wife works for dentists and has never worked for one who ever held annual reviews. More important than formal annual reviews is 

It's fine ethically to provide interview feedback, but first you have to get permission from at least two people and probably three - the one making the hiring decision, and the candidate. You may also need HR's permission, depending on company policies. The hiring manager might not want you to provide feedback to the candidate. Your opinions might not coincide with opinions of others in the interview schedule, and could scare a candidate away, or conversely give a candidate inappropriate hope for being hired. HR might not want you to provide feedback for fear that you would say the wrong thing and open the company up to a discrimination lawsuit. (They are often very protective/conservative that way). And the candidate might not want your feedback for any number of personal reasons. Without permission, you shouldn't provide this feedback. You could ask the hiring manager and HR before the interviews start if it would be okay to provide such feedback. And you could ask the candidate after the interview if they would like feedback. If they both agree, then your feedback might be very useful. (As a hiring manager, I would never agree. I want to be in control of the entire interviewing/hiring process as much as possible. While I understand your well-considered motives, there are too many things that could complicate negotiations.) 

Perhaps, but maybe not. Companies don't want to go through a long, time-consuming interview and offer process with candidates who they believe aren't interested. 

So clearly a disconnect occurred somewhere in your interview process. Either you heard things that made you assume it was the same as your previous jobs, or they assumed you knew the nature of the work. Either way, use this as a learning experience for what you need to ask in future interviews to be sure the job is what you need it to be. 

While it's not inappropriate to ask such a question, in my experience it more likely sets a negative tone. I'd prefer you go in with a positive mindset like "Why should there be "concerns" - I am a terrific candidate!" Additionally, most interviewers aren't going to reply with a snap judgement about you anyway. Most likely you will get a very generalized answer, and your "very mature argument" will be wasted - you cannot argue interviewers into selecting you. If you know there will be concerns, then address them as a normal part of the interview - always pointing out the positive aspects, never dwelling on the negative. And your final question could be more along the lines of "I'm really excited about what I've heard today - what is the next step!" (This sets the assumption that there will be a next step.) 

Whenever you have a disturbance like this that hurts your work, the solution is virtually always the same - talk directly with the person who can help solve the problem. In this case, you should talk with the dog's owner, and explain how the dog's snoring interferes with your productivity. Perhaps the owner doesn't even realize the problem this is causing, and perhaps there's something simple (another sleeping location, a different dog bed, etc) that can be done. If that fails (either because the owner isn't reacting, or because the owner's changes haven't solved the problem), you'll need to escalate the issue to your boss, and perhaps the dog owner's boss. There are dozens of possible solutions here - from disallowing pets to moving your workspace. But first, talk to the owner. Good luck! 

Something like "Thanks, but I'm no longer interested." should suffice if you just want to turn down the interview. You don't need to justify your actions. If instead, you want to change the recruiter's behavior you could start with "Sorry, but I won't proceed without first knowing far more about the nature of the project." (Personally, I never pursue a position without first knowing quite a lot about it.) In general, if you don't like the way a recruitment is proceeding, just bow out. If you don't think it's worth 2-3 hours of your time to fill out a form - don't do it. And if you don't like a particular recruiter, stop working with him/her. 

Talk to your manager. Express your career path desires pretty much as you have in this paragraph. Indicate that you aren't planning to stop working hard, that you aren't planning to go into cruise control, and that you are simply happy doing what you are doing. Make sure you convey that you won't become bored. You might not want to express a goal of "working fewer hours" unless you are thinking about going part-time and adjusting your salary down accordingly. Fewer hours tends not to be well-received in some companies. Pay attention to how your manager responds - both verbally and otherwise. If you sense that due to your company culture this won't go over well, then it might be time for you to start looking for a new company that meets your personal needs. I've been on the manager side of this equation before. Sometimes folks are simply happy where they are with no desire for advancement. Assuming the team is large enough, not everyone on a team needs to be a star - the team can afford for some members to be really, really good at what they do without looking to grow much. Some companies understand that, unfortunately not all do. If you do decide to move on, one sure way of working at your level of choice and the number of hours you prefer is to be a contractor. Contractors can set their rates, their hours, and find jobs with expectations that are set up contractually. 

As you seem to already know, it would be foolish to tell your boss that you are taking a course in a technology that you have been repeatedly told will not be implemented at your shop, and about which the boss is already wary. And lying is seldom a good idea. Instead, just ask about rescheduling your hours so that you can take a continuing education course (assuming you actually need to give some reason at all). Most employers won't ask about the specifics - particularly if you have taken courses in the past or if taking courses is a typical thing in your office. If challenged, indicate that it's a "technology" course, but don't specify the technology. If you conclude that this approach is still too risky, then take a course that you can attend without changing your schedule. 

Not all North American employers post "vague" job requirements. Many are extremely detailed and restrictive. If you find one that you deem to be "vague" then it might be intentionally so. It might be that the company realizes that exactness of applicants' background is less important than overall "fit". So you are free to match your background to the vague requirements and decide for yourself if you think the job sounds appealing, and if you believe you qualify. Don't worry about an exactness of match. You'll find out during the interview process if there is a fit or not. 

Not in my experience, no. Pretty much every company creates job descriptions. Each description indicates the minimum requirements for someone holding that position, the number of years experience required, along with job duties and other attributes. I haven't ever seen a job description where the prefix "Senior" meant only "holds a degree". In general, it's never that simple. Virtually every job description specifies a mix of degree requirements and experience requirements. In many cases experience can substitute for a degree. It's possible that in your shop the designation "Senior" denotes a degree and nobody who is degree-less could ever become a "Senior". In my part of the world, that would be unusual. In every company where I have ever worked, someone with 20+ years of experience, plus 7 years in the position would almost certainly be at least a "Senior", if not beyond. If management would let you review the written job descriptions for "Software Developer", "C++ Developer" and "Senior Software Developer" you could probably figure it out very quickly. (In my shop you could ask for and receive any job description on file.)