This makes it clear that the poor tend to be more democrat voting. This view is reinforced by analysis of the pattern of voting for congress shown below: 

The study is not entirely dismissive that there may be some effects but it tends to show they are smaller and less significant than perviously thought: 

The rest of the article is illuminating for discussion about the uncertainties of MDMA research. Reviews of the effects of MDMA have been conducted in the last few years. One such review by the ACMD (the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, the scientific body intended to advise the UK government about the science of drugs) concluded that the drug was far less harmful than cocaine and heroin and should be downgraded. The government ignored this advice. Later, David Nutt, the chairman of the ACMD was sacked by the government when he (perfectly reasonably on statistical grounds) pointed out that Ecstasy was less harmful than recreational horse riding (see Nutt's book). It is worth quoting their summary of the literature and known science. All the following quotes are from (different sections of) the ACMD report. 

According to a news report in The Register, people who drink coffee are substantially less at risk from depression than those who drink sweetened drinks. The article reports: 

Other papers from the same team concluded that efficiency also improves. Meanwhile Propper's team had independently reached a similar result (working paper here). Propper summarises: 

Electronic cigarettes may not be harmless but they are clearly much less harmful than cigarettes Public Health England (PHE) produced a review of e-cigs in the middle of 2015 which came to this conclusion: 

As you can see, the answer "No religion" is trending upwards at around 10% per decade. Christianity is trending downwards at about the same rate. The total of the categories "No religion", "Object to answering" and "Not stated" is at around 50% of the population in New Zealand. Christianity makes up about 43% of the total population in New Zealand. If the rates stay constant, we would expect that after 36 years, the percentage of Christians in New Zealand will have dropped by 36% which would leave 8% of the population left as Christians. The same would be true for the No Religion group in the reverse direction, going up by 36% to 74%. The percentage of non-Christian religions has been growing over the last four censuses, however the rate of change is smaller than the other two groups. At about 2% per decade, by 2050 they would make up 13% of the population, outnumbering Christians. From this simple projection, they along with the "Object to answering" and "Not stated" groups would make up the remainder of the population. This is a simple projection from existing trends and is not highly likely to be precisely correct however it does suggest that the prediction of less than 10% religious by 2050 is close to what we should expect. 

While I haven't addressed every claim and every paper your article contains, the small part I did examine shows that your article does not do a good job of correctly reporting the results of the studies. 

So the dose rate for fentanyl is about 1% that of heroin by weight (crudely suggesting that fentanyl is at least 100 time more potent than heroin. The warning sections in formularies spend a lot of time on getting the dose titration correct because of risk of overdose and fentanyl seems to be more problematic than heroin (which is not exactly easy to start with). So even under medical supervision fentanyl is dangerous because of the risk of overdose. The amount that will actually be fatal, though, depends on the patient and will be higher in a patient used to the drug than in a fresh user. On any measure though, fentanyl is far more potent than heroin which makes it especially dangerous in unsupervised hands or when sourced illegally as the dosage will vary unpredictably and dangerously. Note. For those who have trouble accessing the BNF link (there are some restrictions on access), you can get the content as an iPhone app and in print. For other ways to access the information see the wikipedia page. 

Medical professionals are one of the most trusted groups in society. So we tend to trust them to do a good job without asking too many questions. So when a study showed that the simple application of surgical checklists could lead to a 36% reduction in complications and a 47% reduction in mortality not everyone believed the results (original BMJ report here) with one critic commenting: 

A reanalysis of the known results when Poldermans' work is excluded showed that the standard recommended practice of using beta-blockers would significantly increase deaths. Forbes summarises their initial results: 

The chart chooses just the lowest number. The chart considers the foundation programme to be starting work rather than training and the university degree to be training. The source consistently calls the foundation programme training. 

This is a case of cherry picking. You have chosen the highest number on the page, regardless of its relevance and failed to mention that in the same group in following years the ratio was reversed. More people who were not given the advice died than those who were given it in some time periods. The paper includes comments on this table: 

Which suggests that some trainee doctors earn more than the basic salary. If we consider this foundation programme to be training rather than a starting salary for a fully qualified doctor then it should be compared to the £20k - £30k training wage for a train driver. It is still possible that some trainee doctors may earn less than some train driver trainees in the first year of training but most doctors will be earning more by the second year, even if they do no overtime or unusual hours. It's worth noting that for the London Underground drivers, some shifts will start before 6am and some will end after 12pm. This BBC article says "as early as 04:45 and end as late as 01:30". No mention is made in the chart of the higher salaries that doctors can earn. 

Amongst other errors such as severely underestimating the value for the carbon footprint of the car's manufacture. They also suggest that the authors have not included "indirect impact like roads, bridges, and fuel infrastructure." An article on Grist compounds up all these errors and adds a few more to calculate that the book authors are off by a factor of 18. 

Short answer: depends how they are designed and how you use them. The important thing to understand about any sort of fluorescent tube (including CFLs) is that it will have rather more ways to fail than a simple incandescent bulb. An incandescent bulb is, essentially, a carefully tuned resistor designed to heat up to a white heat when a normal current flows through it (the resistance and voltage depending on the country and bulb type with DC bulbs usually being 12v and mains AC bulbs being 110v or 220v roughly). They fail when the resistor filament breaks usually because even tungsten evaporates slowly when white hot. Some specialist bulbs (eg halogens) are made of specialist materials to minimise this effect and allow the filament to run hotter which is why they emit "whiter" light. There are few, if any, external effects that alter this basic mechanism and change the lifetime (except extreme physical shock isn't usually significant for fixed fitting in houses). Typical fluorescent tubes are far more complicated. The light is emitted by a phosphor coating on the inside of the glass which is excited by ultraviolet light from a discharge in mercury vapour inside the tube. But getting a discharge to start and be sustained in the tube is not trivial. Domestic tubes rely on a ballast which contains some electronics which kick-starts the discharge and controls the current to a constant level. To achieve a reasonable current the electrodes are usually heated (exactly like a normal incandescent bulb but cooler). Bearing this in mind, there are three key ways the lamps can fail. The electrodes can fail by the same mechanism as a standard bulb; the electronics can fail; and the phosphor can "wear out". Moreover, because they are more complex than simple incandescent bulbs, the way they are used can impact those failure modes. As the Lamptech site summarises (talking mainly about standard linear tubes, but the mechanisms are the same in CFLs): 

According to CyberBunker, a Dutch Police SWAT team attempted a raid on their property but were so unsuccessful in gaining entry that staff didn't even notice the attempts until they reviewed the security footage later that afternoon. After the DDoS attacks aimed at Spamhaus last year, many stories were written about CyberBunker which repeated this claim. 

The future is difficult to predict which is why we tend to avoid it here at Skeptics. These trends show what will happen if the forces at work do not change and the rates stay constant. Predicting for certain that the rates will stay constant until 2050 is beyond the abilities of science. 

This chart suggests that the percentage of the No Religion group in the younger population is greater than in the overall population. As they get older, you would expect the overall population to more closely match what we see in the younger population now. This is the chart from 2006 but the chart from the 2013 census shows a similar pattern. 

An article on The Guardian mentions a flaw that has been raised with the book's methodology: that the meat used for pet food is not grown for the purpose and would still exist even if pets didn't. 

Elsewhere, a specific value for top of the salary scale for tube drivers is listed as £49,673. ASLEF (the train driver's union) lists it as £48,133 Various sources state that London Tube drivers salaries do not change based on the time spent in the role. The chart states that doctors work "min 48" hours per week however the source document says 48 hours per week in one part and the maximum is 48 hours further down the page. 

No. Because the idea itself is too poorly defined and naive interpretations are often bad for shareholders in practice If the legal obligation to maximize profit for shareholders existed we would have to develop a good definition of how is is to be measured. Alas there isn't even a unique way to summarize a stream of known cash payments over time into a single current value (the net present value calculation yields different results for different discount rates). The standard way of thinking about quoted company values which claims to resolve the problem of which discount rate to choose (the capital asset pricing model) has serious problems despite its wide acceptance (well summarized by wikipedia). Many of the issues come down to a judgement call about making an costly investment now for higher profits in the future or just giving the cash to shareholders instead. This is a hard matter of judgement and coping with uncertainty in the future. The Shareholder Value movement has been influential in promoting the idea that cashflow to shareholders should be the focus of senior management in quoted companies. The movement has led to some beneficial changes in business practice, but has also led many leaders to become overly obsessed with their share prices. As John Kay (a british economist and commentator) has pointed out: 

They proceed to make an econometric argument that spending more on health would boost the economy arguing: 

Is the popular mythology wrong to assume that the British invented Radar first and that that invention was vital to the victory? 

You claim is contrary to the abstract of the paper. It's worth noting that the fish results changed in the follow up paper as well. 

The chart states a value for a salary at five years but this information is not included in the source. The value £45,000 does not appear in the source. The average of the specialty doctor range listed above is around £53k however it should be noted that we don't know the actual distribution within this range. On a different page from the same site regarding GPs, the salary range is listed as between £55,412 and £83,617. The hours on that page are listed as 50. 

There's also a conflict of interest. The author of the study sells a product that can solve the problems raised by the study: 

The photo is an relatively obvious composite of Dutch police in the foreground and a bunker in the background and is probably not evidence of anything. 

Directly after your claim that the trial would have found statistically significant results if it had lasted longer, you make the claim: 

An older article lists various doctors and tube drivers salaries together. The chart says that tube drivers earn £50k - £60k per year but the source says: 

A blog post by Zoë Harcombe details a long list of problems with the conclusions of this study. She doesn't raise any problems with the methodology of the study, just the conclusions that have been drawn from it. Specifically to answer your question, no protein does not increase the risk of cancer. The study only claims that it does within a certain age group and within the other age group, it is actually associated with a lower risk of cancer. Many conclusions can be drawn from the study but only the ones that make animal protein sound bad actually were, which is suspicious: