Kevlar puncture guard tyres like the Marathon Plus are a bit slower and heavier than non-protected tyres. However, since you will get a flat tyre every year instead of every 2 weeks, you will no longer need to time your trip to arrive 10 minutes early just in case you get a flat. So in the end, it makes the trip faster if you need to arrive at a specific time. And the Marathons plusses last forever. 

In traffic you need to look far ahead, and also look back over your shoulder pretty often. Drop bars make this harder. Also your hand should always be ready on the brake just in case. So, I prefer straight bars. 

...also if you follow the arrow, you will end up into a curb. Bummer. Picture this with pedestrians and other cyclists hiding the bollards. I would just ride on the road: 

You'll need 3 days of rest to get on the bike again! At which point you will realize all the equipment you never truly tested will begin to break (like cheap saddlebags, cheap gloves, etc). Also, if the bike breaks down, you'll have no experience to fix it... Also, on your first day, you will stop a hundred times to adjust your saddle, tune your bike, adjust the damn helmet strap that doesn't fit, realize your shoes give you blisters, and all sorts of tiny pet peeves that don't happen anymore when you got a bike and equipment setup that Just Works. So... start from the beginning LOL 

Everyone has a maximum "enjoyable" power (in watts) that they can output for an certain time, more time means less power of course. A cycling champion might do 400W for 1 hour, a newbie perhaps 80W... Problem is the newbie doesn't know how to listen to his untrained body, so he will cross the red line, especially if well motivated, and will get out of resources (glycogen) or get cramps, acid overdose, or get out of breath, etc. So you need to micromanage the newbies the same way do with your own body when cycling, except you have much less feedback. So you need to chat with them, and very often tell them to go slower. You need to know what is possible for your friends. No matter the motivation, you can not ask the impossible. 

$URL$ This service .pdf indicates that you need 15x26x7 bearings. I did a quick search on Enduros website and they don't appear to make this size in ceramic. A quick web search came up with one option that I could (quickly) find. $URL$ Typically, in my experience, the bearing manufacturers are not going to say that they have a kit for a WTB LaserDisc Lite hub. They simply make bearings of a given size and if they are what you need, great. What the .pdf doesn't specify is what size the freehub body bearings are. It gives a part number for replacement as a UNIT but does not break it down into its finer parts. Read further along in the .pdf and they do indicate that you can replace the bearings from the freehub quite easily. My recommendation is taking them out, measuring them w/ a vernier caliper and then doing a quick search to see if you can acquire a ceramic version. Hopefully this helps a bit. 

You would have to change to a new crankset*, I would recommend a road triple for this (52/42/30), and acquire a road triple front derailleur that was suitable for a flat bar shifter. Shimano makes the 2200 crankset which is quite affordable and will (I believe ... chainline might come into effect here) not necessitate a new bottom bracket. In my experience the FD-R443 derailleur (a road triple, for flat bar) works very well with this set up. Can I now ask, why do you want a bigger chainring? My experience is people jump the gun on needing larger gears (unless your rides are almost entirely all downhill) and tend to push a much larger gear than necessary. I have found that alot of commuters and casual cyclists ride with a cadence of ~70 rpm. By making the assumption you are doing such, 15-25 rpm would show vast improvements in bike speed and would garner you greater cardio benefits. As well I would then assume, unless you are a highly trained athlete, that you will not spend a huge amount of time riding 48/11 @90 rpm. Do you have a good set of clip in style pedals and shoes? This will help you work, in my experience, on your pedal stroke. By working first and foremost on your pedal stroke you will improve your muscle recruitment, improve your climbing (able to push the pedal over the top and scrape it across the bottom) and in general increase your average speeds. Anyways, my two cents. *When I say 'have to' I am referring to maintaining a semblance of smooth shifting. The reality is you can typically jury rig whatever you want and it often works. But it won't be smooth and it can be more of a pain in the arse than it is worth. 

I also tried this, but didn't like it. It seems good on paper, but my butt always wants to slide forward, plus not being able to squeeze the saddle between my thighs when going over obstacles means less control over the bike. 

Notice the beam's sharp cutoff, very little light is sent upwards, to the eyes of incoming people. This is what you need. Now, you should find a light of this type, small and light enough to mount on your helmet. 

Forget about the smartphones (battery life is too short, unreadable in sunlight), and anything that has LiIon or any type of battery which is not AA. You can buy AA batteries anywhere, so if you're in a pinch, or forgot to charge, no problem... I live near Lyon in france, so if you plan to coming near, drop me a message, I'll send you some GPX traces to approach the city through the proper safe and nice route... I see way too many tour cyclists on the 4 lane highway because there are ZERO signage to point them to the right cycling route... 

Here in France a bicycle is required to be sold with lights. The result is that all bicycles are sold with the cheapest possible lights, which are utterly useless. The usual model is a xenon light, which eats batteries like crazy and illuminates a tiny pixel on the road. It is understood that the buyer will throw away the useless light and install another one (or not). More waste ! Mandatory reflectors make sense : since a decent reflector costs only a few cents, all bikes are sold with reflectors that work. Mandatory lights at point of sale do not make any sense. To ride in the day, and perhaps in the evening or in the city where public lighting is available, you don't need a light, you need a 3€ white blinkie on the front, and a 3€ red blinkie on the rear. Any dirt cheap LED blinkie provides much more safety than a crap xenon headlight because : 1- The batteries in a blinkie last forever (several months). So when needed, the batteries will be good, and it will work. On a cheap xenon headlight, the batteries last 1 hour, so when you need it, they will be discharged. Safety : zero. 2- All the 3€ blinkies I've, allow the cyclist to be seen much better than any cheapo xenon head light. Because they have non-dead battery, they blink, and LEDs focus the light pretty well. Of course, a blinkie doesn't light the road. But a cheapo light doesn't either. If you want to light the road, you need a 50-80€ LED headlight with stVZO compliant beam. Obviously, with this kind of price, you'd only buy one if you intend to actually ride at night, out of public lights... 

This option might be more money than it is worth. This option as well might be more money than it is worth ... But the question is ... HOW much does this bother you? 5 gallons of paint worth of bother? Hahah. 

Before answering your question I will add the caveat that without seeing your problem and without knowing the exact spec of the bike, this 'quote' could be wrong. For one, you might not have replaceable chainrings. But, assuming you do have replaceable chainrings the cost would be somewhere around 30-35$ (10$ labor, 20-25$ for chainring) depending on the quality of the chainring (shift ramps/machining/material). It could be much more if you were to be using something like Shimano XTR or SRAM XX. A way to see if they are replaceable is to inspect the crankset and find either chainring bolts holding the chainrings on or rivets holding it together. If it is riveted the shop might use a slotted screwdriver or a set of channel locks, if possible, to bend the chainring back into place. This depends on the amount of clearance provided by the other chainrings. If that is not possible then they might have to remove the crank arm and hammer it straight using a mallet. With those possibilities in mind it might run you 10-20$ for the fix. When going to your LBS be sure to identify the issue you want solved and express that you simply want that one problem solved. Often the reason a problem fixed seems more expensive than it should is that the mechanic has to spend the time IDing the issue. Time is money in any business. By identifying the problem right away you have saved time and therefore money. Be sure to get a quote before leaving the bike. I believe the cause for your bent chainring has been addressed already. Starting from a half shift or shifting under load can cause this. The less expensive the drive train the more likely it is for this to happen. A riveted crankset w/ stamped chainrings will bend quite easily while a more expensive crankset with replaceable chainrings that are not of the stamped variety will be more resistant to bending. As a note, I am in Canada ... therefore this prices might not be entirely reflective of the prices in your specific area. 

However the type of pedals is very important. I hate SPDs. Cranks are the best but the axles and bearings break. TIME is a good compromise, clip/unclip is quick and instinctive, and getting out of the pedals happens naturally. 

Anyway, your best bet may be a recumbent bike. I have one, the big drawback is that it climbs hills like a brick, but comfort is perfect. 

If you aim the high-pressure water jet at sensitive parts like bearings (BB, wheels, suspension, headset...) the water will get inside, and your bearings will rust and die. High-pressure water jets are also pretty good at filling your cable hoses with water, and getting past the seals on suspensions. So when using high pressure to clean a bike, stay clear of the sensitive bits, keep the nozzle like 2 feet away so it gets mist. However if you only aim it at the frame and chain, then no problem. High pressure is really good at getting the muck out of a chain, chainring, and cassette, but it also gets the grease out, so everything needs to be lubed afterwards. Just don't aim it up close to anything that contains a ball bearing or a seal. As a side note, if you don't want stuff to rust... Your chain and cogs are made of steel because steel is very strong and cheap. Stainless steel is weaker, a stainless chain wouldn't last. Steel rusts though, but it needs to be in contact with oxygen to rust. The oil on your chain forms a film which protects it from oxygen (and rusting). After a good MTB ride, your chain and transmission will be full of crap and if you rode in mud, the water will have removed some of the oil. So if you can't clean your bike straight away, a quick spray of oil will protect the transmission against rust. No need to overdo it, just a little bit of oil is enough. When you clean it, this also removes the oil, so spray a little bit of it. 

You can't approximate torque by feel. Loctite, grease, carbon compounds can all alter the 'feel' when you are tightening down bolts and if there was anyway to 'approximate the feel' these variables render it fairly impossible. If you use ti/aluminum bolts, carbon components, high end aluminum do not cheap out, get the torque wrench. If you tend towards stainless/steel bolts and less expensive components, you can forgo the torque wrench and just ensure you are working to even torque. For example, if it is a faceplate make sure that the gap between faceplate and stem is even all the way around. Saying 'too tight is better than not enough' is not true. Too tight can create stress risers in a component (specifically I am thinking handlebar) that can lead to catastrophic failure down the road. Too tight on a square taper crankset (specifically the fixing bolt) can cause deformation of the taper fit and eventual loosening of the crank. Hopefully that helps. Noticed I didn't answer the question fully. Faceplate/Bar interface Stem/Steer interface Crankset (whether pinchbolt or square taper style BB) Those are areas where I would ensure proper torque. Seatpost is dependent on style of bike (ie. Madone seatMAST, or carbon post/carbon frame) as to whether torque is super important. Rotor bolts, brake mounting bolts etc... but with increasing importance as exotic materials increase. 

First, do you have cycling shorts w/ a chamois? If not, I would highly recommend them. As a note, they are your underwear (ex: do not wear undergarments and then put on the shorts). Second, how did you choose your saddle? Was it fitted through some type of measurement system ala bontragers inform system or specializeds BG system? How much did you spend on the saddle and was it appropriate for the style of riding you are partaking in? Third, does your bicycle fit you properly? Have you had it fitted? So, there are a few points that you could answer to give me some help. I cannot recommend a saddle because everyone is different but I can recommend a brand that provides some type of measurement system for choosing your saddle. As well, if you are wearing cycling shorts a nice chamois butter might help with the chafing. 

Anyway. Cycling is pretty safe if you are careful and aware of your surroundings. I gave these examples to make you focus on the issues of visibility, line of sight, murderous cycling infrastructure, and anticipating what will happen. When there is an open garage door, a car will come out of it. Maybe not today... but if you adjust your speed and position as if it was going to happen, when it eventually does (and it will) you're not surprised and simply come to a soft stop. Riding safely like this might cost you a couple minutes... not a problem ;) Have a nice ride! 

I've done 330 km in 3 days, but I was used to riding a lot. Since you are fit, and with good cardio, on your first day you will ride something like 50-70km. The next morning, you will be in hell: 

From my experience, the single most important point is properly choosing your route. Google maps and the satellite view are your friends. For example, there is a 2x2 lanes road nearby. I see cyclists there quite often when I drive. It is an extremely dangerous road, 90 km/h, big lorries, no shoulder. There is a smaller, parallel road though. It is very nice for cycling. It runs through the countryside, has trees which provide shadow in the summer, you can even hear the birds sing... and it has very low traffic, because you can drive much faster on the 2x2 lanes road. Every time I see a cyclist candidate for suicide by lorry, I wonder... U NO HAVE GOOGLE MAPS? So, if you're used to traveling by car, forget about the routes you know. The safest cycling route could be much shorter, perhaps a bit longer, but it is almost guaranteed to be completely different from your usual car route. Maybe you will have to walk down some stairs, or become a pedestrian for a few seconds to dodge a dangerous part. Try to consider all your options.