I mean, it doesn't make sense if employee has to stay, because he is still in probation, and it doesn't help for both him and company if he stays. 

In Kanban, is it normal that we don't have that much interaction with each other like Scrum? And as an Automation Engineer, is it normal that I don't have much interaction with development team? Or is it normal that I work alone as Automation Engineer? 

I had final interview where the company said they would like to have me as new colleague. However, they said my salary's suggestion is over their budget because they are small company, but they would try to give me a best offer. They didn't say (or I didn't ask) how much they would offer me. And today, they sent me the draft contract, everything is fine, only the salary not quite, after probation I would get the salary the same amount as my last job. Now, is it too late or too risky to ask to increase the salary, even just a small increase? 

Background: In my previous jobs, I was Software Quality Assurance Engineer. The recent company had many running projects, I was QA for 3 projects, did both Manual and Automation Tests. We did Scrum, so we had Daily Standups every day involved whole team (BE, FE, PO, QA). And as QA, I had directly worked with developers, ie. direct discussions, planning, etc. Which I really liked this way, and I am used to Scrum. Situation: I try to describe it as much sense as possible I have started my new job for 2 months, as fully Automation QA Engineer (it's like Developer in Test), it's my first time doing 100% automation tests. The company has only one big market product, which is very successful. We have BE Team, FE Team, and QA Team, but we don't have a team lead for each team, instead we have a CTO on top of everything. And we do Kanban (another first time). Once in a while, the CTO gathers all team members spontanouely and says we are doing standup now, to give updates on what's going on. So we don't have much interaction with each other. Only when Manual QA members do testing, they will interact with FEs or BEs if they find something. And for me, as Automation Engineer, I have much less interaction with develpoment team. And as I mentioned, we don't have team leads, so so far I have only discussed/worked with one (kind of) senior Manual QA. She would tell me which features could be helpful to be automated, etc. And then I would do it alone. I am not involved in planning meetings, for example, but the Manual QA members are. So I don't know which features are being implemented or something like that. We don't use Jira too, we use Redmine (another first time) Questions: I know it is a new company, new environment, new structure, new role and all, but I am still a little bit worried about the career path I am heading to. Needless to say, I do love Automation, but I would also like to have interaction within the team (like I had in my previous jobs). So my questions are: 

I would like to see what opportunities are out there, but most of the companies I could work with are part of my customers or partners portfolio. Can I ask my contacts for opportunities? Is it the norm? Or is it likely that I will be exposed and get in trouble with my current job? If I say "confidential", does it bear any weight? 

I work in a Biotech company and my current manager has no scientific strengths. He is focusing on managing projects, but that's it. Recently senior management decided that my work is important for the whole company, and I start reporting to a VP. Later on there will be a unit with other specialists under the VP, but right now I am going to be co-managed for a while. However, my current manager is already politically compromised and is trying to use my expertise to survive. He already got demoted shortly after starting. He keeps asking me for details and then repeats them at meeting to people who know even less than him. My senior colleagues keep asking me to interact more directly with them, but my manager keeps trying to put himself in the middle to intercept communications and requests even if he does not have the competence to understand what a specific project would imply. The VP has a technical background and understands me. I am happy that change is coming, but I can't wait to get rid of this parasite and at the same time I don't want to be the one who badmouthed his manager or got him fired. But I feel dirty when I talk to him, I feel more stupid every minute. My question is: how can I handle the transition between my manager to the VP, keeping professional integrity and a good face while avoiding getting credit stolen by my manager? 

Let's assume you are going to have the final interview with a company. And through your professional networks, you know someone who worked there before, but at a different department from which you are interviewing for. And they tell you from their experience that it is not a great place to work, always stress and burnout workplace, more like a churn. Besides, you also read employees' reviews about the company on their site, and it is a mixed reputation. Some say it's good, some say it's bad (comparing to IMDB, the company's rate is 6/10) Now, is it wise or appropriate to ask the interviewers about these during the final interview, to make sure that everything is alright. Or what is the best approach to bring it up to interviewers? 

As I know, during the probation, both employer and employee can cancel contract with (without) a short notice. 

I have just started my new job. The company is a really great well-known company to work for (on the benefits perspective), no doubt, but my position itself is not really my expertise. I realize it after first week that it is probably my big mistake that I didn't clarify it during interviews. Of course I knew what they do during interviews, but I haven't expected that it is so different from my 5 years experience in this field (their workflows, team's structures, process management, etc.), and I am feeling that I am not a good fit for them. Of course I could stay with them, but I have a concern that if I should continue the path that I have been doing the last 5 years, or I should really do something new. Anyway, I have decided that I will look for a new position. I know, it is not nice and professional to find a new job after 1 month, but I think it would be good for both parties. My questions are: - Does it make my picture bad in the company? And how to tell them in the way that doesn't cause any bad consequence? - If I have an interview now, should I mention that I am working at the moment for another company? I am in panic and stress about this predicament I am in. Thanks in advance for your professional advice. EDIT: The duplicate marked question is different, because the person in the question didn't really a contract. 

I am a customer-facing programmer who is growing in a commercial direction. In the last 34 months I have been very successful at bringing opportunities to the company, often doing the job of the only salesperson I support. I brought millions over the years, directly responsible for several new customers in my territory. I asked to have more formal responsibilities for the territory I cover. My manager is being pressured to hand me over to some other manager. The head of sales wants me to join him as technical support. Both moves will bring more structure and lower decisional power. In other words, without commercial managers I have been doing so great on the commercial side that now commercial managers want to manage me. Meanwhile, the CEO asked me to create a full plan for the territory for next 12 months, putting together all my knowledge of the upcoming opportunities, with detailed estimates. I know I can pull this off, because I know well customers, product and market. However, there is no committment by the CEO or the company to give me a bigger role, and it's possible that even after I do this my work will be handed over to somebody else. Managers argue about giving me a more structured, smaller role; the CEO wants me to complete a major project; in either case, there is no promotion in sight, and I never had one in almost three years. My question is: should I accept a project well above my pay grade from the CEO, without rewards in sight, ignoring all other managers' requests for "surrender"? Is it realistic to expect that a big success with the CEO will override all other crap about my role? Or am I wasting my time? 

By invite you, do you mean to say that you expected your boss to pay for it? Or do you mean just an invitation? In either case, why would you not bring it up yourself if you knew about it beforehand? A simple "do you know about XYZ conference? I am thinking of attending and want to check with you whether it would be useful considering I work everyday on topic XYZ. Also, any chance that the company can cover the registration cost?" This seems like an issue that arose only because you wanted your boss to give you a royal invitation... (s)he may have simply forgotten to ask you or it could've just slipped his/her mind. 

One of my previous employer wants me to update a tool that I developed during my internship. It would be remote work, part-time for about 20 hours a week, and I expect the work to last ~1 year. To make this work, I would have to make certain changes that would require significant financial commitments. How can I ask for a guarantee of employment for a part-time job? I don't want to be left with unaffordable budget if the part-time people change their minds after few months. I don't have experience signing contracts so I'm not sure if it would be appropriate to ask for: 1 year guarantee, or early termination fee. I know certain parts of an employment contract (like noncompete for a year) are not really enforceable so is something like this enforceable? I don't expect them to backtrack if they agree to such provisions ... but still, I am wondering about the legality and how often such provisions are agreed to. 

My company has many good managers, with deep technical and social skillsets. However, a few Technically Incompetent Managers (TIMs) are managing to elbow their way up without contributing anything on the technical side, bullshitting lower level employees and higher level manager who also have minimal technical background. The script is always the same: 

I recently moved up from a specific team to a global function, moving from an incompetent manager to a very good one. I am in a healthy and productive environment. However, yesterday my own job description came up in the company's careers page. Apparently shortly after the move my old manager and her 'collaborators' made arrangements to hire my replacement to work with them directly. So, now we have a global function, which is providing strategies, procedures and standards for the whole company, and these guys' upcoming resource, which will... I don't know. They are basically internalising my global support role. I have no idea about how to sort this mess: my boss is protective, but he also didn't tell me about this for weeks. He already has trouble trying to keep together his team now that they are hiring a 'parallel' role. In the best case, we are having a situation where two people who should be working together work separately; in the worst case, the decrease in my workload might support my departure. Edit: upper management is fighting about internalising a global function, which would be my role. My boss is supportive, but the other side is hiring somebody with exactly my same job description. I am trying to understand if there is anything I can do in such a mess, as I would like to keep my role.