Luis Borges, Word Music and Translation, Lecture, Delivered February 28, 1968, cited in This Craft of Verse, Harvard University Press, 2000 

(George Orwell, 1984) It is made very clear early on in the book that under IngSoc, what you would call cultural/national background is despised and probably in way of disappearing. Newspeak would therefore not be adapted to languages that are already banned. Another possibility though, would be that Newspeak collected some local linguistic structures (Orwell says "formations"), as any language that becomes dominant after a transitional period. This is possible, but the following extract rules it out for the "purest" of Newspeak: before Newspeak became global, it was already purified of most English influences. 

George Orwell, The principles of NewSpeak (appendix to 1984) (All emphasis not in the original texts) 

Writers, Borges seems to make the case, do not get to choose when they fight or when they don't fight political power, but much the opposite. 

According to Sartre himself, they could have refused. In the many time misquoted "L'enfer, c'est les autres" ("Hell is other people"), Sartre made it clear that he did not imply people would always torture each other, but rather, that flawed relationship would always push people to hell, as there was nothing more important to us that the view of others. Hence, the reason why the characters end up torturing each other would be that their relationships are flawed, at least according to the Comments on Huis Clos, 1964 that I reproduce here (translation is mine, if you find a more satisfactory one I would be please to edit it in). 

(Emphasis by myself) I believe this is strong, yet not compelling evidence towards Golding writing Simon an epileptic. 

No he did not! The process can be traced back at least to Thomas Carlyle, who in Sartor Resartus (1833–34) publishes a summary and a critique, à la Borges, of the fictional book Clothes, Their Origin and Influence. Let's note that Thomas Carlyle pushed it even further than Borges, publishing the review in a magazine with no mention of its fictional nature! While book 1 is a comment mainly of (pseudo-)philosophical nature, the readers of Fraser's Magasine would find, in the begging of book 2, a fiction of what is deemed as a summary of Clothes, Their Origin and Influence. Even better: he knew he did not 

You will notice that the Harper cover is shown second even though it is an exact title match while the Bantam "original" edition is listed shown first. Digging a bit deeper the Harper edition is listed as one of seventy-one other formats for A Game of Thrones, while the Bantam is listed as its own work. 

The historical part of - "The famous flutings on the the famous columns—what are they there for? To hide the joints in the wood" - is accurate. When using squared shapes (i.e. lengths of wood) to build a circular structure (the column) ou will have visible joints. See this picture... 

In plain English the line is saying "The boy's mite was like the widow's mite". This is most likely a reference to the story from the Christian Bible, specifically in the book of Mark, Chapter 12, Verse 41-44. 

Tyrion in well aware of what is going on even takes a small verbal jab at Robb to which Robb jabs right back. 

Certainly there are those that consider music to be literature. In fact, the organization PEN New England (a chapter of PEN America) which among other things 

Taking the rest of the passage in context, it seems that the "speaker" does not think to highly on themselves and has no self esteem. It seems there is a group of three people; the speaker, Aurora, and a man (Aurora's cousin) about they are speaking about. The speaker is saying that Aurora's cousin is so "good" that it is almost a bad quality within him, and that is worst thing the speaker can say about him. The speaker also seems to think that Aurora is a much better woman than her. So breaking down the lines you have highlighted, I would interpret the word in question this way: 

Beyond that the Bantam edition shows a preview with some of the illustrations, while the Harper edition preview reverts back to a standard preview. As mentioned in the comments, the blurb on the German Amazon site for the Harper edition and on American Amazon for the Bantam are almost an exact match 

Note: the fact that farm tools double as weapons is pertinent to understanding some of the things characters say, and isn't explained as such in-text, except contextually. 

This also vaguely hints at some sort of controversy, predicted or past, surrounding this book. It's also the second time this is mentioned, and it occurs no more than one page after the prior quote. And, to be clear, there's vague historical reason to believe that this book was, indeed, controversial, even in Muslim societies. A more modern book cover has this to say about the author: 

It's actually satire and I'm misreading it under a modern lens with modern expectations, or - It's poorly-executed satire, or - This portrayal isn't satire at all, and it just seems like it could be because of a modern lens. 

Notably, the primary cause for doubt (the phrasing of some 80 letters) is still there in Spanish, and is actually a little stronger in its conveying the idea of an approximation. "Some" in English doesn't necessarily mean there's deviation; it can just be a color word. But what in English is written as "some 80 letters which are black in color" is written in Spanish as "de unas ochenta letras de color negro." The key word in Spanish is unas - it's not actually strictly necessary, and adds a little bit of ambiguity, because here, it just means "approximately" or "about." It can still be a color word in Spanish, but I think that's less likely. If Borges wanted to say that, yes, they are exactly 80 letters, Borges would probably have left it at "de ochenta letras." ...but, just before that, Borges does say "...libros de formato uniforme," and enumerates exactly the ways that the books in "uniform format." The linking of the books' uniform format and eighty-letter rows in the same sentence heavily implies that all the rows in all the books are 80 characters long. If you want to doubt that there are 80 characters in a row, there's definitely a reason to, but I don't think it's a very good one. 

So the story is of how a poor widow gave all she had to the church and therefore was view as giving the most of all those that had donated. Without further context, I am guessing the boy in Don Juan made a similar gesture of giving all he had to something or someone. 

Beyond that I see no reason why a book by the same author, same foreword, same maps, same illustrator, and same number of pages would differ between publishers beyond the cover. 

The most direct comparison I can see is that the Order was formed to help Edward III pursue his claim on the French throne. The Kingsguard helped Aegon I keep his throne... 

is one of them, having in 2012 awarded their first-ever Song Lyrics of Literary Excellence to Chuck Berry and Leonard Cohen. Even further proof is that Bob Dylan was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2016. 

I would agree with your first interpretation in that Aurora's eyes are comfort to the speaker and allow them to overcome any shyness or reservations about the encounter. Aurora has way with her eyes that she can just look at you and make you feel at ease. From the passage you quote, there is no hint of an underlying sadness within Aurora. 

George also a series of short stories set in what is known as the "Thousand Worlds". So while he says the two works are not the same world, they still might be connected... Alas, he has shot down this theory too... 

But with such an extensive list where "there are too many to readily list" and over 1,700 fan found references to other works, I would say nothing is out of the realm of possibility! 

The two other answers have shown the directly George denies the connection, but ice dragons do (might) exist in Planetos... 

Ygritte wants to know how special she is. Jon had just gone on and on about how much he loved her and what he loved.