If puncture resistance is your only concern then your "double-shield" setup looks like a good solution. 

The widths of the two sizes in question are 32 mm and 35 mm respectively, which is a small change in width, so it is likely that if again if your current tires (27 1 1/4 tires) currently fit correctly, the slightly wider tires should be fine. Finally, whether or not the Kenda K161 are appropriate depends on what you mean as "slippery". If "slippery" means wet, then the tire compound matters most (bicycle tires are too narrow to hydroplane), look for soft tacky rubber. If "slippery" means compacted snow, then the lug pattern (see below) could help. If "slippery" means black ice, few if any tires will be sufficient (maybe the Continental Top Winter Contact, but I have never used them). If "slippery" is actual ice, then studded tires are best. Kenda K161 

Methods As an experiment I started taking regular chain stretch measurements, from when I first put on a chain until it is worn out. A Park CC-2 was used and each measurement was done in triplicate, then averaged to improve precision. Measured chain stretch was then plotted against the total riding time at the time of the chain stretch measurements (Figure 1). These measurements came under real world commuting conditions on a 2x10 speed drive train, with a constant pacing over the same mixed terrain (35% gravel, 65% asphalt). The chain was wiped clean, re-lubed and wiped every 50-100 km. A Shimano XT chain was used. Question 1 In the right panel of Figure 1 (logarithmic), it is clear that there are two distinct wear rates/phases, a slower rate until a ride duration of roughly 40 hours, where a clear change in the pattern occurs. Does anyone know the mechanisms driving the two different wear rates? My suspicions is that the change relates to wearing through one material type into another, but it would be nice to get confirmation from people who know more. Question 2 The wear pattern observed in real world testing (Figure 1; left panel) appears to be quite different from the patterns I have seen in posted laboratory testing (Figure 2), which used a machine to run, dirty and lube the chain. 

I have carried a laptop on my commute bike for closing in on 15 years now. Mainly in panniers (saddle bags). For a little while in a courier bag when when I was young and dumb. For what it is worth (aka the dangers of anecdotal evidence) I didn't have any laptop failures directly related to a bike trip. I even toured with a 17inch laptop across 800 km of mixed terrain (road and dirt) in Norway with out incident (riding to a workshop and conference). That laptop is still going strong 5 years later. 

Assuming you child has hit all the major developmental milestones this seems to be the age many parents try balance bikes. This is of course anecdotal evidence, but the fact I have seen so many different families consistently start at around this age seems to suggest it is a good starting place. 

Often the tires included with the trailers are low quality and will wear quite quickly especially with heavier loads (personal experience). If you simply bought the same tires as the manufacturer included with your trailer as the replacements your problem will persist. As an alternative, you may want to consider determining the tire size (should be printed on the side of the tire) and purchasing some higher quality tires from a manufacture known for reasonably good quality tires. For example, Schwalbe sell a variety of tire sizes for their big apple tire which wears reasonably well. 

A lot of riders appear to prefer SPD's, which is a great, and can work well (as indicated by the answers here). For interest sake here are some arguments for "road pedals" which are typically the three bolt variety. Pros - Road Pedals (SPD-SL and others) Road bike specific pedals (e.g., Shimano SPD-SL) are designed for a single purpose, road cycling, and the pedals do this job well. Road cycling has a lot of repetitive motions (you often sit in the same position for a long period of time) so fit can be key to reducing repetitive stress injuries. If you get into long rides, high mileage or fast and hard rides you will notice the difference over SPD type pedals. Some of these differences include: 

For the type of riding you are doing, aero bike will make a small difference, one that you are likely not to notice very much. Aero bikes do however have a much stiffer ride, so you will likely find the bike to be less comfortable over longer distances. For casual riding, the "endurance" focused models will likely be a better match as these have typically more comfortable positioning and frames that provide more vertical compliance to dull road vibration. The models you were mentioning are focused only on racing and sacrifice other ride qualities. As for "aero" it can be important, even at lower speeds (a point which is often overlooked or denied). You will feel aerodynamic drag more a higher speeds, but drag coefficient is always will be a constant proportion of your power output even at lower speeds. Therefore if you are doing long events at slower speeds it can still play an important roll and can still compound for large differences. For casual riding squeezing every bit of aerodynamics out will have a limited benefit as most won't notice a one or two minute change to their riding time. That said, even if you are interested in aerodynamics there are lots of places to improve upon before you get to the bike. 

I tried a number of front loading setups for an AWOL with a 15 inch laptop (same model). I could only ever get the laptop to fit in front Ortlieb rollers only with minimal protection on the laptop (e.g., wrapped in a towel). Even then I couldn't roll the top sufficiently to seal for anything other than a very light misting of rain. I ended up stabilizing on Ortlieb rear rollers and using either a Tubus Duo lowrider rack (as the lower brace is low enough to support a large pannier [unlike the tara], but requires inner and outer mid-leg attachment points [which the AWOL has]) or a Specialized Pizza rack with the same panniers (pictured below). Most other front racks do not extend down enough to support large ortlieb panniers. You also might be able to mount the computer on the top of a Pizza rack, however I wasn't able to get Ortlieb front rollers to fit well on the pizza rack (the lower support bar is too low for the lower pannier hooks). Another option is keeping your setup and mounting the computer on the rear of the bike. I found the AWOL quite handled well putting the 15 inch laptop in a rear pannier while keeping food and cloths up front (this setup actually handled better than front loading everything). You could keep your current front setup and look at running a single rear pannier to house the computer. (Probably your best option, but unfortunately requires buying more stuff.) Some final notes. The Salsa low riders put the panniers a fair bit forward of the front axle which will make the steering feel heavier initially, but will interact with the wheel flop to turn the bike in harder when leaned over (in my estimation). Also avoid running all the weight on the rear of the AWOL, as this makes it handle like an unhinged squirrel mad for nuts. 

Disc brakes are reasonably tucked away on the frame and fork and as such pose relatively little danger relative to other components such as the large chain ring (which I have experienced in a peloton crash... Yay, stitches!). If you do experience complaints it would likely be either do to out of date rules or prejudices. In terms of braking performance gap, I don't see this being a contributor to crashes as you should really never be using full brake power within a peloton setting. Braking should always be done with mindfulness of others and in a controlled fashion. If anything disc brakes provide finer control and could potentially be safer. In the situation of absolute emergency stops, yes you could out brake a rim brake in wet conditions which could cause a problem. However, if you are in the situation of an all out emergence stop within a peloton, something has already gone horribly wrong and really all bets are off in terms of outcomes. Under dry conditions I personally haven't notice any real world differences in total braking performance between road disc brakes and well set up rim brakes. Modulation, yes, but total power no. Maybe hydraulic discs would have a bit more power (I have only used cable disc brakes) but at some point you are hitting the traction limit of the tires and well maintained rim brakes should be able to do that in dry conditions. As an aside, aero bars are considered unsafe due to the lack of fine control. Many riders drift in the aero position and tend to have slower response times. I have seen so many calamities over the years with people misapplying aero bars to regular riding (e.g., slow train track crossing!) I think most would be best to leave them at home unless on a dedicated TT course. 

A back pack is faster than a single pannier. This exact scenario was tested in the Specialized "Win Tunnel" in their "The Brew Master" episode. They suggested the time savings was 2 minutes over 40 km, which isn't that much for casual cycling considering how uncomfortable a heavy back pack can be! Also see their "Areo at Slow Speeds" to understand how the results can be generalized to a wide array of average speeds. Extrapolating to the "real world" Answering @JPMay comment request 

The goal will be try an recreate one of these comfortable position when you set the cleats. Step 3: Trial and error with clipless cleat positions. After observing how you interact with flat pedals try to set up the cleats on you shoes so you get a position close as you can to a comfortable flat pedal position. For example, you may need to move the cleat on your long foot farther back on the shoe to equalize your leg reach and provide more support for the longer foot. Finally, you should take notice of how much float your clipless pedals have. Different systems have different amounts and types of float (some are angular only, while others have both lateral and angular float). Systems with more float have more tolerance for bio-mechanical imperfections. Even within a single pedal system (e.g., SPD-SL) different cleats can change the amount of available float. In the end there is no easy answer. You will likely have to employ a lot of trial and error. 

I once had this happen before by combining inexpensive saddle bags combined with a inexpensive rack. The bags were not stiff enough for things like groceries and the rack provided no support to keep the saddle bags from twisting. With the heavy weight the bags simply twist into the spokes while riding. I now use higher quality expedition style panniers and racks (picture below). These have lots of side support to keep panniers/saddlebags from twisting. The panniers themselves also have stiff inserts to prevent twisting. I have put close to 120 lbs on the bike (front and back) after big grocery run with no such problems. 

Bicycle helmets contain crushable foam that works to extend the duration of impact by about 6 ms (milliseconds). This doesn't make the impact force disappear, instead it extends the duration of force experienced by the brain. By extending the duration, you reduce the peak force. The brain can withstand impacts to some degree, however if the impact is too forceful over too short a period of time (like your head hitting asphalt), the peak force experienced by your brain becomes too high resulting in brain damage or even death. While 6 ms may seem small, it can be enough to reduce the peak force experience from lethal and/or damaging to survivable and/or reduced damage (see Figure 1). A) B) Figure 1. Impact force by time a brain sees with a helmet (A) and without a helmet (B). The total energy is the same (area under the curve), but the peak force is lower for the brain with a helmet. (Source: $URL$ Modern military helmet are designed to protect against things like shrapnel, not absorb impacts (although newer research may change that). As a result your peak impact force in a crash will not substantially change and you will be under a similar risk for brain injury as being helmet less. Also you mentioned having to replace bike helmets that take an impact as a downside. If you wonder why bicycle helmets are not made with foam that "bounces back" (e.g. hockey helmets) this is because it can cause more damage in an impact. With this type of foam your brain receives force in the initial hit and then it experiences a secondary "hit" as the foam returns (often these non-crushable foams return rapidly). Crushable foam however does not rebound as it remains crushed. The downside is that once it is crushed it no longer provides any protective benefit and needs to be replaced. By extension when the crushable foam degrades it also needs to be replaced. This is why it is also suggested that old bicycle helmets also need to be replaced (what constitutes old is up for debate). In this case the crushable foam has degraded over time and its impact absorption properties change for the worse and will not provide the same benefit in an impact as a newer helmet with foam that has not degraded. Finally, I do remember hearing about a new type of foam that behaves similar to the crushable foam used in helmets, but rebounds slowly. I will have to work to find that reference. But if they are in the marketplace they will be more robust to hits and repeat impacts. 

Didn't look at the 2015 model (just your link - 2016 model). On the rear there are rack bosses that can be used to mount a conventional rear rack. The rear brake is also on the lower stay which will keep it out of the way when mounting a rack (good news). There are however no such bosses on a suspension fork so you will need a more specialized rack (e.g., old man mountain) that uses clamps in place of bosses, if you want a front rack. Once you have racks installed you will need to also purchase panniers (bags that securely mount to racks). Or if you are especially creative you may find other ways to to secure regular bags (don't underestimate the difficulty, panniers will generally work much better). As for fenders, this will depend on the fenders(full, partial, metal, plastic, etc) and tires you want to use, your final clearances and your ingenuity as you don't have any dedicated fender eyelets left once you mount the rear rack. If you don't have a lot of experience coming up with solutions for fitting fenders you may need to seek help.