There isn't really a minimum size. All black holes have an event horizon from which nothing, not even light can escape. The (Schwarzschild) radius of this event horizon is 3km for a black hole of a solar mass and scales linearly with mass. There is a region just outside the event horizon called the photon sphere, within which light can briefly orbit the black hole, but not in a stable fashion. It will either fly off in some other direction or spiral into the black hole. You can check out this Physics SE question to see a derivation of the impact parameter (the effective radius at which light will be absorbed) and you will see that it is a small numerical factor ($\sqrt{27/4}$ for a non-rotating black hole) times the Schwarzschild radius (the event horizon of a non-rotating black hole), which is indeed proportional to the black hole mass. 

In general one can only measure the mass of a star if it is orbiting another body or is orbited by another body. In essence, the method exploits Kepler's third law, though the exact technique depends on what observations are available, on what timescale and with what resolution (spectral and angular) is available. Other techniques can be calibrated using such objects as exemplars - for instance there are reasonably well-calibrated mass-luminosity or mass-color relationships. 

I presume what you mean is how does the plane of the orbit compare to the equatorial rotation plane of the star? The answer is, you can sort of estimate this, by using something called the Rossiter-McLaughlin effect (see also Rossiter 1924; McLaughlin 1924). You can find plenty of information on the web - I'll add a couple of links when I have a moment - but to summarise: The rotation of a star broadens its spectral absorption lines. The hemisphere coming towards us emits light that is is blue shifted, the hemisphere receding is redshifted. If we now take a transiting planet, during the eclipse it crosses the disc of the star and obscures regions that are blue or red shifted by various amounts. Now what you do is measure the line-of-sight velocity of the star. During the transit you would not expect this to vary due to the "Doppler wobble" caused by the exoplanet, except that if the planet obscures a blue shifted portion of the stellar disc, the net spectral absorption line that remains shifts to the red, and vice-versa. The pattern of red, then blue shift (or vice versa) as the transit progresses is known as the Rossiter-Mclaughlin effect. A schematic showing how the Rossiter-McLaughlin effect works and how a different transit geometry with respect to the rotation axis of the star leads to a different line-of-sight-velocity signature in the spectral lines of the star. (Image credit: Subaru Telescope, National Observatories of Japan.) 

The most distant galaxy currently known is at a redshift $Z=11.1$ (Oesch et al. 2016). According to Ned Wright's cosmology calculator, for a set of concordance cosmological parameters, this corresponds to a comoving distance of 9.88 Gpc (32 billion light years) and a recession velocity (now) from Hubble's law of 2.28c (i.e. 684,000 km/s). Of course galaxies could exist at greater distances, although they do need time to form after the big bang. Theoretical simulations (e.g. Bromm 2011) suggest star forming galaxies might be present at redshifts of 20, only 200 million years after the big bang. Such galaxies, if they exist, would have recession velocities of 2.5c. This is the maximum possible recession velocity for any galaxy that is observable by us now (or in the near future). There is no possibility of observable galaxies having recession velocities as high as 3.3c, since that would place them at redshifts of $>1000$ and they would need to have formed even before the epoch of hydrogen recombination. However, as Pela and Zephyr are pointing out, there are (likely) galaxies that exist now, but that we cannot observe now and never will be able to measure, that are more distant than this and which are receding faster. We are reasonably sure that the universe probed by current observations of the cosmic microwave background is isotropic to comoving distances of about 14.1 Gpc (46 billion light years; "the edge of the observable universe"). Thus galaxies that are currently there, but which are just perturbations in the CMB as we see them now, will have recession velocities of 3.3c. Equally, there could be more distant galaxies than that in a much larger, or possibly infinite, universe and these could have much larger recession velocities still (that we also cannot observe or measure), and indeed they, like the galaxies we do observe, are possibly accelerating away from us. 

If you stick to observing "hot Jupiters", then this is very much in reach of "amateur" technology. I would agree that a 10-inch+ telescope is probably needed, along with a cooled CCD. Hot Jupiters (giant planets orbiting close to their parent stars) produce transit signals of about 0.01-0.02 mag amplitude. The transits last of order a couple of hours, occur every 1-10 days and the times of transit are well predicted. In principle you could collect all the data you need in about 6 hours of observing. But, the amplitude of the transit dip is small, so you need to get very precise differential photometry. Your best bet is to observe targets which have plenty of other stars in the same CCD field that can act as comparisons - this may mean you need a CCD with a wide field of view. On the other hand, you must make sure that the seeing disk of the star is well-sampled by the CCD pixels (e.g. in your typical seeing is 2 arcseconds, each CCD pixel must not image more than 1 arcsec on the sky, and preferably less). Other strategies for success involve observing at low airmasses, which should improve the quality of the differential photometry, and don't bother with anything observed even through the thinnest cirrus. Observing multiple transits will allow you to improve your data by "phase-folding" on the known planet orbital period. 

According to measurements of the cosmic microwave background the universe is geometrically flat - which means that the mass/energy density of the universe is close to the "critical value" of $\sim 10^{-26}$ kg/m$^{3}$. The radius of the observable universe is 46.6 billion light years, so the mass/energy contained within it is equivalent to $3.6\times 10^{54}$ kg. The Schwarzschild radius of a black hole is $2GM/c^2$. If the mass/energy of the universe is spherically symmetric then its Schwarzschild radius is 560 billion light years and thus larger than the observable universe. Note though that the Schwarzschild solution in General Relativity is static. The universe is definitely not static. 

How can the luminosity of a pre-main sequence star depend on fusion physics, when energetically-speaking, there is no significant fusion occurring? However, if you had plotted some lower mass tracks from sources a bit more modern than 1955 (the tracks you show are out of date and incorrect, not including the Hayashi phase for example), you would see that there is predicted to be a brief plateau in luminosity (for stars/brown dwarfs less than about 0.3 solar masses) caused by deuterium burning. This has yet to be observationally tested. The luminosity of a convective PMS star (which is how they all begin) is determined by its mass and age. To a very close approximation $L\propto t^{-2/3}$, with the constant of proportionality being mass dependent. Higher mass stars are more luminous at the same age, with a shallower luminosity-mass relationship than on the main sequence. If the star becomes largely radiative, the luminosity becomes roughly independent of time (very roughly) - that luminosity is fixed by the rate at which radiative diffusion can leak the gravitational potential energy of the contracting star. The star follows the radiative horizontal(actually more diagonal for stars lower than about 2 solar masses) Henyey track in the HR diagram. If the star remains convective, then to first order, stars follow vertical Hayashi tracks, almost independent of their mass. The luminosity is given by the rate of change of gravitational potential energy, which is in turn limited by how fast convection can transfer heat to the surface. The Hayashi track terminates when the star becomes radiative (for higher masses) or when nuclear fusion starts (at lower masses), or never (for brown dwarfs). A set of more modern tracks is shown below. They are from the Wikipedia page on the Hayashi track, but I believe the tracks are by Palla & Stahler.