A study by Intel put the failure rate of solid state drives at 0.61% with traditional hard-drives being at 4.85%. Intel is a biased source but their methodology seems quite sound and transparent here. Tom's Hardware, a reputable source reporting on computer hardware did an investigation in which they basically say that more data is needed. They did have this nice chart however: -Source Quoting from their conclusion: 

Jeff's findings are anecdotal and by no means a good representation. If SSDs did have a ~90% failure rate as Jeff's numbers would indicate, then various trade commisions would have stepped in by now. Some informal studies indicate that SSDs have a lower failure rate than traditional hard-drives. This investigation by website BeHardware found the following figures for return (not failure) rates for SSDs by manufacturer. 

Two isolated experiments in 24 years, both of which have been unable to have their results replicated is not compelling evidence. It is more likely that something interfered with the previous results, or that the data was fudged in both cases. It is safe to say that based on the evidence we have, water does not have a memory as claimed by homeopaths. Not to mention that whoever was able to conclusively show that water did have a memory would probably win a Nobel Prize, as it would violate our understanding of thermodynamics. 

... The Effects of Non-CAS Graphing Calculators on Student Achievement and Attitude Levels in Mathematics: A Meta-Analysis 

That text is quoted from a Reuters Health story which is no longer accessable, although it has been reprinted on many sites, such as this one. A link to the study A separate study in 2005 found that a toxin called 4-hydroxy-trans-2-nonenal (HNE) forms when cooking oils are reheated and has been associated with increased risks of stroke, Alzheimers, Huntingtons disease and other health problems. Quoting from the study: 

The studies above found that most people don't listen to music through headphones at a hazardous volume. There is little doubt that it is possible to listen to music through headphones at a hazardous volume, which could damage hearing. 1 - Not the most reliable reference, although it supports what I have found when looking up the average output of headphones. 

It's a common cliche that red heads are more likely to have a fiery personality. To quote from Wikipedia: 

Rape is a serious problem that still requires a lot of work to try and eliminate, and to support the victims. The consensus seem to be that devices in the vein of the Rape-Axe cause more problems than they solves. As to the title question, can the device only be removed by a doctor? It's hard to say without a more thorough investigation, although I've found nothing that would indicate only a doctor or surgeon would be able to remove the device. 

Rather than get caught up in different definitions of the word 'prostitution', let's look at the definition for profession: 

It would seem reasonable to consider the claim likely. If we assume that the letters to God that get forwarded on to Jerusalem are only 1% of the total letters addressed to God, then that would still only be 1/5th of all the letters addressed to Santa in Canada. An arbitrary assumption, but something interesting to consider. I couldn't find any statistics for letters addressed to Sherlock Holmes Based on this I think it is safe to assume that the claim is true. 

Hunting meets the definition of a profession as it is being used in this context and pre-dates prostitution as a profession by some 50,000 years, at least. Hunting may not be the oldest profession, but it is far older than prostitution. 

... The studies indicate that in some cases taking a break was shown to have beneficial effects leading to increases in attention and short memory. Other studies indicated that perception and attitude can play an important role as well as what was done on the break. It's also important to keep in mind that the studies were limited to student populations which may not be a good representation of the wider population. It's safe to say that for some people, taking a break can have benefits although it isn't possible to say that as a general rule taking a break will have benefits given the important role perception and attitude seems to play. 

While Oliver_C's (excellent) answer look at the effects of radiation on cockroaches as an indication of whether or not they would survive a nuclear explosion, the question is about surviving a nuclear holocaust which means factors other than radiation are also an important determinant. The National Geographic documentary Aftermath: Population Zero states that no, cockroaches would not survive without humans. The documentary states that cockroaches are imports from the tropics and only flourished due to central heating provided by humans. Given that it is unlikely there would be central heating up and running if a nuclear holocaust were to occur, it is unlikely that cockroaches would survive outside of the tropics and even that is questionable if a nuclear winter is in place. HowStuffWorks supports that idea, although without a reference: 

I've heard the claim that psychopaths are constantly, or at least most of the time acting in order to manipulate people, most recently on an episode of Supernatural, episode 15 of season 7. The dialogue was as follows: 

While we don't know the full range of factors that can cause or contribute to determining a persons sexual orientation, there is certainly good evidence to indicate that prenatal development and foetal hormones play a key part in many or perhaps even most cases. Is homosexuality (meaning an instructive same-sex sexual attraction) always or generally innate? We don't know. Can homosexuality be innate? Almost definitely. Other related studies and areas of research: A 1978 study which has been widely cited since found that homosexual men tend to have higher levels of testosterone than heterosexual men. Homosexuality in males is often linked to fraternal birth order, with the theory supposing that there is a maternal memory of sorts which builds up an immunity to a male feotus and the response can lead to homosexuality. The Wikipedia page on Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation has a good summary (although poorly formatted with links to many relevant studies. 

However that entry is from 2002. Since then there have been studies that indicate the re-use of cooking oils can have detrimental effects on health: 

Another, perhaps more well known instance of this claim is the titular character on the TV shows Dexter, a self-proclaimed psychopath. It is mentioned throughout the show that Dexter has to act "normal" to fit in and avoid arousing suspicion. Quotes from Dexter demonstrate that: 

Does a single cup of (non-decaf) coffee drank in the morning have a real physiological effect that would aid in waking up and increasing concentration? Or is the morning cup of coffee ritual perhaps something closer to a placebo like effect? 

That's a great question. I travel a lot, having almost traveled on-stop for the last several years. Often when discussing the issue of "travel sophistication" with other tourists I often hear people make the distinction that they are "travelers" as opposed to "tourists". This page has many interesting points that I think show that people who consider themselves "travelers" in some cases consider themselves superior (in travel skills) to "tourists". That isn't terribly useful without seeing how many people who travel consider themselves travelers as opposed to tourists, although it is interesting to note. I did find some evidence to indicate that most tourists may consider themselves superior in travel ability relative to their peers. A study focusing on German tourists in Norway: 

The studies done thus far show that calculators only have a positive impact on learning. Only one exception was the grade 4 class from a 1986 study. A Meta-Analysis of the Effects of Calculators on Students Achievement and Attitude Levels in Precollege Mathematics Classes 

A BBC Article from 2006 reports on a study published in the journal of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 

You seem to have two main questions here, asking if RISUG exists and if so, if it is safe and effective. I will answer each in turn. Does RISUG exist? There is little question that RISUG exists, as there is an abundance of evidence. 

Also of note is that a tourists self-image can be linked to and/or influenced by their choice of destination. A study looking at tourist self-image and destination brand personality found: 

There does not seem to be any evidence that the Hoff is more popular in Germany than other countries. While living in Berlin for a few years I certainly never saw any exposure to him than what might be considered average. The idea may have come from the fact that he was popular at the tail-end of the 80's more so than other countries and had hit , Looking for Freedom, that was at number 1 for about six months. It could also be that he performed this song during celebrations for the wall coming down, when his popularity had already peaked in most western countries. Not to mention Germans being enthusiastic fans of Hasselhoff is a good example of a self-propagating meme, which was no doubt helped along by Norm McDonald incorporating the trope into his skits on SNL. It's interesting to observe that doing a Google date range search for "hasselhoff germans love" and similar phrases for 1980-01-01 to 1993-01-01 returns nothing, while a similar search for 1993-01-01 to 2000-01-01 returns many results. This is of note because Norm McDonald started at SNL in 1993, with "Germans love David Hasselhoff" being incorporated into his skits since at least 1994. This chart on the German Wikipedia shows the chart positions for Hasselhoff's different albulms. Chart positions in Germany generally trail behind Austria and seem to average out to be similar to Switzerland. Chart positions are not the only indicator of an artists popularity ion a country, but they help in giving an indication. It doesn't look like any study has been done on this topic. Given the evidence we do have, there is nothing to indicate The Hoff is more popular in Germany than other countries. 

... A study in 2008 seemed to show an improvement in attention depending on what was done on the break time. Students who walked through an Arboretum, improved their short-term memory by 20 percent, but showed no improvements after walking down city streets. From The Cognitive Benefits of Interacting With Nature: