Thats a Shimano freewheel, not a cassette. You need a freewheel remover like Park Tool FR-1 to remove it. Note that this is not the same tool as the cassette tool (e.g. Park Tool FR-5 for Shimano-type cassettes). See this link on how to remove it with the freewheel remover (Recommended method), or this link on how to destructively remove it without the freewheel remover (not recommended; primarily for freewheels don't have a remover available). 

Did you bend the derailleur (cage/hanger)? Did you size the chain wrong? Is the tension/friction in the shift cable too low or too high? 

Provided the wheel fits into the bike and you can use the brakes, it'll be fine to use. People run different tire sizes on occasion, and in some cases even different wheel sizes (e.g. 69ers and 96ers which have a 26" and 29" wheel). In some applications, its even desirable to put a bigger tire in the back since it carries more weight than the front. This can give some more comfort, e.g. for touring. 

A 6 speed bike has 126 mm rear spacing while more modern wheels will need 130 mm rear spacing (which you can fix by cold setting the frame). If you're getting a new front wheel too, you will need to do this to the fork as well (likely). If you go 7 speed and up, you can get a cassette wheel, but if your Tempo has indexed shifting, you'll need to use friction mode (or get new index shifters) and adjust the derailleur accordingly. The Schwinn Tempo has 700c wheels and there are decent 700c freewheels with 126 mm hub spacing made by Velo Orange under their Grand Cru line. 

All these things are specified in the data sheet for the derailleur models. Typically, you don't need to be spendy on the front derailleur (especially if you were running acera before) - I doubt you'd gain anything from doing so, other than something slightly prettier and a bit lighter of a wallet. Chances are that getting the FD set up properly (good cable routing, cables in good condition, positioning and adjustments done properly) even if its a cheap one (which I do suggest, the Shimano Tourney) is a better spend of money than just slapping an expensive FD like a Deore one on. A cheap option is a Shimano Tourney front derailleur. This is what I'd probably go for provided your crankset is within spec, but you can choose any "7 speed", "8 speed" or "9 speed" Shimano mountain bike derailleur which is top swing, dual/bottom pull which fits the appropriate criteria above. You can probably run into your LBS and get them to give you the right Tourney FD for under 15 dollars. They may have a 7, 8 or 9 speed Alivio/Acera one laying around at the same price as well, so you could grab that instead. Sheldon Brown, as usual, has a better description than I do. What is the model of the Acera FD you have right now, and what is your crankset? 

You really need to take the remaining bolt to the hardware store and get them to match something with the appropriate length and thread pitch. This isn't a standard length or size, but its likely M5 or M6 with length somewhere between 15-25 mm. You'd probably end up buying at least 6-8 packs of bolts to find the right one without measuring the existing one. 

If you're just truing a wheel, all you need is the appropriate spoke wrench (which depends on what wheel you have, obviously). There are four aspects to truing a wheel (quoted from Park Tool, which I suggest you read): 

This is generally a YMMV case -- some chainring+cassette+frame+rider combinations do OK with this, others really need a front derailleur/chain guide for this to work. My suggestion to ride it without the front derailleur is to get the chain as straight as possible (put the bike on a stand, and try different gear combinations until you get the one that looks the straightest) and be smooth with your riding. This will probably be something like the middle chainring in the front and something in the middle in the back. 

There isn't enough information to determine the chain length from what is given. You can read one of the many good articles on how to size a chain on the internet. The chain length depends on the chainring number of teeth, cog number of teeth, chainstay length. 

It is talc, and it is used in the tube making process to prevent the inner tube rubber from sticking to itself. 

You can't stick a conventional Hollowtech (II) bottom bracket in a pressfit system. However, you can use a Hollowtech II crank in some pressfit systems. If you're experiencing drag, make sure that the current bottom bracket has been installed properly (your shop can check this) or you can try replacing it with another bottom bracket which is compatible with your crank+frame. 

I'd probably start with option (7) and failing that, opt for option (1) or (5). Other Shiftmate configurations are possible with different cassettes (e.g. 11->10 speed and then handling derailleurs+cassettes appropriately). Note that a 50/34 + 11-32 already gives you a pretty large range, provided you're shifting correctly. 

The tire clearance in the front here is the distance from the top of the tire to the closest point on the fork, since thats where it comes closest to the brake caliper and fork. Example 2 (from here): 

700c (ISO 622) is the wheel size (other common wheel sizes are 26 inch (ISO 559), 29 inch (which is really the same as 700c), 650b, etc). The second number determines the tire size (via width-ishness). See this page on tire sizing - there is some variance even among tires marked the same thing (and strangely enough, numbers mean different things when written as decimals or fractions), even if the tires are of the same style (say, slicks; Obviously if one tire is knobby and the other is slick, you can't reasonably expect them to have the same tire clearance when mounted in the same bike). Generally, the bigger the second number, the bigger the tire (knobs can cause this to be violated) and typically more cushioning. However, if its too big, it won't clear the brakes or the fork/frame. Typically, your tire should between 1.5x and 2x the inner rim width - too narrow and the rim can take some hits. Too fat and the brakes drag on the tire/handling can be compromised. If you haven't bought a tire before, take the bike to your LBS and try on some tires so you're sure they'll clear the frame and are not too wide for your rims. 

As stated by Daniel R Hicks, these are roller cam brakes. Sheldon Brown sells a few extra long reach brakes: the Odyssey 1999 Extra Long Reach Caliper Brake and the Action© Extra Long Reach Caliper Brake. Tektro C-326 seems to have adequate reach, but the problem is since its designed for beach cruisers, the rims have to be quite wide. I don't know if the other brakes listed have this problem. A relatively easy solution is a drop bolt, which is a device which allows you to mount a brake lower than the frame is designed to. You can make a drop bolt and use a regular reach brake instead of hunting down a 100 mm reach brake. These are reasonably common with the Raleigh Twenty crowd, for example. In the picture below from Sheldon Brown, he has a Raleigh Twenty with a short reach caliper! 

BMZ presumably stands for Biemmezeta, an Italian manufacturer from near Milan who did a lot of contract manufacturing for a lot of places (e.g. Performance Cycles) as well as sold bicycles under their own brand. More details on your location may help narrow down the bike's pedigree. As Daniel R Hicks estimates the date of the bike in the comments, it should be noted that BMZ was popular in the 1980s. 

Any Shimano 7-9 speed rear derailleur will work with any 7-9 speed Shimano shifter. To upgrade to 8 speed, you need an 8 speed Shimano-compatible cassette or freewheel which works with your rear wheel, 8 speed shimano shifters, a 7-9 speed Shimano rear derailleur and a Shimano road front derailleur if you have road shifters or a Shimano mountain front derailleur if you have mountain shifters. The rear derailleur needs to have appropriate capacity and sprocket size tolerances for the gearing you want to run, and the front derailleur has to be matched to the number of chainrings, size of the jumps between chainrings and chainring sizes. Both have to have apppropriate mounting as well, obviously (tourney comes with a claw adapter in some cases; most modern frames don't need it). So, yes, you can use a Tourney rear derailleur with a Shimano 8 speed shifter, but you have to make sure the rest of the components work. That being said, upgrading from 6 or 7 speeds to 8 speeds usually doesn't improve anything (esp. with low quality parts like Tourney). 

Luck, most likely. You probably have a slow leak, which you could treat by replacing the tube or just keep pumping air in as necessary. Less plausibly, theres something up with your valve. You could try taking the tube out of the tire and pumping it up with a bit of air and putting it in your bath tub to see if you can find some bubbles. [In the comments, DRH has the reverse ordering on plausibilities] 

There are two measurements, given as pitch x width. The pitch is the distance between rollers and width is the width that the sprockets have to fit through. The pitch is generally 1/2" on modern chains, but some old bicycles (esp. old track bicycles) use 1" pitch chains (skip link or block chains). The width changes depending on number of speeds (so you'll have a lower width for higher number of speeds). So single speeds will often use 1/8" (some have sprockets designed for 3/32" though, so you should check), 8 speed will use 3/32" , higher number of speeds will use 11/128" (11 speed), etc. [possibly different between manufacturers]. 

Lighting control isn't exactly a good idea since you have 2 lights (front and rear) on a bicycle typically. Most cycling sensors (cadence, speed, heartrate, etc.) either speak ANT+ or Bluetooth these days, so if you want to read sensors, you just need to know how to speak ANT+ or Bluetooth in your chosen language. You can also add a GPS module and other things as well. People have accessed USB ANT+ sticks in Python and Bluetooth has a cycling profile and many people have used Bluetooth with the Raspberry Pi. Note that many phones have both ANT+ and bluetooth, and have their own built in batteries (and are probably faster than a Raspberry pi) and mobile internet, so if you want to read sensors, they may be better than the raspberry pi. That being said, either of these options will likely be far more battery draining than a cycling computer which provides the same functionality, so I'm guessing this is a project just for fun. 

Now, for the real way to select a bike: the model year doesn't really matter -- a lot of people have 30 year old bikes which ride great. A used bike is a good starting point for people so they get to know what they actually want before dropping a large sum of money. And the best way to decide on a bike is to ride it to make sure it fits well and you like it. You can talk to the bike shop to see what models would fit for your intended goals. 

The FC6603 seems to use a standard 130 mm BCD 52t chainring for the outer ring, unlike the special ones used on some other Ultegra/Dura-ace cranksets. You can buy such rings from most major brands. Look for ones marked 10 speed or 11 speed. 

The Steamroller has 120mm spacing (i.e. track hub spacing) in the back (based on the 2011 Surly complete catalog). A modern road hub is 130 mm spacing. My recommendation is to buy a wheel with a 120 mm track hub on it and thread the cog on it -- you could spread (i.e. cold set) the frame in principle (spreading can be done if and only if the frame is steel) to take the 130 mm hub, but I would not recommend it (esp. on a nice Surly frame). Since it is more than a 1 size jump (120->126->130), you pretty much have to do the cold setting if you want to go through with this plan (you may want to get a bike shop to do it, esp. for the fork). But, if you do choose to take the plunge and spread the frame, the option you should probably take is get a bunch of spacers and a single speed cog and put the spacers on to get the right chain line. Many companies sell "single speed conversion kits", which sell the spacers as well as the cog together for a n-speed cassette hub, which you can get for a fairly low price. Less ideal options include things like just sticking the wheel in as-is (with a multi-speed cassette) and aligning the chain as best as possible, but if you're willing to buy an Eno freewheel, this is silly. 

It depends on your cadence (number of times you're turning the chainrings). If you fix the cadence, largest chainring (gear in the front) and smallest cog (gear in the back) will be fastest. In practice, you will not be able to keep up the same cadence on all gear combinations, so depending on the cadence you can keep, a smaller chainring in the front and a larger cog in the back may end up being faster (since you can use a higher cadence) than a larger chainring and smaller cog (which, if you could spin at the same cadence would be faster, but you can't). You can use this calculator to see what speed you get for a given cadence for the chainrings and rear cogs on your bike. 

Are you having problems with flats too frequently for comfort? If not, leave them alone. If you are, whats causing the flats? Punctures? Too low tire pressure? If its the latter, sealant won't help. But, people do put Stans sealant into tubes to do the same purpose like Slime to deal with punctures. It comes with the usual caveats just like Slime (possible gumming up of the valve which can cause air leaks at the valve, the movement of the sealant, etc.), but for people who get punctures which are sealable by Slime frequently enough, it can be useful. Stans has a different viscosity and drying time to Slime, so its probably not as good (and its probably more costly to use Stans for this purpose than Slime). So, yes it would work, maybe not as well as Slime-like sealents, but it would probably be more economical just to buy Slime and use the Stans for your tubeless applications. I think if you're not getting punctures frequently enough to be annoyed, its probably more trouble than its worth to use a Slime-like sealant in the first place. 

If you're commuting on roads, there are plenty of good tires with kevlar belts for puncture protection (e.g. Schwalbe Marathon line). Slicks are ideal for roads since you don't need tread - this is a good page to read about the topic. You don't say how you got the flats though, so it is possible you had a bad valve or inadequate rim tape or underinflation, none of which a new tire would fix. 

To quote Sheldon Brown: "If the chain is too short, it will be at risk for jamming and possibly ruining the rear derailer if you accidentally shift into the large-large combination. Never run with a chain that is too short, except in an emergency." (I will say that depending on if your chain is short enough, it can happen in combos other than large-large.) Here is a good article on sizing chains. If its a new chain, I wouldn't hesitate in breaking the chain at a different link and adding some of the extra links back to it. But you really should get the chain to be of the right length before riding. Also, for what its worth, the easiest way to size a new chain for a bike which hasn't had a cassette/chainring size change occur is to start with the old (properly sized) chain, and use that to size out the new chain. Much less annoying than sizing the chain from scratch. 

It's not just the number of lumens you have (*) -- its the distribution. You need to aim your light at the ground at an appropriate angle, not into the eyes of motorists. If you have something like a flood light like the coast guard uses, thats no good to aim -- bicycle-specific lights will be easier to aim in a proper manner. If your light is aimed properly, pedestrians shouldn't really have a problem as well and you shouldn't be blinding cars. Look at the beamshots on @nhinkle's bikelightdb for seeing what appropriate aim looks like. (*) You didn't mention the model of light. Just because it says x lumens doesn't mean you're getting x lumens. Also, in regards to distribution, there were some cheap Chinese lights (~10-20 USD) which had very high light output and were very cheap a few years ago (used big batteries and stuff). These were somewhat problematic as you couldn't aim the beam. An aside: As a driver, I find these new blue-white LED lights on Audis and similar a bit distracting. So the color can be a bit distracting, but no bike light is nearly that intense anyway so the point is somewhat moot.