If it was a high end Schwinn frame of that era it was meant to be used with a Campy NR derailluer that did not have a b-screw adjustment. See the back of one here: $URL$ The suntour slant-parallelogram derailluer was actually a technological innovation at the time. However, the more I look at it, the more it looks to me like the dropout might have been machined in some way. My campy equipped bike from that era has the stop at roughly perpendicular to the slot for the axle in the dropout. 

The particular model of brakes on that bike are known to be a maintenance headache, and generally have a poor reputation. Hayes Stroker Ryder w/160mm rotor brakes, Hayes Stroker Ryder levers - See more at: $URL$ If you like the bike otherwise, upgrading the brakes to a newer model might help a lot. Shimano's current XT brakes have a great reputation and are often on sale. I upgraded the brakes on my 2009 Giant and it has made a significant difference. Switching to Avid BB7's would be about the same cost since you'd need to buy new levers and housing. BB7's are fine, but all in all I prefer my XT brakes. For mountain biking, I think you would really regret switching from disk brakes. 

To fix your existing shoes, I would either move where the strap attaches to the "tongue" of the shoe or where the buckle is fixed to the side of the shoe. The straps are designed to be replaceable ( as well as the buckles ). I would take a closer look at your shoes, many Shimano models have small screws that fasten the buckle to the shoe so it can be replaced. If I am remembering correctly, they also have two sets of positions so you can place the buckle lower on the shoe if you want. Even if this is not the case with your shoes, you should be able to move the position of the buckle using pop rivets. This is something skiers do with ski boots all the time, so if your local cobbler can't handle the problem, you might try a ski shop. 

$URL$ They are very expensive, wierd looking, but they are by far and away the most fog resistant eyewear available. I've used them biking and for all kinds of skiing and they just don't fog up ever. 

I have yet to find a quicklink that I couldn't separate just using my hands, but it is an acquired skill. I did struggle a bit with the first few attempts. Step one is to put the chain into a Z formation with the quicklink forming the downward slash of the Z. Then you need to both squeeze and slide. The quicklink won't slide into the removal slot until you squeeze the plates together just a bit. You can squeeze with one hand and use the other hand to pull on the excess chain to create the sliding force. You don't need a lot of force to accomplish this once you've mastered the trick, but I remember taking more than a few trys to figure it all out. If you have needle nose sized vice grips those can help with the squeezing part while you figure out the slide part. 

When I switched from skiing in a Goretex jacket to a jacket that actually breathes (soft shell) 99% of the goggle fogging problem disappeared. Anything that is a vapor barrier just funnels all the warm moist air from your body directly up into your face. The only WB fabric I've found that comes anywhere close to venting well enough to use with aerobic sports is eVent. Applying this to your situation, you need a face mask that breathes better. Either that or one that some how seals to your face at the top. There is no magic goop that will prevent fogging, the only solution is to keep the moist air away from the glasses. After you give up attempting to keep your current sunglasses from fogging, you might try a pair of these. 

There are now "sprinters" helmets that are bit in between TT helmets and regular bike helmets. Giro Air Attack is a good example. 

You will see the fastest gain in the shortest time doing intervals, but you also put yourself at the greatest risk for injury/burnout. Given that you're attempting a relatively long peak, you should probably treat most of your races as simply complex speed workouts and focus on a few events. For the events you focus on you'll need to take a rest break to allow the training benefits you're getting to take full effect. However, you can't do that every week as you'll never see the training benefits. Learning to monitor yourself and whether you really need rest or not is the hardest part of self-coaching. You might find the book "Time Crunched Cyclist" very useful. You need to establish periodicity in your schedule if you're going to make it to March. Here's my best guess at a schedule: 

You can get also get a significant change in position by getting a different set of bars. I would look for various handlebars labeled "short reach or compact". Almost all bars these days have listed the drop and reach. If your current bars are on the long end of the scale, switching bars might solve your problem. Going to a stem that short is going to have lot's of odd effects on the handling of the bike. For a road bike with drop bars, my experience is that 80mm or so is about the shortest stem you want to use. 

I have TRP spyres and while I find they perform better than BB7's when properly adjusted, they are very sensitive to adjustment. They have a very narrow range between rubbing the disk and too far away for proper braking. You may have to put up with a slight bit of rub to get proper braking performance. While they are dual actuated[1] like hydraulic disk brakes, they are not self-adjusting. This means that as the pads wear the brakes need to be adjusted to compensate for the wear; it does not take much for these brakes to get out of adjustment. You will need a 3mm hex wrench to do the adjustment and if you are going to stick with this bike, I recommend that you learn to do it yourself. You need to adjust both brake pads on a regular basis. I've gotten in the habit of checking my brakes before every ride. They don't need adjusting every ride, but it something to watch. If that seems like more than you want to deal with, your options are to either switch to BB7's or a more expensive road hydraulic setup. BB7's work well and aren't nearly as sensitive being adjusted properly, but since they only have a single actuator they are not as easy to modulate. For a road bike that is much less of an issue than for a bike meant to function well on dirt. BB7's do require regular adjustment, but in my experience not nearly as much as the Spyre's. They also do not require a tool to do the adjustment. The last thing to check is that your TRP's are the proper model. Mechanical disk brakes often come in both Road and Mountain models that work with different pull ratios. Since these brakes were on the bike to begin with it's unlikely, but it is something to check. Look online at both models and look at the length of arm that moves the brake pads to determine if you have a road or mtb version. [1]- dual activation means both pads move toward the disk, most other mechanical disk brakes have one fixed pad and one moving pad. 

It depends on the rim design. Generally you want the tape to cover the spoke holes, but only just. Measure the width at the bottom flat of the inside of the rim. Or you could get Veloplugs, these are plastic inserts that snap into the spoke holes and are both lighter and less hassle than rim tape. $URL$ Long term, I sometimes have problems with rim tape creeping slightly and exposing just a small bit of spoke hole. This always leads to recurring flats until you find where the tape has shifted. This happens more with some rims than others. The only gotcha with VeloPlugs is that they come in two sizes (Red and Yellow) and you need to get the size that matches your rim. 

The product you want does exist, but it's not significantly lighter than a front derailleur, it just works better for single rings. The are much heavier and more robust chain keepers used for Downhill MTB. Paul Chain keeper. $URL$ 

Just about any brake can lock up a wheel, and once you lock up a wheel your stopping distance isn't going to get any shorter[1] and you've lost a significant amount of control on where the bike is going. The point of larger disks is not to increase absolute stopping power but to increase control and heat dissipation. The leverage difference between a 140mm and a 160mm rotor compared to the much larger diameter of the wheel is fairly minimal: 140/700 = 0.2 160/700 = 0.228 A larger disk allows you to get closer to the lock up point and also suffers less brake fade due to heating. In MTB jargon terms, a bigger rotor provides better "modulation", this means control of stopping power, not absolute stopping power. The answer to your question is not a simple ratio, but a curve that is a solution to a relatively complex set of differential equations. [1]- Depending on the surface, it may actually get longer. 

Merino is not magic, if you get it soaked it's uncomfortable and in hot weather it's probably more insulation that you need. It's just better than most other alternatives when the weather gets bad, ( cotton for instance, which can be deadly when soaked in hypothermic conditions. Merino also doesn't get as clammy as some synthetics ). Waterproof and moderate to heavy levels of exercise mean you are going to get soaked no matter what base layer you have on. The key to staying comfortable is to not get wet in the first place and the only way to do that is effective layering with breathable garments. Despite all the marketing there is no such thing as a waterproof breathable fabric that will be breathable enough for moderate exercise.[1] When it's raining hard, you don't have much choice. So you want the base layers to retain some insulation when they get wet. Merino is good for that. In this case I actually prefer to use it as a mid-layer with a very breathable synthetic knit underneath. Your body heat can dry the inner layer and the merino will absorb some of the moisture before it condenses on the waterproof layer. The problem with merino as a single layer is that it is not at all windproof. When biking in cold weather you really need at least some windblocking. A light nylon vest or windshirt works pretty well for that. Bike specific vests with windblock fronts and breathable mesh backs are really nice layering pieces. Softshell jackets with some wind blocking and good breathablity will also stand up to light to moderate rain for much longer than you might expect. [1]- Well that's been my experience in the last 45 years, for some people it works I guess. Of all the one's I've tried eVent comes the closest to actually working as advertised. 

Well, there are lot's and lot's of commuter bikes with internal hubs and disk brakes. I see no reason why a single speed wouldn't work as well. A google search for "single speed cx bike disk brakes" turns up this beauty. $URL$ There are low budget models out there as well. Nashbar 29'r Single Speed Swobo makes one, you can build a Surly Straggler up as a single speed. Getting exactly what you want will likely cost a bit more, but that should be for you to decide if it is worth it. If you're going to commute in the rain, my opinion is that a disk brake is well worth the extra expense. I'd go to a different bike shop. 

FWIW, that is a junior racing freewheel from back in the day. Juniors have a limited high gear ratio they can use. Now as to whether a corn cob ( that was the nickname for it in the USA) really helps or not, every racer certainly believes that they do. And with power meters you can prove it. All I know is that when you're suffering at the back, having just a slightly lower gear to keep the legs spinning helps a lot mentally. There is also the intimidation factor of lining up with special gears that prove you're really a racer. Back when there were only 5 gears on the back and the smallest available chainring was a 42t, that was much more of a real choice than with 10/11 speed setups common now. In the 70's showing up at a race with a big cog bigger than 21t meant you weren't a "serious" racer. 

Wear a helmet. ( this probably doesn't apply to bike helmets, but ski helmets do a lot to keep the moist warm air from your head away from the goggles. ) Change your jacket. 

Crossing chaining hasn't been any problem at all since the invention of bushless chains 20+ years ago and wasn't even a real problem back in the ancient days. It's a persistent myth that just won't die... Your bike should leave the shop capable of shifting into any combo of gears possible and riding any amount of time you like in that gear. At most I would accept a slight extra noise in the extreme combos(big/big and little/little), but those components were designed to work in all the gear combos. If you are mixing/matching components or running odd size gears, you might run into some problems with derailluer capacity, but any bike stock from the shop should be able to use all it's gears. 

Sounds like you may have "glazed" your pads and rotors. New brake pads require a break-in period before you subject them to hard long braking. $URL$ Even when you already have your disks broken in, long drag braking can cause them to overheat and fade. This leads to a kind of vicious cycle in which the brake is less effective and you start using it even more. Brakes are designed to cool themselves with the available airflow, even a few seconds every minute can make a difference. Of course, that's easier said than done when you feel like you are over your head. Braking effectively is a skill that takes practice. If you are dragging the brakes constantly to control your speed, you'll be better off coming to a complete stop and regrouping. Sometimes, you just need to walk stuff when you are over your head. $URL$