While lack of formal education in the field might not be a deal breaker (e.g. I studied education and I implement Web Analytics Systems for a living) lack of relevant experience probably is. "I believe" is not going to convince anybody. You must be able to make a case that your previous work has prepared you for the challenges of the higher position. I frankly have no idea what being a "fiber optic planner" entails in its job description, but typically higher paying jobs involve skills beyond the technology (being able to talk to and negotiate with clients, managerial skills etc.), so you need to be sure you are in some way prepared for that. Else you'd have to take the long way and somehow aquire the necessary skill set (night school, online studies etc.) and then try again to apply. 

There is a law in Germany, which somewhat unsurprisingly called the "Bundesurlaubsgesetz" (Federal Law on Vacation). Rather more suprisingly the law does not say you have to take vacation at all - you have to claim your vacation days within a given year, if you do not you forfeit your claims. There are very few exceptions, the one pertaining to your case is that vacation days can be moved to the next year if it is determined that your employer for some valid reason cannot do without you (i.e. contracts to fullfill that require full manpower). You can try to convince your boss that this is case, however at the end of the day it is his call, not yours. Employers usually loathe to permit this, because it affects the balance sheet (if that is the right word - they have to put money aside to account for the case that they might be unable to give you the missing vacation days, so that goes down on the side of the liabilities). However if you need to finish a project the benefits might outweigh the cost, so your boss might be okay with it (in fact moving vacation days isn't that rare in Germany). If you move vacations days to the next year you have to take them within the first three months of the year, else you forfeit your claims (as far as the law is concerned, the company might decide to handle this differently). Usual disclaimer, I am not a laywer, I just googled one on the internet (plus, some personal experience). 

Sometimes you are the employee of a staffing company for that first six months. At the conclusion of the period one of three things will happen. They will hire you; they will send you back to the staffing company who will send you to another project; or you will be out of a job. The tough thing is to determine how likely one of those options has been predetermined. Sometimes the six month period is just used to get them over a rough patch. You are looked at as a temporary solution without any hope of getting hired. Others use it as way of paying back the hiring company. They get a cut of your pay for 6 months. I have avoided this situation but I am seeing a lot more of it. With the uncertain budget situation in the US many companies are willing to hire for 6 months, but are unable to forecast beyond that point. 

In the united states the rate your boss charges a customer for your time would be twice your salary. That covers all your benefits, taxes, insurance, vacation, sick leave, retirement, the overhead of running the company and business development. So the rule of thumb for £400 a day contracting rate would be £50 an hour contracting; which would translate into a salary of £50,000 a year. That flexibility you give them is what they are paying for. If they need to cut your hour they can do so. They can terminate your efforts based only on the terms of the contract. The ones who excel in that life as a independent contractor are those whose cost of living is less than what that rate would imply. In the US that tends to be people who have another source of the benefits or their retirement pay is covered. That means that they can survive on a dry spell. It is also done by people who are using the role as a contractor a the first step to starting a contacting business. As for finding work. It isn't the normal type of interview. In the US you would have to bid for a contract. They will want more information on past performance. They will have already decided to go the route of hiring a contractor. In some cases they want a very specific skill set, in other cases they are looking for a more broad set of skills. Gigs can last days or weeks, or years depending on the situation. 

There may be company cultures where talking about personal issues is looked at as a sign of weakness, and if you work in a place like that you might want to keep quiet. However, based on personal experience, I would say that talking helps. My wife suffered from complications from surgery last year, was in a coma for two months and is now permanently disabled. Caring for her would be a full time job by itself, and I have to do it in addition to my day job. Also of course this affects me psychologically. I have been quite upfront with all of this with both my superiors and colleagues, since this rather affects my performance. And while I still have (obviously) to do the job I was hired for the company has been looking for ways to accommodate my situation, and my colleagues now at least understand why I'm constantly looking tired and show some understanding. Had I kept quiet that would not have happened. So I'd say mention it at least - at the worst nothing will come off it, but maybe somebody is willing and able to assist you with your situation (but remember that other people have a life, also, so don't take it as an excuse to talk constantly about your issue). 

LinkedIn is an excellent way to establish and maintain those links for the future. It also lets you see their contacts so you can see the types of professions they deal with or have dealt with during their careers. If they are keeping their LinkedIn account updated, you will also be able to keep up with them if they change companies or work locations. They might no send you an email if this changes, and then the connection is lost. The short email post-conference can be sent as part of the LinkedIn invite to them. 

It is not just recruiters who will be calling you. When you start to apply to positions you will have to be able talk to potential employers. They will need to contact you for phone screens, to clarify information on your application or resume, and to schedule face-to-face interviews. Yes some of this communication can and will be done via email, but you need to over come your fear of others finding out. 

It is good to have multiple networks. You should have non-work networks:family network, neighborhood network, family related network (kids school, kids sports team)... You should have company networks. Past and present. You should also have technical networks. If the only thing you get from the MBA program is another network opportunity it might not be enough of a benefit for the cost. If you see a benefit for a non-MBA advanced degree that might be a much better choice. The networking opportunities for the wrong degree are unlikely to be worth the money. 

If you divulge information on an ongoing lawsuit your current employer might decide to sue you (e.g. if this leads to loss of business - they might then try to blame bankruptcy at you. That your grievances with your employer are factual does not necessarily help in that case). So you don't bring it up. Either the interviewer does not know about the lawsuit, in which case there is no need to bring it up, or they do know about it, in which case they'll understand why you cannot talk about it (plus they'll probably would not want to hire somebody who is indiscreet and thus a legal risk, so it is in your best interest not to bring it up). 

Let your HR departement manage that. Unless your former colleague has completely changed the field he will now be working for a competitor and might not even be allowed to help you (and when in doubt HR is better prepared to handel legalities that might have to be dealt with). Even if he wants to help you cannot expect him to work for free. You are probably not authorised to offer him payment, so again, let HR handle this. Or even better, don't do this at all. It is unlikely that after 6 months he remembers enough details to be of much help, and nobody I know of likes to be stalked by their former workplace. 

The best way is to apply for both positions. You have no idea which position they will try and fill first. If they pick the one you didn't apply for, but it the one they would have picked you for, then you will have missed your opportunity. I have seen postings go from open to closed to filled in days, while a similar one takes months. In some companies applying the first time is painful because of all the steps involved; but the second one takes no time because they only ask for a new cover letter. In some cases this is a problem because they expect you to use the same resume, but for you that is perfect. If they decide to make an offer they will ask you to remove your name for consideration for the other positions in the company, but by that time you would have mentioned your interest in either position. 

Can I list the projects I worked on through my job on my portfolio? That is the essence of the resume for many people. They not only need to describe their roles and responsibilities in a position, they also want to mention the names of the projects/contracts to show the types of things they have worked on. Of course unknown projects don't have a lot of cache. Specifically what you can mention, how you mention, and what you can display/demonstrate online in your portfolio are between you, your employer, and their customers. The nature of some projects limits what you can show. Intranet sites are hard to show online to potential employers. It is also hard to freeze and isolate your contributions to an evolving product. This same dilemma exists regarding your freelance work. Some customers may not want you to include their product as a reference. If they let you list/display it, then do so. If they don't let you, then just describe it or include it in your general comments. 

I know a few companies that buy carbon offsets for every mile they make their employees travel. I can't really say if this is feasible for you (I think most options are targeted at really large companies), but if this is about environmental concerns it might be a reasonable compromise. 

You should just quit. Probation period works both ways - it is not just the company testing you out, it's also you testing the company, and obviously the company has failed your test. Six months probation period sounds German. So if you wait to long for the company to implement changes probation might end and you will most likely find yourself at the wrong end of the customary German three month notice period. Do you really want to be bogged down for three quarters of a year ? So quit - this is not you being spoilt, this is what a probation period is for. Also that way the company can look for a replacement and does not have invest any more money into an unhappy employee. Plus with markets being as they are at the moment you should be able to find a new job quickly, so there is not point in dithering. It's just when you find that being unhappy in your job becomes a habit that you should reconsider if the problem is with you and not with the companies you work for, but for now looking for a better fitting opportunity seems the thing to do.