Beautiful question: yes, there's an a priori knowledge: causality. Everyone knows nature's mechanism of action and reaction, cause and consequence. Since we start existing inside the mother's belly, we make stimulus and get reactions. We know that. Nature works with that. Math describes that perfectly, because causality has been perfect (until quantum mechanics found some incoherences). We speak and interact following the causality mechanism. The mechanisms of causality are related to systems -all things-. There is no cause if there is no system over which to apply it. So, knowledge is built over this a priori base: actions and reactions we clearly identify over things we are familiar with. This is a topic of the systems theory, and I'm an author, so please consider this as an opinion. I write about this because the systems theory requires this kind of adjustments, in the meantime, it's heavily incomplete. 

Again this is a complex scenario that doesn't have one answer from logic, but I wouldn't disagree that limited resources need to be allocated, and it makes sense to have a "disinterested expert" select - although the criteria are again going to have to be chosen, probably based on some grey areas. This is an interesting example though because here you have two different families facing death competing for limited resource that the medical establishment (and legal system) controls, deciding who is likely to live or die. However in the abortion case, you have a pregnant woman's choice of whether to abort a pregnancy, and are proposing that the legal system declare the fetus as inviolate life and deny her that choice (which risks her own life, in some cases greatly or, in rare cases, even certainly) about her own potential future child and her own life, with no one else involved. And there is also the situation to consider that the result of illegalizing abortion is not the prevention of abortion, but causing women to get dangerous black market (or improvised) abortions instead. 

As far as I know, the notion of open set has been formulated after the notion of open interval in the real line. Was the goal of generalization to allow the definition to work in higher dimensions? 

In my opinion, you should understand it as admitting we can't know anything for sure. No matter how confident we are about the validity of some statements, theorems etc., we can never reach 100% certainty. You might say, well, why do we generally believe things are not certain instead of believing in them with no criticism or doubts - I guess that's just the way we were 'built'. We should ask another question - why me, you and most, if not all, other people tend to think confidence about validity of theorems in any science (biology, physics, and even mathematics that we may consider unfalsifiable) is unreachable? And then, why you asked this question even if you feel you can keep asking such questions forever, that's why you will never get the ultimate answer (and then ask the question if it's true there are no ultimate answers). 

I agree that these are all problems where you have multiple people with different life prospects and chances of survival and resources to consider. However in this case I don't follow what you are saying about the fetus. It does seem to me that it would be relevant how important you considered the fetus' status to be. 

while your premises are essentially statements of fact about the same issue, not asking whether life is inviolate or not, or whether different stages of fetus are life or not, or whether life's inviolate-ness trumps a woman's choice, or not. In the last line of your final question, this premise/conclusion is directly stated: "the only real issue on the table: life". You did write in your third paragraph "if a foetus doesn't yet count as life, then no such rules apply." but you don't ever address that issue after that. You also don't address the other non-premise questions I mentioned in the above paragraph. So sure, if your premise is right that killing fetuses is always wrong and "the only real issue on the table", then you are right... that that is your premise. 

In final terms, the root problem of the 2nd law is this: it formulates a law that is applicable only to systems that follow that law. So, can the 2nd law of thermodynamics be a circular argument? 

Physically, time is only part of our perception, time it is generated by our memory. At a fundamental level, there is no time, photons don't know space or time. Effects are related to causes but that does not imply a sequence in time. The idea of a sequence is created by our memory and our perception of reality. a+b = c is not really a timed sequence. Both factors are related by a causal mechanism (a+b imply c; forget that c implies also a+b, that is only a mathematical property of addition). Think of causes and consequences as a page full of related equations. They are just like photograms on a film, related by causality. It is our memory while we read (or a movie projector, in case of a film) that generates a perception of time. You might wonder how is it possible to say that time is just a perception! What about relativity? Believe it or not, science is based on a lot of human-subjective issues. Temperature, for example, has no physical meaning. We were forced to introduce the 0th law of thermodynamics only to give a physical meaning to temperature. But in reality, there are no hot protons. Temperature is just a feeling on our skin. So are time and space. Relativity is about our perception of time and space. Not about the real nature. 

My answer would clearly be: no. Hijacking is a loaded word. You don't explain how this argument from adverse consequences would work, but I assume you are suggesting that the pro choice movement is suggesting that a foetus is not inviolate life because unwanted pregnancies have bad effects on women's lives? I don't think I've ever heard anyone argue that, so no. And I don't agree with your premise that the "only real issue on the table" is "life", so no. I think the comment that goldilocks made about this "begging the question" is accurate: you seem to have unquestioned premises that a fetus is "inviolate life", and that that trumps a woman's choice about whether to bear the child or not. All your conclusions on the question of abortion rights seem to just be direct consequences of assuming those premises to be true. If we instead start with a premise that, just to pick another arbitrary example, that the ancient Roman attitude that a child isn't a person yet until a year after birth is instead our premise, then we'd have very different "real issues" and very different conclusions. Postscript: To respond to your comment by explain why I think you're "begging the question" here. I don't mean this ad hominem, or to suggest you're intentionally doing this. Begging the question is where your conclusion is essentially the same as the premise you start with. The questions you stated were: 

This sounds very general and very abstract. It makes me ask - how abstract a definition (axiom) can be, and still be "valid"? As far as I know, definitions are axioms in modern mathematics. Axioms are supposed to be obvious, taken as true without proof. Yet, some definitions (axioms) are better motivated than others. To remind my earlier point - I could just as well find a different generalization of Cauchy's continuous function, such that if a function was continuous according to Cauchy, then it would be continuous according to the new, different definition. It follows that mathematicians are still formulating new axioms, by creating generalizations of definitions such as those mentioned above. They can informally justify them, but not prove them (well, that's why they are called axioms). But somehow, some axioms (definitions) are more true than others. We're trying to measure the correctness of a definition by the strength of its motivation, justification, which are informal considerations anyway. In summary: How are generalizations created, justified and accepted? Could we have chosen different generalizations (I'm suggesting that we could). Is every generalization a creation of another axiom? Is there the only, ultimate, correct and valid generalization? 

It seems to me that there is no one right logical answer to this. It's about culture and moral codes and law and circumstances more than it is about logic. For example, someone might argue that a country that put a mother in such a situation and won't relieve it is at cause in threatening the survival of these children, and a mother put in this situation might be morally justified in considering sacrificing one to save the rest (although one might hope she'd orphan the child rather than kill it, etc). 

I would suggest the opposite: that a pregnant woman is typically the person most interested (and most expert) in the life of the fetus inside them, even in cases where they choose to abort. Expertness and interest are themselves subjective or at least not-clearly-defined terms, as is their degree of relevance. Your "Life and choice matrix" just seems to graphically show the result of your postulates that a fetus is life and that life is inviolate and that the inviolateness of life trumps a woman's choice. 

Science is just some kind of knowledge (obtained with the scientific method). Other types of knowledge include religious knowledge (obtained from a book or tradition), family knowledge (obtained at home), etc. You are not forced to believe in science nor in any other type of knowledge. But some types of knowledge improve your survival probabilities. And not only that: they improve your quality of life. Following religious or other metaphysical types of knowledge, anything is possible if you have enough faith. That includes revival. So, if you take decisions based on religious knowledge, you risk killing your pet or yourself and not being able to come back to life again. Scientific knowledge is the one that seems the best one to increase the probabilities of survival and having a good life. It could be completely wrong, but it accepts improvements. So, if science says that the atom is made of smaller particles, and you use such knowledge, you have a great chance of success. Moreover, if you improve it following its methods, you have more chances of success. 

First, suppose what's happening when I say I don't understand something (let it be a proof of some mathematical theorem). What does it mean? Probably that I can't see all logical connections between given facts and statements, right?. And then it comes to me that eureka moment, when I finally 'get it'. What if I shouldn't understand it and I'm just fooling myself this proof or anything similar makes sense? Given some proof we were told is correct, we basically stop thinking about it once we feel we 'understand' it. Maybe we shouldn't think we 'understand' it, because it contains some major logical flaws and our initial intuition with regard to it (that we didn't understand it) was correct? In other words, when we don't understand something we feel we should, and it makes potential mistakes harder to spot, because we adjust our thinking process to arrive at the conclusion 'yes, this statement makes sense and is correct'. On the other hand, if we attempted to falsify every statement, we could never finish the process, because maybe we would never find any flaw in it. It all comes down to proving axioms, which is impossible (stating that it's impossible to prove an axiom is an axiom - it can't be anything else... quite circular thing though). In the end, we take it as an axiom that if a billion people find no flaw in a statement, then we could accept it as an axiom.