Most answers have covered working in a free market system, where your expenses do not dictate what the job will pay. Two entities are free to set their prices and when they agree, there is a deal. I want to add additional perspective. Compensation is measured in more than dollars Job rates generally should factor in COL requirements, and generally you'll see higher rates in more expensive areas. However, compensation should to be measured in more than dollars. In your friend's case and many college student's cases their first jobs, internships, and coops will have sub-standard wages. But the wages are not the complete compensation. These companies are taking higher risk by taking on employees with little to no experience. There is going to be higher administrative costs per unit work of these entry level employees (more review, checking, grooming, mentoring, etc...) They offer you access to real-world on-the-job experience. That real-world experience is what is going to set you on a growth path for the rest of your career. Your friend's compensation package (and other interns / coops) is something more like this: 

I'm not sure why you feel the need to "provide feedback" to someone you essentially have accused of cheating. Why would you help them at all? I would disqualify them immediately and put them on a do not hire blacklist and move on with my life. Obviously, you cannot state your suspicions to them (negative, direct feedback), so just remember this old adage: 

If you can get more money, then go for it. But, in times like this, perspective is required. The opportunity to enjoy a new city, while getting paid a little bit, and gaining real job experience is likely worth much more than asking for a few more bucks an hour. To conclude, everything is negotiable, and negotiating is part of the game. But to negotiate you must hold a position that is negotiable. An intern, co-op, or fresh grad doesn't have much leverage. It's best to take the opportunity, have a positive attitude and gain invaluable experience. Then next time you'll be in a better position to negotiate. Personally, I wouldn't squabble over a few bucks at the expense of a growth opportunity. 

I want to add a different perspective to answer the general case. In an ideal world, employers would prioritize human beings over business. However, many times this is unfortunately not the case. Often, people feel pressured to go to work even when they are ill and this results in the spread of sickness. So where does this pressure to not take sick time come from? Subconsciously, they know they may be judged or penalized for taking unscheduled time off. That being said, I think the effects of calling out sick early in your employment is highly dependent on the organization. There are some/many jobs that would probably not hesitate to fire you for calling out sick in the first 90 days. In your case it worked out nicely (as it should). But I write this answer so that others contemplating the same situation have additional context to make a decision on. In my opinion, if you have something minor that can be managed with medications then it's probably best to show up and just explain to others that you are feeling a little under the weather. If they are a good organization they will probably tell you to take off and come back when you feel better. Obviously, you had the flu and fever, and in that case you have no choice but to bite the bullet and take the time off regardless of the outcome. Just call in and speak to your manager and explain the situation. If they are smart, they will realize getting the rest of the team sick is worse than having you work when you are ill. Some supporting anecdotes Anecdote #1: I was once "written up" for going to the ER. And that was after years of service. Utterly, disgraceful. But this should illustrate how low some organizations are willing to stoop. Anecdote #2: A very similar situation occurred on the first day of an important job for me. I caught a cold and I got zero sleep (literally) the day of my start day. I calculated the risk of calling out on my first day was too great and so I rolled up my sleeves, loaded up on meds, told everyone to not shake my hand, and started the job. That was a rough week, but things worked out well. 

Etc... This way you are not only showing that you took the appropriate action based on the available information but you noticed an opportunity to improve the existing system and support. As a manager I never liked hearing problems without having suggestions about how to solve them. I hired people because they could perform the job, and if they have an issue performing the job I didn't want to hear "I did my best", I wanted to hear "this is how we do it better". 

I skimmed a lot of it but as I understand it your situation is that you have a good opportunity but people from your past are making it difficult to secure a position. You say that the person has offered you some project work, take it. Prove the quality of your work and when you are done ask for more. If you do work for him, do it well, and he keeps wanting to give you more, he'll listen less and less to those other people and more to your experience. Rebuilding a reputation can be difficult, especially when you have multiple people working against you. It seems you have somebody willing to give you a chance, so take it and run with it. It allows the hiring manager to test you out without making a full commitment. Yes, this takes time, but in the end puts you in a much better bargaining position. Right now if you were to beg for a job, and even if he could convince others in the organization to hire you on, you would be under a very uncomfortable microscope for quite some time. Taking some project based work removes that microscope for you, and the overall risk for them. I would take the work, but I would take it based on the going rate of an independent contractor with the same skills. You want to make yourself look like a bargain if hired, and if not, get paid well for your work. 

I think the other answers are great but would like to add that you should show an opportunity for improvement. Not only explain what you did, but make suggestions as to how to make it better... For example, your email should include something like: 

Again, why a year? But yes, consider getting a job related to your field of study as soon as possible. Even if you do it now and it means working part time at a help desk, this is better on a resume to a potential post-graduate employer than "bus boy". Don't think of time working as the thing your employer wants, they want to see relevant experience. Even if that means joining groups like programming/electronics clubs or volunteering on open source projects. Get involved now. 

The only exceptions I would make to the above, is for someone that has some sort of disability, or English as a second language. If someone cannot be bothered with pleasantries, then I cannot be bothered to forward their information and I definitely would not recommend them for employment. A google search of 5 minutes would have resulted with the appropriate way to reply, regardless of age. (Even better attach a current copy of your CV or resume in the response.) Utterly lazy. 

Base Wages Opportunity Experience Networking Travel / new city / new experiences Possibility of extension / offer of full-time employment. 

This question is a possible duplicate, but your question has the qualifier "if you are underpaid" to disclosing your current salary. In general, your current salary has no bearing on the current role. Your current salary is typically used as a shortcut for HR to determine what to offer you while saving them money. For the particular case that you are underpaid (actually applies in general): 

Many companies have policies relating to how employee behavior represents the company even on personal time. For instance, say your employee is a binge drinker and posts photos of himself getting black out drunk on social media. Obviously, this will reflect poorly on your organization if people saw these posts. It could affect their desire to do business with you. And it could cost you money. Therefore, the company can most likely terminate the employee (consult a lawyer) for violating company policy (namely harming the company's reputation). Furthermore, people get canned for their personal beliefs often, just look at the recent Google debacle. In your case, I think it's even simpler than that. Said employee has cost you business. Now it is up to you to determine if the value of the employee outweighs the cost of lost business. If current clients were disgusted enough to discontinue doing business with you, then how many clients have you lost before they even walked through the door? As an aside, and in support of your clients, I too decide to do or not do business with companies based upon the values a particular business purports to uphold. I vote with my wallet. Politics is unfortunately serious business these days. I don't think your clients are an exceptional case. I think you should consult a lawyer and I think you should establish a written policy that addresses how employee behavior affects the company reputation as a baseline and then go from there. I think you can try to salvage the situation if you can get the employee to agree to stop posting the controversial posts. However, if they are passionate about their beliefs they may not be willing to do so and at that point you have a decision to make: your employee or your bottom line. 

The worst that would happen is they say "sorry, we can't match that" and you then decide whether its worth to go with the lower salary or tell them that you'd rather accept a position with better pay. 

Yes! Not sure why you even have to wait one year, technically one day is experience and can be counted, although if it was that short you would have other issues. 

Believing you are the only one who can do your job and then trying to tell your employer that while asking for a raise or other benefits is a quick way to find out you really are replaceable, even if it causes them some pain. Instead of "you can't survive without me", try "look, I'm doing all this work and I think my output speaks for itself, would you be open to negotiating a raise"? I've been in both sides of this argument, where I had employees think that they were irreplaceable, offered ultimatums, and found themselves replaced. I've also been in the "I don't think they can do it without me" side and found myself replaced. Tout your accomplishments and value, not their failures without you, you will get a lot further. 

The "Thank you for your reply" is a nicety to start an email that is going to be very disappointing. 

Yes, they can ask you this, and depending on the country you live in, there is no legal reason why they couldn't use your answers against you, however I'm not sure why they would. Having a part time job while in school is a good thing. Having a part time job when you're out of school and not trying for a full time one is a red flag. I can't think of any legitimate reason why the number of hours you worked at a previous job would be basis for denial, unless you can't work the hours you are interviewing for. 

Verbal agreements are only worth the paper they are written on. If you still want the 3rd job, go back to them and say 

You are technically qualified for the positions we hire for. If something comes up in the future we would be happy to interview you again. But do note: they now know your perceived worth relative to what they need, and may not be so quick to interview you for a position in the same salary range as the one you applied for. And in case it still isn't clear, the entire email pretty much reduces to: Thank you for your time but we've decided to go with a different candidate. So yes, it means they retracted their offer and rejected your counter-offer. They probably took 2 days to reply to you so they could contact the next candidate and see if they would accept what they were offering. If you want to try and reply and say "wait, I'll take what you've offered", then you are welcome to try. They've probably already keyed up the next choice so if you are going to accept, don't wait, do it now. The company is probably not going to retract an offer to another candidate because you've said you want the job now.