First a comment: I am surprised at your stating that "It seems that physicalism and functionalism in philosophy of mind has fallen out of popularity and into much criticism". All of the philosophy of mind courses and lectures I have listened to state that functionalism is the most popular position in philosophy of mind. Can you provide a source? Second: It should be noted that physicalism and functionalism are not the same thing. One can be a physicalist without being a functionalist (e.g. those who subscribe to type-identity or to eliminativism). In fact John Searle accuses functionalists of being closeted dualists (see these recorded lectures on philosophy of mind by him -- I forgot which lecture number he gives the argument for why functionalists are actually dualists). 

David Chalmers takes the reasoning you describe and flips on its head: Levels of complexity can never account for the purely ontological nature of consciousness (his famous "hard-problem of consciousness"), and therefore if physicalism is true, then consciousness must be fundamental, i.e. it has to be a basic property of matter like electrical charge or mass. Otherwise some for of dualism is true. I suppose this what you are alluding to in point (1). For possibility (2) one can start from James and Russell's neutral monism. From what I understand, Russell arrived at this position from the idea that relations are more fundamental than substance. The reason why I think Russell's monism is relevant to your question, is that the only way it would make sense to speak of a "real" ontology of properties is if one takes the stance that the fundamental constituents of nature are relations, not substances - see also structural realism. Then it becomes possible for different classes of relations (according to different levels of complexity) to have distinct "real" ontologies. To put another way: if relations are what the world is really made of, then differences between classes of relations are ontologically real differences, not mere abstract differences as you put it. 

But then if a field of inquiry is able to provide accurate, objective and useful information regarding a question, doesn't that field simply become part of science? As examples: 

Someone flagged this as a possible duplicate of another p-zombie question. This is question is not about P-zombies as usually defined, but about a reimagining of the p-zombie so that it applies to freewill instead of qualia. 

Can someone be both a logical positivist and anti-redictionist? What would be the implications for logical positivism of empirically verifiable, but non reducible statements/theories? 

One might envision a UBI so high that everyone gets to live an upper class lifestyle, but then that ends being the same thing as communism anyway. 

From the text of your question, you seems to be asking about the problem of induction. This is indeed a major problem in the philosophy of science. Several authors have tried to address it. One example is Karl Popper, who proposed the idea of falsificationism: no science theory can ever be definitively proven, instead the most successful theories in science (i.e. those backed by empirical evidence) will only be the best for now, until the day they are falsified (i.e. proven wrong by new evidence). He proposed that the criteria for what constitutes a scientific statement should thus not be whether the statement can be verified or not. Instead it should be whether a statement can be falsified or not. Falsification is a stronger criteria than verification. It is no longer enough to provide empirical evidence for statement, one must provide a way of proving the statement false. The statement is considered a valid scientific result when one has tried to prove it false and failed. In your example, one must design an experiment to prove that momentum isn't conserved and then run it and show that the experiment failed. Of course someone else in the future might succeed, hence the principle that theories are just the best we have so far, never definitely proven. Others besides Popper have discussed the problem of induction. I'll leave it to you to look them up. 

"Can you say that in planet earth philosophy only exists because human exists?": Yes - the problems of modern philosophy, epistemology, ethics, philosophy of mind, philosophy of science, political philosophy, etc..., are human specific. If you resort to older definitions of philosophy, when the natural sciences were considered part of philosophy, then the answer would be different. Questions in physics and mathematics might - emphasis on might - be independent of the human observer, but not questions of philosophy. 

The idea that you mention is similar to Marx's concept of alienation: When a person performs labor in a capitalist industrialized society, they slowly loose their connection with their work and their community. The become alienated. 

This had me wondering what are the philosophical definitions of wisdom and intelligence? More specifically: 

A scientific realist would agree that it is possible that there are laws of physics that are true but that we can't prove because of the limitations of our senses, since she holds that the truth of physical laws is independent of observers. On the other hand, a scientific anti-realist will state that a law of physics that cannot be confirmed by our senses doesn't have any meaning at all, since the only purpose of physical laws is to predict observations. For an anti-realist, it isn't that such a statement is false, but that it doesn't have any meaning at all. Consider the following example: There is a planet, identical to earth in all respects, except for the fact that everyone on that planet is color blind. A scientific realist will consider the law "If you mix blue and yellow, you get green" to have meaning independent of whether the inhabitants of that planet can understand that statement or not. A scientific anti-realist will say that the inhabitants of that planet have no way of tying the law "If you mix blue and yellow, you get green" to anything they can observe, and from their point of view is scientifically meaningless. There are arguments both for and against scientific realism, it is still a ongoing debate. 

I would dispute that in the example you gave, Paul is doing any form of aggregating or dimensionality reduction. While many factors influence his wellbeing (money, sex life, world peace,…), his wellbeing itself is a simple fact, and when replying to Lisa he is directly answering the question about that simple fact, not summing up the totality of facts that led to it. That being said, you are correct in your general premise that the human mind is performing some advanced pattern recognition and clustering on sensory inputs (including speech), and sorting and aggregating them to a higher symbolic level such that it can process them using formal logic. Indeed, this is the starting assumption that AI and machine learning specialists work off of: The mind is already performing such calculations, the challenge is to reproduce those processes in digital computers. The real question, is how much of these pattern recognition processes are innate and how much are acquired? That’s where Kant comes in, and where I am no longer qualified to discuss the topic. 

A quantum experiment occurs and one version of you dies while the other survives. The big issue with quantum mechanics is that the outcome does not occur without an observation being performed. And performing an observation requires a conscious observer. It is necessary for a conscious you ("you you" and not "the other you") to be around to observe the outcome of the experiment. A dead you cannot perform the act of observing, only a living conscious you can do so. So by the very definition of the experiment, no matter how many times the experiment is performed, the conscious you will be the only person remaining to observe the outcome of the experiment. In the other timelines/parallel universes, the experiment is no longer being performed, since the person performing it (you) is dead. 

It just came to me that all of the contemporary sources on philosophy of mind that I have been reading (Dennett, Nagel, Churchland, Chalmers, Searle, Hofstadter, Jackson) are all writing in English, and write mostly in the Analytic style. 

I was surprised to learn that Quine is a mathematical realist (See this interview for example). I always assumed that his "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" and specifically his dissolution of the Analytic/Synthetic distinction was a strong challenge to mathematical realism. My reasoning was the following: 

This is one of the main objections to Descartes reasoning: He says that thinking proves the reality of "I", that the mind is real and independent of the body. Several authors point out that all he proved is that "thinking" is real - but there's no reason why the reality of thinking implies the reality of "I", the thinking can be real, but the "I" can still be an illusion. See this response for more details. 

According to the introductory chapter in this lecture series, there is no difference between political theory and political philosophy. Within political science departments, those who engage with theoretical and abstract questions are doing political philosophy. Within modern academia, it is mostly a question of their affiliation and academic interests: if they are part of a political science department, they are political theorists, if they are part of a philosophy department, then they are political philosophers. Moreover, wether they are considered political philosophers or political theorists seems to hinge on whether they have published works in other branches of philosophy or not. This can be seen from the names in the wikipedia link you provided in your question: Jurgen Habermas or John Dewey published in other areas of philosophy, so they are thought of as a political philosophers, while Lenin (activist and politician) and Tariq Ali (Journalist) are thought of as political theorists or thinkers instead of philosophers.