Having said all that, just to provide you with an anchor point: for a bike exploited almost solely off-road, year round in continental northern European climate, I would say a typical service interval for shocks/forks would be 2000-4000 km. 

I cannot trot out the studies from memory now, so take my answer with a big grain of salt. Or as an invitation to do more in-depth research. When I was actually researching these things several years ago, my conclusions were than the classic oval chainrings were ineffectual in whatever goal they were attempting to reach, while the newer Rotor system actually provided some small benefit on the order of 1-2% better average power. It seems that right thing to strive for is minimizing the maximal force exerted by the muscles, because the maximal force is correlated with utilization of glycogen (the bigger the force exerted, the greater the proportion of glycogen burned via the inefficient anaerobic pathway). Rotor succeeds in this by flattening the power delivery curve, while the immovable ovals just phase-shift the curve. 

I want to replace a lost head unit/computer on my old Tacx Basic from 2002, does anybody know if modern Flow head unit will work with this old frame/load generator? I think such was an upgrade path, once, but still - the frame is really old (but in good working condition). 

If the chain is not very dirty, just clean it off quickly with a rag and see if it helps first. Chain cleaning machines work passably well and save some time over manual chain cleaning methods. So if you find yourself having to clean your chain often (MTBing in mud, typically) it's worth it to invest in one. Alternate method is to take the chain off, put it into a plastic container with some chain cleaning fluid or just plain old unleaded, and shake vigorously for 10 minutes. Save the fluid/petrol for future use, the old grease and sand will fall to the bottom and whatever's left above can be used again. If you use either of the last two methods, you have to apply grease to the chain again. 

Getting contact lenses, and then you can wear bike specific glasses Getting bike glasses with prescription lens inserts. In my experience, they are somewhat awkward to handle and not all optometrists will undertake fitting the lenses to what they perceive as nonstandard frames. 

All the above answers are seriously off in their estimation of the effect it will have on your speed. Going from semi-slick tires, like the ones pictured, to even very narrow slick tires will not improve your averages by more than 1-2 km/h. The effect of rolling resistance on pavement is not "huge", it's dwarfed by air resistance, especially at higher speeds (air resistance increases in proportion to the square of speed, while rolling resistance increases linearly). You can try to plug different rolling resistances into this model to see how little effect it will have on your average speed (and since you are on a trekking bike, your position's frontal area will be definitely closer to 0.7 than 0.4): $URL$ 

With a smaller frame, you will need an appropriately longer handlebar stem in order to retain the cockpit length. This will affect handling of the bike: it will feel more "lively", which can be good in some cases (tight turns, difficult terrain) or bad (less stable) - in most cases. A smaller frame will be marginally less reliable, and more prone to break, due to bigger stresses in its structure; longer stem and seat post mean bigger levers to exert force on the frame. But this should not be a significant effect. 

As a rule of thumb, a 17" frame is an inch or two too small for your size. I would not recommend taking the smaller one without actually riding it for a couple of hours and making sure it's comfortable for you. 

Price - a suspended frame is much more complicated and expensive to make, and a good shock alone can cost more than a decent rigid frame. Maintenance - both shocks (due to gaskets/seals, lubrication, cleaning) and elements suspended frames (additional bearings) are relatively high-maintenance and short-lived, compared to rigid frames. This also translates into less reliability, especially important in touring/trekking trips. Cost-effectiveness and weight-effectiveness - especially in road biking or touring, it's not such a big deal. Much better to put wider tires or suspended saddle. Pedalling efficiency - even the best suspension systems rob some of the user's energy. In mountain biking, it's more than offset by less energy expended by the rider, who can spend less time out of the saddle on uneven terrain, but in road cycling it's absolutely unjustifiable. 

Obviously, this depends on the make and model Even more obviously, it depends on riding conditions, mainly on how much mud and water the hardware is dealing with "Fully serviced" is also an imprecise term, manufacturers may indicate different service actions with different frequency By caring well for the shocks (mainly by cleaning off the mud, and periodically cleaning gaskets etc.) you can extend the inter-service intervals 

If you have no reason to suspect a specific problem, there is no need to inspect anything in particular. Like usual, before next ride, check the tire pressure maybe. 

In case of inner tube, difference between 1.90 and 1.95 is totally negligible. The tubes will be completely interchangeable. Rather than carrying a few spare tubes on your bike at all times, experienced riders most often carry only one spare tube + patch kit. It takes less space and weighs less than multiple spare tubes. It's rare to catch more than 1 flat on a single ride, and if you do, patching a tube takes only a few minutes. 

Is there an iPhone app that allows one to follow an imported .gpx track, in a car navigation-like way? The apps I found so far, like Trails, can only display the track on a map. What I am looking for is a "download-and-forget" experience for my bike trips. I want to import a track and just look at my iPhone to tell me in which direction is the next waypoint, or how can I get back on track if I get lost. 

Whether an interval training is effective or not depends mostly on your particulars relative to the interval. Heart rate is only a very inexact measure of effort, but you seem to be roughly in the ballpark. However, such quick switching between on/off interval state does not generally produce interval-like results and should be viewed as a single 30-minute interval at the average power of this period. A better gauge of interval quality would be this: how long can you keep up the effort? A more typical interval training might be e.g. 6-7 times 3-8 minute efforts, with 2-5 minute rests, at such intensity that you simply cannot complete another interval round. A goal of "strength and speed" on the mountain is unspecific enough that you can be sure it's being helped somewhat, and in some way, by the intervals. However, it's counterproductive to do interval training and weight training both in one session. If you are still in shape to do weight training after your intervals, it means the intervals weren't done hard enough. Do intervals and weights on alternate days. 

It may be that your current pump actually supports this valve, but the application may not be obvious. You may need, for example, to push the valve deeper into the pump than may appear possible at first; only then the corresponding valve or rubber o-ring in the pump will yield. If this is the first time you see this valve then maybe you just don't know that you need to open the valve by turning it counterclockwise (when it's pointing up). 

All that being said, the effect of stiffness is generally felt only by the performance oriented cyclists and is typically secondary to other considerations, like weight. For instance, for years MTB XC racing cyclists used the lightest forks possible like RockShox SID, even though they had the reputation of being "flexible like maccaroni" because weight trumped all else. Only in recent years, and especially in the road world where there is a fixed lower limit for bike weight in competition, manufacturers started to focus on stiffness as one of the main differentiating factors of their components. 

Has the bike been in an accident recently? Your frame might be skewed as a result. Happened to me, with the exact same symptom. After careful checking it turned out the top tube was slightly bent in one place. This happened in the days of steel frames, though. An aluminum or carbon frame is more likely to break than to bend.