I would like to take as a starting point the contribution of Anders Sandberg. The basic assumption there is that the "mountain" is a solid (or near solid) and homogeneous piece of rock. "Near solid" still allows for fissures and cave systems but compared to the total volume of the mountain and the density of the rock, the reduction in overall weight they imply should be very small. When considering beams, in mechanics, a well known result states that a hollow tube of equal mass to a solid tube (a rod) would resist bending considerably more than its solid counterpart. Other profiles with different "hollowness" are suitable too. Therefore, without violation of the reasonable assumption that "a pile of solid rock can be so high as to not crumble under its own weight", it could well be that a structure can stand much taller if, for some reason it made "clever use" of its mass. Yes, it will still break but with a lighter structural pattern, the "accumulation of height" is faster than the accumulation of mass and so it can stand taller before it hits that structural limit imposed by physics. Examples where something similar to this is found in nature are certain trees, such as the Sequoia and the Baobab. Such trees stand can grow very tall and have hollow interiors. Their trunk does not grow as a solid "tube". This is beneficial for two reasons, it's not only that they are lighter (compared to a typical "solid" tree) but they can also resist bending, because of wind forces (for example), which, as the tree grows taller and taller and inevitably wider too, becomes a considerable force. Therefore, if you relax the specification that the "mountain" is a solid, homogeneous, "rocky" kind of mountain, then you could end up with a much taller "mountain", in an earth-like planet with possibly an even more interesting (or flexible) narrative. The key problem here now is how do you grow such a mountain that seems to be taking these principles into account? 

There is an awful, obvious and quite boring option here, there are living things in the "mountain" and they build it and they interact with the story in mysterious ways until we discover that something is in the mountain and this and that the other. A less boring option is that the "mountain" is one huge composite society of trees, with hollowed trunks, intertwined that grow and expand their base very very slowly. Existing processes accumulate dirt on its sides (by wind for example) and where there is dirt, water and air-born seeds (or carried by birds) there is the potential to form trees, etc. So, from afar, maybe it does look like one incredibly high typical mountain kind of object, but upon close inspection of its behaviour, it could certainly be revealed that it behaves differently. Another option is that the "mountain" grows by crystalisation, maybe aided by the natural day-night cycle and special atmospheric phenomena. Think of it a little bit like constructive 3d printing. The mountain grows by deposition, day by day, in a crystallised profile that allows it to grow so tall. Finally, you can push it even higher by relaxing the specification that the mountain is homogeneous. Maybe it's a combination of the above mechanisms. Maybe the first 15km are rock and another 20km is a "composite tree society" and for another 10km is crystallisation. 

Bringing something like this into the story makes it also more flexible, it gives you freedom to talk about other things as well. Maybe the "mountain" "wobbles" continuously because of earthquakes or the flow of wind around it, maybe it allows very fast communications by tapping to its structure. Hope this helps. 

Assuming that you lower your numbers until the problem appears. (As described in @John's answer) There are very large differences in how people react to this. Some people can dance on an over-clocked merry-go-round on the deck of a ship at high sea without problems. Other people get queasy just reading the previous sentence. When choosing the crew for this voyage, one of the criteria would be that they are not prone to motion sickness. So, the first generation is thoroughly tested before take-off and consists of immune people. Research indicates that motion sickness is inheritable. Another study. The genetic causes seems to be complex and spread over many genes. This means that some poor people in later generations can pick up a combination of bad genes and get sick. However, this will be a small number. And as @Catalyst said, they will not get children themselves. The original voyager selection process can lessen this problem by insisting that the entire family of the voyager be immune. However, at some point you will run out of applicants for the job. Should they choose the great applicant with a motion-sick brother, or should they choose the mediocre applicant without any problematic relatives? Decisions, decisions... 

Build up You would want to build up anyway since there is so much more room up there. But building up also allows you putting things like heavily reinforced concrete in the enemy's path. Of course, even the heaviest concrete can be breached, but it will take time and be very noticeable. One might think that building a concrete floor under your entire country is not feasible, but in a hyperbolic universe it turns out you can. That is, if you aren't too hung up on the idea of defending the original surface area. Instead you put down a thick and strong concrete slab on a few square kilometers. Then you build a few hundred meters up from that and suddenly you have room for everything and everyone you want. Let the enemy have the rest of your old country, you don't need it anymore. 

The short answer is that whoever is powerful enough to set up the pocket dimension will be capable of creating whatever weather conditions they want. Which means that you as the author can decide. That being said, we can do some guesses. If the elemental plane of Air contains only air, with no water in it, the atmosphere will probably never contain enough water to create rain. Sure, water will be continuously evaporating, but the wet air will be blown into the plane of Air before it gets wet enough. However, this depends on there being enough air exchanged daily. As the creator you can set this how you want. There is also the ocean to consider. How hot is the water in the plane of Water? Will the local sun have time to heat it significantly before it disappears back into the elemental plane? How wide is the oceans around the island? All this can be changed around as you wish. And then there is the ground. How well does it retain heat during the night? This decides how cold it gets and how much thermal wind you will be seeing. The higher the temperature difference, the more wind. However, this will not be much of a wind. Look at Sea breeze for more info. If you do set up things so that you get rain, it will probably fall at night, probably as a light drizzle. 

Both yes and no. As others have pointed out, even if there is only one species, they would still compete against each other. This would lead to some evolution. I originally wrote: "However, it would be slow. What is driving most evolution on Earth is predator-prey and victim-parasite relationships." This turned out to be incorrect. After looking at various articles on Wikipedia, it seems that there are many other mechanisms that are more important. Some of these would be present on this planet, some would not. So, the rest of this answer should be taken with a grain of healthy sceptism. It is one possible scenario, but not the only one. Plants would strive to be taller than the neighbours, but there are limits to that. I would expect the species to find a local maximum and get stuck there. Very very rarely, some individual would get some combination of mutations that was better than this. This would make for a new burst of evolution until a new maximum was found. See Punctuated Equilibrium but with far fewer punctuations than is common on Earth. It is possible that the new mutant would become a new species without out-competing the original, but not very probable. As long as it is only one climate on the whole planet, one variant would simply be best and win the whole world. No species can lose the ability to evolve. As long as there are imperfections in the reproduction, evolution will happen. However, species on Earth are to some extent "evolved to evolve better". This would be lost or never happen in the first place. This sounds like bad news if there is a disaster of some sort. It doesn't have to be. If there is a climate-related disaster, the species would be badly adapted, but as long as there are no competitors they would still be the "fittest". As long as everybody doesn't get utterly killed, survivors would still breed and reclaim the planet. A biological disaster on the other hand would be much worse. I am thinking of a spaceship landing, bringing other species to the world. These are likely to kill off the natives in short order. 

what a interesting question. Most non-energy solutions have been posted already, I think. But I feel that something is missing right in your question: what do you count as "energy weapon"? When I hear this I think of Star Wars Blaster and Turbolaser and these Weapons the Jaffa from Star Gate do carry around or proton torpedoes. Well... But you asked for a science-valid resolution. So count out all of these above, even if there might be some realism behind, if you dig deep enough. So... still, what do you accept as an energy-weapon? And what do you accept as a piece of artillery? From what today is used, you separate into Direct Fire Weapons and Indirect Fire Weapons. Most artillery is the second type (even if most of them can do both), but what we do understand as artillery is something that specialize hitting stuff beyond their line of sight, using calculation, observers or intelligent ammunation. To archive this, your weaponsystem should be able to do this. Using energy. Even further, a piece of artillery could be everything that isn't a handheld weapon. Even tanks can be artillery (no, not self propelled howitzers, real tanks), if you wrap your description carefully... At all, they are a piece of self propelled direct fire barrel based artillery with extreme crew and weapon system survivability due to well thought placing of highly resistant armor plating. But thats quite a description for a tank... So first question to clarify: What kind of combat participant would you accept as artillery? Second problem: what is energy? Does a random burst of hard gamma rays count? Does it need to to flash colorful? Does it need to make boom? I want to ask you what I asked the guy who opened that Railgun vs. Gyrojet question: What the hell you want to archive using this energy-artillery? Leveling enemy installations? Keep enemies away from a given point? Performing priority target sniper shots? Provide gas or other nasty agents? Well, for that case energy weapons would be not usable... but Artillery is used for providing smoke-screens this days - especially the smaller pieces, like mortars. So... lets take a simple approach and say, your energy-artillery would be a self propelled unit, that is tasked to do indirect fire support at a range of targets, primary to deny access to an area... no, wait you said, your first though was that artillery shells the enemy using dematerialization ammo. That sounds like a task for an anti-tank whatever. WW2 ones were direct-fire units, and still... if you want to make sure to hit something, you need line of sight. Either the gun itself, or someone who can aim for them (even the ammo itself does count, but you will have a hard time creating an intelligent plasma bolt). Otherwise all you would do is cutting huge holes into the battlefield, sometimes get a lucky indirect hit, what would... well, the same this days artillery do. Here does one thing kick in, the other posters already mentioned: Energy as a weaponized wave isn't able to curve over a prop at your battlefield. Either you can ignore this and right punch through, or you need to stay with the good old ballistic shells. And shooting through the Planet? When your enemies turn off their shields. this attack is supposed to react to, you are bad off. Even more - your position would be known if they have a way of tracking these beams. Or they get triggerd by something in the ground, like an unstable repository of ultra heavy metals. Uh... sounds like you can accidentally blow up the whole planet doing this, or at least the continental plate your units stand at. Well... your decision. So... what to do? Whatever you want to - if you need the traits artillery is widely known for - indirect fire, providing big boom - you either stick with shells or allow some magic. Or Plasma. Its not this inefficient as one might assume. All you need to do is keep the containment intact until it hits something. Let me think... XCOM used a plastic, that is wrapped around the plasma bullet when it leaves the gun. I don't remember the details, but why not use a meta-material, that can be created like a soap bubble and transform heat-energy into magnetic fields. As soon as it hits something, that containment-thing break and whatever did cause this get a plasmasplosion right in its face. Sounds pretty mean. Finally... when you want weapon-systems, think of us as kind of weapon companies. Tell us, what your weapon system should archive, what it may use and so on, and you might get a big idea from someone who happens to know some crazy stuff that might suit your needs. Because maybe the task you try to archive with your energy-artillery is done better by something other. Well... yea, like the satellites the others mentioned. Have a nice day