I've suffered from an injury in my knee the past 2 weeks or so. Yesterday I went to see a physiotherapist to see whats wrong. Long story short, my right knee is less flexible than my left one because the quad on the right leg is shorter and pulls my kneecap up a lot more than my left one. I won't be able to do any heavy squats or deadlifts untill this injury is taken care of. Question: What are some exercises to stretch my quad and make my knee more flexible? Additional info: Male, 26 years old, 1.84m , 75kg, about 8-9% bodyfat. Been doing sports since I was 5, 9 years of football, 5 years of cycling, been doing strength training for about 4 and a half years now, 2 years of which focussing on calisthenics and powerlifting. 

You will need to learn a few things. First of all; are you holding the rings correctly? Using a false grip makes a ring muscle up easier, see these images of false grip. 

Have a strong core is essential in anything you do while standing up. Your rectus abdominis are a big part of this. 

Well, yes this improves your general health. You don't need to work out every day to be a healthy person. The only reason many people work out is because a lot of people have jobs in which they sit in an office all day. To make up for the lack of movement we get throughout the day, we go to a gym to work out, or go running or cycling. A few thousand years a go we didn't go to a gym because we had to physically run in order to get food, we had to hunt. These days we don't, so we need another form of physical activity in order to remain healthy. 

If you have any further questions, feel free to contact me. If you want any proof that I know what I'm talking about, my instagram is in my profile so you can check me out there. 

You should definitely do the big compound movements. Deadlifts, Bench press, Shoulder press (standing). Doing shoulder press while standing will add that you'll be contracting your core to stabalize, making it an exercise that works your shoulders, arms and entire core. You can also do pull-ups and/or bend-over rows for your back. If you feel like your upper body has caught up to your legs you can add squats to the mix. Hit them hard and heavy for 5 sets of 5 reps. You can add some isolation movements to target your arms like diffirent variations of bicep curls and tricep extensions. Don't forget to eat enough and take ample rest because your body will need it when doing this type of exercising, especially combined with playing football. 

TLDR: No, you don't need a personal trainer. There is enough information out there to learn what you need to learn to get in shape. You simply need a lot more discipline when you're going to do everything on your own. Are personal trainers redundant? No they aren't. A lot of people need some extra motivation. Some people lack basic knowlegde to start working out and don't know where to begin. Some people are recovering from an injury. In these examples it can be very useful to have a personal trainer or coach to help you out. Even for more advanced people, a personal trainer can spot what you're doing wrong in order to fix that. 

It can and will help you, but it certainly isn't necessary to do either of these movements. During a handstand, you use your fingers and core to stabilize, during a deadlift you strengthen your core a whole bunch, so that will help you to keep your handstand nice and straight. Once you can do a proper handstand, you can move into handstand push-ups. You might want to add in other shoulder exercises like shoulder press to get a bit more strength in the push movement. As for muscle-ups, it will help you a bit, in the way that you train overall strength of the body with a deadlift, but I'd say there are a lot better movements to train for a muscle-up than the deadlift, it won't contribute as much as doing dips, pull-up variations and negative muscle-ups. By pull-up variations I mean not only different grips, but also train for explosive pull-ups, do weighted pull-ups, do negative pull-ups. All these things will help you master the bottom part of the muscle-up. The top part is basically a straight bar dip, so training dips with help you with that. The negative muscle-ups will help you get used to the transition from the dip to the pull-up, try to do this as controlled as possible for mind-muscle connection. Please don't do a crossfit muscle-up by the way, that's just plain wrong and will only hurt you in the long run. 

I personally think it will only benefit you doing both weight training and calisthenics, I've been doing it for years and it has given me great results. A few tips though: In your first year, focus on the basics. Master the push-up, the pull-up, planking, maybe work on the handstand to start your first real move. Don't start doing everything at once. If you try to learn a planche, a front and back lever and all this stuff at the same time, you won't get anywhere. If you do balance work, start your workout with this. If for instance you're going to learn a handstand, don't first hit the benchpress and try to do a handstand afterwards. The hardest part of a lot of calisthenics moves is the balance and your shoulders will be way to tired to get any real practice in. Don't overtrain your shoulders. If you're going to train things like muscle-up, handstand, planche, front levers. This involves a lot of shoulder work. There is no real need to also hit shoulders with the weights. You'll be doing shoulders basically every time you train because of all these calisthenics moves anyway. Same goes for abs. You'll be doing so much balance work that you train your abs every single time you workout, there is no need to also train them with weights on a separate day. Obviously if you want to add some ab work on a day you can do this during the calisthenics part while doing stuff like L-sits. If you keep doing full body splits you want to dedicate at least 20 minutes of every workout to calisthenics, preferably at the start. I'd highly suggest you do this because you have to practice the movements a lot to learn them. You can't do this once a week, you have to do it at least 3 days a week. You should also only focus on 1 move at the start if you only train calisthenics for 20 minutes at a time, a few times a week. You can mix in some calisthenics movements to your workout to start mastering the basics. From now on every time you train back, do pull-up variations. I personally sometimes do 120+ pull-ups in 1 back work out, doing 4 or 5 variations of pull-ups. This will boost your calisthenics progression. Some other options: A general workout plan could be: (if you train 3 days a week with a bodybuilding split) 

Is there a difference between lat pull-downs and regular pull-ups? Specifically the wide grip overhand version of both these exercises. 

I'm wondering how one can progess into an iron cross. My shoulders are strong enough for stuff like handstands, muscle-ups and human flag, but this movement is very different. I'm wondering what kind of movements I should do to strengthen the muscles I need to hold myself up like this. 

If you have some dumbbells, you can do dumbbells presses while you lie on an decline, elevating the lower part of the body. Like such: 

In short, you can't target fat loss, and what these types of companies are claiming is purely marketing. Sure, if you use a machine like this you will burn some calories, and if you burn more calories than you're consuming you will reduce fat (on your entire body) and get some results. The thing is, these types of machines aren't as effective at burning calories as doing cardio (running, cycling, swimming) or doing heavy compound lifts (deadlifts, squats). They will burn a lot more calories, and combining this with some ab work like leg raises, crunches or planks will give you more results than these machines. Also, abs are revealed in the kitchen, track your caloric intake and make sure you are burning more than you're consuming. And if you want to build some muscle, you have to make sure you get enough protein. 

A few things you should understand: Muscle imbalance can indeed cause long term pain or injuries so if you work out, you want to work on your entire body (and work on mental health is as important in my opinion but this ain't the place for that I guess). Also, focussing on your abs will not help on getting rid of belly fat faster. The contrary will happen. You need to burn fat over your entire body and most ab exercises don't burn a lot of calories, so you won't lose fat fast. It's better to do compound movements and some cardio if you want to burn fat. Hope it helps! 

To target the lower part of the chest, you want to focus on a declined angle during your exercises. If you have no equipment, you can do push-ups with your feet on the floor and your hands on a higher platform, like such: 

Yes, your rectus abdominis will help stabilize your body while doing things like deadlifts, squats, bend-over rows, military press, push-ups, if you do these movements will standing (apart from the push-ups). Even if you do bicep curls while standing, your core is working to keep your body erect. Note: I'm not saying rectus abdominis is the only muscle that is stabilizing your body, your entire core does this. I'm saying rectus abdominis is a part of this and therefore making it stronger will help in anything that requires your core to stabilize your body during heavy lifting or any daily activitie. 

I'd say, you shouldn't compare the two, and implement both of them in your workout routine. Solely for chest gains, dumbbell press would be better since you can add resistance more easily and it focusses on your chest. Doing a push-up works a lot more than just your chest. A push-up will work your chest, shoulders, triceps and core. You're even using your legs to stabilize your body. 

Yes it is possible. You can basically train every bodypart using dumbells, let me give some examples: Legs: Squats and lunges. You can start doing squats and lunges to train your legs, once this gets to easy, you can add resistance by holding dumbells in your hands while performing the exercises. Arms: Various curls and extension movements. To train your arms, you can do different variations of bicep curls and tricep extensions, while adding weight using the dumbells to increase resistance. Abs: Sit-up variations. You can do the same here, start with regular sit-ups, and when these get to easy, start adding weight by holding a dumbell in front of your chest, or behind your head to make it harder. By now you've probably found the pattern in this. For the most part you can start out with small resistance and use dumbells to increase it overtime, making your muscles stronger and bigger. Consistency is key here. You won't get ripped over night, you'll have to stick with it for at least half a year to get notable differences in your physique, but as you might know, most of these "ripped" guys have been training for years. Hope it helps! 

This will build some mass, but it won't be balanced. You're missing any form of back exercise in this plan, I'm assuming you'd want to train your back aswell to keep your upperbody balanced so that your chest and front delts don't over power your back and rear delts. (so you maintain a natural thoracic extension) You could add things like: pull-ups, inverted rows or bend-over rows. I would also like to add that upright rows are harmful for your shoulders and I'd suggest NOT doing these. 

First of all I'd suggest you add back, shoulders and triceps to your workout plan. Secondly, I'd recommend training more than one muscle group a day for efficiency. A lot of people would suggest chest and tricpes, back and biceps, I'd also say you could do abs after doing legs. Or doing abs on 2 or 3 diffirent days after your workout, so for example after doing legs and after doing shoulders. You can also try to create a push-pull split but this might be harder to do at home, depending on the type of equipement you have. 

If you want to know if you're making progress, try to measure more than just your bodyweight. Measure your fat percentage, and maybe the size of things like your chest, arms and legs. If they are getting bigger and muscles are getting more visible, you're definitely making progress. The thing is, everyone has different genetics, and that determines whether you're gonna grow fast or not, so you can't really compare yourself with others in regards to your progress. If you see results, get heavier, and notice that your strength is going up, I don't think you should worry to much about what you look like in comparison to others. 

The most important thing is that you eat enough throughout the day. The only time window that is of any significance is the 1 or 1 and a half hours after working out. Consuming quality foods at this period will help your body recover from the workout. I would also suggest you read up on the answers on this question. 

To start learning a muscle-up you need to know how to use momentum. You need to start doing explosive pull-ups, to get the momentum upwards. You can also use your legs to create even more momentum, pull your legs up (knees towards your chest, or towards the pull-up bar) as you do an (explosive) pull-up. This way you'll get so high, you'll practically be doing a muscle-up already. Once you become better and better at doing explosive pull-ups, you won't need to use your legs as much, so you'll be progressing into a perfect explosive pull-up and eventually a muscle-up. If you have any questions about this feel free to ask them, I've been doing calisthenics for a few years. 

This is because crunches mainly target the upper abs. To target the lower abs I suggest doing hanging leg raises or reverse crunches. If hanging leg raises are to hard for you at the moment you can also do leg raises while laying on the floor. Static holds (like planking for instance) will also develop your abs overall. About the pain as you describe it, does that feel like pain in any muscle or is your back hurting from laying on the ground? I never felt anything like that before while doing crunches.