Time dilation is a relative phenomenon, not a local phenomenon. As adrianmcmenamin mentioned, Earth's motion around the sun is cause for no more time dilation than any other point in the universe. Consider that the sun is travelling around the galaxy at 200 km/s, and the Milky Way is approaching Andromeda at 130 km/s. We do not know at what speed we are approaching the great attractor, and I hope that at this point it becomes obvious that there is no difference in "us approaching the great attractor" to "the great attractor approaching us". Nothing is considered "stationary to the background" in an infinite, expanding universe as there is no "background" to measure against. Consider the gedankenexperiment of comparing a clock on Earth to a clock orbiting the galaxy. Now compare those clocks to clocks outside the galaxy. You might consider the clock that ticks the most time away to be the "most at rest clock". Now I ask you, how will you compare the clocks? You must move at a significant portion of the speed of light for a very long time to get information from one clock to the next. Thus, the messenger would suffer the effects of Special Relativity, rendering the comparison meaningless. To further the point, consider the development of International Atomic Time. I'll quote directly from wikipedia: 

You're missing the point: it's called "dark energy" not because it's dark or because it's energy. The name is the cosmological equivalent of the "black box" in a laboratory setting. Until we figure out what the heck it is, there's no reason for it to follow our known laws. 

Life could easily form underground, where flares don't reach. Never underestimate the power of 10^(googol) possible locations in the universe for living things to come into being. No reason to limit to organic, or CO2 / O2 connected, or photon-dependent, life forms. 

Are you treating $\Theta$ as the only unknown, i.e. you believe you know the baseline distance exactly? If so, then you compare your angular sighting of a distant star vs. Saturn with the same for the other observer. The devil is in the error analysis. Your two angles will be absurdly close to each other in magnitude, which means a very small error/uncertainty in value leads to a large error in the calculated distance $D$ to Saturn. You should find some first-year-level text on measurement & statistical error analysis to get a better feel for the difficulty here. 

The smallest natural object that I know of that has been detected from an Earth-bound telescope is 2011 CQ1, a one-meter asteroid observed while specifically looking for NEOs. As DeerHunter mentions in a comment, smaller artificial objects are identified and tracked, mostly by NORAD and some other national defence centers. 

Consider, those were clocks on Earth suffering from measurable time dilation due only to their latitude and altitude differences and the effect of moving information across the distances between them! 

I feel that HDE gives a good start of an answer, but stops short of the important part. We have seen in HDE's answer the formation of a star at the center of the collapsing molecular cloud. When the star begins to fuse lighter elements, the protoplanetary disk has several forces acting on it: 

As JamesK noted, it is possible for "rocky material" in either a comet or an asteroid to contain iridium -- or not contain iridium. I think the reason iridium is tied to the KT event is that there appears to be a world-wide (ish) layer with iridium, and that layer consistently dates to approximately the same epoch. P.S. note also Physics.SE 

I might modify Zephyr's answer just a hair -- and I have not tried this on a 6-year old, let alone the average adult, who is much more difficult to explain things to than any child is. Gravity is understood, so show that gravity pulls both the satellite towards Jupiter and Jupiter towards the satellite. But since $ m_{Jupiter} >> m_{satellite} $, Jupiter speeds up a teensy bit while the satellite speeds up a whole lot in the opposite direction. (Plus they manage to miss colliding :-) ) 

For the area of sky as defined by "areas visible above your head inside Earth's atmosphere" then the answer depends on the height of the objects that you would like to observe. I like to observe airplanes, so without loss of generality I'll use ~10,000 meters as my "sky". We can see airplanes up to about 40 KM away. 

A moonless night is, as you suspect, a night in which the Moon does not appear visible in the sky. This happens once per month, when the Moon is near the Sun. Due to the proximity of the Moon and the Sun in the sky, at that time the Moon is the smallest sliver possible, and therefore not a full moon. This is because it is actually the Sun that illuminates the Moon, and when the Sun and the Moon are in the same direction in the sky we are seeing the non-illuminated side of the Moon. Note the direction of the sunlight in this image: 

This is really more of a biology question, I think, so: The Mark-I Eyeball is far less sensitive to color than to intensity. There are rods and cones in the retina. The neural signals from the rods are used to report intensity only. There are different spectral sensitivity curves for different cones (typically three types in humans), so the relative outputs from all cones are used to generate color information. However, cones are less sensitive than rods, so for dim light such as that reaching us from nebulas, only the rods produce a neural output. 

Aside from cosmology, the advantage of reporting density in $\frac{g}{cc}$ is that density and specific gravity are identical in this case (unless some wiseguy doesn't use water as the reference material). 

This is incorrect. All bodies give off light according to Planck's Law. The amount of emitted light may be small compared with reflected light, or small compared to the sensitivity of your detector. This may seem like nitpicking, but failure to incorporate emittance when analyzing spectra will lead to sadness. 

I have the exact same binocular, and in fact I also have a very similar tripod and head. I'll take a photograph this evening to demonstrate my setup. I am very happy with the setup, and I find it very stable. I usually sit the tripod on grass, but I do not recall ever having a problem with it on concrete or stone. I do try to keep the neck as short as possible, and use the legs for height. Also, the binocular can have it's tripod mount moved fore or aft, I think that mine is in the full aft position. You might be able to hang a large mass (bag, perhaps) from the underside of the tripod; you should find a hook already there made specifically for this purpose. 

The obvious answer is to use a telephoto lens -- or any other magnification scheme. As an extreme example, if you had a post 1 km tall, the shadow of its top (think sundial) would move pretty clearly. If you re-image a short post, or just re-image the sun itself, which enough magnification, you'll see the motion. This is kind of the same as trying to observe a celestical object with a high-power telescope. If you don't have an equatorial mount, everything in your field of view will move quite noticeablly. 

This is a partial answer since your question is still unclear. I would recommmend finding an astronomy package for tools like this rather than using what's basically a "bonus feature" from an oceanographic package. From the help pages for package , 

I notice that Wikipedia give two contradictory terms for the time period in which a planet rotates in relation to an infinitely-distant object. In one place this is called a "sidereal day" and in another "stellar day". Which of these are correct? For that point, is this an IAU definition? I cannot find the definitions on the IAU website. From the Sidereal Day page: 

This may be poorly worded. The idea is not that the distance from the center of the body must be smaller than the radius of the particle. Rather, those parts of the (uniform, spherical) body which are further away from the center than is the particle have all their respective gravitational attractions cancelled out. 

Obviously, the direction of the sunlight is the direction of "up" during the day. If you look at the horizon slightly after sunset or slightly before sunrise, you might actually catch a glimpse of the sliver of Moon before it set or rises slightly after or before the Sun. 

Perhaps you are missing the fact that marginally more than 50% of the moon is illuminated, and thus at first/last quarter marginally more than 50% of the visible disk is illuminated? I would also recommend looking up the referenced "equation 32.3" to see what the definition is and how it applies to a zero-altitude viewer. 

On those expansion scales, a galaxy is small (!!) enough that it'll pretty much disappear all at once. 

Apparently you don't fully appreciate the results of gravity. Try to model a fluid sphere (for our purposes here, a collection of rock, liquid, and gas is semifluidic) such that somehow there's less gravitational pressure near the center than near the outermost shell. Can't happen. Next, think about trying to make chunks of lead, or granite, float on top of a pond (of liquid water). Won't happen. Your last question is kind of pointless - there are "rocks" with densities both greater and less than the density of pure iron. 

Interestingly, the second and third forces pretty much cancel out when the disk is still uniform in distribution. But once large clumps of matter accumulate those large masses (protoplanets) gravitationally pull at the other matter in inconsistent and sometimes violent ways, especially when multiple protoplanets align (once per orbit of the inner body). Thus, the area of the protoplanetary disk is being 'swept up' of all the mass: some is pulled into the sun by gravity and loss of momentum due to collisions, some is pushed out of the solar system by radiation, and whatever matter was not disturbed by one of those processes is then subject to being disturbed by the gravity of the protoplanets themselves. The protoplanets will, over time, either absorb that matter or gravitationally slingshot that matter out of the system or too it's very edges. In short, the protoplanetary disk within a few tens of AU of the star in the center is a chaotic mess of a place. Not much matter can form a stable orbit there.