One approach to making encryption much harder to crack, at the risk of having mistakes in encryption garble a message unrecoverably, is to use movable tiles to keep track of the encryption mapping and rearrange them during the encryption process. For example, when using the Playfair cipher, one could say that after processing each pair of letters, one would swap within the matrix the plaintext version of the first character and the ciphertext version of the second. Digraph frequency analysis would generally go out the window, since the scrambling method would split up which letters shared rows and columns with other letters. The effort required to keep track of the continuously-changing key would not be unreasonable, but a character would need to be very careful to avoid making mistakes. 

Non-carbon based biochemistry implies the ability to create long molecular chains. The more common alternative mentioned is often silicon (silanes), but other candidates may exist : boranes, sulfur... The liquid necessary for life support could be ammonia, sulfuric acid, formamide, hydrocarbons, or liquid gas (nitrogen, supercritical fluid hydrogen). None of these alternatives have however be observed, and carbon-based chemistry seems to be the best competitor : longer chains, fast reactions, etc. From projectrho, here is an exemple of macromolecule/solvent combination (at 1 ATM, temperature in °C). 

If "all nutrients were taken out", the remaining stuff is just water. Your survival expectation relying only on water are limited : 

A point which is often neglected is that in many cases the legitimacy of an action should depend upon the intent behind it. Without the ability to read minds (and thus determine the true intention behind an action), it's necessary to be able to have standards for how well-intentioned people should behave, and presume that people who behave according to such standards are acting with good intentions, but such a presumption should be just that--a presumption, not a determination. In many cases, maintaining the "spirit" of the law, rather than just the "letter", would require little more than recognizing that actions undertaken in bad faith are automatically illegitimate on that basis alone, no matter how well they otherwise fit the standards for how well-intentioned people should behave. An example of this principle may be found in one of the rules in the American Contract Bridge League, which specifies that deliberate violation of the rules of the game is cheating, even if one would be willing to accept normal prescribed penalty for committing the same infraction accidentally. For example, a klutz who sometimes accidentally drops cards so partner can see them will generally incur minor procedural penalties, but a player who deliberately exposes a card to partner may be disqualified and possibly even ejected from the League. While there may be some room for judgment on whether the Tournament Director should impose the normal penalty or a harsher one, there is no room for judgment regarding whether a player is allowed to show an unplayed card to partner in exchange for accepting a procedural penalty. Such behavior is absolutely, clearly, expressly, and unequivocally forbidden. Recognizing that a presumption of good faith should, like any presumption, be considered rebuttable would go a long way toward balancing the "letter" of the law with the "spirit". An honorable person shouldn't ask how far he can go beyond the letter of a law whose legitimacy and meaning are not in dispute; that a person would even ask such a question would suggest that minor infractions which might have been forgivable under a presumption of good faith should be presumed deliberate. It's possible that the only thing that would change as a result of recognizing presumptions as rebuttable would be that discussions of how to get around the law without consequence would be forced underground. On the other hand, having such discussions go underground creates many possibilities for intrigue, especially if respectable people want to avoid any association with such discussions. 

I see a some issues here: The maintenance of a ship is not negligible, especially in water and without advanded technology to build it. On earth, non-steel ship were made of wood. And sea lifeforms can severely damage wood over time. You usually have to repair holes, change some parts, and this is usually done by taking the ship out of the water. Doing this on a gigantic moving ship seems quite impossible without some handwaving here (magic, unknown material...) The size of the ship is significant. Low estimates of the area needed to feed an adult with a 2300 cal vegetarian diet are 0.44 acres (total 4400). Medieveal urban density is about 60 people per acre, so this would be small (170 acres) compared to the food area. So food production and houses for 10.000 people would require 18.5 sq. km (4.3 x 4.3 km). This is not completely unrealistic, but it cannot be a classical ship: sea faring would break the structure. It would be loosely coupled parts bound together, a kind of floating city and gardens. Such structures exist, including floating gardens, for example on the Inle Lake. But lakes have less constraints that seafaring: even modern ships can be broken or severely damaged by wave. A floating city would be at great risk. And once your gardens are full of salty water, no more tomatoes. First conclusion is that it is unrealistic: unsustainable, engineering nightmare, fragility. Not sure how you can fix this without some special material here... 

Within the rules of the American Contract Bridge League is a particularly important one. Paraphrasing from memory, no player may deliberately violate the rules of the ACBL, even if the penalty is one the player would otherwise accept. Proven violations of that rule are to be punished severely, even if the punishment for the underlying infraction would otherwise be relatively minor. While enforcing such a rule is, of course, difficult (since it would require knowing the intentions of the accused) it is nonetheless extremely valuable, since it highlights an important principle: the legitimacy or illegitimacy of an act does not depend upon whether or to what extent it may be punished. Someone who deliberately leads out of turn for the purpose of passing information to partner is cheating. The fact that the tournament director may be unlikely to seriously punish someone who lead deliberately out of turn but could plausibly claim to have believed he was on lead would not make the action legitimate; it would merely mean the player was an unpunished cheater. A legal system establishes guilt and punishments in any kind of formulaic fashion, no matter how carefully the formulas are designed, will allow those who are familiar with the system to profit substantially by cheating to an extent which falls just short of the threshold required for a punishment exceeding the benefits of cheating. A good legal system should have a certain tolerance for honest mistakes, but in a formulaic system any such tolerance will be exploitable by cheaters. What's needed instead is a recognition that minor cheaters will often go unpunished, society owes them no obligation in that regard. Unfortunately, no deterministic way of catching cheaters will be effective at those who can arm themselves with the knowledge necessary to game the system. What's necessary is to have a legal system that can make judgements which go a level beyond anything a cheater would be able to predict--one which can go beyond "Is there level XX of evidence the person tried to cheat", or "Is there level YY of evidence that the person was trying to keep the evidence of cheating below XX", to "Was the person trying to cheat and game the system to get away with it". And I don't think a formulaic legal system will be able to accomplish that. 

To limit the number of offspring, use marriage within the lineage. This is something observed in practice and called Pedigree collapse. Without such family marriages, anybody would have around 2^30 (1,073,741,824) ancestors 1000 years ago, exceeding the world population at that time. Limit the lineage geographic mobility and restricted it to as small area. You can then use local major events to limit the number of survivors : epidemics, conflicts, etc. This pressure will create a bottleneck and reduce the lineage, allowing you to end-up with one remaining person quite easily. 

Your strategy will heavily depend of the precogs exact capacity, I propose some tactics here that can be also combined Information saturation You render the precogs useless by saturating them with information and hope some of you attempts will succeed. This means preparing dozens of assassination attempts on the target but also on precogs themselves, their family, their dog, their relationships, so that they are overwhelmed by strong precognitions and will not be able to analyse all of them. Non-targeted operations like bombing may also overload the precogs (depending how they see/react to the future); Information hidden over time In short : delay death. Some diseases can be inoculated but cause death only after some time. Some poisons have a cumulative effect. Some substances can also make you react to other that are innocuous usually (like alcohol). I suppose precogs will be attracted by "strong" physical or emotional events, so this seems an efficient option. More simply, you can also trap the target in a limited geographical space (a building) that is doomed to destruction in a few days, without any possible escape. Information hidden Basically : assassinate in the dark. This depend "how" precogs see the future, but they probably receive a projection based on their usual senses. If the killing occurs in the dark and in silence, they may be impaired to detect it. It they sense emotions, assassinate without pain, with a sleeping target, etc. Manipulation : reaction makes the kill Use the precogs to trigger a reaction that will lead to the killing. This is great manipulation (and can make a good plot) and a need to plan everything ahead. The precogs will see the death coming, but without any way to escape it. 

If you want the victim to actually live through the experience, you might perhaps protect the victim's brain using a helmet and an insulated artificial circulation system along with a safety harness that would pull it out of harm's way before it got too hot; a new body could then be regrown around the victim's brain at that point, but the victim afterward would have actually gone through the experience. A snapshot is made of the victim's mind and a clone with that snapshot is then given whatever drugs would best aid his functioning and put to the (fatal) test. In this scenario, the victim would never directly have to live through the experience, but the only way the clone-victim would be able to effectively perform the required task would be if the person to be cloned had undergone suitable mental preparation for the task, and knew what combination of drugs would be most effective. Achieving those things would require that the person undergo a lot of painful testing and experimentation. The non-clone person would not need to endure actually being burned to death, but the more pain the person was willing to endure during testing and preparation, the more effectively the clone would be able to perform its task. 

As stated, your target is to organize information. And that is usually not a trivial task : information elements are linked to others, may be linked to space and/or time. So you can have different axis : you can for example use a geographical map to locate things in space, a timeline to organize them in time, some family tree coupling time and relationships between siblings, etc. Depending of the level you want to achieve, it can be quite a lot of information to keep in your head. You may want to use some tools to organize this. It can be simple notebooks and papers, or some software (I can think of the great Tiddlywiki here ; feel free to add suggestion in comments). If you are building this for a world or game, do not push it too much, as the world is mostly a recipient for your story, and not an end by itself. Structure your information around the hero or center of the story. As a side note, you can maybe find inspiration for both content and organization in some gaming systems like Microscope. 

The notion of a post-scarcity society shouldn't be seen as one where everyone has everything they could want or need; a society in which nobody could want anything beyond what was attainable would be an absolutely horrible place to live. Instead, a post-scarcity society should be viewed as a literary device for hand-waving away a lot of work which in reality would be necessary for people to to satisfy their wants and needs, but which would be of little interest for writer or audience. If one assumes people can't get everything they want, unrequited desires constitute scarcity. Unless an oppressive government outlaws such commerce, people will routinely trade valuable goods or services in exchange for things they want but could not otherwise receive. As such, although new technologies for producing things like food and clothing might cause spending patterns to shift markedly, that doesn't imply that people wouldn't still want money to buy things that aren't so readily available. It's all well and good for an author to ignore economic issues that would not help the story, but that doesn't mean that an author should affirmatively pretend that such issues wouldn't exist. Even if one hasn't previously said anything about how much money a character has, that does not in any way imply they couldn't be fined. An author who didn't want to work out what size fine would be required to suitably affect the character could make it payable in a fictional currency which would be used only for that purpose, and then focus on how the fine does affect the character, without having to worry about whether 50,271 denzibars was a day's pay, a year's pay, or something in-between. 

A "swarm" of small black holes may do the trick. Note that such swarm is highly unlikely to exist naturally as it would collapse, so it should be a creation of some advanced civilization. Such swarm would be devastating locally (when swaying across a planet or star), move at the speed you want, and have not special effect from far away, just the usual gravitational impact of their mass. The exact size of these small black holes is to refine depending of the effects you want to achieve. The size of the swarm is also quite open. The stability over time of such swarm may need some handwaving, however. And well, regarding where it comes from... ... let's say that it is a minefield from of a Kardashev type III civilization !