Get over it HAS to be the chain. That could be a coincidence or a procedural side effect. Are you dripping oil on a loose chain ring. Oil spills onto a derailleur. Crank could be rubbing against the frame and the oil spills onto that. Do you ride a certain route or a certain way after a lube. You replaced the chain it did not fix it - you also have evidence it is not the chain. You state the sound seems to come from the crank. Go after anything that can squeak. Rather than dismiss what you think it is not eliminate anything it could me. Lube and adjust everything. What is the harm? You just dismissed the headset - what is the harm in pulling the headset and lube and adjust. Pull the seat post and lube and torque to spec. Same with handlebars. You don't need to replace the bottom bracket but pull it and spin the bearings. You state this has been an ongoing battle and you are fairly competent mechanic. Do an end to end maintenance on the bike. What is the harm? 

Clean both pedal and crank threads with solvent and brush If you don't have a parts cleaner type solvent then just a de-greaser or even dish washing soap Put a dab of grease on the pedal threads If you don't have grease then just stop and get some Come in from the back side. If just the first few thread are messed up then coming in the back side should work. If you get several easy turns in before it sticks then most likely just some messed up threads on the front side. You typically don't want to force but if you have several turns in then you can force with a wrench to clean out the threads. If the works then try coming in the font side. If this does not work then take it to a shop. 

Best in sunlight. Bring towel so you can wipe it down. Inspect all tubes and welds. Any crack is bad. Some times a surface crack on a weld is OK. Press and pull on the dropouts. Check the bearing surfaces. Take a seat post with you to be sure it will insert. Ask questions about the history. 

Drag increases with speed. Drag is both rolling resistance and wind resistance. A steeper slope is more gravitational pull. Terminal velocity is when the gravitational pull equals the drag. On a mild slope it will be only a few miles an hour. On a very steep slope it might be over 50 mph. A 7% slope is around 20 mph on road bike on a road. 

Yes if you have excess length at the hub end you can use that. Just loosen the clamp on the hub and pull some slack. Then you will need to reclamp at the hub and adjust. If the cable is just plain to short then you will need to get a new cable. Just take the existing to your LBS so they can match the end. 

If you want a 27 speed bike then buy one. It is not cheaper to add speeds to a single speed or fixie bike. Lots of stuff is not compatible including axle spacing and real wheel. 

The Novara Safari is a bike designed for off road touring. Novara Safari Bike With a load you are not going to be doing real technical stuff. But you should be a be able to handle "improved trails". The biggest tires it will take is the best thing you can do - and practice. The link says it has Alex ATD 470 rims. Those are not high end rims and more of a road width. Higher end wider wheels would help but you would need to spend $400 for a significant upgrade so I would run with what you have. I think they support tubeless - you may want to consider that but for loaded touring I would not go tubeless as you need to run at higher pressures for the weight. I ride trails on my cycloross all the time. And it is not that different from my fixed suspension mountain bike. What you lose on more full sized frame is get your weight back on a drop off. But you are not going to be doing steep drop offs with a load. This bike is a little higher end than yours but the same style bike bikepacking trip As for what type of terrain makes MTB mandatory? - Steep drop off - Jump into drop off - Big bumps / rocks 

If you are OK after a 14 mile ride and can ride it again the next day then you can extend your distance and/or speed. What you can do on the bike gauge by your breath - if you are panting that is exertion you cannot maintain for a long distance. On a longer ride (like more than 1 hour) you should be breathing hard but still able to carry on a conversation. On a longer ride if you need to slow down on the later stages then pace yourself back early. Ride hard enough that you get off the bike a bit spent but not so hard that you cannot recover overnight. OP had a question on max exertion. At 18 I am surprised your body is not more familiar with max VO2 (volume of oxygen). With age and lack of practice it goes away. I started CX racing last year and very fit but coming in mid pack and riders in front of me were just totally spent and would take minutes to recover and I would just walk it off. I asked one of the top riders and he said do wind sprints. You need to train your body to max out. He said he did wind sprints 3-4 days a week. I added it to my training and was able to time an anaerobic sprint at the end and pick up a spot of two. Even on a ride you you many go anaerobic on a climb and recover coasting down. 

The stronger wheel is going to be the stronger wheel. Hub, spokes, rim, and build are more important than size. I don't get the question on size? You need to buy a size that fits the bike. Everything else the same in theory the smaller size is stronger. Buy the wheel size that fits the riding you want. If you are also tall then 29" is probably a better fit. You are not going to get a strong wheel on sub $500 bike. You need to pay more like $500 alone for a good set of wheels. You can pay $400 for single hub. Look for downhill wheels. They go for strength over weight. Not going to name brands but most all of the majors make downhill wheels. People (and pros) downhill on 29". You might be better of buying a used bike and putting new wheels on it.