The biggest hindering factor in building tall buildings is useable floor space. Elevator shafts, stairways, support structure all take away from valuable floor space available for offices. Economics was a deciding factor in many buildings and most of them are only supposed to occupy a city block. One other limiting factor, which still is in place today, is the rope used for elevators. There's a finite length to what is useable. To go up 900m, you could not create a cable durable enough for that height. So you would need to create a series of elevator shafts to allow what height that can be achieved. In the case of the Washington Monument, you have a building where construction started in 1848 and tops out at 555 feet tall (169m), but no floor space. The monument is filled with ironwork, consisting of its stairs, elevator columns and associated tie beams, none of which supports the weight of the stonework. If these are not factors in your building design, then the sky is the limit. 

The best way is to use a magic powder consisting of saltpeter (potassium nitrate), sulfur, and charcoal. Potassium nitrate can be found in bat guano. Sulfur usually found near volcanoes and was known in the middle ages. Charcoal could be found in any fire pit, but the best comes from willow bark. I suppose if one could find a way to heat a bladder of air, they could heat a bamboo pole full of powder or other techniques to create defensive and offensive weapons. This might explain the way hot air expands without the use of magical powders: 

You could skip the first steps, but if you could do coordinated attacks, all of these systems usually have their own backup power. You could try and order a full scale attack with the military and hope the retaliation wipes out the country. There's enough protections in place that this would most likely not work. But if you're looking for scenarios, it's a great one. Don't turn our military on our civilians, turn another military into the attacker. Then... 

JavaScriptCoder dramatically changed this question after I came up with an answer The original question was how to make cyber war lethal. I even addressed issues with a military-only option before the question change. It is my belief that cyberwarfare will not be clean or tidy. Once it starts, civilians will die. 

I have read over the responses so far and some seem pretty accurate. The Marines will have an advantage at first, but while most of you think the Marines will fail with the loss of electricity and high tech, I think it will be just the opposite. The Marines suffer a loss from those weapons no longer working, but the Marines are going to kick some serious medieval butt with superiority in every other area. The Marines have one aspect on their side few of you have really considered, training. I am not some oorah Marines kind-of-guy. I appreciate the esprit de corps, but there is one way the Marines can and will win, superior training over the forces of the day. First off the bad news, many of their high-tech weapons will fail. They will have no GPS, electronic systems will fail, some of you are thinking they end up like the Colonial Marines in Aliens. What sets them apart is superior training and knowledge of history. Even if it’s a different history, military strategy has advanced over the years and this outfit will be trained in methods and strategies other armies have yet to consider. Modern military training is vastly superior to the 19th Century. Back then, an officer could become an officer because he was a nobleman or his family purchased the title. That doesn’t exist in a modern military unit. Armies in the 19th Century were nowhere near the highly trained modern forces of today. 19th Century soldiers could point and fire a musket in as little as 10 seconds, but Marines can learn the skills of older weapons and already know how to make enhancements. They know the dangers of smooth-bore cannons and understand that if they had them rifled, they could increase the firepower from the cannons 10-fold over smooth-bore and wipe out defenses. Several of you pointed out that the diseases of the 19th Century would wipe out the Marines. For the most part, this is not correct. Of the diseases that still survive, they have evolved to be more formidable, not less. The Marines would be susceptible to smallpox, since most of them would not be immunized, but they already have the knowledge to self-vaccinate. A disease that could wipe out a regular army has less of a chance with the Marines. Add to that their training in basic hygiene gives them another leg up over regular conscripted troops. And finally, fear is a huge advantage the modern Marines have with the inclusion of the nuclear warheads. In World War II, when the fight in the Pacific had the US setting up to invade Japan itself, those Marines in the initial invasion would have been slaughtered. What we now know after the war ended is that the Japanese accurately predicted where we would invade. There's no doubt the US would have won the war, but the loss of life on both sides would have been staggering. The atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki brought the war to a swift close, removing the need for an invasion. So long as the fear of the advanced weapons exists, the Marines have the advantage in war. That fear could be enough to allow them to take a nation and train a larger force to help support them. In short, the Marines would have a few simple advantages and depending on how the capitalize on them, they could defeat a much larger forces. 

At least two of the popular astronomy software packages have a defined data format for describing stars and solar systems and their positions in the universe. Stellarium is (IIRC) fairly good at mapping the surfaces of our planets to computer simulations, and is centered on our earth and solar system, but you can add fictional planets and stars. (Wikipedia entry.) Celestia is more focused on the galaxy and a little beyond, and there are several projects which are using it to define simulations of fictional universes. (Wikipedia entry.) Celestia will probably be easier to work with for developing a new fictional universe, or even just a galaxy. They are both free, both gratis and freedom. 

I was thinking that the planet's star could be one of those produced early in the life of the universe, but checking Wikipedia's abundance of chemical elements page shows that iron is particularly stable in supernova processes, and particular common. (And I assume you are aware of the astrophysicist's different definition of metal.) So it would have to be especially early in the life of the universe, and there are question about whether there would be enough of the other elements which support life. Speaking of which, iron is really important to life as we know it, so you might have to re-imagine the basis of life on that world. Copper is heavier than iron, so that option doesn't help. More examining the relative abundances chart on that page shows that replacing oxygen with fluorine is also going the wrong direction. Worlds where blood is copper-based and people breathe fluorine were once interesting in the genre, which would have provided a bit richer source in which to do secondary research. Still, if you are interested in trying to imagine blood based on (say) lithium or magnesium and, uhm, hydrogen, you might want to start with that literature. I don't remember the names of the novels and they don't come up in a quick search, sorry. That's going to be a lot of research into the chemistry of light elements to find substitutes for RNA and DNA and all sorts of stuff we take for granted. Doctoral thesis material. So, it kind of does look like you might need some sort of event which involves processes we don't understand to actually suppress the production or iron and heavier metals (usual sense), or some series of events in which the elements are extracted and transported out of your world, one type of which has been suggested. Excessive exploitation of resources would be a reasonable cause. Another possibility might be simply age of the world. The metals are still there, but natural and intelligent-life processes have so thoroughly distributed them into the environment that re-capturing them for use in weapons, etc. is beyond the technology your intelligent species has. That is another direction that has been interesting in SF literature from quite a ways back. Clarke's Against the Fall of Night was somewhat close in theme, and I think Herbert's Dune did a little more than nod in that direction. (So does Star Wars, come to think of it.) Everything else looks supernatural to me. But you can always redefine deity to being some super-advanced race experimenting with different parameters for life? Suppress the weaponizable materials and see if the members of this race can learn to live in peace? 

A gravity train is a means of transportation intended to go between two points on the surface of a sphere, following a straight tunnel that goes directly from one point to the other through the interior of the sphere. 

Rockets Red Glare Lets take the example of a rocket. A well-designed pyrotechnic rocket will used compressed black powder and titanium to create a trail of sparks as it powers the rocket into the air. This makes it a terrible offensive weapon because as it streaks into the air, it creates a trail that leads to the launch location and exposes your position. 

Polyethylene is comprised of the chemical formula C2H4. It's made from hydrocarbons on earth because thats the most common way to refine them. 

Fireworks are designed for beauty, not for damage. Many years ago, before lighting became so practical, mankind was mostly in the dark at night. Kings and other land holders would hire a pyrotechnician for celebrations and as a demonstration of their power. The display of fireworks would dazzle and delight people and remind them subtly the ruler had the power to illuminate the night sky. This is why so many celebrations in our society are celebrated with fireworks. Independence Day, New Years Eve, sporting events all have fireworks that light the sky. Beyond offering a demonstration of power, fireworks make poor weapons because they emphasize color over power and that color actually retards the destructive potential. Fireworks and destructive weapons like a cannonball are both powered by black powder, but they use it in remarkably different ways. With fireworks, they use black powder mixed with powdered metals for color and other pyrotechnic compositions for an emphasis of color over effect. 

Special thank you to @Thucydides for describing the process and @MadPhysicist for challenging me to rewrite this. 

Radioisotope thermoelectric generator Another existing power source is the Radioisotope thermoelectric generator. The positives are this can be created with no moving parts. The drawback is a low power yield. $URL$ Thermovoltaic A Thermovoltaic generator captures the light given off the thermal source and translates that into power. The positives are that thermovoltaics provide consistent and reliable power without large amounts of fuel. The drawback is that they are not very efficient. If your power source was in a sphere of thermal-voltaic cells, you could run them in series to produce the energy you need. Perhaps in your world, there's a more efficient source of thermovoltaic cells, which could produce the 8,000 watts of desired power. $URL$ 

Such a tree has existed in our imaginations. The question is what shape would this tree take? Building a bigger Venus Flytrap 

Fear. It's a powerful motivator and a great tool to control the masses. Before maps and navigation aids, it was fear that stopped people in ships from sailing beyond the horizon away from the shore. It was the fear of falling off the edge of the planet that kept them hugging the coasts. Fear of spirits, demons and gods can keep people off a section of land. Fear of a people, imagined or not, that attack everyone that enters the land can keep that land unexplored. Fear that there are no riches in a land, only an endless landscape of fire and brimstone. That place? That place we don't go? In that place, there be dragons. 

The star is the ship. Gravity is your force field. Your advanced beings have bodies of dark matter or something that doesn't get boiled way, burned, or launched to long distances by contact with hot plasmas. No. Come on. Seriously. If you want your ship to contain all the conveniences of a planet, you build a propulsion system onto an existing minor planet or large asteroid with sufficiently dense composition. If you want your star-faring race to carry a star around with them let them use a star as their vehicle of choice. It could even carry planets as it goes, for real convenience. The only field we known of capable of containing a plasma in sustained fusion reaction without a really strong, rigid, not-invisible frame is gravitational. And if you are going to generate a gravitational field of that size why not just do the way nature does? Let the fuel itself generate the field. Propel it with extreme flares. Maybe give it a neutron companion to use as a valve controller. Refuel it by visiting the center of a galaxy. Travel long distances by the old standard, already mentioned in the question. And, sure, since anything we could build to control the thing would boil away immediately, the race that travels this way has to be of a sort of matter that doesn't, and, since dark matter is a current topic, we borrow that. If we don't do it this way, we still end up relying on stuff we don't understand and have never seen, which brings us back to something equivalent to my suggestion of dark matter. And the stuff still has to be such that it doesn't boil away on contact with plasma, and at the same time it has to be manipulable by ordinary matter intelligent beings, which is begging twice as many questions. So the best solution is just to have the vehicle be a star. 

A world in which vampires are known to humankind ... If we are not talking about this world (Remember, there are some diseases which induce people to want to drink blood, but these are ordinary mortal humans.), we might think up some "finer stuff" to flow in the veins of vampires, and the "finer stuff" makes them immortal. Why it makes them weak against sunlight is a question to answer. Maybe in your world it doesn't. And if there is "finer stuff" in their veins, why do they want to drink blood? Okay, maybe the vampires are actually trying to "help" the humans. Anyway, the finer stuff is what pumps their muscles, all of them. But why would such a "vampire" want to have extra-marital sex with humans, if his motivation is to help? Or are these "vampires" properly contracting their marriages? Answering these kinds of questions might help you build an interesting world that isn't just a re-hash of the currently popular vampire literature.