Does 'half-decked' refer to how the decks were constructed? Or perhaps something to do with how the ships were loaded with cargo? 

The "Anasazi" colonized a fertile basin, grew to large numbers, and then collapsed when they maxed the carrying capacity of the land (perhaps coupled to a climate change event). They took to the cliffs and struggled to maintain their lives and religion as they fought with one another. But eventually nature proved the better, and they were forced to move to new lands -- the Pueblo Indians and Hopi of today. 

England in 400BC was a broadly Celtic culture with Pictish remnants in the North; 1600 years later it had gained a lot of influence from Roman, German, French, and Norse invasions. Language, food, architecture, laws, and so on were much different. These are the obvious changes. Your middle age Englander transported to Iron Age England would perhaps guess he was in the land of the vikings. The Celts of the time were warlike, tribal, proud and primitive people that practiced a pagan religion, all of which would have looked barbaric in comparison to the medieval commoner. While the Celts had urban settlements and hillfort citadels, neither would come close to comparison with the vibrant self-governed towns and stone castles of the Middle Ages. Celts had a hierarchical society with nobles, commoners and slaves, but the middle ages saw more political stratification and legally stronger ties to the land. The Celt's lord would have been a king who directly controlled his land and was directly related to most of the people he ruled, whereas the Englishman's lord could have been a mere knight or baron who held the land in the name of a superior noble, ultimately traced to the king, and often was a foreigner given the manor or territory with no particular relationship to the people he ruled. The Celts had trade networks and practiced agriculture, but the average Celt would be more oriented towards cattle raising, whereas the typical Englishman would be more focused on cultivating his farm. Yet farming is farming; animals need fed and slaughtered, crops planted and harvested, and tools mended. Assuming the Englishman was a typical farmer, he could easily have slipped into a similar role in 400BC. In 1100-1200 A.D. farming technology had made some significant advances. The Englishman would have been able to improve the yield of his farm through the new 3-field rotation system, the heavy plow, and use of draught animals. He could have demonstrated cheese making to take advantage of the Celts' huge cattle herds. Crops and domesticated animals in Celtic times were less diverse and farm plots generally smaller in size. Farming practices in Celtic times also included religious practices which our Englishman would find odd. Yet he might have things to learn from the Celtic farmer. Pliny noted that the Celtic plough superior to the Roman type, and remarked at their use of chalk fertilizer. 

This is basically oblique order. The idea is to crush one flank of the enemy with the strong force, turn it 90° and defeat the enemy in detail. The remainder of your troops keep the enemy busy on the other flank. You put your heavy troops on the strong flank because they need the most strength (they need to break the line). The light troops are more useful for skirmishing. Their job here is to keep the enemy occupied. If the enemy penetrates your skirmishers, it is all over for your army. If the enemy realizes that your army is employing this tactic too soon, they will all fall on the strong flank and it will be crushed. This technique was first used in Greece in the third century BC, but was most famously used by Frederick II of Prussia. Napoleon greatly admired Frederick II, and it is more than conceivable that Napoleon developed these tactics directly from him. 

These two factors were supported by Hitler and formed the basis and ideology of Nazism. This motivated the many of the Germans to the bitter end. 

With these evidences, my conclusion is that the Gospels have been kept true to the originals throughout these two millenia and that the original Gospels did accurately record Jesus' life, how He lived, and what He claimed. P.s. There are many more proofs for the accuracy of the Gospels that I don't have time to go into today, but if anyone would like clarification on a particular point (or perhaps a point I haven't mentioned), feel free to leave a comment and I'll see what I can do. Sources 

This depends on many conditions (especially the type of gun), but I will outline a few of the main ones here. Vickers Machine Gun (1912) 

On the subject of schizophrenia in history specifically, I happen to be working my way through Julian Jaynes' The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind which I'm finding to be a simply fascinating take on the role of (in)sanity with the origin of civilization. It speaks extensively about schizophrenia and discusses how it was viewed through history. Essentially, he makes the claim that early on in our civilization the prevalence of schizophrenia may have been higher, and the "voices" were interpreted to be the animal spirits, angels, gods, and ancestors. IOW early on (bronze age) schizophrenia was not insanity, it was normality. He theorizes that a decrease in the prevalence of schizophrenia led to or played into the bronze age collapse. Not sure I buy into it but I'm only a third of the way through the book so far. Regardless it's a fascinatingly different way to look at these topics. Through the Iron Age up to the Christian Era, schizophrenia would have been treated as perhaps evidence of being touched by the gods, and individuals with these afflictions might be venerated as shamans, priests or oracles and safely sequestered away in temples and shrines. Schizophrenics unfortunately tend to end in suicide at a significantly higher rate than the general population; I must imagine before modern medicines and psychology this would have been even more severe. The madman in the dungeon is a classic trope, and I can easily imagine the more troublesome schizophrenics were handled this way (if not slain outright), but don't know of a source to give you there. I would not be surprised if many were handled as possessed or practitioners of witchcraft, but if this is discussed in the book I haven't gotten to it yet. :-) It was not really until the 19th century that this received ample study. In fact as a general rule most all psychological diseases were poorly recognized until this point in time. Anyway, Jaynes' book is quite thick with references and IMHO well worth the read. Despite the obtuse title and hefty theory, it seems to be an easy read and would serve as a good starting point for a study of mental health through history. 

If there were five-hundred plus Christians (brothers and sisters), there definitely would have been more people opposed to Christianity living at the time. It's highly unlikely that all of these hundreds (likely thousands) of people would have died in the next ten years leaving only the Gospel writers. 

I'm going to analyze the text itself rather than the events here (this is History SE, not Christianity SE). (Fredsbend has written a good answer about other aspects) 

Roman Infantry There were two types of Roman infantry: the light and the heavy infantry. The average heavy infantryman had a helmet, a mail coat, greaves, a shield, a spatha(broadsword), five weighted darts, and a javelin (pilum). The pilum was five to six feet long with a tip of iron, weighing nine ounces. The total weight of the pilum ranged between five and eleven pounds (the pilum were heavier in the days of the republic than of the empire). The shield could weigh over twenty pounds. The light infantryman carried much of the same items. However, he rarely wore armor. His sheild was smaller and usually made of wood. Instead of using pilum, the light infantrymen carried hastae velitares. They were smaller and lighter than the pilum. Many light infantrymen also carried a gladius as a backup weapon. In addition to their weapons, each infantryman carried spare clothing, a cloak, three to fourteen days of rations, a wicker basket for moving dirt, rope, a waterskin, and a spade or a pick ax. These were attached to a cross-shaped frame, forming a pack. The light infantry usually ended up carrying 70-80 pounds of equipment and the heavy infantry often carried up to 100 pounds of equipment. 

These were by far faster than any other midget submarine sailing at the time. Few could go over 10 knots. These were comprised of one main type- the Ko-hyoteki Class Submarine. It was subdivided into three types: A, C, and D. Five type A participated in the attack on Pearl Harbor, but only two made it into the harbor and none survived it. Three type A attacked Sydney Harbor in 1942, but one was sunk before it could do damage. The other two survived but sank before they could return to their transport submarines. They damaged only one ship however. Two type A's also took part in the Battle of Madagascar. One was lost at sea and the other seriously damaged one battle ship and sank an oil tanker. Type D's were mas produced-- even more than the type A's and type C's. 115 type D's were completed by the end of the war and almost five hundred more were under construction. The Ko-hyoteki also played a defensive role in the Aleutians and alsewhere in the Pacific. To put a conclusion on this lengthy answer, I would say the Japanese had the best midget submarines. However, the Germans had the best program as the Japanese did not often utilize their fleet in important offenses. 

Cornwall and Devon in England were active in the mining of tin during the Bronze age. Buildings tended to be circular with a stone wall and conical timer and thatched roof, clustered in groups of no more than 20 houses. The Terramare culture (ancestors of the Etruscans) in Italy arranged their settlements with quadrangular streets, protected behind moats, earthwork, and buttresses. In the Middle Bronze Age, a typical village is no larger than 5 acres, but by the Late Bronze Age could grow to 150 acres. The Urnfield culture (ancestors of the Celts) in central Europe during the late Bronze Age tended to fortified settlements on hilltops or river bends, and could consist of up to a few dozen houses. The Lovčičky settlement had 44 houses for example. Both hill forts and pile dwellings were typical. In Germany in the areas of Lake Constance and Federsee, a lake dwelling people built villages on piles over water (a reconstruction of which is shown below). A village could have 5 to 80 houses for up to 500 people and cover anywhere from 0.1 to 2 hectares. An average village in the Bronze Age consisted of about 30 buildings. 

Let's split this into two questions. First, is it plausible that a population of Russian emigrants from the White émigré population would sing this Soviet song. And second, was it the intention of the film makers to portray the Russian emigrants as influenced by Soviet culture. According to Wikipedia, Russian Americans came to America in four waves: the "First Wave" in mid- to late-19th century, "Second Wave" in 1917-1922 comprising the White emigres, "Soviet era", and "Post-Soviet era" starting in 1991. The movie is set during the Vietnam War, ruling out the fourth period. Very few emigrants were permitted during the Soviet era, and certainly not entire families. Thus it is most likely the film community is a first or second wave (pre-Soviet) Russian emigrant community. Of the First Wave, a few groups, such as the Old Believers in Erie, Pennsylvania (same state as the Deer Hunter Russian community but a few counties away), or various Jewish-Russian Immigrants, came to America seeking freedom to practice their religion undisturbed. Other peasant groups came for economic reasons and integrated to American society to various degrees, retaining cultural and/or religious elements important to them, and settling in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and the coal-mining towns of eastern Pennsylvania. The Second Wave (also called the White émigrés) migrated throughout Europe, East Asia, and the Americas. Many intellectuals, aristocrats, army officers, and clerks left Russia as part of this group between 1920 and 1922 and the 1930s and settled in cities such as New York City, Philadelphia, and Chicago. Most were strongly anti-communist and sought to preserve pre-revolutionary Russian culture while living abroad. Many remained involved either actively or morally in the struggle against the Soviet Union. The song Katyusha was composed in 1938 by Matvei Blanter who was actively writing Soviet propaganda songs during this period, with lyrics by Mikhail Isakovsky a respected Soviet poet. But the song itself was not heavy in Soviet or Communist imagery and was taken by many as a general song about defending one's motherland. It became popular throughout Western Europe with variants in Italian, French, and Greek. From the above, I think it is more likely that the Russian settlement shown in Deer Hunter was of the old First Wave group. The filming of the wedding took place in the St. Theodosius Orthodox Cathedral in Cleveland, Ohio; as it was founded in the 1890s, it can be assumed a community worshipping there would be from the original First Wave Russians. Further, the Second Wave would have disliked anything reminiscent of Soviets, and while they may have been proud of the Red Army's defense of their homeland, I imagine Soviet music at a wedding would be dimly regarded; further the White émigré's tended to be higher class and more urban, compared to the more blue collar community shown in the film.