Causality is essentially the relationship between cause and effect. Specific definitions depend on the context. For example, in physics, and in particular thermodynamics, we define an arrow of time. In the philosophy of science, one might talk about causality in special relativity. For example, special relativity does not allow communication faster than the speed of light, since this would violate causality because to some inertial observers, information would travel backward in time. In quantum mechanics, one could say that virtual particles (particle-antiparticle pairs) violate causality because they essentially borrow energy from nothing (the vacuum) but this is allow by the time-energy uncertainty principle. In logic, or mathematics we have sufficient and necessary conditions (causes), if satisfied, yield some results (effects or consequences). There are many questions a philosopher could ask. Can two events be causally connected? Is there free will? What is determinism? Is our universe determinist as Laplace thought, or does it just seem that way? Can we rely on science to answer these questions? Hume's answer to the last question would be -- no, due to the problem of induction. 

Good question. Maybe if Kant would had access to our knowledge today would he would update his thought. He was a genius, no doubt. It seems to me that noumena [(in the sense they are the (supposed/.../presumed) things themselves, which we in lack of better concept so far, we say: reality] impose certain constraints to life which has got thinking ability and life with thinking ability responds to such constraints with a set of heuristics which moral/ethics/.../"what works" are examples and maybe are just byproducts of thinking ability. So, in the end if we eliminate free will we have to start to find another heuristic to deal with it and moral & cia are not enough for it. Now, with AI (artificial intelligence, which I prefer to name artificial integration) we just lost ANOTHER degree of freedom... so it is about time to think about the reduction of freedom implies in terms of the "next" heuristic... After all we are just algorithms producing biochemistry and bio-electrical signs. See for example the book of the picture... ☺ 

To be honest, it is hard to recommend a single book. If you really want to understand philosophy, you must read many books. So you might want to start with Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, Descartes' Meditations and Discourse on the Method, as well as Kant's Critique of Pure Reason and Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals. These are by far the best epistemology/metaphysics books I have ever read. It might seem obvious recommending such well-known books, but they are well-known because they are truly phenomenal. Also, if you are interested in the development of mathematics, and in particular analysis, I would recommend The Analyst by Berkeley -- a remarkable book. If however, you do not have time to read them all, start with Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding and Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, and avoid Kant' Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals, and any of Kant's books because they are very difficult to read. You need to read each book at least twice to understand Kant. 

Maybe this help: [Definition: A necessary condition for some state of affairs S is a condition that must be satisfied in order for S to obtain.] [Definition: A sufficient condition for some state of affairs S is a condition that, if satisfied, guarantees that S obtains.] From here. It has got examples and a tests. ☺ 

By multi-meaning-messages I mean the capability of the people to convey communication with different significance (sometimes even opposite) to different target audiences/constituencies AND such information co-habit. It could be considered lie but due to status of the emitter is not handled as such. The emitter of the message is aware of it and use it as a tool to expand/keep its influence for example. Most of the receivers are not aware of it. I had been noticing that philosophy plays an important role for effectiveness on absorption of the messages by different targets. Examples 1: [As Lewandowsky says about the billionaires supporting rightwing populism: “Theirs are very personal motives and probably not the motives these people will admit to themselves. There are very few people who say, ‘I’m greedy and I like being greedy.’ Instead they will say, ‘I’m a libertarian and I believe that society is best served if free individuals pursue their own interests.’”] $URL$ Example 2: When persons use the term "democracy" they might mean "democratism". Example 3: When persons use the terms "Nation:State" they might mean "Oligarchy:Corporation". The picture tries to capture that sometimes the multi-meaning-messages can run very deep and does not spread fast... 

Descartes a priori assumptions were: mathematical statements are valid and God is not a deceiver (note that the latter implies the former). The reason why God is not a deceiver is because God is a perfect being (according to Descartes), and cannot deceive us in anyway. If God is not a deceiver then God gave us senses which are not totally unreliable. This means we can tell when we are dreaming. 

You must at least understand logic, especially symbolic logic because it underpins many areas of philosophy, not to mention mathematics. For example, Kant would not have written such great books if he was not interested in logic. He even studied mathematics in his spare time. He also played around with many natural sciences like physics. I doubt he ever published anything, but I know he actually explained why galaxies and solar systems lie in planes using conservation of angular momentum. Some people like Russell and Godel start by studying philosophy but then realize that they are much more interested in logic, paradoxes, proofs, etc. You must also understand that there is not just propositional logic, there are things like modal logic for example. Overall, many great mathematicians were also philosophers, and vice versa. For instance, Leibniz and Descartes are among many. 

Philosophy is a tool. It is a good tool. If the tool is used properly it will benefit our daily lives. If we do not use it properly it will not benefit. Philosophy used properly: .. An illiterate and handicap mother in Africa which just lost her youngest child due to malaria... An western person who is familiar with philosophy OR not and finds a way to support organizations who are capable to reach those who are struggling. Philosophy is about DOING good! Philosophy not used properly: .. Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem quoting Immanuel Kant to justify his terrible works. The picture tries to illustrate how philosophy can help the person to navigate from a war contributor to a peace contributor... 

Good question. SUV is a car but we call it SUV assuming that is a car. Enlightenment is a religion but we call it Enlightenment assuming that religion is detached from Enlightenment. It seems it is not possible for our little brains to split religion AND something such as science, capitalism, communism, clubism, statism, enlightenment and so for... things emerge from other things... As Max Planck put it "For religion, God is at the beginning; for science, God is at the end." See more, for example, in God Is a Person Reflections of Two Nobel Laureates. Religion is embedded everywhere. ☺ It seems to me The Analyst, by George Berkeley, 1734 was a superior exercise to make sense of things which worried him then. It was so good that even today we revisit it. Read, please, the text of the image the way it is presented and then read it replacing "I" by "Religion" ☺