There are a couple quantum theories of interest.... The first is that all information is preserved which means that you could at least calculate any previous state of the universe from any future state, so you could figure out pretty much where everything was including every atom in a person's body... However, another aspect is quantum state: Matter has various qualities that are un-measurable.. This does not mean it's difficult to measure, it means that the information does not exist in our universe. One example of this is how long it takes for a radioactive atom to decay--which is why decay is stated as an approximated half-life instead of a specific amount of time. So these two pieces of data lead me to believe that you could reproduce an approximate physical state, possibly even down to the molecule or maybe atom, but could not reproduce the exact quantum state. This last bit is more important than you'd think--every time a neuron decides to fire or not in your brain it is adding a little bit of this quantum state into the decision. It's like a super-computer built with each CPU operation adding in a little completely random factor so that even if you re-created the computer, program and data bit-for-bit the output of your program would still deviate every time. Because of this I don't think it would be possible to get the exact same behavior even if you could reproduce the physical state exactly--at least not from within our current universe/reality/dimension/??. 

Under the assumption of no data loss during the transfer (due to any object in the transfer medium). Your system still has two problems. 

A volcano eruption might add enough dust to cover the view of the stars and rings. It will also reduce the sunlight if the dust eclipses the sun. The dust does not need to cover the whole sky, because the winds might move the dust to cover only the view to the rings. 

It would be plausible for communication only in absence of verbal language and (maybe) facial expressions. Since humans have language and no-verbal communication (posture, tone, volume of voice, facial expression), there is no need of another communication system. Facial expression in your case is not needed, because bio-luminescence develops in darkness. It would be plausible for attraction. But this kind of solution for attraction usually happens only in enviroments with abundant resources (darkness isn't a place with abundant resources), where a species can waste effort for attraction. That is why birds in jungles are more colorful than birds in tundra. 

You might have that effect with tectonics, just before when two continents separated by a sea meet each other. For example when Indian plate hit Euroasian plate. That crush started to create the Himalayas. When the continents met the mountains stated to elevate and the sea between both plates started to dry (Tethys ocean). So for a short while probably a deep valley was created between both continents, an later on the Himalayas grew bigger and the valley between both continents was gone. But in the meantime, you had a valley between both continents. Another possibility is the East Africa Drift, where former mountains are separating, creating several valleys between them, valleys that later were filled with lakes. 

At present, if you wanted to create a 'show' about a person, you actually wouldn't need to confine them in a dome. You could get the majority of your footage from existing sources in our environment - CCTV on the streets, safety cameras on police officers/taxis/buses/etc, you could very easily hide small cameras in objects on his daily routine. Audio could be captured clearly and in real time from his own phone, and he'd be oblivious. That in itself wouldn't make a great show, but we already have shows that make big ratings on low quality footage, pad it out a bit with some opinions of nobodies watching from their couches, a few snazzy graphics, and bam. You have some high-profit low-cost reality TV. Your actor could be anyone, and your show could kick off right now. With the data collection governments are doing, you could spin off hours upon hours of voyeuristic content about almost any person alive and living in a big city that has ample surveillance. The question remains. How would Morgan find out he is on this show? Which brings up a poignant answer directly in the comments. How do you know you're not already on such a show? Edit: And I feel bad, and should probably give you a hypothetical to go along with your story. Lets assume he never finds out - it's a perfect simulation. But the world grew tired of him, budgets ran out. If this scenario occurred, in a moral world, he'd probably be approached, told that his environment was no longer sustainable and had to leave - hence finding out about the dome. Alternatively, since he is confined in a dome for everyone elses pleasure we can assume it's not a moral world. One day everyone he knows leaves, the world goes dark, and he's alone. You'd either clue on or go mad pretty rapidly. 

It could have been the same but with a different religion. In case that Christianity did not develop, another religion would have taken its place, after all Roman religion was weak during the end of the empire. For example, manicheism might have replaced Christianity during its early stages, or Islam in the latter. Since United State was colonized by people who was running from religion persecution in England, in your alternate history the founding fathers could be shiites minorities while in England most people are Sunni. Judaism probably would be the same, because judaism is inherit, hence is more difficult to convert people from other religions to judaism. 

Low chances due to tectonics, because the crust that is lost by the movement of tectonic plates usually is the crust that is below the sea. The surface that covers continents might move or go up due tectonics, but almost never disappear. The worst case would be that the remnats are buried in a mountain like the Tibet or the Alps, but never below the sea. Yes by other force of nature. Like any other fossil, the remnants of your civilization might be convered by sediments and later on turn into stone or leave their mark in the stone. 

Basically you need to shut down inmune system in order to perform any kind of transplant. Most tissues in mammals are quite similar, to the point that laboratory rats are good experimental subjects for many things that later will be used in humans. For example, the growing of a human ear inside a rat: