I had similar situation (not as bad as yours). I set up plan for each day, and told each person what I expected from them. And I would check with them individually on a weekly basis. 

There is not much you can do to address the situation, you are at their mercy. If you have many interviews lined up and many job offers you have the option to reject job offer from company with disrespectful interviewers. I've noticed rudeness occurs when they are doing "due diligence" of interviewing you because 

If motivation is missing, then you need to structure the work. Say, I expect ABC by the end of the day. If they don't perform, meet with them personally and ask what is the issue. Here you need to be confrontational. It's your job on the line. 

I disagree. There are infinite ways one can always show they are adding value, build relationships. As long as there is a lot of work to do, a lot of things to innovate, then their is an ocean of such opportunity, one needs to ask themselves how else they can contribute. 

I'd create a free-hand flowchart with text in bubbles, with arrows pointing to one another. Then, organize your thoughts on paper, in a format that you can hand over to whoever is in charge of your timing (if it is necessary, depends on your situation) Finally, call a meeting with the person to discuss. Be heart-full about how the change will help you help them. Because on weekday you are more productive since you have resources around you. If the Management is good, they will accommodate and understand the benefits to their organization of restructuring your time, else, you must search for job elsewhere. 

It's business. You're leaving because you found something better. It they found someone better than you, they would fire you on the spot. 

If your boss is a person worth not cutting ties with, a simple "Thanks for all the help and opportunities, but I'm off to new adventures" is enough. 

Depends on your industry. But, since your boss said they dress casual, I'd say that wearing a suit will do no harm nor good. I, as a software developer, have never cared about over/under dressing. I've worked in start-ups, small companies(50~150 people) and big companies (2000+) and in none of them someone said anything about the way I dress. In all of them it was casual. I always go to work with jeans trousers and a T-shirt. But in all interviews I keep the jeans trousers and change the tee for a polo. I noticed that anytime someone overdresses, people make light jokes about that. But, if you work for a bank, for example, you might have to wear a suit and tie. 

I see three options: 1 - Ask the company to buy one, so everybody can use it 2 - Raise funds with your colleages to buy one (we did this with the coffee machine here) 3 - Bring your own, but be prepared to see people use or eventually break it. Anyway, ask your boss or HR first to see if it is allowed to bring your own stuff to the office. 

In every company I've worked so far, we had customers. Be it internal or external customers. In this case, she is an internal customer, because she requested something from your department and she is an employee of the same company as you. 

If they sent the letter over a month ago and you didn't answer them and yet they haven't tried contacting you again, just pretend you never received the letter. 

Don't do this either. If you are really that curious, just bring it up in your second interview. You clearly gave enough correct answers that they want to interview you again. If you were giving those answers of the top of your head, it isn't that surprising that you wouldn't remember what the questions actually were. If somebody asked you where a particular street was on your way to work this morning, and you instantly knew the answer, you would be hard pressed a day or so later to remember that street. I think the same principle applies here. If, in the course of an interview, you are asked about something which you know really well, it's not unreasonable to think that you will go into autopilot and not really think about your answer, but still give the correct answer, and it wouldn't be a memorable event later on. 

I would consider the possibility that somebody who hits the same button 25 times maybe isn't having a great experience, either with their computer or your software. Maybe they think that your software has frozen, maybe their computer is running slowly or playing up, maybe their kayboard/mouse is having issues, maybe they are just having a really bad day and take their frustration out on your software. Either way, if that is the case, and a picture of you shows up along with some silly meme, it's not going to end well for you! 

I've been there myself, having missed work as a result of mental health issues. The important thing to realize is that it is very difficult for people who have no experience with psychiatric disorders (either not having experienced them themselves or through a family member) to empathize with those who do. To them it just looks like laziness/slovenliness etc and how can you expect them to tell the difference? Now that you're feeling better, the best thing for you to do is to work hard and kick ass at whatever it is that you do. Being able to overlook remarks such as this is a sign of good mental health. 

Are these coworkers straight out of college? Perhaps college interns. Sometimes they behave that way because they don't understand real-world. Or they can just be annoying people 

After two hours, go to one of them and casually ask how is it going. Or, make it random. What if they are on social media with their friends. If they understand they must be accountable, they will start to straighten up. 

It probably made you look bad. They say pig likes to fight in mud, only difference is pig enjoys it. Pig is your coworkers in this case. 

Well here is the problem. Lot of people are scared of sharing information, also known as collaboration. But I think if more you share, more others will eventually share with you, or more opportunities will open. And certainly the coworkers will start to warm up, and you can find the relationship beneficial. If you have too much work on your hands, you can get their help. Do this slowly and steady, so you all feel comfortable. 

In your case, tell them what you expect from them, i.e. I expect code by this time, with zero-errors. Sometimes, people need structure, other times, people will find excuse not to work. 

Can you schedule time to meet with your manager in a conference room, office, etc so you can discuss without the peanut gallery? Surely, your boss must be aware of who is responsible for what, who is doing what (that what boss is supposed to do) 

At the end of day, you need to connect your 2 or 3 tasks with the result that benefits your organization 

Your management is also at fault. They should understand that managing interns (interns, not seasoned employees who have seen the world) takes time and dedication. To re-iterate 

You should make it clear to your employer during interview that you haven't had contact or don't know X product or technology. Then it's up to the employer to hire you and wait a little time for you to get up to speed, or just don't hire you. If they happen to hire you and you didn't warn them about this during the interview, it might be very bad to you, because you ommited very important information. Anyway, you have experience with Unix, it won't be very hard for you to gain some knowledge in Windows. Most things are easier to do on it than on Unix. Unless you are apllying for a SysAdmin role, then I suggest you study a lot before hand instead of trying to learn on the go. 

All the companies I interviewed for so far didn't try to actually run the code, AFAIK. They just wanted to check the quality of the code. So, as long as your code is good, censor it. Maybe tell them why you censored some of it when you send them the code. 

If the company wanted to fire you, it would. No matter what you said, no matter how much you cried. That said, leave whenever you want. Specially if management doesn't give a crap about what you think, as this seems to be the case. This is bussiness. 

If other employees from other departments do it, and if it is allowed/encouraged by the company, then go for it. You might get some "funny" comments from your colleages the next day, but at least you had fun and did what you wanted. 

Your boss already knows that most likely you won't stay for five years. Also, consider that if YOU said that you had to stay in this position for five years and your boss promoted you anyway, he wouldn't think twice if he had to fire you halfway through this period. So, take the position. If asked about, say the truth. If he hires you anyway, it's up to him to prepare for your departure. If he doesn't hire you, at least you tried. 

So far, I have my current supervisor, and past supervisor whom I can ask. How do I approach? Do I simply say, please register for this online system, or do I create an account and password for them, ask them to log in and change it. Is there anything else I should do Bottom Line: How to make it easy for supervisors past and present to provide letter of recommendation for this online format? 

I've been asked to do mentorship in my organization (City Government in USA), which is rewarding because I get to teach eager employees (from other departments for 2 months at a time). On the other hand, I've come across 1 or 2 people (one is hard to fire, other has permanent City title and cannot be fired) who've, lets say have given me a run for my money. Now I am volunteering as officer role at Toastmasters to get "hands-on" leadership training, and I'm dealing with an especially toxic person (acts nice to your face, but does opposite when you are away). And this person happens to work at my organization (different building though) Question: Please recommend books that will enhance my understanding. Perhaps show me how to create healthy boundaries, i.e. a ship is surrounded by water, but the ship is built so water does not get in. Moderators - Feel free to edit post to comply with forum guidelines. 

If numbers aren't required, don't use them. You may find quality more relevant that quantity. Resume should list 2 or 3 tasks (and percent of time spent on them. These must add to 100%) Under each task, you list sub-tasks such that it falls into 

No need for that. A sweet email will be fine. Who knows, maybe they will take you out to lunch on your last day!