Need help developing an exercise plan? That’s the easy part. Google one or hire a trainer to help you out. Obviously, diet plays an important role too but the carryover effect from the discipline developed is your initial focus will help directly with dietary changes. 

Note: Exercise #1: Typically the upper trap overpowers the middle and lower traps since it's commonly too strong and hyperactive. The middle and lower trapezius however, are still very important during overhead exercises to promote optimal mechanics. 

Getting up out of a chair is something that is very, very often done wrong and there are some great tips to improve how you do it. 

Causes Overuse of these forearm muscles causes fraying of the tendon. With tennis, the stress is greatest on the outer elbow of the dominant arm during a backhand swing. Incorrect grip size or swing mechanics can contribute to the injury. 

The split you outlined is fine. Since you’re new to training your body will respond to almost any exercise routine. As you don’t mention the specific exercises you’re doing. I'd stick to basic, body weight focused exercises. I'd suggest placing your primary focus on developing good form – habits developed now will be tough to change down the road. Consider seeking guidance from an experienced trainer to help with this. I’d advise waiting till your growth is complete (around age 19-20) and coordination / judgement is under control before doing more complex exercises such as squats and deadlifts. That being said it's up to you. Do your own (or with a parent) risk / benefit analysis and decide what is right for you. 

Why does this matter? Well, during performance of exercises where the upper arm is held behind the body, the long head is placed in a greater position of stretch compared to the short head and therefore is able to generate maximal force. Conversely, during performance of movements 

Active-Assisted Stretches Active stretches require muscle force to attain and hold a position, whereas active-assisted stretching employs additional leverage to provide greater relative ROM during the stretch. The force is produced internally via use of a stretching device (such as stretching strap or towel). The protocol for employment is similar to active stretching. 

Resources In my opinion the best sources of information you'll find are from Mark Verstegen and Gray Cook. Marks company trains the "best of the best" athletes, there's a reason why. Follow their principles and systems and things will start to make sense with time. I'll help you integrate a plan over time if you're willing to put the work in... Otherwise for a basic workout and split there's so many apps out there I'd just grap a free one of those. Or use Google, YouTube etc. 

There is no treatment. Simply stop doing whatever causes the pain or stop and try some of the in-race suggestions below, then resume the activity after 1-2 minutes. 

Vestibulotoxicity symptoms range from mild imbalance to total incapacitation. Symptoms of a vestibular or balance function loss depend upon the degree of damage, if the damage occurred rapidly or slowly, if it's one-sided or two-sided, and how long ago the damage occurred. A slow one-sided loss might not produce any symptoms, while a rapid loss could produce enough vertigo, vomiting, and nystagmus (eye jerking), to keep a person in bed for days. Most of the time, the symptoms slowly pass, allowing a person to return to normal activities. 

Research also supports this. While looking at the effects of eccentric exercise on muscle growth it was found that: 

Based on the information given it sounds like a Tarsal Bone Stress Fracture. As you did not indicate location it's hard to rule out other probable causes. However the most common I see in patients involve the Navicular (which is a tarsal bone or foot bone). If you haven't already please consult your physician. Navicular Stress Fracture 

Gait essentially is a transition between repeated loss of balance and recovery. During movement there is a cyclic transfer between potential and kinetic energy which will minimize the energy cost of walking. Efficient movement involves preserving and transferring the greatest amount of energy (your momentum) to help propel you forward during your next step. By sliding your feet, yes, the ground reaction force is minimized but you’re moving (and programming yourself in the future) to move inefficiently (by dragging your feet). Besides friction, the net energy cost during gait is proportional to medial, lateral and vertical displacement of the body’s center of gravity. The greater the displacements, greater the energy costs. Other considerations include width of base of support, angle of toe out, stance phase, period of double limb support, along with increasing the base of support will see an increase in the medial/lateral displacement – all of those increasing factors will serve to increase the M/L displacement of the COG which will require you to expend more energy. 

The Ectomorph Plan It's easy to over-think, over-research everything etc. You may hate the simplicity of this answer but it works. You're young and an ectomorph - there is no reason to count calories. ZERO. 

$URL$ Strengthen Your Mind Like A Navy Seal Another Great One (by Les Miles): $URL$ Les Brown: Les Brown: Never Doubt Yourself 

Accurately no. Unfortunately there are no proven ways to measure muscle fiber composition. A muscle biopsy is an invasive technique involving the surgical removal of a small muscle tissue sample. This procedure is done to diagnose muscle tissue diseases when less invasive tests are not available. This is not a method used to determine whole muscle fiber composition. 

I just did this for the first time today. It ties breathing, core stability and movement prep (Not an exact answer but I found it really helpful and think you may). Pretty eye opening how big of a difference something so seemingly small makes.. 

Firstly having spent 10 years studying biomechanics, rehabilitation etc etc.. I commend you for taking the time to educate yourself. 

Injuries to the soleus are relatively rare. Because of its attachment to the tibia, the soleus is most often implicated in shin splints (medial tibial stress syndrome). As the foot rolls in during shock absorption, the soleus helps to prevent the foot from excessively pronating. The muscle may pull excessively on the bone causing inflammation at the muscle-bone junction. Accessory soleal muscles have also been implicated in tarsal tunnel syndrome. The muscle can extend more distally into the inner portion of the ankle. It would take up space into the tarsal tunnel and during activity and fill with blood, causing compression of the posterior tibial nerve. 

Figured he's already been diagnosed. It's due to the hydrostatic (water) pressure and pressure changes that occur when flying. Really simply put he has some genetic based reaction to streptomycin – it’s pretty rare. For some reason it damaged part of his inner ear (a part called the “hair cells” of your ear) and nerve. In the second picture, you can see “hair cells” – when they work correctly they bend sending signals to your brain in response to movement and sound. Unfortunately his don't. Send him that page -- it has everything about it. $URL$ Also reading your second answer not sure if he saw a doctor or not but the toxic effects of the drug will keep making things worse until he see's his doctor. 

Hair cells are located in both the cochlea and the vestibular areas of the inner ear. They are composed of a cell body with a hair-like attachment. When these "hairs" are normally bent with sound vibrations or movement, they send electrical signals to the brain about hearing or balance function. In ototoxicity, these hairs can be damaged to the point that they no longer stand up, thus reducing the auditory and/or balance signals sent to the brain. 

Do planks now -- in conjunction with your exercises. Do not wait until you have strong glutes, abductors and hamstrings. Planks are a great exercise for stabilizing your deep core musculature. You have the right idea with the muscles you're targeting however. (See the Diagram Below) 

Recent Article by Krissy Kendall, PhD Nutrient timing revisited: is there a post-exercise anabolic window?: Post-exercise nutrient timing The effects of whey protein with or without carbohydrates on resistance training adaptations 

A flat and incline exercise (always a 15-30 degree incline anything higher becomes mostly shoulders). A decline and incline exercise (extra good for those who have shoulder issues when flat pressing). Some kind of flat OR decline pressing exercise, plus some kind of incline pressing exercise, plus an isolation movement.