Find a pulsar that is currently known and has current measurements of the pulse rate and decay in pulse rate. To make sure you've identified a given pulsar as the correct one, you'll have to map its relation to other stars via a wide survey (the star fields will have changed, but if you're not too far away from our time you can predict with reasonable accuracy where most stars will be or have been in the past). Measure the pulse rate (and decay rate if you wish, but that may take years or even decades). Compare your currently measured pulse rate to the present day measured rate and decay rate and do some calculations. You should be able to figure out your current time with respect to the time now fairly precisely. I can't say how precise, but I wouldn't be surprised if you could get within a decade or so of the current time (depending on how accurate your pulsar models are). 

If applied to our universe, one can conclude that the entropy of our universe must necessarily increase over time (or, improbably, stay constant), resulting in the final heat-death of our universe. Just as Georges Lemaître saw that the Universe was expanding and surmised that it must have been smaller in the past (implying a Big Bang), we can also surmise that if the entropy of our Universe is increasing to a maximum entropy wherein the Universe experiences a heat death, it must necessarily have been lower in the past. This begs the question, why was it lower? How did the universe come to be in a state with such low entropy such that stars and galaxies formed. Why did it not spring into existence, already in the heat death stage? The answer to this is, I don't know. And I'm not sure anyone could know or give a solid answer, backed up by facts and observational evidence. At best, there are some guesses and hypotheses which I can go over a bit. First off, let me point out that the second law of thermodynamics may not in fact apply to our Universe as a whole. The problem with the laws of physics is that they often apply in localized cases, say when we're talking about a science lab or a galaxy. But when you try to apply them to the universe as a whole, there's just too many unknowns and usually the rules change. For example, is our universe an isolated system? Nobody can answer that because nobody can view the entire Universe. We're limited to only observing the observable Universe so already we can't definitively say that the Universe adheres to one of the primary pre-conditions of the second law. Not to mention, you have the difficulty that it may be impossible for all, absolute laws to apply to the Universe as a whole, when we already know some of them don't. The laws of physics all rely on each other. If you change one, you affect all the others. We know (or at least some believe) that the law of conservation of energy does not necessarily hold for the Universe as a whole. At any local point in space and for any localized event, it does, but not when applied to the entire Universe. So already the laws of physics are messed up and that will have unknown consequences for other laws of physics when applied to the Universe as a whole. Energy in our universe is not conserved because it is expanding. This expansion is constantly dumping new energy into our universe, effectively making our universe not "isolated" even if it may be based on the dictionary definition of the word. As such, it's entirely possible for the entropy to be driven down by this energy input via expansion. The initial inflationary epoch, which likely violated energy conservation globally, could have resulted in our low, initial entropy state. But as I said, a lot of this is guessing and hypotheses. I don't think there's a good answer out there to this good question, and if there is, I'd really like to hear it. 

They also had a 105-inch telescope which was also laid horizontally and had the light directed into it via a coelostat. While I can't be completely sure which telescope is pictured in that image, given the size, my guess would be the 65-foot telescope. 

Of course you could have any gradation between the two possibilities I just listed. The main point is, your planet must be much more massive than your moons in order to be the dominant gravitational player in its system. You also state your moons are orbiting such that they're on opposite sides of the planet. Such an orbital configuration is known as a 1:1 resonance. It necessarily implies that your moons are orbiting at the exact same distance from the planet and take the same amount of time to complete a single orbit. While such a system is technically stable, I can't say with certainty that it is stable for a long period of time. More than likely, small perturbations will occur that will build up over time and cause your moons to leave their 1:1 orbital resonance. This will result in unpredictable outcomes, but my best guess is that the moons may start gravitationally interacting if they get close enough after no longer being on the same side of the planet. Eventually this may result in them exchanging energy and one getting kicked to a closer orbit while another getting kicked to a further orbit. But that's just a guess. 

The reason gravity creates round objects is because the equation describing the force of gravity is the following. $$F_G = -\frac{Gm_1m_2}{r^2}$$ where $G$ is the gravitational constant, $m_1$ and $m_2$ are two point masses which are gravitationally attracting one another, and $r$ is the distance between (the center of mass of) the two masses. If you think about if for a minute, it should be abundantly clear that gravity causes objects to be round because gravity is only dependent on distance and not on any angle or orientation. That means if I take a planet and throw additional mass onto it, gravity will cause that mass to be attracted to the center of mass of that planet. There's no other way in which gravity can act upon it. If everything is equally pulled towards the center, the only possible object you can form is a sphere. Of course there are objects like asteroids which aren't round, but that's because the structural integrity of the rocks is actually stronger than gravity and gravity, while still trying to make the asteroid round, just can't overcome the strength in the rocks. 

To add to Rob's answer, I wanted to expand on where this naming convention comes from. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) is the organization which generally sets conventions and definitions. They're the ones who demoted Pluto to being a dwarf planet in 2006. Anyway, before any exoplanets were found, there existed a convention for naming multiple-star systems. The rule was that you gave the system a name, for example Alpha Centauri, and then the brightest star in that system is designated by "A". Any other objects are then given the letters "B", "C", etc. The Alpha Centauri system has three stars in it and so they're named Alpha Centauri A (The brightest of the three), Alpha Centauri B, and Alpha Centauri C (a.k.a. Proxima Centauri). This convention then continued on to naming exoplanets. The star, according to this convention is "A", whereas all the exoplanets are given the letters "b" and onwards. Note that generally the exoplanet letters are lowercase, whereas they'd be uppercase for stars. Also note that if you have a star (say TRAPPIST-1) around which planets are found, the star's name doesn't then become TRAPPIST-1 A. The "A" is implicit. Just to point out another point of interest with this naming convention, the letters of the planets don't always signify their distance from the star. That is, the "b" planet isn't necessarily the closest, followed by "c", etc. The planets are labeled at their time of discovery. Someone could find a planet, label it as "b" and then later find a second, closer planet and label it "c". It just so happens that the lettering of TRAPPIST 1 is in order because the first three were found at the same time and labeled according to distance, then the last 4 were found at the same time and labelled according to distance. You can read more about the full set of rules concerning this on Wikipedia's exoplanet naming convention page. There are a lot of caveats such as what to do when your planet is orbiting a binary system. 

The answer by choeger provides a correct outlook, but I wanted to provide a bit more detail on some exoplanet detection methods that have actually been used to find planets we couldn't see. Now I interpret "see" in the manner posed by the question in that "see" references observing a transit of the star by the planet. The questioner is correct that we cannot "see" the planet in this manner if the alignment is not perfectly correct. So how else might we detect the planet? 

You can see from the paper you linked that they followed the procedure you outlined in option (2). Figure 4 of that paper shows the $\theta (t)$ for a few stars. They specifically state towards the end of section 6 

Given that the observation period of the transit itself happened during the day, Statis definitely would have needed a solar filter for his telescope, which would have blocked upwards of 99.999% of the light from the Sun, allowing him to view the transit safely. For the other images leading up to the transit, my guess is that he made his observations during in the evening when the Sun was near the horizon and not very bright (due to much of the light being scattered). Venus should've been higher in the sky than the Sun and still visible at that time. An eyepiece which gives a small field of view would've been useful here. You can possibly guess that the image was taken near the horizon because a 4.5 inch telescope should have a resolution of $1.21\ \mathrm{arcsec}$ at best whereas, near conjunction, Venus is almost an arcminute in size. Venus should be well resolved, but it looks a bit fuzzy. This is likely attributed to the high airmass near the horizon. The drastic difference between the clarity of the image on 3/4 and 13/4 (just ten days later) leads me to believe the telescope was capable of better resolution and was simply impeded by the atmosphere near the horizon. 

The South Pole Telescope (SPT) was funded, in part, by the NSF. This means their data must be made public as that is almost always a condition of funding by the NSF. If you go to the SPT's homepage, they link to their Data Management Policy. Within this policy they state: 

For one thing, the mechanism behind Hawking Radiation is, as yet, unknown. Hawking, in his original formulation, never proposed a means by which this radiation was produced. The concept of particle-antiparticle pair production near the event horizon came as an after thought and there's no guarantee that is the way in which Hawking Radiation is actually produced. There are other potential explanations out there. To address your more specific question though, I'd point out that your logic is a bit faulty. Under the assumption that Hawking Radiation can actually occur we necessarily know that energy is getting away from Black Holes which means that energy/matter must necessarily be able to achieve the escape velocity $-$ otherwise it wouldn't be escaping! So to propose the matter has less than the escape velocity is a non-starter since it's a fallacious premise. That being said, the more direct answer to your question would be to explain how and why this Hawking Radiation can achieve escape velocity. Keep in mind first that the radiation which is escaping is doing so from outside the event horizon in which you can escape with a velocity less than or equal to $c$. Primarily what is escaping as Hawking Radiation are photons which of course travel at $c$ and, being outside the event horizon, are perfectly capable of escaping the black hole. 

So, if you're looking for the point of 100% totality that lasts for the longest amount of time, you'll want to be at the point of the greatest duration. Geographically, this is pretty close to Carbondale, IL. 

our radial distance from the center of the galaxy, our height above or below the galactic plane, and our azimuthal angle from some reference point. 

Yes the Sun has an atmosphere. Disclaimer: I'm not sure if you meant this, but your question implies the Sun is a planet. It, of course, is a star and not a planet. Just wanted to make that clear. What is an atmosphere? When you ask if the Sun has an atmosphere, you're actually asking a tricky question. What do you mean by atmosphere? How do you define the boundary of the Sun, above which anything is considered an atmosphere? This is pretty easy for planets like Earth since they have a nice solid surface. But the Sun is a giant ball of plasma heated to thousands of degrees. There's no easy or clear division between the "surface" and "atmosphere". Any discussion of the Sun's atmosphere involves defining what we mean by the surface of the Sun. Optical Depth That being said, astronomers have come up with (arbitrary) ways to define the surface of the Sun. One common metric is to use optical depth. Optical depth is a unitless number that defines one's ability to "see" through a gas (or plasma). An optical depth of 1 or higher means the gas is opaque and cannot be seen through. An optical depth less than one means the gas is transparent and can be seen through. However, when you have something the Sun or even fog, the optical depth varies with the distance you're looking into that object. I'll talk about fog since it's familiar, but the same idea applies to the Sun's atmosphere. Say you're standing in a forrest and its very foggy out. There's a tree 1 meter away from you that you can see. You could measure your optical depth, $\tau$, of the fog between you and tree and might find that $\tau = 0.15$. Since $\tau$ is less than one, that implies you can see the tree, but the value of $\tau$ also implies how well you can see it. If $\tau = 0$, there's nothing between you and the tree to impede your ability to see it. Let's say there's another tree that's 5 meters away. Now there's more fog between you and the tree and while you can still see it, it is harder to see it. The optical depth of the fog between you and the tree 5 meters away might be $\tau = 0.75$. It's still less than one, implying the tree is visible, but because there's more fog between you and the tree, the optical depth is higher. Finally, there may be a tree 10 meters away with so much fog between you and the tree that the optical depth is $\tau = 1.5$. You can't see this tree because there's too much fog in the way. Hopefully you now realize that anything which is at a distance where $\tau > 1$ is not visible to you. That effectively defines a "surface" around you precisely when $\tau = 1$. Anything beyond that point is not visible and anything closer is visible. If you're talking about the Sun, you can look at the Sun, but you'll only see light which originates from a point where $\tau < 1$. There are countless photons bouncing around inside the Sun, but you can't see them because they're in an opaque part of the Sun. Astronomers use the optical depth as a metric for defining the "surface" of the Sun. Keep in mind the above description is highly simplified, almost to the point of being wrong. The optical depth is a useful metric for defining a surface, but it doesn't imply there's an exact radius for the surface or even that the surface is constant for every wavelength. There are a lot of other factors that make this much more complicated than I'm describing here. Hopefully you get the general idea though. The Sun's atmosphere For the Sun, the atmosphere would be anything above the surface. Nominally the surface is defined as the point where the $\tau = 2/3$ (despite what I said above, and for reasons I won't go into here). The atmosphere above this surface is complicated and difficult to study. The atmosphere, just above the surface, is violent, turbulent, filled with outbursts and magnetic fields, and extremely hot. Below are some pictures of this region of the atmosphere.