This makes me believe that the moon is moving away from the plane, like ours does, but in a much greater speed. It also makes me believe that the moon in in an elliptical orbit around the planet. How would the orbit look like for such a moon? Can it be calculated how it would look like in the future, i'm fishing after maybe a predictable date (year) where the moon would only have it's magical power in range for a short period of time. Like some comets. There is no specifications as to the size or mass of the world nor the moon, but lets assume that Monte Cook used our earth and moon as inspiration. I would like to have it tagged as hard science, but it is a magical moon. 

Consider this. A talisman is not an object in the way that a pocketwatch is an object. The talisman is both an object and a "feel". A person can have a "feel" for making talismans, but this person would have no "feel" for anything else. The talisman-maker would not make talismans by enchanting any random object, the talisman-maker would instead, for instance, make a fire talisman by burning rowan wood and pouring the ashes into a hollow ring with a stone of obsidan. The mage in question would be able to make as many talismans as necessary, but would have to own the required ingredients for a spell, AND have a "feel" for talisman-making. Unlike spells, talismans would be reusable, and the magic would never decay. An interesting possibility for this would be to have an ancient, utopian civilization that existed for thousands of years before falling to conquering outsiders. During their reign, they made some of the most powerful talismans the world ever has or will see. If these include time or mind control talismans, they will be sought after by every person in your world. 

To those who does not know what transcendence traveling is, it is when you move from one plane to another to move a distance across that plane just to pop in to your own again. To free your self of the constrains of the real world to make the travel. Imagine a triangle, you start at one corner to move towards another corner, you have 2 paths you can move, either down or across, If you move across it takes you 2000 years to move, but if you move down the way across it gets shorter. making the distance traveled a lot shorter. 

Wind comes from convection in air, i.e. when cold air (for instance, over a sea) meets hot air (for instance, land.). Given that, in your world, there is both a northern and southern sea, there would probably be winds blowing from the north and south, converging along the equator. This would create a continuous high pressure zone over the equator. 

In your universe, people can move planets. By nature of this being possible, you can build some AWESOME weapons. One I would suggest is the "planetary nutcracker" concept, where you move two planets on the opposite sides of a fleet or planet, and launch them towards each other. Given the size of the ships involved, and that they use fusion as power, the bombers themselves are effective weapons. You might be better off shooting a gutted one of those at the enemy. 

Why would a space faring nation fly at lower than max-cruise speed It is often seen in sci-fi that captains, order speeds lower than max-cruise speed when flying. Not considered propulsion engines that could be used to leave orbit, planetary systems or other obstacles but Warp, FTL engines that could move the ship safe from A to B. Would there be any logical reasons for flying slower than capacity except from the obvious "we have to arrive in 5 days and the travel takes 3"? 

Are they robots or are they Exo-suits? We got little descriptions about the robots so we have to look at some "existing" - Lets go through a few different kinds. Robots - Autonomous The most famous autonomous robots would be transformers. In the later movies the transformers encounter several different kind of tanks or armored vehicles, but the ability to react move and shoot faster than the tank make them superior. Versus infantry the robots are also superior towards humans. It has been proven that they can be damaged by large amounts of force but it is difficult. The terminator would be another example, but one would only have to look at the movies to know that it would be vastly superior to normal infantry and tanks. But again not indestructible. A group or individual would be possible but an army would be fatal. Robots - Dependent An example of a dependent robot would be the robots from the movie Real Steel. This kind of robot would be difficult to go in to direct combat with since it requires wires. Given the possibility to make it wireless. The fearlessness of the robot would make it dangerous. Given the driver uses fear of damage and but not fear of death. Androids Robocop has the passion and the mind of a human able to make decisions that AI's would have problems with packed in bulletproof armor targeting systems and machine pistol. This make him a dangerous target, but towards tanks and other larger vehicles, we already know that he is vulnerable towards high powered guns. Exosuits - Giant We got the robots from Pacific rift, able to fight off super monsters, the ability to fight that kind of machine as ground based city fighter would be hard. Though it's vulnerable head makes it possible, but don't count on getting home for dinner. Exosuits - Large Exo-suits are used a lot in the warhammer 40k universe where both "human" sized suits (Tactical Dreadnought Armor), and larger machines using dead humans to harness it's power exists. Dropping a few Terminators in to a city environment with today's tech would not end well because it combines over-human abilities with mechanical assistance and close to immortality, added with a dash of soldier skills and rocked propelled explosive bullets. It would be pretty ugly. A more friendly example of exo-suits look at the movie Edge of tomorrow. Here the suit does not provide protection but it provides super human strength and the ability to carry larger guns. 

Petrification Medusa releases a toxin into the local environment that bonds to the color receptors on the optic nerve. The toxin activates when Medusa's eye color is seen, causing the calcium in the bones to leech out through the flesh and out of the pores, calcifying the skin, effectively making a person a statue. Snake hair The snakes contain glands that emit the toxin. Petrification - Alternative The toxin hijacks the amygdala, causing the person to experience constant fear. The person can't move while medusa covers them in cement. 

Ammo Homing Bullets. Flying insects with pistol shrimp-like claws that find a victim and fly upwards in a parabola. At the peak, they start gliding downwards slowly, and use the pistol shrimp hammer-claws to launch themselves forward and shoot into their target like a bullet, cutting their spinal cord. Melee Blunt bony hammer-like tools with claws on either side to destroy enemy craft. Stinging nettles the size of swords with deadly neurotoxins in the needles. Explosives Witch hazel-like plants that explode on contact, with the force of a megaton of TNT. 

Tanks are designed with a limited amount of different screws, the purpose of that is in case of a breakdown one can take screws from a less important part of the tank and make a more important part working. This is really effective to make the tank move on even when it is almost totally destroyed. Diesel tanks are able to run on different types of oil based fuels. Many trucks are running on bio-diesel and i think that MC. Donald's transport trucks runs of filtered deep-frying oil. Though it is sparse, oil is available for a long while back mostly from whales, used to fuel lamps - it could be possible to filter that oil to make it run though it would be terrible expensive none the less possible. In the defense category, the tank is built to hold against an estimated of 50-100 times as powerful shot as a 12 pounder cannon, meaning The Monitors cannon (30lbs) would barely leave a dent, the most dangerous situation that would leave the tank in was if the belts was broken and the tank was siege'd waiting for the crew to get hungry or ambushed trying to get out to repair the track - though the crew might be a bit shaken and get some bruises from the shaking upon impact. So the most "dangerous" variable in this case is ammo and money. If you got plenty of both, the tank can run for a good while.