Don't ignore it just yet. First see if there's something you can do, without sacrificing right moral principles, to alleviate another's problems. To do this, you must often be strong enough to endure any internal reactions from within, from hearing things you don't like, an intonation which offends you, seeing another person angry and self-righteous, not attending to your own wishes when you find out it takes up a lot of your time... In order to respond properly, you can't let yourself be swayed by such things. It's quite a difficult task, to be honest. The words don't do justice. Now, I've found that when you take up such a task, you find yourself in such challenging situations that your natural reaction becomes "I have to think how to get out of this." This is where, for me, the suttas have really started to penetrate and teach something that's beyond mere words. 

Speaking of Ajaan Maha Boowa, you should have a look at the book available in several formats, for free, here. It's a translated transcription of several talks and Q&A sessions he gave to lay followers in London back in 1974. 

One thing which is important to remember is that the Big Bang theory is a mathematical model that fits in with physical observations and helps with predictions. The model is beneficial in that it's both useful and intuitive. However, there might be many more models, possibly more complex, or simpler, which would do the same job. Saying we know that a Big Bang occurred is thus a shorthand for saying "for our intents and purposes, it's good enough to assume that a Big Bang occurred." However, although it's good enough for cosmological study, it's obviously not good enough for individual predictions, i.e. which code of conduct will lead to the highest form of welfare. For this purpose, empirical science has found its way into the field of psychology, which is, unfortunately, notoriously lacking. The Buddha's Dhamma includes such a code of conduct, and certain cosmological references, but always in terms of the individual, e.g. what gives birth to our experience of the world, what sorts of possibilities are there to experience, what sort of conduct leads to each, etc. Though the Buddha recalled past lives from, to quote, "many eons of cosmic expansion and contraction," he didn't present (in the suttas) any clear-cut genesis story. There is one sutta where he talks of how worlds of experience are generated, but never in terms of the origination of "what's out there." Nor did he take a stance on whether things have an inherent existence or not. You'll find many interpretations of the Buddha's statements about the world. For instance, when he describes an "intergalactic void with a darkness beyond any other," it correlates with black holes. When he speaks of other realms of existence, it correlates with other galaxies, or (considering recent cosmological theories) universes. When he talks of beings who are invisible to the ordinary human eye, it correlates with the theory of dark matter. But it's crucial to note that these are all worthless speculations, which might or might not have anything to do with his intentions. They have nothing to do with the tasks he left us with. It's useful to note how, even though infinitesimally few people have been on the moon, us lay men and women always want to hear more about the size of the universe. When we think of the solar system, we're awed; the milky way, woah; the observable universe, and now the multiverse theory, we just can't get enough. If and when multiverse becomes a standard belief, we're going to watch out for bigger revelations. All of this to feed out insatiable intellect. Regardless of whether the size and origination of the universe is of any importance to us, we can clearly see why the Buddha, even if he knew about it, would not even spare a taste if it didn't directly support his path of practice, which is said to be the path to end the craving for existence and thus the end of all of our stress and suffering. Hence, Science and Buddhism are not in competition. We study science for certain purposes. We practice Buddhism for others, such as to set clear boundaries for ourselves so our minds don't get carried away with ideas and sensations. In doing so, he implied we'll be able to find out the truth about many things. But that in itself wasn't the basis for his message - one which he said we urgently needed to hear. 

So in this sutta it looks more like he's worried about the auspiciousness of the environment rather than the current condition in which a monk dwells, and his being pleased is based on his assumption that the monk will soon generate right effort, and not that he'll be heedless. However, I think it's important to stress that Ajahn Brahm's purpose for telling this story, regardless of where he had heard it, were probably that he has many lay followers which come to the practice with high expectations for quick results. He has to teach people how to give themselves some breathing space first - and that, I believe, he does very well. 

I tend to side with this approach. In many ways a good working example of its beauty is the Thai Forest Tradition. You can read more about it on the DhammaTalks website. Noted teachers are: Ajaan Mun, Ajaan Lee, Ajaan Fuang Jotiko, Ajaan Chah, and Ajaan Suwat. Also, an American monk who had trained there for over 10 years: Thanissaro Bhikkhu. There are many things in later texts (e.g. Abdhidhamma) which directly contradict instructions given in the canon - instructions which, though hard to follow, seem to have razor-sharp reasoning and efficiency if adhered to. The Thai Forest Tradition shows that you don't need a PhD. in Buddhist Studies in order to penetrate the message. As Ajaan Chah once put it, 

Judging by the early texts and some of later teachers (e.g. Ajaan Lee), celibacy is a key factor, so it depends on what you take lay life to be. I imagine your question is not just philosophical, but, if put in practical terms would be: "What do I have to change in order to be practicing rightly as a lay follower?" The problem, I believe, is that this depends a lot on your own individual personality and tendencies. The best thing to do would be to consult a teacher you trust. Feeding off the hive mind, even in its Buddhist sections, is probably not the best solution here. There's a known expression you might wish to consider every now and then about stuff like this: "a blind man leading a group of blind men." You want to make sure you're led by someone who can see. 

It is important to understand what is meant by 'right view' (samma ditti) which covers the origination of thoughts, the causal arising of thoughts, and the non-self nature of thoughts and the entire thinking apparatus. This understanding will help one to be mindful of the arising and passing away of thoughts during meditation without identifying with them. The default view that a thought is mine, created by myself naturally causes one to pursue them. While the right view of the true nature of thoughts eventually leads one to be unbounded from thinking. 

Vanijja Sutta - On Business $URL$ Even if one is very busy with work, try to incorporate generosity, even encouraging words, an uplifting smile, live a harmless and balanced life, speak kind and truthful words, devote some time to dhamma study (say even 15 mins of reading the suttas), practice and develop even one of the four factors of mindfulness, or even one of the four right efforts, occassinally reflect on one of the three characteristics, or the dependent origination, such a person can be said to be devoted to the Dhamma. 

According to the suttas, contemplation of light is said to and does lead to wakefulness. This contemplation can be done in the dark or with eyes closed by recollecting a bright light. There is also a key Buddhist meditation upon light "aloha kasina", this requires the eyes to be open, even partially, until the counter part sign is established. (This is a very elementary description, so please Google the term for more details) Physical cleanliness and hygiene are highly regarded in Buddhism. However morality, generosity, compassion and wisdom are even more highly regarded. In Buddhsim, material objects or phenomenon, like light, are not considered lowly or holy per se. Instead it the actions of beings that are classified as lowly or holy. 

A place conducive for meditation and free from disturbances (wilderness, to the shade of a tree, or to an empty building) The cross-legged position Keeping the body erect Non remorse due to having done immoral acts in the past. So keeping one's virtue and being moral is extremely useful. Also the starving of the panca nivarana (five mental hindrences). Bhikkhu Nyanaponika's book contains direct references from the suttas on how to do so. 

I read the article in the link you provided above. I am unable to verify the authenticity of the story. Usually in Theravada Buddhism the Sutta's have a reference. I have not come across this story in my readings, but that's limited. Perhaps "an" answer you seek can be found at the end of the link you provided. 

This requirement to evaluate the breath (not control it), helps the mind be mindful of the breath. As the mind is mindful of the breath, one will be able to experience one's whole body (sabba kaaya), albeit subtly, as the inhaling and exhaling motions generate sensations throughout the body. As one continues to be mindful of these subtle whole-body sensations, one will begin to be aware that the breath (kaaya sankhara, i.e. the bodily formation) is now calming or calmer than before. This calmness is peaceful, tranquil, free from the disturbance of lust and conflict, non drowsy, free from anxiety. 

So yes, by downloading SW and movies you have "taken" the creative efforts of others without such items being properly "given" to you. You have "taken" something, which was not "given". As Buddhists we must respect the property rights of others, including their creative efforts. By illegally downloading SW/Movies, the chances are you acted out of greed, desire (loba), ego. Now it is one thing to do something wrong and know its wrong, but its another to do something wrong and think its right. 

As far as I know there are no instances in the Suttas where violence is justified. We are informed of the consequences of violence, how it prolongs samsara and suffering of oneself and others. We are told to fear even the slightest akusala (wrong deed). Yet those of us still under the sway of desire, will justify violence. Even here in Sri Lanka some Buddhist monks advocate violence and war during the time of the LTTE and more recently against the Muslim community. Their primary argument is that they are doing it to preserve Buddhism for future generations. An argument rejected by the Buddha. 

In the Tikaṇḍaki Sutta (A 5.144) the Buddha recommends a balance. Contemplating impermanence or the foulness of the body with regards to those objects (people) we are agreeable with, projecting metta towards objects that we find repulsive, seeing impermanence and the foulness of the body in those objects we find repulsive, and projecting metta towards those objects we find agreeable, and considering both the repulsive and agreeable with equanimity. Tikandaki Sutta translation and comments by Piya Tan 

We find the below and similar pairs in the Tikandika Sutta (A 5.144) “It is good, bhikshus, that one were to dwell from time to time perceiving the repulsive in the unrepulsive" In the Maha kamma vibhanga sutta we find the Buddha describing the complexities of kamma and to an extent admonishes from making categorical claims about the effects of kamma. 

Neither a man nor a woman can become a Buddha. Only a Bodhisattva having completed the necessary parami can become a Buddha. In that last life of the Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva takes on a masculine shape. This is what is said in the Theravada texts. 

It's important that lay Buddhists keep the Uposatha practice, or at least once a week avoid all sexual activity, including masturbation. Sakka Sutta: To the Sakyans (on the Uposatha) AN 10.46 

Gautma Buddha is said to have been a Bodhisatva for several hundreds of thousands of aeons. The Theravada school usually says that these extremely long periods are required by a Buddha to train oneself. If we assume that the training took 1,000,000,000,000 years and he taught as a Buddha for 45 years, then the training to teaching ratio is extremely ineffective. The Mahayana school says that Bodhisatvas could have become Arhats way before that but intentionally delayed this decision out of compassion to countless of beings. Hence, these extremely long periods are required by a Bodhisatva not necessarily to to train oneself, but to train others. Therefore the state of Bodhisatva is a special delay mechanism to allow a future Buddha to continue in the cycle of life and death, and gradually train countless of beings into Unbinding from the cycle of death.