Your issues seem to be rather in line with what one would expect from a 6-year old getting in touch with observational astronomy. Actually, adults can sometimes experience these difficulties too when they first get in touch with it. I'm speaking out of experience of having shown objects of the night sky through a telescope to visitors. Some people just don't understand that when they touch the telescope, it moves. I would recommend the following guidelines to "fix" your proposed problems (expanding on hartacus' answer, which appeared while I was writing this): 

It's a matter of statistics. Scientists take a small amount of the space (let's say 1 second of arc). They look at it carefully with strong telescopes, and count all the stars and galaxies they see. Then, they extrapolate that number at the total visible space. Of course they can compute several spots of the space and make an average count. Since the number is extrapolated, that's why it doesn't really matter if it is 100 billion or 300 billion of stars. The goal is to have an order of magnitude as pointed by Moriarty. 

You can (probably) do much better than Mount Washington, both in terms of latitude and air quality. For one, you're right about the weather. According to Wikipedia, it is a convergence point for several storm tracks and next to a breeding ground for low-pressure areas. This not only means a lot of clouds, but very turbulent air, which also lowers the quality of the sky. Also, at just a little shy of $2~km$ in height, you're going to find yourself in the middle of all these clouds, which won't be pleasant. Oh, and you should also consider the difficulties of actually building an observatory in such weather. That being said, building a telescope at very high latitudes is certainly not a bad idea. On the other side of the globe, there is Ridge A on Antarctica, which is agreed to be "the best suited location on the surface of Earth for astronomical research". Yes, being located on low altitudes allows you to see more of the sky, but you can never see all of the sky at once. Observatories near the equator are great for studying a vast number of different objects over the course of the year. If you're doing a more specific study though (for example, if you want to observe a certain object every night during an extended period of time), you'll have to find yourself a more northern (or southern) observatory. On these higher latitudes, there is a bigger portion of the night sky that is visible throughout the year (constellations in these areas are called 'circumpolar'). This may be desirable for some specific projects. Looking for good northern spots to build a telescope, we can indeed start by looking at mountains in the northern part of the world. If you take any topographic map of the northern hemisphere, you should immediately notice Greenland sticking out. The big issue with Greenland is that it's covered in a giant layer of ice. You can't build on ice; you'll get in trouble when it melts. We'll disregard that for now though, and we're interested in its highest peak: Gunnbjorn Fjeld. We're in luck here; Gunnbjorn Fjeld is not covered in ice, but is a rocky peak protruding through the ice. The major difficulty would be actually building there, but I'm going to take a wild guess here and claim that modern building techniques and machines could do it. So this is probably what you're looking for. I'm not an expert on the weather in Greenland though, so I can't say anything about that (I do know that it's cold, which is good, because that means the air is stable). Alternative locations at northern latitudes would be Iceland (but that's probably a bad idea given its geologic activity) or Siberia. The highest point of Siberia is Klyuchevskaya Sopka (which is also a bad idea given that it's an active volcano). Apart from that, googling mountains in Siberia yields lots of peaks which may or may not be well-suited for an observatory. You could probably find a mountain in the Urals as well, but they are not as high as one would ideally want. 

I understand that one body has to be much more massive in order to be a planet-satellite system, otherwise it's a double planet system. But I would have thought 90% would be enough. 

I was looking at Wikipedia's Solar system page, and it says that Sun represents 99.86% of the whole solar system mass. I found that pretty huge. So i calculated ratio of masses : Earth / (Earth + Moon) and it's about 98.78%. I did the same with Jupiter : Jupiter / (Jupiter + Io + Europa + Ganymede + Callisto) and it's about 99.97% (I ignored small satellites). 

As a final remark on looking through the telescope, she might not be seeing the same thing as you when she looks through the telescope, because her eyes are different from you. I don't know whether this is applicable, but most telescopes have a way to adjust their focus to make the image as sharp as possible. People with near - or farsightedness generally require the focus of a telescope to be different. These, however, are difficulties you will definitely overcome in time. When these are fixed, the most important part of the experience will be in the objects you show her. As hartacus mentioned, show her things she can relate to (planets are great), and tell her about the things she is looking at. Apart from planets, star clusters can be impressive too. She'll surely be astonised if you tell her how many stars there are in one cluster. Some open clusters can even be thought of as 'micro-constellations' (more specifically, this one). There are some nebulae / galaxies that are nice to watch, but I would restrain from them in the beginning because most will appear as blurry grey spots through an average telescope, which is not that impressive. One last thing: you mentioned a binoculars. You can already see a lot with binoculars, although most impressive objects would be too faint. The main issue with the binoculars is that you can't aim them for her (unless you have a mount for them, which exists for some). If you can teach her to aim them herself however, there are some spots in the night sky which have 'mini-constellations': sets of stars in which you can recognize images, but they are too small to see with the naked eye, and too big to see with a telescope. 

When we look at the sky, and see the Milky Way, we mainly see a band, with no real center. On a more accurate picture we can guess the center of the galaxy (see this picture), but we still don't see the center as some kind of big bright "star", like on this picture. I know there is a lot of objects (stars, planets and dust) between us and the center of the galaxy. But stars are bright and they shouldn't "hide" the galaxy center's light since they shine too. Why don't we see the galaxy center as a "night sun"? How much dust is there so it's blocking the galaxy center's light? Is it because of all Oort clouds of all solar systems that we don't see the galaxy center clearly? 

To search for PhDs in Astrophysics depends on the country you are applying for. But as a start, you can have a look at $URL$ PhD calls, internship calls, post-doc positions, etc. related to astrophysics will be posted here during the start of every month. 

It is good to see that you are interested in astrophysics at an young age. No problem with you doing the clichéd BE that everyone in India is forced with, you can still get your PhD in Astrophysics. Your 4 years of B.Tech aeronautical is going to be tough, so be prepared for it. In the mean time, keeping in mind your aim of becoming an astrophysicist, prepare yourself equipped with programming languages, especially Python/C++. The reason I say this is because you don't need too have much of an astronomy background to do M.Sc Astronomy, but you definitely need to have a good knowledge in a programming language. There are websites like Course Era or EdX and plenty more on the internet that can help you with learning python/C++ in an interactive way. Go for it, and trust me it will help you a lot. As a final year student doing my PhD in Astrophysics (hailing from India) let me tell you the information I have acquired over the years. With regard to the Masters/PhD in Astronomy/Astrophysics, the procedure is quite different in different countries. 

To complete Envite's answer, I would point that you can easily experience that irregularity yourself. Take a fresh egg. Rotate it on a table. Stop it briefly and release it. The egg will continue to rotate irregularly because of the fluids moving inside. Since the egg is not a mathematic ball, and the fluids inside have several phases : yellow part, white part and gaz, the forces inside are complex, so the rotation is irregular. Moreover I think the Moon is not helping with the regularity of fluids moving (cf sea tides). 

To study clustering of galaxies and clusters, one makes use of the two-point correlation function. However, we can see that all the estimators of $\xi(r)$ use a random catalogue. What is the random catalogue used for? 

So it depends on where you want to apply. I would recommend you to apply to both, to increase your chances. For Europe, the chances of you getting through depends on the country you apply. For USA, the chances of you getting through solely depend on your GRE scores. It doesn't matter whether you are a gold medallist in your Bachelors, it all boils down to GRE. If you fail there, your entry into USA will be difficult. One advantage of Europe is that, mostly, the PhD is only for 3/4 years, depending on the country. Whereas in the USA, it is mandatory for the student to write exams in the first year, teach/be a research assistant in the second year, and only in the third year start the PhD project. 

Many sources indicate that there is ice water on Mars today, but it is mainly traces, here and there, but not that much. However, solid hypothesis state that there were oceans on Mars, see Wikipedia's Mars ocean hypothesis or at least large aquifers on early Mars. They all concern early Mars so around 3.5 to 4 billions years ago. These theories suggest that Mars oceans could have formed Mesa landscapes (just likeGrand Canyon or Monument Valley). So my question is simple, if all these hypothesis are true, where did that water go? Is it possible that so much water could have been evacuated from the planet? I guess it would have needed A LOT of energy. So it may have been transformed on the planet. Is it possible that the water has oxidized iron, creating Iron oxide (ie rust) and that it is the main reason for Mars red color? The Mars ocean hypothesis page suggests some leads about the fate of that ocean, but none suggests the oxidation of iron consuming the entire oceans. Morever oxidation would implies the presence of water and dioxygen...