The Alta Vista hut is at 3260 meters above the sea level. That means you would need to do all those hight meters in one day. While not undoable, as we can see from the other comments, you have to be quite a beast to accomplish it. I personally would never plan anything more than 2000 height meters for a day. But if you hike, you should know your own limits yourself. As hiking goes, the hike itself is fairly easy, you don't need any particular experience or equipment for it. Just bring (lots of) water and food for the trip. Keep in mind that the hut does not serve any food whatsoever, well, they do sell some overpriced candies, that's it. You can cook though, and the water is sort of OK for drinking there, at least after boiling it first. I believe you have done your research, but in case you did not: you will need a permit to climb to the summit. Permits are free and easy to apply for online, but the amount of them is limited, and they run out really fast. If you stay in the hut, you are allowed to go to the summit the next morning. The hut fills up pretty quickly too, but there always are cancellations. And what concerns altitude sickness, I would not be too worried about that. At this altitude (what matters is the altitude you sleep at), there is very little chance you will get altitude sickness. And if you do, it is really easy to descent, even at night. 

All other answers here are good, and you for sure can prepare for the hike somewhat by running/cycling, or just go unprepared and push through it somehow. But have you considered building up your condition for a hard hike by simply doing shorter hikes? As you have mentioned, you live in Munich, so there should be no lack of smaller mountains within 1-2 hours reach. And while there is snow at higher altitudes, you can surelly find short hikes that start low enough. Or you can also look into winter hiking/snowshoeing routes. In any case, there is snow on Zugspitze probably till late June or even early July. You still have lots of time to prepare. Or do you really want to do the hike in spring? I do not have much knowledge about this specific mountain, but a hike to the top in spring should be somewhere in between impossible/dangerous and difficult/requiring specific knowledge and equipment. There will for sure still be snow in spring, and avalanches will be a threat whichever path you choose. You can find some information in German about the recommended hiking months. From the looks of it, August seems to be the best month, while end of June till September should also be fine. And some of the easier paths (Reintal, Gatterl) could be sometimes doable in May. It all varies from year to year though. This winter was fairly snowy in the Alps, so I expect the hiking season might very well be delayed. 

How well this knot is slipping should be dependent on the proportion of the diameter of the rope in relation to the diameter of the pole on which is used (nautical) or the carabiner (in climbing). If you tie a clove hitch around a very big diameter, it slips more easily. A diameter similiar to the rope or even smaller introduces way more friction between the strands of the rope. Second is, how well is it tightened. A non-tightened clove hitch will slip under moderate tension. (OK, edit: one can carefully craft a non-tightened clove hitch which will slip if drawn carefully) Third is whether it is under continous load, or rapidly unloaded and loaded (thrashing wind). I do fully trust this knot, as it sometimes being the only knot which holds me, e.g. when belaying my second. 

With laces untied you're more prone to slipping around in your shoes thus increasing your chances of getting blisters. Also (from own experience with using low shows untied) those shoes wear down much more quickly because they get strained differently than they're designed for. 

There is a little bit information out there (here), about falls of climbers heavier than normal which suggests (very roughly) almost a linear relationship between fall load (force) and body weight, assuming equal fall factor. Applying this in the reverse, a significantly lighter climber would apply a significantly smaller load. This says a UIAA fall is rated for a factor of 1.77. Children of 15 kg don't climb lead (I'd say). During top roping, forces are much less, so I'd say it is safe, if the rope passes visual inspection and "feels" otherwise "right" (e.g. no broken core). I'd apply a rough safety margin of about 1 order of magnitude, so I'd say it's okay for people of up to 30-35 kg when top roping, and not okay for someone heavier or when lead climbing. In the end you have to use your own judgement, and if there are any doubts, just take the safer alternative: use a fresh rope. Pieces of old rope are reusable as donations for e.g. childrens day cares. 

None of these fluids can be made "safe" for consumption. Most of these liquids are oil based with these exceptionn: 

When hiking in early summer I often come across patches of old snow. Till now I have managed to cross those by cutting my steps in the snow or walking around. And whenever I had my hiking sticks with me I was really happy. I believe microspikes could be of great aid in those situations as well. Something like that: 

Would they also be useful on ice in summer? I mean small ice fields or non-serious glaciers. Are they in any way comparable to crampons? Do people in general walk on glaciers wearing microspikes? 

I believe you should search for backpacks that are specifically marketed for snow-shoeing/ backcountry skiing and check if they allow carrying ice tools as well. I haven't tested it myself, but it looks like Osprey Kode 30 could be a good fit for you. Well, at least if you don't require a bigger bag. Also, the post seems a bit old, not sure if they still sell those backpacks. In any case, from my experience most of backcountry skiing backpacks do offer a possibility to attach ice tools in one way or another, but I have no idea if they are any good for carrying snow shoes. 

I don't know where you live, but I am pretty sure that if you want to do paragliding, you are required to take a course and get a license. So I would say if you really want to do it, find a paragliding school, and they will teach you all you need. I don't think any specific skills are required. While landings in trees do happen, they are considered crashes, and are really not an everyday occurance. I think the only thing you should think about is your general fitness level. For a take off, you should be able to run a hundred meters or so. Nothing extreme though, I have seen lots of old paragliders. 

Actually, Kamtschatka would be the one place I would really want to go to in Russia. And since it is rather difficult to get there (remoteness, special permits), it is also the one place in Russia for which I would consider joining an expedition. Other than that, I am not that familiar with what there is in the country. Well, Baikal lake, of course, but an expedition is probably not really necessary for it. Maybe Altai or Ural mountains? Maybe smth in Siberia? Assuming that it would be possible to avoid being eaten by the always-hungry Siberian mosquitos.. 

In Germany the DAV teaches the method I think you describe (video here) and calls it "tunneling". The hand above the device makes sure that the braking hand can stay below the braking plane. You have to close your hand in case of a fall, which is possible quickly enough. 

If the wear is indeed in the region which is mostly (only) in contact with the Click-Up, I'd double check the carabiner. Here the device is sold only together with its carabiner, to avoid mismatches which can cause increased wear, and reduce braking friction (so one part of the answer: in special cirumstances: yes it can). Is the carabiner original? Is is really without any edge? I enjoy the company of a few people while training, who use a diversity of belaying devices (each their favourite, each for considerable time). There is no apparent difference in wear (that is my answer) for tubes (e.g. ATC), Click-Up (which is also considered a tube-like device) or grigri. There is considerable increase in rope twist when belaying with a munter hitch. There is noticable wear around the region of redirection when top-roping on routes when the redirection point on the rope is around the same region for some time. All of those people are deliberately using the rope from both ends (to even out the unavoidable wear and twisting). Apart from wear through belaying and redirection I would also check whether the rope drags regularly over abrasive surfaces on the wall. 

One obvious disadvantage would be climbing chimneys and shoulder cracks will be trickier, since you don't have most of your back to press against some wall, this should even be true (but less so) if you detach the backpack part. Also any significant weight which presses on your shoulders will make your arms feel sore earlier. 

Shoes can be resoled from a worse state. My current shoes have been resoled from a similiar state three times. The first time they worked even better than new (the rubber was better). It all depends on the price you can get versus you'd like to pay for a new pair. Here a complete resole is around 1/3 to 1/4 the price of a new pair of shoes (if you don't buy the most expensive shoes) Edit: here is a nice breakdown how it's done.