In any moment, your access to awareness is recognizing that you are not aware. To listen to people better - notice how you don't listen. To meditate more effectively, notice what it is that pulls you from the present. To be more compassionate - notice where you're being a jerk. You have everything you need to work with wherever you are standing, because the only things there are to work with are what you bring with you. By becoming aware of what is already there, you allow for the disappearance of what is there. When what was in the way is no longer in the way, you can move freely. Mindfulness is not the 'mindfulness'. 'Mindfulness' is a word. Mindfulness is emptiness. Mindfulness is like a master gardner preparing soil for growth. 'Mindfulness' is like trying to plant in rocky, weed infested sand. 

Increased effectiveness Less time spent upset Hearing what other people are saying instead of what you say to yourself about what they are saying Increased capacity for ... anything. Less time spent indulging in self-pity. 

This closely ties into listening. You can make anything anyone says gold - just because they said it. They said it - it matters enough to them that they said it - it has value. You don't have to like it. You don't have to agree with it. A priori it has value. Humans have value - language is rich with value - what they say matters. Before you can have the opportunity to get into another's world you must acknowledge to yourself (repeatedly) where you don't give a shit about their point of view. It's okay - people proudly defend nonsense all the time. More to the point - it's their point of view - what do you care? Tell the truth about it though. It's quite liberating. Once you are aware that you don't care at all about what another person is saying - you again have access to listening. This may sound contradictory - it's not. When you can tell the truth about what's in the way of you fully being with another - there is nothing more liberating. We catch ourselves in kind of a trap otherwise. We are thrown to only care about ourselves - it's kind of our default way of being. It doesn't look good to only care about ourselves, so we cover it up by pretending to care about others. While pretending to care about others; we are simply incapable of caring for others (it's like pretending to enjoy running while running). Once we can tell the truth (it's not a once and for all thing - it's ongoing) about where we're pretending (mostly just to ourselves - sometimes to others) - then we don't have to pretend anymore. When we don't have to pretend anymore we are free to truly be with other people. When we are free to truly be with other people; we can't help but love them. We see their nastiness and pettiness and we don't consider ourselves superior. We realize we are looking at ourselves - and what they are experiencing is instantly obvious because it is merely a shade of our own experience. When the barriers obstructing our listening disappear - there is no distance between self and other - no difference between speaker and listener - then you don't have to wonder about how to experience their experience - because it's right there. Note: There may come a point where one is always authentically interested and capable of listening and caring about another's experience. I have never caught a glimmer of a persistent state like that. For now it is enough for me to notice where I'm full of it - acknowledge it - and then allow the space for listening to arise. 

All types of clinging that Buddhism talks about are really forms of addiction, reinforced by indulging in them, followed by withdrawal symptoms when you stop suddenly etc., so all Buddhist methods for stopping bad habits at the mental and behavioral levels are applicable in principle to all forms of addiction. It's also true though that this or that method's efficacy depends on the strength of the addiction and the particularities of the patient's life. Not every therapy works equally well for everyone and at every stage or type of addiction. Also, as taught in Buddhism, there's a progression from low freedom (high automatism of behavior) to high freedom (low automatism) and a succession of methods that are adequate for the different levels. It's unlikely that simply sitting in meditation will give you the best results when you're in "full-on addict mode" - you will most likely benefit from some forms of controlled/conditioned abstention first, which would later enable you to calm down enough to do proper meditation. Meditative-type practices are best when adapted to your starting level of "brain noise" (or in this case addictive compulsion), with each method aimed at getting you to the next lower level and finally to zero "brain noise" (e.g. moving/walking/bowing/sweeping/cleaning/wax-on-wax-off meditation for when you're very restless, standing/sitting + chanting meditation for when you're calmer but not calm enough yet for silent meditation, then silent sitting meditation when you're calm enough for that). Try to find such a progression that works for you, and sure, incorporate methods from clinical psychology if you experience improvements from trying them. Buddhist sitting-meditation may not be the very first thing to try, but it would definitely help once you've got some modicum of control over your behavior. 

Even if you remove the notion of "self", everything physical that used to exist still exists. Physical causes will still produce physical effects, which in turn create other effects and so on and so forth. You're only removing an abstract concept, an illusion, not something real, so all the real things can still function very much like they used to. Empty stomach -> sensation of hunger -> electro-chemical potential going from one neural circuit to another, one brain lobe to another -> muscles getting triggered as part of a food-seeking behavior etc. It's all still there and can still work (almost) the same as before, only now the brain won't also be doing weird and counterproductive things trying to further the interests of some abstract "self" that doesn't even exist. If you want a secular representation of this mode of functioning, I recommend Daniel Dennett's "The Magic of Consciousness" (either the book or online videos of him talking about it) as a very accessible explanation of how human conscious behavior could be accounted for completely on the basis of physically existing interacting elements, without adding something magical/un-measurable/non-physical on top of that and calling it "consciousness" (or the "soul", or the "ego" etc.). 

The question is not one of being "allowed" or "not allowed" things, you're taking this too much like a dogmatic religion. Buddhism is more like a form of psychotherapy that comes with its own philosophy that it needs you to understand for the method to work. The therapeutic method comes in an if-then formulation: IF you do this, THEN that will follow; IF you don't want that to follow, THEN don't do this. Its focus is suffering and the thing it teaches you how to do is eliminate a necessary cause of suffering that is present in your own psyche and without which the suffering cannot happen. If you don't feel any suffering or don't want to eliminate it, then there's nothing to do, you can ignore the Buddhist method. If you do feel suffering, you have in Buddhism a most efficacious method of eliminating it, namely by stripping away one of its necessary causes. The necessary cause of suffering that's contributed by your psyche is having expectations. An expectation is a certain insistence or dogmatic belief that things having to do with your life must be or remain in a specific way (this is what they call "attachment" - this insistent belief or strong expectation). Unavoidably whenever you entertain such an insistent belief you are setting yourself up for disappointment and suffering - "things must be or remain in this exact way or else... <insert negativity>" - and life, being a process of continuous change, will be all too happy to provide these violations to your expectations and produce said suffering. So to the extent to which you want to avoid suffering, to that extent you must abandon your insistent belief that the world "must" be or remain in a certain way, e.g. that you "must" keep your current level of wealth and never go lower, that everyone in your family "must" remain alive and healthy forever, that you "must" keep all your limbs forever, that you "must" benefit from your current good relationships forever etc. etc. Any of these expectations can be violated by the process of life at any time, and this will immediately cause you great suffering because of your insistent belief that these things must stay constant, especially for you, forever. But the process of the universe is not tuned to such static(!) wishes, and the sooner you understand this the more immune to suffering you will be. So the short answer would be: sure, enjoy every kind of sense-pleasure and emotion and feeling and whatever you want to enjoy in life, BUT... if to the pleasure you also add an insistent belief (expectation, attachment) that the pleasure "must" last or stay with you for X amount of time, know that you are setting yourself up for disappointment and suffering. If you want to avoid the suffering part, just feel the pleasure that is there to be felt in the present moment and don't create any beliefs about how it should behave in the future. If it continues into the next moment, that's fine, and if it ends and is replaced by some pain in the next moment, that's fine too, because pain is also something that arises and then ceases, and doesn't last forever. Learn not to cling to things, be they pleasant or unpleasant: this is the essence of the Buddhist teaching. 

Here, Shakyamuni is saying that the true aspect of all phenomena is that it has no existence. Another way to say this is that causes don't have intrinsic implications; only effects do. It also is to say that, whatever happens, that doesn't mean anything other than that that happened; how one reacts is all that matters. Here one can see how Shakyamuni's statments of the true aspect of all phenomena can be easily applied to our day-to-day lives, so the next logical step is to have a system of, in essence, figuring out which different effects one can create from any phenomena. This leads us into the next philosophical idea. 

Ichinen Sanzen isn't really wishful thinking, because it's not just hoping for a situation to get better— it's actually working for a situation to become better. Wishful thinking implies that the subject expects the situation to change, whereas Ichinen Sanzen (3000 realms) implies that your own outlook needs to change. This means not viewing oneself as victim of one's environment and basically that the concept of goodness and badness only exist in out head. Here is a quote that Nichiren (a buddhist monk who propagated the 3000 realms) wrote in one of his letters to a follower that I think gives the gist of the idea of Ichinen Sanzen: 

I personally have a hard time explaining The Ten Factors and so I'll also add a link that describes The Ten Factors (3) more clearly. To the best of my understanding, The Ten Worlds are how we feel emotionally, and the Ten Factors are how we project ourselves upon the world and how these two concepts interact with each other. -- The final part of The Three Thousand Realms is called, "The Three Realms". I know the least about this part of the Realms, and so my explanation for it probably wouldn't be complete, but there are many websites which I think would be able to better explain them. Everything that I would be able to say about them is addressed in the image I added above, so I'll stop here. -- What is important to know about The 3000 Realms as a whole is that they describe all of the possible effects within a single moment of life. It also means that everything is subjective - in terms of point-of-view - and that all things are equal. The reason that I have included the concept of The 3000 realms is because it shows that not just Shakyamuni has a life force, and also that one's enlightenment (world of Buddhahood) intrinsically exists within one's self (as well as every other realm). 

The 3000 Realms is an philosophical theory developed by T'ien-T'ai, a Chinese buddhist philosopher. It is to say that the, "entire phenomenal world exists within a single moment of life (2)". The realms themselves are used as a way to "categorize" the phenomenal world. Below is a chart explaining how he came up with 3000 realms: (2) The Ten Worlds (or Ten Spiritual Realms) are basically thought to be the full spectrum of one's life condition, which comes from ones life force (i.e. how one feels). I'm not entirely sure where the concept of the ten worlds comes from, although I believe it is a relatively universall concept, at least within Mahayana Buddhism. In short, however one feels can be represented as one of the "Ten Worlds", or "Spiritual Realms". The part of the chart which lists it as "The Ten Worlds and Their Mutual Possession" is referring to the fact that T'ien-T'ai considers the ten worlds to exist within each other. That is to mean that, even in the realm of hell, one can exist in a realm of buddhahood. An example from history of this concept would be of Martin Luther-King Jr.. He led the civil rights movement in America for some time and did so peacefully and, as far as I know, ethically too. One may say that he often times existed in one of the upper worlds like Buddhahood or Bodhisattva (I don't know the Ten Worlds well enough to be able to say with much confidence which particular world he was in while he was working for Civil Rights). Anyhow, while he was doing that though, he was angry because of the injustice of how he and other people were being treated and that motivated him. However, the important distinction to be made is that, although he was angry, he didn't act violently, he still thought and acted like one who was in one of the higher worlds would act. The inclusive world which he often dwelled in was Anger, even though he was in one of the higher worlds nonetheless. Another important aspect of the Ten Worlds is that the entirety of them exist intrinsically within us at all times and one can, moment-to-moment, move from one world to the next- either up or down. That is to say that, at all times, for all people without exception, the World of Hell exists within us, but so does Buddhahood. -- The next part of The 3000 Realms is The Ten Factors. This theory too comes from the Lotus Sutra in the second chapter (Expedient Means) and is expounded by Shakyamuni to Shariputra and goes as follows: