See the thesis ORAL TRADITION AND SCRIBAL CONVENTIONS IN THE DOCUMENTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE PROPHET MUḤAMMAD by Sarah Zubair Mirza, Department of Near Eastern Studies,University of Michigan, 2010. ... 

So originally this was a hypothetical statement about Henry Ford that warped into being a supposed quote. 

Lavanya Ramanathan is using a definition of "white" that is contrary to the US definition. This can be seen by a more-complete quotation: 

Other sources cite directly to Adrien Loir himself, specifically his A l'ombre de Pasteur: souvenirs personnels A 1915 English translation of "The Life of Pasteur" says that Grancher wrote a letter stating: 

The Washington Post says that the United States has been given a copy of the archive and quotes a spokesman of the US National Security Council as saying: 

The US Census Bureau website provide data on poverty definitions and number of people in poverty in the United States. See Income, Poverty and Health Insurance Coverage in the United States: 2014 

For true information, quoting Culture Shock and Japanese-American Relations: Historical Essays by Sadao Asada at page 231: 

Also, there is a photo series "Yakfight" in Jiajin Mountain - shearing yak hair with excerpt and one of the photos copied below: 

This is about 2 trees per person per year. So stopping all deforestation for all reasons (not just beef, not just all meat, but all human activity) would save 2 trees per person per year. 

According a memorandum submitted April 1947 to United Nations General Assembly, The Palestine problem and proposals for its solution, at page 48, in the section titled The Role of the Grand Mufti in World War II 

According to Are salicylic formulations, liquid nitrogen or duct tape more effective than placebo for the treatment of warts in paediatric patients who present to ambulatory clinics? Paediatr Child Health. 2014 Mar; 19(3): 126–127. : 

See also: Modeled PM2.5 removal by trees in ten U.S. cities and associated health effects Environmental Pollution, 178 (2013), pp. 395–402 

However, see also: Persistent sexual, emotional, and cognitive impairment post-finasteride: a survey of men reporting symptoms American Journal of Men's Health vol. 9, pages 222-228. 

No. Christians are being killed on account of their religion at a rate of about 90,000 per year. However, this is not a maximum. As explained in Wikipedia's persecution of Christians article: 

The above is also published in several other journals of the time period. See also "Alcohol in Relation to Microbial diseases" Nature volume 57, pages 355-356, which discusses the same work, and says the effect of alcohol depends upon the specific vaccine (just as the link in the OP says not to drink alcohol after Japanese Encephalitis vaccine). 

This is an ongoing major class-action case, officially Lindsay Cooper, et al v. Tokyo Electric Power Company, et al. in the 9th US Federal Circuit. The OP does not reasonably describe the health problems of the sailors in the lawsuit, which are allegedly caused by the radiation. Instead, according to their website: 

According to Official Tennis-Badminton Guide with Official Rules June 1956-June 1958, within an article titled "Plastic Shuttlecocks or Our Feathered Friend" at page 89: 

53.8% of females age 20-24 tested positive for HPV. Now can 80% in a life time be correct? A key point is this: 

According to the 1859 book History of the City of New York: From Its Earliest Settlement to the Present: 

The explosion was at Doel 1 The statement in the [original] OP "16,000 cracks (approximately) have been discovered in the reactor that suffered the explosion" is false. The 16,000 cracks were in two reactors. The explosion was at a 3rd reactor, not one of the two with the cracks. Also, the explosion was in an electrical transformer and the reactor was not operating at the time of the explosion. It is stretching the term "reactor" to say that reactor was the location of explosion. The concern of Germans is summarized in the article Germans claim Belgian nuclear reactors are "falling to bits" 

The title in the OP isn't representative of this "either ... or" statement. In other words, there are alternative explanations, no one quoted in the OP is saying that the research "disproves" the big bang theory. Dr. Lieu's publication was from 2006. Looking at articles citing to Dr. Lieu's is the best way to see the current status of this research. The big bang theory is not considered disproven. 

According to Feeling Small: Exploring the Tactile Perception Limits, studying randomly selected people with no previous experience: 

From Oliver of Paderborn "The Capture of Damietta" ca. 1217-1222 as translated in Crusade and Christendom: Annotated Documents in Translation at page 175. See also Christian Society and the Crusades, 1198-1229: Sources in Translation at page 73. An independent source, as quoted in The Knights Templar at page 199 states: 

The above information is also contained in Bartley Crum's own book BEHIND THE SILKEN CURTAIN, a portion of which is summarized in the The Stanford Daily, 28 October 1977: 

Yes, methane and hydrogen can explode during colonoscopic polyp removal. Yes, this has really happened. However, cleaning the colon is not necessarily sufficient to prevent such explosion. See Fatal colonic explosion during colonoscopic polypectomy, Gastroenterology (1979) vol. 77, pages 1307-10. 

To further understand who exactly she considered to be the "human weeds" and who the "finest flowers of American civilization" one should read her works such as Woman and the New Race, for example starting in the charter "Materials For the New Race" at page 31: 

No, this joke/quote has no relationship to Chief Robert "Two Eagles" Green of the Patawomeck tribe. The actual Chief Robert "Two Eagles" Green is much younger than 90 years old and does not speak in broken English. He is Robert Parrish Green who graduated from James Monroe high school, Fredericksburg, Virginia, class of 1965 (additional source). He received a B.A. in history and political science from University of Richmond in 1969. (The Free Lance-Star 9 June 1969, page 2) He still lives in Fredericksburg, VA. The basic flaw of the article linked in the OP, is taking a joke that has circulated around the internet for years, with only the name "Two Eagles", and associating it with an actual person that goes by that name. Also, the article linked in the OP shows a photograph that has no relationship with Chief Robert "Two Eagles" Green. A genuine photograph is available at: $URL$ A genuine recording of an interview with Robert. P. Green, now Chief Emeritus is also available at: $URL$ 

Muslims is France responded: 6% "often" 10% "sometimes" 19% "rarely" 64% "never" For the subset that were 18-29 years old: 19% "often" or "sometimes" 23% "rarely" 57% "never" All the data in the OP graph match the "ever justified" column of the table "More Support for Suicide Bombing Among Younger Muslims" which is on page 54 (page 60 of the pdf) of the report Muslim Americans 

Further update: From the 1909 Minutes of the 25th Annual Meeting of the Association of Edison Electric Companies, at page 395: 

The data are not quantitatively correct. It is not true that there was 100% Republican support for the 15th amendment. According to the names as listed in the 1869 Congressional Globe, Republicans who voted against the 15th amendment in the Senate were: John Pool, NC James Dixon, CT Joseph S. Fowler, TN James Rood Doolittle, WI (Wikipedia adds, citing to an 1891 reference, that "He strongly opposed the Fifteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution on the ground that each state should determine questions of suffrage for itself" and later became a Democrat) According to the names as listed in the 1869 Congressional Globe, Republicans who voted against the 15th amendment in the House of Representatives were: William Loughridge, IA Rufus Mallory, OR Isaac Roberts Hawkins, TN Also Samuel Fenton Cary, OH was "Independent Republican" (which usually designates self-identifying as Republican, but not being the party's nominee and running against the actual nominee) and voted "nay". 

40.3% of 3,519 = 1418 females killed by an current or former intimate partner in a year. 3.9 per day. 

There was a very detailed evolution/creation survey done in September 2010 across numerous counties. This is only one time point, but by comparing the views of younger people to older people in certain countries a shift away from evolution is seen. The format of the survey was that people age 16-64 were asked: 

There is quantitative data in Childhood Lead Poisoning in The City of St. Louis for every year from 1971 through 2009. Using a 10 micrograms per deciliter standard, the fraction of children testing positive decreased from 31.1% in 2000 and 16.2% in 2001 to 3.2% in 2009. By 2014, the fraction testing positive decreased to 1.72% according to Missouri Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program 2014 

According to the Washington Post article A horrifying look into the mind of 9/11’s mastermind, in his own words quoting James E. Mitchell : 

The above part of the answer is really limited to HPV strains associated with sexual transmission. A more recent study Human Papillomavirus Community in Healthy Persons, Defined by Metagenomics Analysis of Human Microbiome Project Shotgun Sequencing Data Sets J Virol. 2014 May; 88(9): 4786–4797 considered a broader spectrum of HPV strains than the earlier studies above. 148 strains of 176 known strains were explicitly considered in the study. 

Essentially the opposite of the claim is true. According to Japan: Between Myth and Reality by Khoon Choy Lee, Singapore ambassador to Japan, writing of his experience as a teacher in Japanese occupied Malaysia at page 19: 

According to Relationship between vertical jump and maximal power output of legs and arms: Effects of ethnicity and sport Scandinavian Journal of Medicine & Science in Sports Volume 25, April 2015, Pages e197–e207 : 

So the leader of the Dene people definitely knew by 1984, and this was public knowledge much earlier. 

So, there was evidence of a verbally communicated ban on saying 'climate change' prior to March 2015 within the Florida Department of Environment Protection, but the head made clear that there was none as of April 2015. Also, you can read on a Florida Department of Environment Protection website the report Climate Change and Sea-Level Rise in Florida 

He would regularly broadcast in Arabic from Berlin, and these transmissions were relayed to other axis radio transmitters for the Arab world to hear. In March of 1944, speaking on Berlin radio he said: 

The mayor's statement "President Franklin D. Roosevelt felt compelled to sequester Japanese foreign nationals after the bombing of Pearl Harbor" is clearly true. It is also true that Roosevelt later issued executive order 9066 

According to the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History the skull is "Between 350,000 and 150,000 years" old Some further notes on the morphology and dating of the Petralona hominid Journal of Human Evolution vol. 12, December 1983, Pages 731-742, says: 

Margaret Sanger, "High Lights in the History of Birth Control," The Thinker, October 1923 pages 59-61. Several years earlier, in The United States v. Margaret H. Sanger, she was charged under federal law for, in July 1914, using the mail to "incite murder and assassination", because she used the mail to distribute the following article, "A Defense of Assassination" printed on the front page of her newsletter The Woman Rebel, No Gods, No Masters, Vol. I, No. 5 (quoted in part): 

According to Sexual Victimization in Prisons and Jails Reported by Inmates, 2011–12 (U.S. Department of Justice: Bureau of Justice Statistics, May 2013) 

According to Fines and Probation for Peanut Problems FDA Consumer, Volume 24, Number 7, September 1990, page 43: 

In other words, without being circumcised, there is 8 times the risk of urinary tract infection. My son wasn't circumcised, got a urinary tract infection, lost most function in one of his kidneys, and then a urologist recommended circumcision, after which he never had another infection. Generally, as the reference states, UTI risk is not considered sufficient justification for circumcision in the general population, but instead only in boys at high risk of UTI (for example due to Vesicoureteral reflux). 

The 2008 report surveyed 67,090 people (see pdf page 121) out of a population base of 252 million people (see table 5). 67,090 people is 0.000266 of the population. In table 42, which shows single-offender crimes by victim and offender race, an extrapolated 46,580 black rape or sexual assault victims are reported. This corresponds to approximately 12 people in the actual survey. The data in table 42 is consistent with 8 of the 12 saying they were raped or sexually assaulted by a black offender and 4 people saying they were raped or sexually assaulted by a person of unknown race (and zero saying "white" or "other"). For more data see: Fraction of offenders reported to be white by black victims of rape or sexual assault: 2008 0% 2007 0% 2006 0% 2005 0% 2004 0% 2003 0% 2002 14% 2001 13% 2000 7% 1999 0% 1998 7% 1997 0% 1996 14% So, based upon the available data, about 5% of black victims of rape or sexual assault report that their offender was white. 

Note that the India article linked in the OP, cites to the Daily Express of the UK, which actually reported that 80% feared losing their job, which is of course much different than hating their job. 

The first statement in the OP "only Christians and Jews were allowed to survive as dhimmis" is false (if applied to the first invasion) according to Dr. Alexander Berzin's book The Historical Interaction between the Buddhist and Islamic Cultures before the Mongol Empire, where part I chapter 4 is "The First Muslim Incursion into the Indian Subcontinent". This chapter says: 

A separate statement in another paper is also discussed. The Lutheran publication cites to an Italian newspaper "Corriere d'Italia" and an unspecified German newspaper as sources. Essentially the same information is in the 07 February 1909 San Francisco Call, at page 7, first to second columns. An Italian source, confirms the above and gives the Italian text of the poem as: Mio piccolo bambino vero uomo, vero Dio Per l’amore della croce rispondi alla nostra voce: se tu non sei veramente un Mito, schiacciaci sotto un terremoto. The best sources available are not in English. French sources (cited below) explain that Vincent Caudo (Vincenzo Caudo in Italian)editor of the Messina "l'Etoile" (La Scintilla in Italian) newspaper, being a refugee in Catalina in the immediate aftermath of the Earthquake, wrote a letter to the Italian newspaper "Corriere d'Italia", which was published 05 January 1909. 

In all types of degrees, 2 year, 4 year, masters and PhD, women are getting more degrees than men. This is true for every race and every type of degree. By race, the below figure: Figure 18.1. Total college enrollment rates of 18- to 24-year-olds in degree-granting institutions, by race/ethnicity: 1990–2013, shows that there are still fewer blacks than whites going to college. Less whites go to college than Asians. 

As Samuel said, the particular version shown in the OP is from 02 September 1865 Harpers. However, the story had been circulating and distorting for at least a month by this time. The earliest version that I see so far is in the Wheeling daily intelligencer, July 27, 1865 This version instead begins: 

Abbreviated New Drug Application refers to an application for a generic drug that was made simpler by the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 So already by 1999 it was possible to spend $20 million on a generic drug application, but it was at the upper end of the range. 

The Revenue Act of 1864 income tax was upheld in Springer v. United States, where the court quoted Alexander Hamilton as saying "direct tax" was only "capitation or poll taxes, and taxes on lands and buildings, and general assessments, whether on the whole property of individuals or on their whole real or personal estate. All else must, of necessity, be considered as indirect taxes"; and therefore the court held that income tax was not a direct tax and was permitted by the constitution without apportionment. Revenue Act of 1894 which was found unconstitutional in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. 

According to The 72 Hours That Saved Malala: Doctors Reveal for the First Time How Close She Came to Death 

On the other hand TEPCO pointed to US Department of Defense statements that radiation doses were too low to cause the problems. Specifically, there is the Final Report to the Congressional Defense Committees in Response to the Joint Explanatory Statement Accompanying the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2014, page 90, “Radiation Exposure” which concludes: 

The lead author is from the Polycarp organization which is related to Catholicism. The other authors are professors from Florida State University College of Medicine and College of Medicine Penn State University. 

Since the question refers to a college campus in the USA, I will quote information from UC Berkley. DO NOT GENERALIZE TO OUTSIDE THE USA. 

(Personally, I would add that nowadays many of the restroom sinks provide only a blend of hot & cold water, which are separately supplied, whereas the drinking fountains are only connected to cold water. Hot water leaches more contaminants such as lead from pipes. See New York Times article.) 

and describes three specific executions. Also, at the at the 2004 5th International Conference on North Korean Human Rights & Refugees in Poland, one of the 5 defectors to testify was Kim Hyeok and, as reported in Defectors Tell of Cannibalism, Torture, Lost Families>