I do not see how life would survive the explosion, but depending on how spread the pieces are, a civilization could colonize the remains after they cool down. Problem is that if you take a planet like earth, and destroy it, none of the resulting pieces would be big enough to sustain an atmosphere and life. You could have a very big initial planet (like near the maximum theoretical for a rocky planet) that gets destroyed but the civilization present there goes somewhere else in that star's system and they come back later, when the pieces get together. But it would be millions of years at least in between the event and the return and the parts would resemble a planet and its satellites. Theoretically you could have some binary planets resulting from the initial ones destruction and each may have a few moons, so you could have a complex system, but it would still not be just rocks moving around in an orbit. Also to note that while binary planets are theoretically possible, from what I know there is no such system observed to date. But you are talking about planet sized destructive capacities, so maybe the targeted civilization would also in turn have some planet powerful gravitational changing devices? If so, of course they would still not survive on the planet during the attack, but they might be able to speed up the planet reshaping process, if enough would survive on spaceships, colonies on other planets in the system etc. Gravitationally push the former planets mass together again, or lets say it is spread too much, but they can make pockets of matter compress and such create something like what i wrote before, a binary system with some moons. Bring water from asteroids, remake the atmosphere by taking from other planets in the system etc. 

If you want to get silly you could even have your bots powered (indirectly) by ethanol & bio-diesel, a whole automated farming & industry chain producing crops, processing them into fuel & delivering it to the power stations, with the power flowing back to the abandoned cities & homes the bots inhabit through the remnants of the bot maintained national grid, where they plug in to recharge. 

All that aside (as dot_Sp0T said in comments) with the level of sophistication your robots have it seems silly to assume they wouldn't be able to repair themselves or at least book themselves into the nearest local automated repair shop as needed. Oh! and go read Autofac by Philip K. Dick, he beat you to this story (pretty much) by decades. 

So other than walking on the soles of the feet (plantigrade), humanoid & clutch size, an Ostrich. Other than hole nesting (which as you point out has implications for the egg not rolling away & the necessity (or rather the lack of any) of shapes that avoid that) your criteria have no implications for egg shape (well not much worth speaking of). Typical clutch size can have some implications for the potential size of individual eggs, but not really for shape (if you only lay one egg you can put more resources in it). It's not one of your criteria but the size of the birth canal (or whatever we call the bit an egg passes through) does have implications, you're laying one egg at a time so you'll want to put as much into that one egg as you can to allow for larger better developed offspring with the best chance of survival at hatching & an oval shape will allow a bigger egg to pass through the pelvic bones. Other than that it will conform to the rounded oval structure of most eggs (simply because a sphere provides the most strength for the shell, & an oval is the closest you can get to that while allowing it to be longer than it's wide so you can have a bigger egg for the size of the pelvis). The same as many other eggs it might be a little thinner at one end so it will roll in a circle instead of rolling away (just in case it is ever out of the nest hole). The long & the short is that nature has had a long time to perfect the design & barring a very few outlying examples has chosen much the same design for almost every egg laying species eggs.. So it will be (really big surprise) egg shaped, meaning a slightly asymmetrical oval. 

Do you actually need it to be very deep underwater? If you just want it to be hard to find, you can place it in remote shallow water (well, not really shallow, but something like 100 meters deep). Somewhere near Greenland, or Antarctica would work, if you want to place it firm on the bottom. It's not like there are millions of scuba divers in these places. It might be better not to complicate the story with unnecessarily fantastical elements. Also take into consideration that you are underwater, so you need an earthquake inactive area if you build on the seabed. 

I don't know about anything else, but you would need genetic engineers to modify the humans that land there. Radius twice the size of earth would mean a mass tens of times bigger then Earths (I am to lazy to calculate now), and a gravitational acceleration significantly bigger than Earths. Also, the atmosphere would be very thick, people could not breathe that air. Actually I think that at this mass, the planet would be to heavy to be considered a rocky planet, and it would be a gas giant (a little on at that). As such, the humans could not survive there. But if it would not be a gas giant, if they would first go to the moon, set up there, build up a larger colony and then they would genetically alter themselves they could go on the planet next. So for this genetic manipulation you would need genetic engineers. And there is another problem. Normally you would send a ship with a lot of resources first if you go a short distance like to Mars, then a colony ship with only what is needed for traveling safely. This because you can wait to see that the first ship got there safe, the load was not damaged and the people have the equipment. If it fails you just send another ship with equipment. That way you don't risk the lives of the people with some extra heavy ship in one round. This is what happens with the ISS now, we don't send extra heavy rockets with all that the astronauts would need for the entire period with them, there is a stash there and it is constantly replenished by unmanned missions (which are safer in term of potential human loss). This makes your scenario more improbable, as the ship would not carry enough equipment. You would send such a complete ship only if it goes a long distance (to another system). 

You might consider a combination of broadcast (as used by "the internet of things") & solar power, besides that, with as many robots propping up the economy & industry before the fall (as you say) it may not be (too) far fetched to say the power industry was fully automated, so they could all just be plugging themselves in at night all over the country to recharge like good little domestic appliances. Other good power sources for you include thermoelectric (also called Seebeck) generators & types of broadcast power "tuned" to generate power from background radiation or else from infrared light, no transmitting station is needed for any of those & they never run out, though your bots may have long periods of downtime while they recharge with these ones. 

All the resources, all the materials, everything you need to build a space station in the first place are basically at the bottom of a gravity well (i.e. on planets). Was that "asteroid belt" I heard you say? it's a damn long way out from the sun to that, & energy to run your station out there is going to be thin on the ground as a result, travelling out & back with the ore will take a damn long time & likely even more energy than lifting the stuff off planet. So everything you need to build, extend & maintain it has to be hauled uphill (or a very long way). In the short term there may be advantages to a space station but ultimately in the long term the cost benefits of hauling all that stuff off world every-time you have enough population increase to need to expand (or build a new station) means that long term the planet route will win every time. Whatever advantage space stations do or don't have long term it's just cheaper & more economic to drop your population at the bottom of that hill where everything they need (for expansion) is anyway. Which doesn't mean we shouldn't have space stations, we should, there are a lot of things we can do with them we can't do (or can't do as easily, or as well) on a planet & they're going to be a useful part of our toolkit, but as a housing solution for the bulk of the human race they're a non-starter. All in all even an un-terraformed planet where you have to live in a contained environment is a better solution for a growing population than a space station, at least everything needed to build new living space is close at hand there. 

I do not know exactly what kind of story you want to build, but as others said, the chance of success is so small that it cannot seriously be taken into account. If you want a more credible story I would suggest that you modify it to something like: 

Genghis Khan's tomb has not been found. He requested that, so they made a deep hole, placed him in then put back the ground, didn't put any sign and story says that they went with their horses in every direction, trampled earth both while going to the dig site and after finishing the burial going away. And did that so randomly that after time passed it was impossible to trace them back. If you want to keep something hidden, don't put signs saying "don't open this", put it somewhere no one can find it. It is generally a Hollywood go to stupid plot this thing of "warnings from the ancients". When people want to hide something or keep it away, they do just that, they don't make it easy to find and then write "don't look inside". So my question is: is it so important for your plot to have them write something there and so perpetuate a stupid stereotype or you can concentrate your story on the actual building of the tomb and on its secrecy? Because if you don't concentrate on writing useless stuff, you can make it simple by creating a stone prison and then bringing mud and dirt and planting trees and so creating a "natural" looking hill. Like the Chinese did with their pyramids, but in your case it would be an intentionally forgotten, never spoken about place. And the release of this ancient evil can be done by accident (your present time civilization can dig a tunnel there for a highway or whatever). 

How about a custard filled ballistic vest? What you may be looking for is a non newtonian fluid, something that stiffens when sudden kinetic force is applied to it (like custard). So you might imagine a vest made of sealed sections (pockets or cells) & each of these sections filled with such a fluid. You couldn't shoot the wearer (through the vest) but you could stab him (through the vest), if you stab slowly enough (this is almost exactly the effect of the shields in Dune). For the actual material of the vest you probably can't beat Demigan's suggested spider silk, but I wouldn't know which of our currently available non newtonian fluids is best to fill it's pockets with. It probably won't stop the effect of a bullet completely but it will take some of the kinetic force out (redistribute it sideways) & the forward force that's left (probably most of it?) will be spread over a much larger area of the body so it'll be (a little bit) more like being hit by a flat plank of wood than shot with a bullet (so sort of a full body airbag for bullets), a lot less lethal. On the down side I'm not sure we have anything right now that would provide sufficient stopping power for what you want to it's own weight in ratios that would make such an armor even slightly reasonable for a person to wear & move in though. Edit: rereading your question, my answer will only fit the bullets in your question.. if you really mean to include tanks & gas & weren't just getting a little excited & giving way to a touch of hyperbole as you typed then there's nothing, you want magic. It seems this idea was already very much in the design stage if not in production as far back as 2006 (see Liquid Bullet-Proof Armour), and it seems much lighter & more flexible than I thought it could be with currently available materials (while still retaining adequate utility). 

I think it is impossible for a planet to develop only one life form. If we look at earth the entire planet has a sort of balance, where the development of one form life is stopped by another, none of them getting to be fully disruptive. From this balance the competition emerges, and intelligence at some point evolves. Of course once humans evolved and we got very intelligent compared to all other life forms, we got to a point where our population dictates the balance. But absent the competition there is no need for intelligence (which is costly from an evolutionary point of view), so your aliens would not think anything of the actions of humans because they would be unable to think (that if they could evolve like this, but I doubt they could). 

Make them extremely religious. They are directly created by a God, so they are in touch with divinity. They are keepers of the righteous belief and the return of the God is directly linked to the "spark of belief". Then you can introduce a "satanic" group that they battle, or if other intelligent species exist (like normal people) they can fight the decadent inferior competitors. Or the "humans" rebel and do not help them maintain the belief in the God and they need to fight to crush the rebellions. You created a very interesting introduction with a direct manifestation of divinity. Why not use it to motivate them? That way you can link the very creation of new ones to their need to fight now (they need to keep the religious belief in their God so he will return and make more). The future reward justifies the sacrifices now. 

Islands roughly like Hawaii could not support 100k hunter gatherers. At it's height, the Hawaiian islands only supported a population of about 160k people and that was only possible through intensive agriculture. Without agriculture, the only real easily available food sources that Hawaii had were birds and fish, and there wouldn't be enough of them to feed 100k people. Tom Dye says in his book, Population trends in Hawaii before 1778, "By the time of Cook's visit, the lowland forests of the Hawaiian islands had been greatly altered by more than a millennium of industrious gardening." What that means is that you're going to either need to adjust the technology that the population has available to it, or reduce the number of people that are in the population. Also, the amount of land required to support 100k people will need to be pretty vast - especially if you're considering it to be roughly equivalent to Hawaii, with it's topography created by vulcanism - there will only be a certain amount of usable land and the rest will either be on hillsides too steep to farm or otherwise unusable. This means populations will be concentrated into farming communities in the lowlands. You aren't going to have cities - instead you might have large villages. This makes a central leadership and communication difficult and unlikely. The kingdom of Hawaii didn't exist until 1795 and wasn't fully unified until 1810 - this largely through the instigation and technology of westerners. See the Wikipedia article here. You may run into the situation that the Spanish did when they conquered the Aztecs - they happened to meet with other groups of Native Americans, like the Cloud Warriors, who happened to be in the middle of a fight with the Aztecs and who used the Spanish and their technology as an opportunity conquer them. Any way you look at it, the end result is bad if if the natives fight. They need to make some powerful western friends quickly or they're screwed. 

Possible yes, but a good idea probably not. Bones are calcium, this is a mineral, it's a metal actually. If organic biology can lay down one mineral then there's no reason to suppose evolution couldn't develop organisms that lay down other minerals. Aside from the utility & usefulness of those other minerals to an organism as dictated by mother nature through evolution & natural selection of course. There are in fact examples of other minerals laid down by organisms in the real world, some snails that live around deep sea vents do actually grow their shells out of another metal. The only real question is would this other mineral provide an evolutionary edge to the organism that uses it for it's bones, most crystal probably isn't a good choice, at least not for bones, your diamond bones may be hard but will also be brittle, so lateral blows to long bones are pretty likely to cause it to shatter far more easily than our calcium bones, possibly not a good idea then.